D=Mong of                   RETURN TO
~fltOT             REPORTS DESK
WRTHIN
IME1 OfClAL UW$ OWL!                ONE WEEK
ZM put N.P-<Dp21 413-T
REORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT CREDIT
TO THE
UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA
FOR A
TRUCKING INDUSTRY REHABILITATION
AND IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
September .20 1977
dk~~00bMNqM omd my D* m2A by mopoomb emoy~~~~~~~~~~



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Tanzanian Shilling = US$0.12
US$1.00             =  TSh8.30
(As the Tanzanian Shilling is officially
valued at a fixed rate of 9.66 TSh to
the SDR, the US Dollar/Tanzania Shilling
exchange rate is subject to change.
Conversions in this report were made at
US$1.00 to TSh8.30 which is close to the
short-term average exchange rate.)
ABBREVIATIONS
ADS            Agricultural Development Services
EAA            East African Airways
EAC            East African Community
EARC           East African Railways Corporation
Government     Government of Tanzania
MOW            Ministry of Works
MCT            Ministry of Communications and
Transport
NRHC           National Road Haulage Corporation
NIT            National Institute of Transport
NTC            National Transport Corporation
SMC            State Motor Corporation
TANU           Tanganyika African National Union
TAZARA         Tanzania Zambia Railway Authorfty
TRDB           Tanzania Rural Development Bank



FOR OnFICIAL USE ONLY
TANZANIA
TRUCKING INDUSTRY REHABILITATION AND IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
CREDIT AID PROJECT SUMHARY
BORROWER:                United Republic of Tanzania
AMOUNT:                  US$15.0 million equivalent
TERMS:                   Standard IDA terms
PROJECT DESCRIPTION:     The major component will assist the Government
in the development of five public trucking
companies including technical assistance, the
rehabilitation of existing vehicles, purchase of
new vehicles, and the provision of truck repair
facilities. The training component will increase
the supply of trained trucking personnel through
the provision of instructors, teaching aids and
workshop equipment. Financing is also provided
for replenishing depleted vehicle spare parts
inventories.
PROJECT COSTS:
(US$ million)                           Local      Foreign      Total
Project Coordination                    0.3         0.3
Transport Companies
Technical assistance      0.3         2.4         2.7
Truck rehabilitation      0.2         0.3         0.5
New trucks                1.3         4.8         6.1
Repair facilities         0.2         0.4         0.6
Assistance to NIT           0.1         0.5         0.6
Spare Parts Component
Technical assistance                  0.2         0.2
Financing spares          0.3         3.0         3.3
Base costs                  2.4        11.9       -14.3
Physical Contingencies      0.2         0.9         1.1
Price Contingencies         0.5         2.3         2.8
Total Costs                 3.1        15.1        18.2
Total costs (net of taxes
and duties)    2.2        15.1        17.3
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



FINANCING PLAN  ($ million)      Local        Foreign       Total
IDA Credit                    -            15.0         15.0
Government                   2.2            0.1          2.3
Total costs (net of taxes
and duties)     2.2           15.1         17.3
ESTIMATED DISBURSEMENTS ($ million)
Bank Fiscal Year
1978    1979    1980    1981    1982     1983
Annual             0.3     3.7     4.3      4.0     1.7     1.0
Cumulative         0.3     4.0     8.3     12.3    14.0    15.0
Retroactive financing of up to $75,000 is
recommended for costs incurred after July 1,
1977 in relation to project start-up.
CONSULTANCY SERVICES    Extensive technical assistance is included in
this project. A total of 815 man months
ranging from US$3,000 to US$5,000 per man
month has been included in project costs.
To date no consultants have been hired.
RATE OF RETURN          37% on the public trucking companies component,
and 38% on the spare parts component.
APPRAISAL REPORT        Report No. 1526b-TA dated September 21, 1977.



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT CREDIT
TO THE UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA
FOR A TRUCKING INDUSTRY REHABILITATION
AND IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a
proposed development credit to the United Republic of Tanzania for
the equivalent of US$15.0 million on standard IDA terms to help
finance a Trucking Industry Rehabilitation and Improvement Project.
PART I - THE ECONOMY1/
Introduction
2.        While the last full economic report on Tanzania (AE-26)
was distributed to the Executive Directors in 1972, an updating
report on the economy was included as Annex V to the President's
Report on a Proposed Program Credit (No. P-1781a-TA dated February 22,
1977)and was distributed to the Consultative Group Meeting (held in
Paris in May 1977). This report summarized the findings of the Basic
Economic Mission which visited Tanzania in July - August 1976. The
draft of the Basic Economic Report was sent to the Government in July and
is expected to be reviewed with the Government in November 1977. It had
earlier been planned that the report would be reviewed in August, but
since the planning authorities are presently involved with preparation
of the Third Five-Year Plan, the review has been delayed at the Govern-
ment's request.
3.        Tanzania has experienced a degree of continuity and stability
in political structure, leadership and objectives which is virtually
unrivaled in Africa. The TANU 2/ party, under the leadership of
President Nyerere, has been the unifying force in Tanzania's political
evolution since the early 1950s. For the past decade, following the
Arusha Declaration of early 1967, Tanzania has pursued the objectives
of social equality, self-reliance, the eradication of absolute poverty
and economic and social transformation. The fundamental strategy
underlying Tanzania's development has emphasized rural development,
1/ This section is essentially the same as that of the President's
Report on the Tanzania Second National Sites and Services Project
dated June 24, 1977.
2/ TANU (the mainland political party) was merged with the Zanzibar
political party (the Afro-Sharazi Party) in February 1977. The
new party is now called Chama Cha Mapinduzi (CCM).



-2-
social ownership of the principal means of production, and full parti-
cipation of all regions and population groups in the development
process. Economic growth has been an important objective but the
leadership has been willing to forego short-term income gains tor
longer-term structural change and more equitable distribution. In
restructuring the political, economic and social life of the country
the leadership has introduced a series of far-reaching institutional
reforms. The most important of these measures are well known: most
large-scale units in manufacturing, finance and wholesale trade have
been nationalized; the Government has sharply increased its share of
revenue in GDP through progressive taxation; a significant portion of
public expenditure control has been delegated to the regions and
districts; and incomes policy has prevented a further widening of the
urban-rural gap and has narrowed wage differentials within the formal
urbea sector. There is also state intervention in market pricing;
prices of capital, labor, land, imports, industrial and agricultural
products and consumer goods are controlled directly and by indirect
methods such as import licensing.
4.        With a per capita income of $170 in 1975, Tanzania is classi-
fied as one of the least developed countries as defined by the United
Nations (country data are provided in Annex I). Between 1967 and 1973
Tanzania's GDP at factor cost was growing at an annual rate of 4.5 per-
cent. With population growing at 2.7 percent per annum per capita
output was rising at only 1.8 percent per year on average. Domestic
savings reached 18 percent of GDP while gross investment was sustained
at between 20 to 25 percent of GDP, extremely high rates for a country
at Tanzania's low level of per capita income. The growth rate of GDP
was not commensurate with the magnitude of the investment effort, how-
ever, in part because of the high proportion of investment which was
directed into slow-gestation infrastructure(such as the transportation
links with Zambia)and social services projects, but also because of
sluggish growth in the agricultural sector and stagnant or declining
productivity in parastatal enterprises. During this period Tanzania's
overall balance of payments situation was generally satisfactory,
despite the disappointing performance of the export sector. The rapid
growth in imports was more than compensated by increasing capital inflows,
largel; from bilateral sources on soft terms. The overall balance of
payments was in surplus in most years during 1969-73, resulting in a
modest buildup in net foreign exchange reserves to slightly over $150
million at the end of 1973, the equivalent of almost four months' imports.
The Economic Crisis of 1974
5.        In 1974 Tanzania was suddenly confronted with a severe
economic crisis, caused in part by drought and dramatic import price
escalation. Failure of rains in late 1973 and early 1974 caused major
declines in production and marketing of the major foodgrains. In
response the Government was compelled during 1974 to import large
quantities of grain, particularly maize, on commercial terms in order to



-3-
alleviate the hardshlips inflicted by drought.  Tanzania's main export
crops were also affected by the drought, and the resultant declines in
export volumes prevented Tanzania from takting advantage of the commodity
price boom during 1974. On the import side, total cost of merchandize
imports rose by.over 50 percent between 1973 and 1974, despite a slight
decline in volume.- As a result of these factors the trade deficit
widened from $158 million in 1973 to $340 million in 1974 while the
overall balance of payments moved from a surplus to a deficit of $140
million. 1/   Irndustrial production aiso stagnated in 1974 due to
shortages of imported raw materials resulting from the growing foreign
exchange cons;:raint, and to interruptions in powez and water supplies.
While production declined, domestic demand iacreased rapidly because of
expansionary fiscal, monetary and wage policies, The imbalance between
domestic demand and supply, combined with tihe sharp escalation in import
prices, resulted in severe pressure on the domestic price level.
6.        Although the severity and suddenness of the crisis were largely
the result of forces outside Tanzania's control, many of the problems
were foreshadowed by longer-term economic trends which, at least partially,
were subject to Tanzanian control.   Onte important adverse trend'was in
the composition of growth; the rate of growth of material production had
been falling for several years and the overall GDP growth rate had been
maintained only by an acceleration in the growth of services, particularly
of public administration.   Much of the slump in agrIcultural production
was due to poor weather but the average growth rate of agricultural out-
put failed to exceed the rate of growth of popuiation *-or the six years
prior to the harvest failure of 1974. The mass villagization program
inevitably caused some disruption in agricultural production, in part
because of inadequate planning and preparation. In the modern sector
many enterprises experienced deciining labor productivity which has been
attributed to lack of incentives, poor discipline and ineffective manage-
ment. Furthermore, while the ratio of domestic savings to GDP rose
during the 1960s, reaching a high of 18 percent in i970, it had declined
to 15 percent by 1973. Public savings were also falling as a share of
GDP, mainly due to the slow growth of parastatai enterprises' surpluses
and the rapi.d increase in Government recurrent expenditures.
The Government's Besponse to the Economic Crisis
7.        Once the extent of the problemis facing the country was realized
the Government formulated a comprehens±'ve program of policy actions to
1/  The overall balance of payments gap was financed largely through
drawings from the LE (gold tranche, first credit tranche and 1974
Oil Facility) and by a rapid depletion of reserves which fell to
$60 million (net) at the end of 1974, equivalent to only 'one month's
import requirements.



-4-
bring the balance of payments under control while maintaining the pace
of the development effort. The principal elements of the program include
a reallocation of investment in favor of directly productive sectors,
measures to raise agricultural output, and constraints on wages and on
public and private consumption. This program was reviewed with the Bank
at the time of appraisal and negotiation of the program loan in late
1974, and approval of that loan was based on the Bank's agreement with,
and support for the proposed program. The Government has, over the
past two years, successfully carried out most of this program, as
described below.
8.        From mid-1974 the Government tightened import controls, parti-
cularly for consumer goods and industrial raw materials. Imports were
curtailed drastically and liquor and tobacco imports were banned. Import
licensing was further tightened in 1975, leading to sharp volume declines
in imports of consumer goods, including textiles, and industrial raw
materials and spare parts. In addition, the Government took further
politically difficult steps to slow down the rate of growth of private
consumption demand. Retail prices of basic foodstuffs were raised
sharply in late 1974. Indirect taxes on textiles, beer and cigarettes
have been progressively increased since 1975 to absorb excess consumer
demand for these items. User charges for water and electricity have
also been raised. An extremely restrictive wage and salary policy has
also been followed since May 1974.
9.        On the production side, the Government has taken a number of
steps to stimulate agricultural production. The share of Government
development expenditure allocated to the agricultural sector has
increased from 16 percent in 1973/74 to 23 percent in 1976/77. During
late 1974 and 1975 the Government urged farmers to grow more food under
the campaign "farming as a matter of life and death." The Government
also announced substantial increases in agricultural producer prices in
May and November 1974 and established an agricultural price review unit
in the Ministry of Agriculture. Producer prices were again increased in
1975 Land 1976.
10.       The Government has also made significant progress during the
last three fiscal years in reallocating public investment in favor of
the directly productive sectors of agriculture (cited above), industry
and mining. 1/ This fundamental restructuring of public investment
1/ The Bank Group has supported this effort by significantly increasing
the proportion of our own lending to these sectors over the past
three years. See Part II for details.



-5-
necessarily means that relatively less investment resources are available
for other sectors, in particular for primary education and rural water
supply. In recognition of this fact, and also because the recurrent
and capital cost requirements of these targets would be entirely un-
manageable even under normal economic circumstances if they were to be
implemented using past methods, the Government is stressing the need
for local self-help, particularly in village school construction, lower
cost delivery systems based on lower design standards, and the develop-
ment of appropriate cost recovery mechanisms.
Economic Performance in 1975 and 1976
11.       The major macroeconomic indicators have generally improved
since 1974, reflecting both improved weather and the effects of the
policy measures which were introduced to deal with the crisis. Agri-
cultural production increased by 6.6 percent in 1975 compared to a
decline of 3.3 percent in 1974, while total GDP grew by 4.6 percent
compared with only 2.2 percent in 1974. This was despite the fact that
during 1975 production of cotton and some other cash crops still
suffered from disorganization due to villagization. In 1976, some of
the problems of villagization were being rectified through "operation
correction" and since rains were once again favorable agricultural pro-
duction was generally good. Preliminary estimates are that both agri-
cultural production and total GDP increased by about 5 percent in 1976.
However, output in the modern sectors of industry and construction has
remained at a depressed level, in part due to shortages of building
supplies, raw materials and spare parts occasioned by the severe import
restrictions which have been imposed to conserve scarce foreign exchange.
12.       The goods and services account   of the balance of payments
continued to deteriorate in 1975 due to continuing production difficul-
ties, declines in some agricultural export prices and the continuing
need to import food for part of the year. As a result of these trends
the trade deficit increased from $340 million in 1974 to $400 million
in 1975, and even after allowing for a high level of project-related
capital inflows and a huge increase in grant assistance and concessional
food aid, there was a residual deficit of almost $75 million. Whereas
the 1974 residual deficit was filled almost entirely through a combination
of IMF assistance and reserve depletion, the 1975 deficit was met through
foreign assistance from a wide variety of sources, including a $30 million
program loan from the World Bank. In 1976 the balance of payments
picture improved. The trade deficit declined due to strong export per-
formance, especially for coffee and cotton, and to a slight fall in the
value of imports occasioned by a greatly lessened need for foodgrain
imports and continuing tight restrictions on all other categories of
imports. The overall balance of payments is expected to show a surplus
of about $35 million for the year and net foreign exchange reserves



-6-
have increased to $115 million which is equivalent to two month's
import requirements at the 1976 level, a modest improvement over
end-1975 but still an inadequate level. Because of the very conces-
sional terms on which aid has been given to Tanzania, and the Govern-
ment's refusal to use higher cost commercial loans and suppliers'
credits, the overall debt service ratio has remained low -- including
a notional 40 percent share of the debt of the East African Community
Corporations, it was less than 8 percent in 1976.
East African Community (EAC)
13.       The 1967 Treaty for East African Cooperation made provisions
for far-reaching and comprehensive economic cooperation arrangements
among Kenya, Tanzania and Uganda. In its initial years the EAC had
set up institutions, policies and procedures for operating the common
market and the large infrastructure services, and encouraging progress
was achieved. It has been followed, however, by a period of tension
and mutual suspicion concerning the distribution of net benefits
derived from the Community. The infrastructure services were hampered
by restrictive tariff policies; services declined, and Partner States
subventions were required for the Railways from time to time to keep
the services running. The poor performance of the common services in
transport and communications also impaired trade and general movement
of goods within the countries, affecting the general economic develop-
ment program. These difficulties were aggravated by the severe
budgetary and balance of payments constraints faced by all three Partner
States in the past few years. As a consequence, there has been a
continuous diminution in the authority of the Community institutions.
Failure to agree on arrangements for transfer of funds between the
Regional Offices and the service headquarters has often paralyzed
the operation of the headquarters and on a number of occasions led
to delays in meeting their external obligations.
14.       In 1975 the Partner States recognized that their fundamental
political and economic differences had so affected the working of the
Community that a review of the 1967 Treaty was called for. A Commis-
sion was appointed for this purpose in November 1975 but adjourned
sine die in November 1976 without being able to make agreed recommenda-
tions regarding the future structure of the EAC. Meanwhile, the
continuing deterioration in Community relationships led to a further
dismantling of the Corporations. The Railways Headquarters has in
effect been disbanded and the nationals working in the headquarters joined
their respective Regional Offices. More recently, the East African Air-
ways Corporation (EAA) collapsed in part due to the lack of an effective
mechanism for interstate transfer of funds. The headquarters of the
East African Harbours has existed in name only for at least a year with
the ports authorities in Mombasa and Dar es Salaam functioning autonomously.



-7-
The East African Posts and Telecommunications Corporation has so far
functioned with a semblance of Headquarters responsibilities but is
now fast delegating its headquarters functions to its Regional Offices.
The respective regional branches are responsible for providing the
services, and domestic development programs in this sector are not
likely to be impaired. The Government of Tanzania has recently taken
steps to formalize this situation by enacting legislation for both a
Tanzanian Railways and a Harbours Corporations. It is expected that the
new corporations will be formally established in the near future and
that the other Partner States will shortly follow suit.
15.       The difficulties facing the EAC and the common services have
affected the Bank's lending to the Community. Because of failure to
meet debt service obligations, the Bank suspended disbursements last
year for about a month. Except for a second line of credit to the
EADB in March 1976, the Corporations have received no new loans from
the Bank since 1973. The Bank has continued to disburse on its 5
ongoing loans to the Corporations and as of August 31, 1977 $32.5
million remains undisbursed.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN TANZANIA
16.       Tanzania joined the Bank, IDA and IFC in 1962. Beginning
with an IDA credit for education in 1962, 29 IDA credits, 12 Bank
loans and two Third Window loans amounting to $476.0 million have so
far been approved for Tanzania. In addition, Tanzania has been a
beneficiary of 10 loans totalling $244.8 million which have been
extended for the development of the common services and development
bank operated regionally by Tanzania, Kenya and Uganda through their
association in the East African Community. The only IFC investments
in Tanzania to date, totalling $4.7 million, were made to the Kilombero
Sugar Company in 1960 and 1964. This Company encountered financial
difficulties and in 1969 IFC and other investors sold their interest
in the Company to the Government. Annex II contains summary state-
ments of Bank loans and IDA credits to Tanzania and the East African
Community organizations as Of August 31, 1977 and notes on the execu-
tion of ongoing projects.
17.       In keeping with Tanzania's overall development strategy, Bank
lending operations are increasingly focusing on the rural sector and
directly productive projects. Up to the end of FY72, 10 out of 14
loans and credits made individually to Tanzania have been for infra-
structure. Of the 26 Tanzanian operations approved since, the over-
whelming majority were for directly productive projects. In general
the infrastructure projects which have been approved in recent years
have been designed to support specific directly productive activities.
For example, the Urban Water Supply Project (Loan No. 1354-TA) approved



-8-
in January 1977, will support the recently approved Industrial Complex
Project in Morogoro (Loan No. 1385T-TA and 1386-TA). The directly
productive projects are supporting both the agricultural and industrial
sectors, including the Kigoma Integrated Rural Development Project
(Credit No. 508-TA), the National Maize Project (Credit No. 606-TA),
the Fisheries Development Project (Credit No. 658-TA), the Tanzanian
Investment Bank Project (Loan No. 1172-TA), the Mwanza Textile Project
(Loan No. 1128-TA), and the Morogoro Industrial Complex Project. The
first Bank Group-assisted project in the forestry sector, the Sao Hill
Forestry Project (Loan No. 1307-TA), was recently approved and will
provide the raw material for Tanzania's first paper and pulp plant,
also under preparation for consideration by the Bank Group for financ-
ing. A Program Credit, which provides for essential imports,and a
Second National Sites and Services Project were also recently approved
by the Board. Projects which have recently been appraised include a
Rural Development Project in Mwanza and Shinyanga, a Second Cashewnut
Processing Project and a third line of credit to the Tanzania Investment
Bank. A Second Textile Project, a Fifth Highway Project and an
Agricultural Development Project are under preparation.
18.       The comparatively high proportion of undisbursed loans and
credits, detailed in Annex II, page 1, is in large part a reflection
of the fact that many ot these projects have only recently been
approved. It also reflects the fact that overall project implementation
has been less than satisfactory, as both the Bank and the Tanzanians
have been overly optimistic regarding Tanzania's
absorptive capacity. The causes of the difficulties in implementation
are varied. Some stem from the scarcity of suitable, trained and
experienced manpower, some reflect difficulties in identifying agronomic
input packages appropriate to the needs of small farmers in terms of
marketable surplus production, others reflect the strains inevitably
associated with attempting a "frontal attack" on poverty. These diffi-
culties have been compounded by frequent and drastic administrative
changes which -- though perhaps essential to translate the Tanzanian
vision of the appropriate organization of society into practice and
potentially the source of long-term benefits -- have certainly disrupted
orderly execution of projects in the shorter term or made parts of
earlier project concepts obsolete. In general, these difficulties
have been must severe in agriculture, particularly in the smallholder
rural sector. As our lending program -- as well as those of other
donors -- increasingly concentrates on this sector, ths.e nroblems
have become correspondingly more apparent and severe.    By contrast, the
"modern" sector projects have tended to fare better. The Tanzania
Investment Bank (DFC), Mwanza Textile, Urban Development, and Cashewnut
Processing projects, for example, are proceeding well. Furthermore, the
causes and solutions of the problems in these sectors have been easier
to identify, e.g. implementation of education projects has improved
markedly now that required technical assistance has been recruited.



-9-
19.       As the Bank's lending program has expanded, increasing atten-
tion has been given to measures designed to improve project implementa-
tion. A course was conducted on the Bank's procurement policies and
procedures in Dar es Salaam in 1973 with the relevant Government offi-
cials. A special project implementation unit, supported by a seconded
Bank adviser and an ADS staff member, has been established in the Ministry
of Agriculture and eight other ADS staff members are presently assigned
to specific projects. The need to establish a close and continuous
working level dialogue between the responsible Tanzanian officials and
Bank staff on following up implementation problems was one of the prime
reasons for the expansion of the Resident Mission to two professionals
in October 1976. A regular joint Bank/Government review of project
implementation was established in late February 1977 when a meeting,
chaired by the Ministry of Finance and attended by Bank staff and offi-
cials from implementing agencies, was held in Dar es Salaam. Steps to
further strengthen this review procedure were taken in August 1977 when
these regular meetings were shifted onto a monthly basis. The Govern-
ment has also agreed that every third such review will be conducted on
an "in-depth" basis. In addition to these across-the-board measures,
specific in-depth reviews of a number of rural development projects have
been taken to adjust them to the new institutional situation and reflect
our experience to date,e.g.,for the Geita Cotton (Credit No. 454-TA) and
Second Livestock (Credit No. 382-TA) projects. In designing and apprais-
ing new projects, attempts are being made to avoid past mistakes. In
particular attempts to ensure that new projects are designed to work
under existing institutional and human resource constraints are being made.
20.       Partly as a result of these efforts, the Government has become
increasingly conscious of implementation issues. President Nyerere is
personally very concerned and has on a number of occasions taken senior
civil servants and parastatal officials to task for inadequate perform-
ance on specific Bank projects. The Ministry of Finance and implementing
agencies are now taking these problems more seriously. In general, there
is a more consistent response to Bank suggestions and a willingness to
openly discuss "problems" raised by Bank staff. For example, an earlier
reluctance by the Government to recruit technical assistance and an un-
willingness to pay appropriate salaries have been replaced by the accept-
ance of such help when it can be clearly demonstrated that it is required.
As a consequence project implementation performance has clearly improved
somewhat over the last two years or so. However, it is obvious that,
even with the continued emphasis on project implementation, progress can
only be expected to be gradual and new problems will continue to emerge
particularly in the newer sectors of Bank involvement. The wide scope
of the Bank's lending program and its increasing focus on the more
difficult and complex sectors and issues combine to cause new difficulties
which need to be addressed as they arise.



-10-
PART III - THE TRANSPORT SECTOR
Background
21.       Tanzania's transport system comprises roads (about 33,400 km),
two railway systems (totalling 3,570 km of track), three main ocean
ports and a number of important lake ports, two international airports
and over 50 smaller airfields. In addition, there is a 900 km pipeline
between Dar es Salaam and Zambia, a transit facility for Zambian supplies
of crude oil.
22.       While the Government has concentrated road investments in recent
years on bituminizing existing roads rather than building new ones, only
2,600 km (8 percent) are paved and 1,100 km (3 percent) are engineered
gravel. Many of the remaining roads are in poor condition and are
often impassable in the rainy season. The average road density is among
the lowest in Eastern Africa, 38 km per 1,000 km2 or 2.3 km per 1,000
inhabitants, and varies considerably from one region to another reflect-
ing development and settlement patterns. The Ministry of Works (MOW) is
responsible for construction and maintenance of primary roads, while
regional administrations are responsible for the rest of the road net-
work. Shortage of qualified staff, lack of equipment and lack of funds
have long been problems in MOW and in the regional administrations.
23.       Two railway systems serve Tanzania: the East African Railway
Corporation (EARC) and the Tanzania-Zambia Railway Authority (TAZARA).
The EARC, a joint venture of the three Partner States of the East
African Community, serves central and northern Tanzania with about 2,600
km of 1.00 m gauge track. TAZARA, financed by the People's Republic
of China and owned jointly by Tanzania and Zambia, was completed in 1975
and consists of 1.067 m gauge track extending from Dar es Salaam into
Zambia. The principal traffic at present is Zambia's exports of copper
and its imports.
24.       Though the principal Tanzania ocean ports of Dar es Salaam,
Tanga and Mtwara are organized under the East African Harbours Corporation,
they have been operating largely under regional control since the move
towards decentralization of EAC organizations. The major port facility
is Dar es Salaam (it handles about 85% of the total Tanzanian traffic),
and nearly half of the tonnage through that port represents Zambian
traffic. The major shipping line of domestic importance is the Tanzania
Coastal Shipping Lines which has a monopoly on carrying passengers along
the coast, and between the coast and island ports. Transport services
on Lake Victoria were formerly provided by the EARC; however, in 1976
disbursements between the Partner States led to suspension of these
services -- a development which has negatively affected the regions
bordering Lake Victoria.



-11-
25.       With its vast distances, difficult terrain and weather and
limited road network, domestic air service is particularly important
in Tanzania. Air transport has been another EAC function - the East
African Airlines (EAA) provided regular service to 18 airports within
Tanzania. However, with the grounding of EAA in early 1977 services
have been limited. A national airline, Air Tanzania, has been formed
and it began regularly scheduled services on the former EAA routes in
Tanzania in mid-1977.
Transport Policies and Priorities
26.       Tanzania's transport priorities and policies have changed
over the years in response to changing national needs and conditions.
For many years the transport infrastructure was geared to serving
Tanzania's external trade: the central and northern lines of the EARC
connected the major interior cities with the port developments at Tanga
and Dar es Salaam. Roads were developed primarily as feeders to the
railway and ports. However, in the late sixties, an urgent push
was placed upon providing an external outlet for Zambia. During this
period the Tanzania-Zambia Highway and TAZARA were completed and
Dar es Salaam port underwent a major expansion. With the completion
of these Zambia-linked investments, there are indications that the
Government is now beginning to focus on basic local transport problems,
address the rehabilitation of the road network and place a high
priority on rehabilitating or establishing services formerly under
EAC control. Therefore, even with the overall Government emphasis
on directly productive projects (para 7) Tanzania has recognized the
critical need for investment in high priority transport needs. With
respect to local transport, this will include developing a capacity
for rural road development. For example, regional rural development
projects and agricultural projects are expected to include relevant
road components (in the Tabora Regional Development Project, Credit
No. 703-TA, a substantial improvement program was included). Secondly,
a major emphasis in the Third Five-Year Plan under preparation will
be on maintenance and rehabilitation. This was the focus of the IDA-
financed Road Maintenance Project (Credit No. 507-TA), and it is
expected that the Fifth Highway Project (presently under preparation)
will continue this effort. With regard to the EAC, railways, harbours
and airways can be expected to receive considerable attention by the
government over the next few years as these services must now be addressed
at the national level.
Bank Group Experience in Transport
27.       At the national level, to date, the only Bank Group involve-
ment in transport in Tanzania has been in highways. In that sector,



-1 2-
four projects have been approved totalling $56.2 million. Tne First
Highway Project (credit No. 48-TA) in 1964 was supplemented by Credit
No. 115-TA in 1968. These credits tinanced construction of a total
of 860 km of roads. The Second Highway Project (Credit No. 142-TA
and Loan No. 586-TA) assisted in the construction of the Tanzania-
Zambia Highway and was successfully completed in 1972. A third
project (Credit No. 265-TA) focuses on road construction in Southern
Tanzania and a fourth project (Credit No. 507-TA) is aimed at improving
road maintenance -- both are still in progress. In addition, a
number of agriculture projects include road construction components.
28.       Two major difficulties have arisen in these highways projects.
The most critical has been cost overruns: the first project required
a supplemental credit and in Highway III the African Development Bank
agreed to parallel finance part of the original project in order to
complete it in its entirety, The second, and certainly related, prob-
lem has been with the availability and effectiveness of the technical
assistance provided for under the projects. The Project Audit Report
of Highways I highlighted the delay in recruiting technical assistance
as a cause of the problems in implementation and concluded that
the component which focused on training was not effectively implemented.
In addition, in the Third Highway Project a number of difticulties
were experienced between the Government and its consultants on the
technical performance of the consultants. Finally, delays in identi-
fying adequate technical assistance under the fourth project signifi-
cantly delayed its implementation.
29.       Bank Group assistance to Tanzania for Ports and Railways
has been provided within the framework ot the East Atrican Commu-
nity. Loans amounting to US$166 million have been made to the East
African Harbours Corporation and the East African Railway Cor-
poration for projects benetiting all three Partner States. In
Tanzania the projects have assisted the development of EARC's northern
and central lines and have financed a large portion of the extensive
development of Dar es Salaam's port.
Trucking
30.       Tanzania's trucking industry is a major source of the
country's supply of transport services as almost 60% of Tanzania's
domestic cargo traffic moves by truck. The size of the fleet
has not changed markedly since 1972 and is estimated to total
about 13,000 vehicles C 3,000 publicly owned and 1Q,00Q in private
hands). Trucking services have deteriorated rapidly in recent years.



-13-
resulting in a serious bottleneck to overall economic activity. This
situation has come about mainly as a result of difficulties the Government
has encountered in translating its social development philosophy into a
workable transport policy - specifically from problems encountered in sub-
stituting public trucking operations for the private sector, and in regu-
lating the import of vehicles and spare parts. These problems have been
exacerbated by poor road conditions which are a significant cause of the
rapid deterioration of the vehicle fleet. As noted above (para 26) the
Government is now focusing considerable attention on road rehabilitation.
supported by the IDA-financed Highway Maintenance Project (Credit No. 507-TA).
31.       Public Se tor Trucking.   Almost all road freight was carried by
private companies (usually owner-operators) until 1973. At that time the
Government adopted a policy of substituting a public transport system for the
privately owned industry. Because of the aggressive Government expansion in
public road transport which followed (reinf"orced by the movement tb state
control in many other sectors) and a number of specific operating problems
which accompanied the economic crisis Tanzania was facing (especially the
non-availability of new trucks and spares), many operators in the private
sector left the industry. The net effect of this was a decline in the private
share of freight service to about two-thirds of total trucking services.
Moreover, those private operators that remained shifted their services out
Af dlifficult regions and into more lucrative long haul routes.
32.       The Government entered the industry in a number of ways, including
the creation of specialist transport companies and transport wings in manufacturing,
trading and crop marketing parastatals. Since their establishment these entities
have been characterized by inefficiency, low productivity and unreliable provision
of services. Rapidly established, they have inexperienced management, and suffered
from a lack of working capital while carrying high debt obligations. These en-
tities are also sometimes required by Gavernment to carry freight on the most
difficult routes, and have had to accept unprofitable rates for services that
could command viable rates. In truck utilization and truck availability (two
major measures of truck performance) private sector performance is constantly
and significantly above that of the public sector.
R'.       Vehicles and Spare Parts.   In 1974, the Government set up a
surict licensing scheme for the import of vehicles and spare parts.    At
the same time it established the State Motor Corporation (SMC), made it
the sole agency responsible for importing trucks for resale to both the
public and private sectors and gave it major responsibilities in the area
of spare parts importation. In importing and allocating trucks, SMC was
inszructed to give priority to parastatals, then cooperatives (citizens in
joint ventures) and last to private truckers (thus significantly limiting
the availability of trucks to that segment of the sector). However, as SMtC
lacks the trained staff needed to collect and analyze data on actual trucking



-14-
industry requirements, truck imports are frequently unrelated to public
and private industry requirements in number, type and size.
34.       In respect to spare parts imports, the SMC receives foreign
exchange applications(mainly from dealers, parastatals and major trans-
port operators)and makes a request for licenses from the Bank of Tanzania.
The Bank of Tanzania (which does not have the technical capacity to
review the spare parts requests) determines the total amount of foreign
exchange available for the import of spare parts and then the SMC has
the responsibility of allocating this amount to the various users. The
newly formed SMC has not been able to undertake efficiently the difficult
job of allocating imports or deciding on and justifying an appropriate
size allocation: incorrect allocations by SMC between major purchasers
(dealers, parastatals and the Government) leave some users constantly
short while others are unable to use their entire allocations; the
wide range of spare parts results in mistakes or omissions leaving
some parts unavailable at any price; the increase from one to six months
in the interval between the times the Government will accept import
license requests results in a magnification of any ordering errors (since
the orders cover a much longer period, mistakes involve larger numbers
and these in turn cannot be quickly corrected); the distribution of
spare parts is restricted as the dealers are mostly Dar es Salaam-based
and protect their available stock; and finally, the overall size of the
spare parts allocation has been inadequate. Compounding these
problems is the fact that the rapid build-up in the inventory of spare
parts which took place in anticipation of the licensing has been largely
depleted. In addition, the banning of private car imports in 1974 led
to a significant aging of the private car fleet with a resulting increase
in the demand for spares from that category of vehicles (reducing the
amount of spares available to the truck fleet). Together all these
developments have had significant negative effects on truck availability
and utilization.
Present and Future Government Policy
35.       In view of its difficult experiences in public trucking, the
Government has been reviewing its policies during recent months. In a
major policy decision for public trucking, the Government (acting in
concert with the Tanzania Rural Development Bank- TRDB) decided to
liquidate the National Road Haulage Corporation (NRHC). This company
was the largest public trucking fleet and was a central element in the
Government's formerly expansionist policy in this sector. In addition,
the recent Government decision to terminate regional cooperative unions
was at least partially due to their inability to provide adequate trans-
port services. In their place the Government has temporarily increased
the role-of crop, manufacturing and trading parastatal fleets but over
the long run it hopes to rely on the development of regional trucking
companies. This decentralization will require smaller companies-of the
type to be developed under the proposed project. Particular emphasis
is being placed on developing "model regional companies" on which to



-15-
base any subsequent growth of the public sector. The Government's
strategy reflects both its desire to establish a strong public segment
in the trucking industry and its pragmatic concern that the public
sector should meet reasonable tests of operational efficiency.
36.       The situation with regard to private trucking has stabilized
in the recent past. Government acceptance of the need for the con-
tinuation of a substantial level of private services has reassured the
private firms and a trend of increasing investment has been observed
among these firms. Yet substantial bottlenecks still handicap this
segment of the sector: in particular the non-availability of new
trucks, shortages of spare parts and manpower shortages. While the
project does not attempt to address directly the first of these, the
training and spare parts components are expected to help in resolving
some of the private sector's difficulties in the latter areas.
37.       While the general outline of the Government's policy in
the sector has emerged (a controlled expansion of regional companies
with the retention of important private sector involvement), the
Government has not developed a detailed program for the trucking indus-
try. To some extent this reflects the urgent nature of the present
situation. Yet it also is related to the lack of information and analysis
done on the sector (para 56 below). Since the project will result in
considerable additional experience in public sector trucking and will
generate substantial information, it should assist the Government in
defining a long term program. It was agreed during negotiations that
an action plan for medium and long term development of the trucking
industry would be formulated based on project experience. This plan
would be prepared by December 31, 1980. (Section 3.07(c) of the draft
Development Credit Agreement.)
National Transport Corporation (NTC)
38.       Major responsibility for public sector transport rests with
the NTC, a parastatal organization under the Ministry of Communications
and Transport (MTC). It controls the government-owned National Bus ServicE
Dar es Salaam Motor Transport Company, and Tanzania Coastal Shipping Line;
The National Road Haulage Company was also controlled by NTC for several
years until it was dissolved in April 1977 (paragraph 35 above). Although
NTC does not itself directly engage in transport operations, it exercises
substantial influence over the policies and activities of its subsidiary
operating organizations. In addition, the NTC recently assumed respon-
sibility for the training of a wide range of skills in the transport field
when it organized the National Institute of Transport. NTC fulfills its
responsibilities adequately, particularly since an able and energetic
Chairman and Managing Director was appointed in February 1977.



-16-
The Tanzania Rural Development Bank (TRDB)
39.       TRDB was established in 1971 to provide long and medium-term
finance and technical assistance for the promotion of rural development.
At its founding, it was stressed that TRDB was intended to be a sound
financial institution and therefore would only extend credit to economi-
cally viable activities. TRDB is wholly Government owned with an author-
ized capital of TSh 300 million. Its management is vested in a Board of
Directors, including a Chairman and Managing Director appointed by the
President of the Republic, and eight other Directors appointed by the
Minister of Finance from among persons with knowledge and experience of
economic and financial matters, rural development, agriculture, small-
scale industries, ujamaa villages or cooperatives. TRDB has its head
office in Dar-es-Salaam and 20 regional offices. There are four Depart-
ments: Development, Finance, Administration and Operations. The regional
offices represent the Bank at the regional level and provide technical
assistance in project development and implementation.
40.       The Association was consulted during the establishment of
TRDB and has been extensively involved with its development. TRDB has
played the role of financial intermediary in a considerable number of
Bank Group agricultural and rural development projects and a separate
line of credit for TRDB is being prepared for consideration for Bank
Group financing. TRDB has also had extensive experience in lending for
road transport in Tanzania and therefore is an appropriate channel for
project financing. Since its founding, TRDB operations have been compli-
cated by villagization, decentralization, the elimination of the regional
cooperative unions (its largest group of borrowers), as well as the drought.
All these developments have created special problems for TRDB, and weak-
nesses in its portfolio reflect these difficulties. Yet, throughout this
period, TRDB has increased its level of operations and significantly
upgraded its staff. Bank Group missions have noted TRDB's ability to deal
with its problems and expansion and have been particularly impressed by
its management. While Bank Group projects in the agriculture sector
have faced many implementation difficulties and some of these have in-
volved TRDB-related components, consistent overall improvements have been
noted in TRDB's performance.
National Institute of Transport
41.       Until early 1976, there were no formal training programs
specifically for the road transport industry, which had to compete
with other sectors for trained people from existing training centers.
To alleviate this problem, in 1976 NTC established the National Insti-
ture of Transport (NIT). NIT initially offered a 3-month course on
transport management and is continuing such short-term courses



-17-
while adequate buildings are being constructed with funds from Trans-
port License Authority revenues. NIT now plans to begin full-time,
three-year diploma courses in Management, Operations and Mechanics,
which will start supplying the public and private industry with trained
recruits by 1980. However, there will be a continuing need for short-
term courses for people already in the industry, and the proposed
project provides for this (para 48).
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Introduction
42.       The severe road transport bottleneck which Tanzania faces
has become a growing concern of both the Government and the Assoc-
iation. Lacking any detailed analysis of the road transport industry,
the Government requested approval to use technical assistance funds
provided under the Highway Maintenance Project (Credit No. 507-TA,
August 21, 1974) to undertake such work. This study was completed
by TRIMAC (a Canadian consultant firm) in 1976 and has provided some
information for this project. A Bank Group mission visited Tanzania
in March 1976 to work on the preparation of the project and it was
appraised in the field in October 1976. Negotiations for the proposed
credit were held in Washington in July 1977 where the Tanzanian Dele-
gation included representatives of MCT, NTC, TRDB, the Ministry of
Finance and the Attorney General's Chambers. An Appraisal Report
entitled "Appraisal of a Trucking Industry Rehabilitation and Improve-
ment Project", is being circulated separately. A Credit and Project
Summary is included at the beginning of this report.
Project Objectives
43.       The project focuses on three major problem areas in the road
transport industry: (i) the efficiency of public sector transport
companies; (ii) the provision of adequate training opportunities, and
(iii) the availability and distribution of spare parts for the trucking
industry.
44.       The proposed project aims to support the Government's efforts
at reversing the deteriorating trends in road transport, a mode upon
which the rural agricultural economy depends heavily. Given the size
of Tanzania's trucking sector, no individual project can be expected to
play a major financing role. Therefore, the emphasis of the proposed
project is rather to assist the Government in getting its rehabilitation
program off the ground. With regard to the public companies the objective



-18-
is to develop several efficient public companies which could provide
models for the remainder of the public sector. With regard to train-
ing, the project component has been specifically designed to address
the most urgent gaps in the present industry manpower program. Both
these efforts will be complemented by the spare parts component which
will assist in rehabilitating and improving public and private companies'
operations by ensuring an adequate supply of spare parts. Moreover,
by supporting recent Government policy initiatives in the area of
import liberalization and distribution, the component should have a
major effect on the long run availability of spare parts for the
entire trucking industy.
Project Details
45.       As noted in para 35 above, the public trucking component
represents a major element of the Government's long-term strategy
for addressing road transport problems. The five regional companies to
be supported under the proposed project (Dodoma, Mtwara, Mwanza, Ruvuma
and Tabora) will focus on priority areas for improving present transport
services. One of these companies is operating (Dodoma) and the remaining
four will be established under the project. All five will be parastatals
under autonomous operational and financial management and will be general
carrier trucking entities with region-wide and inter-regional franchise
(Sections 3.04 and 3.07(a) of the draft Development Credit Agreement).
It is proposed that eAch company will be formed from a combination of
trucks owned formerly by parastatals and cooperative unions (these trucks
will be rehabilitated under the project or if unsalvageable, replaced by
new ones). The five companies will also be provided with truck repair
facilities. Total costs for this component before contingencies are
estimated at $9.9 million, 69% of base project costs.
46.       The central elements of this component have been designed
to address some of the problems which led to the failure of previous
public sector efforts. The new companies will begin with a more
manageable size -- each company will primarily be focused on the needs of
one region and the specific size of all initial fleets was agreed to
at negotiations (Schedule 2 of the draft Development Credit Agreement).
They will be provided with adequate management backing -- extensive
technical assistance to these companies is provided under the proposed
project, and the management arrangements will be reviewed by the
Association. Their formation will be carefully phased in accordance
with a schedule agreed to at negotiations (Section 3.04 of the draft
Development Credit Agreement). Lessons learned in initial operations
will be integrated into later efforts. The capital shortage problems,
particularly the weak cash flows which were encountered by NRHC, will
be remedied through the establishment of appropriate debt/equity



- 19 -
structures in the project companies. The financial structures of the
individual companies must be reviewed and found satisfactory by the
Association. Finally, the utilization of TRDB as the onlending inter-
mediary will ensure the application of previous Tanzanian transport
experience. TRDB has had extensive involvement with both the NRHC and
more broadly with the regional cooperatives and is expected to focus on
some of the most critical issues of the public transport companies (which
Government entities own the companies, independence of management and
financial viability).
47.       In order to avoid uncoordinated growth of public sector road
transport, the Government agreed that any substantial expansion in public
transport in the project regions would be reviewed with the Association
(Section 3.07(b) of the draft Development Credit Agreement). In addition,
to avoid the problem previous public companies faced with regard to being
forced to transport at rates which fail to cover costs (para 34 above),
the Government agreed that the public companies would have the authority to
negotiate transport tariffs which, assuming efficient operations, would be
sufficient to cover operating expenses and debt service and to earn a
reasonable rate of return on equity (Section 3.06 of the draft Development
Credit Agreement). In order to avoid problems of licensing or import controls,
the Government agreed that the companies would be issued the foreign exchange
and transport licenses necessary for efficient operations in a timely manner
(Section 3.08 of the draft Development Credit Agreement). Finally, the
Government agreed that proposals and recommendations that would significantly
affect the operations and organization of project companies and their effect
on the trucking industry will be discussed with the Association when they are
being considered (Section 3.07(a) of the draft Development Credit Agreement).
48.       The second component will support the National Institute of
Transport. Although NIT has recently been provided with excellent
buildings and a skeletal staff, the Institute needs strengthening
(particularly of its instructional staff, teaching aids and equipment)
if it is to upgrade the capabilities of public and private transport
personnel. Accordingly, the project provides for four technical
assistance instructors: one for trucking management, another for
accounting, a third to handle the training of mechanics and drivers and
a fourth to train supply managers; also provided are teaching aids
and workshop equipment for training of mechanics. The instructors
will conduct both short courses £tt the NIT facility in Dar es Salaam
and field training sessions in various regional centers. Costs of
this component are estimated at $0.6 million before contingencies,
4% of base project costs,
49.       The third project component involves the procurement of spare
parts based on the Government/Association discussions on improving both
the availability and distribution of spare parts. During the economic
crisis of the mid-seventies (paras 5 - 7) the urgent need to reduce its



-20-
import bill led the Government to impose import controls over an
increasing range of imports. In 1974, controls were imposed for
the first time on vehicle spare parts (para 33). These controls
have remained in effect and in fact tightened over time. During
recent discussions with the Government on the Tanzanian economy, the
Association has expressed its concern that this licensing, while
necessary and appropriate at one time, should now be loosened. This
reflects the view that such a relaxation would significantly improve
capacity utilization and remove a number of operational bottlenecks
Tanzania faces. In light of these discussions and in order to support
the rehabilitation of the truck fleet, the proposed project would pro-
vide $3.3 million for spare parts purchases. The size of this component
was determined by an analysis of the estimated demand for spare parts
which will be generated by liberalization of imports and which would
allow the restocking of spare parts to minimum acceptable levels.
This component also includes some funds for technical assistance to
help the Government review, monitor and improve its import policy for the
trucking sector.
50.       In order to ensure that these funds would be utilized as
effectively as possible, it was agreed at negotiations that before
disbursements on this component would commence, the Government would have
to produce a plan for carrying out the component, and this plan would
have to be endorsed by the Association (Section 3.09 and Schedii3e l1,4(h)
of the draft Development Credit Agreement). It was understood that this
plan would include both a liberalization of imports and appropriate
improvement to import procedures. While it was agreed that such a plan
would be formulated by March 31, 1978 it is expected to be introduced
in the near future by the Government. In fact the Government has
publically announced its intention to liberalize vehicle spare parts
imports and the questions remaining relate primarily to how this policy
can be effectively implemented.
Project Costs and Financing
51.       Total project costs, excluding taxes and duties are estimated
at US$17.3 million (taxes and duties total approximately $0.9 million).
Estimated foreign exchange costs are US$15.1 million, or 87% of total
project costs. Details of the project costs are provided at the beginning
of this report.
52.       The $15.0 million IDA credit will finance about 87% of the
total project costs, equivalent to about 100% of the total foreign
exchange expenditures. The Government will finance the remaining
$2.3 million net of taxes.
Procurement and Disbursements
53.       All procurement will be coordinated by NTC, with TRDB playing
a major role in the trucking companies component. In the trucking
component new trucks and associated spares (estimated to cost $6.1 million
before contingencies) would be purchased under international competitive



bidding from suppliers who would be required to provide adequate service,
repair and maintenance facilities in Tanzania. Equipment for the truck-
ing companies' workshops and for the NIT component would also be procured
through international competitive bidding (*500,000). Spare parts for
rehabilitating the existing fleet of the trucking companies (costing about
$500,000) and teaching aids for NIT (costing approximately $60,000) would
be procured through international shopping. The imports financed under
the spare parts component (totalling approximately US$3.3 million) would be
procured through the various dealers and merchants purchasing through their
commercial channels which are normally competitive.
54.       Credit disbursements would be made on the basis of 100% of the
foreign costs and 70% of local costs of technical assistance, new trucks and
related spare parts, materials, equipment and teaching aids and 100% of for-
eign costs of spare parts under the spare parts component of the project. Because
the technical assistance is vital to achieving project objectives, retroactive
financing up to $75,000 is recommended for technical assistance to NTC, to
enable the Government to provide prompt logistical support (housing or
caravan accommodations, furniture, household articles and vehicles) and
thus mobilize the technical assistance as early as possible.
Project Management and Implementation
55.       NTC will have overall responsibility for project execution. Within
NTC the various project activities will be coordinated by a Project Coordi-
nator and an Assistant who will be appointed by December 31, 1977 (Section
3.02(a) of the draft Development Credit Agreement). These two individuals
will have major responsibilities in project implementation: assisting the
Government in the recruitment of technical assistance, working on the pre-
paration and reviews of procurement documents, advising the Government with
regard to the setting-up or reorganizing of the regional trucking companies,
helping the regional companies in establishing appropriate facilities and
rehabilitating their fleets, and monitoring the performance of the individual
companies. They will also assist the Government in setting-up a system of
data collection (para 56 below).
56.       During negotiations the Government agreed to provide timely
information on the project implementat:ion schedule, on operational targets
for the companies and on monitoring indices and progress reporting on the
progress of all project components (Section 3.10(a) of the draft Development
Credit Agreement). Given the severely limited data available on the trucking
industry overall, the Government also agreed to establish and implement pro-
cedures for the collection and evaluation of various data: on the number,
age, size, location and ownership of vehicles, on seasonal transport
demand, on available truck capacity and on industry performance (Section
3.10(b) of the draft Development Credit Agreement).
57.       The trucking company component has a number of additional organi-
zational arrangements which are noteworthy. First of all, substantial
technical assistance will be provided to the individual companies. Advisors



-22-
will be appointed for the General Manager, Chief Accountant and Service
Manager and an instructor for mechanics and drivers will be provided for
each company. However, the advisors are not intended to have direct ope-
rational responsibility -- this will rest with the Tanzanian staff involved.
This arraugement was designed to improve local managerial skills, as the
Tanzanian staff will have full decision-making power and responsibility
for running of the companies. In order to ensure adequate manpower develop-
ment, the Government agreed that a suitable counterpart, whose qualifications
will be reviewed by the Association, will be assigned to each technical
assistant (Section 3.03 of the draft Development Credit Agreement).
58.      Secondly, the Tanzanian Rural Development Bank will serve as the
financial intermediary for this component. As noted above (para 46) TRDB's
extensive experience in transport should make a significant input into the
design and operations of the project companies. A Subsidiary Loan Agree-
ment between the Government and TRDB on terms and conditions satisfactory
to the Association will provide the framework for the onlending of project
funds to TRDB (Section 3.05(a) of the draft Development Credit Agreement).
The terms of this Loan will include repayment in 10 years (including two years
of grace) at an interest rate of 4%. Working with NTC, TRDB will analyze
in detail each project company's managerial, economic and financial viability.
In this regard the ownership of each company and their financial, opera-
tional and managerial arrangements will be approved by the Association
(Section 3.04(a) of the draft Development Credit Agreement). In addition,
before any funds can be disbursed to an individual project company, loan
agreements on terms and conditions acceptable to the Association will be
reached between TRDB and each project company (Section 3.05(b) and Schedule
I, 4(a) of the draft Development Credit Agreement). Onlending to the
project company from TRDB will be for 5 years (including one year of grace)
at an interest rate of 8.5% per annum. This rate is TRDB's standard rate
for medium term transport investments and is consistent with the country's
overall interest rate structure. TRDB's spread will cover its adminis-
trative expenses, provide for the risks involved in this operation and
allow some increase in TRDB's reserves. It is in line with the spread
employed in previous Bank experience in using TRDB as an intermediary
(para 40).
59.      Given the central role and importance of technical assistance
in the proposed project, all technical assistance hired under the project
will be employed in consultation with the Association and will be retained
according to an agreed upon timetable under terms and conditions acceptable
to the Association (Section 3.02 of the draft Development Credit Agreement).
Project Benefits and Justification
60.      The investment in trucking companies, by far the largest project
component, has an estimated economic rate of return of 37%. This analysis
is based on the significant reduction in truck transport costs which can
be expected in the regional companies. However, potentially more important
than the direct benefits will be the project's ability to create a viable
and efficient model for public sector transport on a regional basis.



61.       The efforts in respect to the regional companies will be sup-
plemented by the spare parts component. The estimated rate of return
on that component is 38%. The component will support the restocking
of spare parts for the entire industry and should result in signi-
ficant savings by improving existing fleet availability and utilization
-- thereby making it possible to avoid the significant capital costs
of new truck purchases and ensuring more reliable service from the
existing fleet. However, to the extent the present system of import
control is improved or eliminated as a result of Government/IDA dis-
cussions in this area, far wider benefits can be expected. The
private segment of the industry in particular will benefit from this
component - it has been especially hard hit by the import controls
and the allocation system which were instituted during the economic
crisis in the early seventies.
62.       The NIT component can only be assessed in qualitative terms.
To the extent this component will improve the manpower available to the
road transport industry as a whole (both public and private), it can be
anticipated that it will complement Government's efforts to improve
significantly management and operations across the entire sector.
Risks
63.       In its major component (the trucking companies) this project
has substantial risks. The previous failure of public trucking in
Tanzania has been well documented. Moreover, many of the problems which
underlie that failure remain even with the project (the lack of management
and worker incentives, manpower shortages and the difficult nature of
road transport in Tanzania). However, in reviewing the previous diffi-
culties and in assessing the problems public trucking faces, the
Association staff have made every effort to reduce pragmatically the
risks. Careful phasing of project company development, insistence on
significant technical assistance, and limiting of the scale of the pro-
ject to a small segment of the industry all reflect this caution. In
addition, the Government has reacted positively to Bank Group suggestions
and proposals. It has already begun mobilization for the technical
assistance; it has secured the involvement of TRDB; and, perhaps most
important, it has aggressively dealt with the difficult problems by cutting
off the failures of the past rather than attempting to subsidize or
ignore them. Finally, the Government's willingness to face the critical
spare parts issue supports the Association's conclusion that it intends
to resolve some of the most pressing bottlenecks in the sector. In view
of these efforts to minimize project risks, we believe the level of risk
is well justified.



-24-
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
64.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between the United
Republic of Tanzania and the Association, the Report of the Committee
provided for in Article V, Section l(d) of the Articles of Agreement,
and the text of a resolution approving the proposed Credit are being
distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
65.       Special features of the legal documents are listed at the
end of this report (Annex III). While there are no special conditions
of credit effectiveness, certain actions must be taken before disburse-
ments can commence on two project components (paras 50 and 58 above).
66.       I am satisfied that the proposed Credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
67.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
Credit.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
Washington, D. C.
September 20, 1977



ADNNDEX I
TABLE 3A                                       Page 1 of 4 page
TANZANIA            - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
LAND AREA (THOU KM2)                  -      --------
_  _------------                         TANZANIA                            REFERENCE COUNTRIES (1970)
TOTAL       945.1                                      MOST RECENT
AGRIC.     517-3                        1960      1970    ESTIMATE          KENYA      immA,   fiP. OF    MALAYSIA**
-.~~~---    ----          ---  --
GNP PER CAPITA (USs)                      6o.0*a ioo.o*/a 180.0*/ab              140.0*      280.0*      440.0*
POPULATIDN AND VITAL STATISTICS
________   - ---  -   -----  -  _ _-_ --__ _ _ -__
POPULATION (MID-YR, MILLION)             9.6L&    12.9La     15.1!A.b           11.2        32:2        10.13
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQUARE KM.                       11./ 14.0             17                 t9.0       327.0        33.0
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND         18.0      25.0       26.0 )            113.0      1371.0       105.0
VITAL STATISTICS
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (/THOU. Av)          51.5      50.5       47.0               49.0        35.0        42.2
CRUDE DEATH RATE (/tHOU.AV)           27.1      23.0       20.1               i70          l 
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (/THOU)        190.0  160.0-165.0                                   A1.4         2    La
190.0  16 .0 1                ~~~137.0     60.0 £L     40. 
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YRS)       38.7       41.9       4.S                49.1        65.0        56.7
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                 ..       3.2        3.2                i.4         2.6         2.6 L
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (%)
TOTAL                                  2.31a     3.0^A      2.74               3.1         2.3         2.0
URBAN                                  5.0       5.6        7.5a                6.3        6.4         3-2
URBAN POPULATION (% OF TOTAL)            4.6        5.s5      7.3                 9.9       41.2        26.9
AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0 TO 14 YEARS                        42:14.5 &  44.44       .                48.4        42.1        44.7 
15 TO 64 YEARS                      5s.SLE 53.0g.           ..               46.0        54.5        52.1 a
65 YEARS AND OVER                      2.04      26          *                 3.6         3.4         3.2 a
AGE DEPENDENCY RATIO                     oa/ab      0.9        ,,                 1.1        0.6 8.g/a
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO         l        .-i24d     2                           1.1 /.a    1.4         1.
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS (CUMULATIVE, THOU)            .          ..        ..               66.1      4424.7       222.2
USERS (% OF MARRIED WOMEN)              ..        ..         ..                 ..        42.0         6.0
tIl "LOYMENT
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOuSAND)          4900.0/A 5600.0 a    6300.0 Ld          5100.0     10200.0      2900   a
LABOR FORCE IN AGRICULTURE (%)          96.0      9l.01        ..               90.0 50                 43. 4
UNEMPLOYED (% OF LABOR FORCE)             .i6..                                    ..        4.5         6.0 b
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
s OF PRIVATE INCOME RECOD BY-
HIGHEST   5% OF HOUSEHOLDS              ..      33.5 .                       20.2        17.1        28.3
HIGHEST 20% OF HOUSEHOLDS               ..      63.3         ..               52.6 E      44.5        56 0
LOWEST  20% OF HOUSEHOLDS               .-       2.3         ..                3.9 7       7. 1        3.5
LOWEST  40% OF HOUSEHOLDS               ..       7.8         .                1l.7        17.7        11.2
DISTRIBUTION OF LAND OWNERSHIP
s OWNED BY TOP 10% OF OWNERS              .          ..        ..                   .        28.o
x OWNED BY SMALLEST 10% OWNERS            ..         ..        ..                  ..         2.0
HEALTH AND NUTRITION
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN             21750.0 I 21570. A  20800.0 /b          7830. 0/d    218 o0/
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON        9240.0     4890.0     318o0.o7g         1470.-0      2t70 07
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED            570.02 700.0             . .            770.0      190o0.       270.0^
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF -
CALORIES (% OF REQUIREMENTS)          69.0      73.0      86.o                101.0      103.0       1t0.0
PROTEIN (GRAMS PER DAY)               42.0      43.0       63.0 L              71.0       65.0        49.0
-OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE          22.0/     23.0         ..               29.0         19.0       20.0
DEATH RATE C/THOU) AGES 1-4               .-         .-        ..                 1.9          ..         5.5
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIO
PRIMARY SCHOOL                        24.0      35.0       41.0               64.0       104.0        99O/
SECONDARY SCHOOL                       2.0       3.0        3.0                 9.0/e     41.0        34 o 
YEARS OF SCHOOLING PROVIDED
(FIRST AND SECOND LEVEL)              13.0      13.0       13.0                13.0       12.0        13.0/a
VOCATIONAL ENROLLMENT
(% OF SECONDARY)                     23.0       10.0 /0                        2.0e      16.0         3. 0 /
ADULT LITERACY RATE (X)                 17.0         .-      49.0                30.0        87.0       55.0
HOUSING
PERSONS PER ROOM (URBAN)                 l-S        .*         ..                  ..         2.7        2.3/a
OCCUPIED DWELLINGS WITHOUT
PIPED WATER (%)                         *-      30.0         *06
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY
(X OF ALL DWELLINGS)                    ..        ,.         ,,                  ,,       50.0        43.0/a
RURAL DWELLINGS CONNECTED
TO ELECTRICITY (%)                      ..        ..         ,,                  ..        30.0       30. Oa
CONSLIMPTION
RADIO RECEIVERS (PER THOU POP)           2.0       11.0      16.0                48.0       126.0        41.0
PASSENGER CARS (PER THOU POP)            3.0        3.0       3.0                 9.0         2.0        27.0
ELECTRICITY (KWH/YR PER CAP)            16.0       31.0      43.0                68.0       307.0       382.0
NEtSPRINT (KG/YR PER CAP)                0.1/g      0.1       0.1                 0.5         3.5         4.0
SEE NOTES AND DEFINITIONS ON REVERSE



AgeRM   o I  pae
NOTES                  ~~2f                                          ae
Ullfteo  otberwioe noted, data foe 1960 refer to easy year between 1959 and 1961, for 1970 between a968 end 1970 sad foe Mint Reeent Ostintat between
1973 anad 1975.
*  01fF per rayite, dsto are based on Wor'lA BasS Atlas as       ftlogyl (1974-76 basis).
Maiy3ol loan Ibeen olctertd noas     o bjective en-try because its POPul1,tion is no-apsable in size seed its enonmic development is several steps
aired of Tan-taia.
TANZANIA             12960    /ap  Mainland Tanoania;    Aq    1957, African population only;        Ac  Ratio of population under 15 and 65 and over to total
labor force;      Ad  39;       /e  1962;     If   Registered, not all Practicing In tie country,         AE   1961-63;
(t1958, Z-nibar only.-
1970     /a  lMaInland T%oen-a;       Ab  1967;     A-  1965;     Ad  Ao Peroentago of urban, bouseholds.
Y.0ST gW01C EN  ETIMiTE:    A&  1976;     Ab  Mainland Tanzan,ia;      A.  1967-75,      Ad  1972;     Ae  1969-71 aeae           /f  Urban
cANNTY               1970     A~ RatiJo of population under 15 andi 65 and over to labor force age 15-59 yearn,            A   Labor force age 15-59 yearn,
'0Urban.;   /A   Registered, not all praoticing in tie country,          /0  Total secondary inniuden t-tc-o      t-ai-ng
at the thlIrd level
KLOREA liP. OF       190       A  Gosermunet eatinate in 38.0;        A   An Percentage of erploynent,        A,  Registerod, rot all practicing on tie co-try.
A22    L   wator piped innide
MA_IAY _,A                     owent, Mainysoa        L, Registered applicanto foe wor k;         /o  l96i-66,     Id Pfoyno onir -oxie ccIy
Rll. Aog-st 2OL, 19,77
REPINrITIoN OF 1OCt0 INDICATORS
Ladaen(is1-52                                                                        Popolation penara tani. paerso- Popo1Laf-s diclded 00 toenn    of praes;o le
Totsi    Tosa1 s-ria-e aeon t-ciny  isn  load -reanod Inland .stars.                         -.an sd final    geodoate n--e,    sro:etod' or 'certified' nor..e. ,.sd
sArtis  M-os   rorien  en-lo-o of narloultoeni sean oed teaspoesrily or paean-               asoiliary pseanas1 with t-nisig or e,opar;ace
aeon; for crepe, ps-t-en     -norb   & kitchena gordan or to lbs follow.                 PoasI.inai   Per haseica.l bed - oPslat-ion diclded by nuobar of hospisal beds
aes ilable in poblin and prience ganses1 and epeoloisso. hnapltal sod
gNp_net _nita (1771; - GIN? pore -p5n ostimser     at osereo  narket prloan,                 rehbiblitotina reters, e-aldeseorseg boot        ned eaalsonafor
snioniatod by anne tn--rio, r,ahbd an Wanaid Book Stlon (1973-75 bass;                     eatdia1 and pronetin- oars.
l1u,  107   ne   975 da.Pot cnpita snpnly of onlortes                                                                    I ~of reueaot;       eop.od Ren a ..seBy
"qotoisa-t of net food eupplian -calloble ionun ..tr-y por .apita per day,
Psoalo  t  itAl nedtiOtlO                                                             ocalobla Iopie      eusprs- donstit prodoatior , ioports loss    -poets . ad
Pooain(aid-,e.t Ailon        s of JOlY  ilent   if not -nillable, aeregs               ebhanan in stook. not aopplio   seelode seinal feed, needs. Moa    itsIt-Itond
of tw   sod- year esilmnos  0li    1q70 nod 1975 darn,                                     in Rood proe-ning sod looses In dintrlbouio-, reejoirsonnts were -eimaed
by FAO base.d oo pbyailogicgt1 needs foe noraI actloy sad health -nasd-
Posolndeosf   P- e  500a     k  - 551d-y-s popolottin pse eqorn ktlo,ntnr              ertag eolro-t.1ra    t-ooprsesn. body negtabra,    asoad ... dt.isaetbtbo    of
(100 leoctaron ( of rotol araa.                                     ro~~~polslonil, and s1ioaes  102 for -osta or houshold 1-ee;.
Poaslattoc dean-ity -erabo          of anri_ food - Coopoted an aboe for                   Pe   ait    upy of eola(rnpeda)                 --Potinf ontelt of Pe Ieap"I
agerocltoasi load only                                                                     net nopply of food per dynosupy            oflod Isdefiand as sboo, req1ire-
nea.te for nil countrries eatabliobed by U120 Ecoacaic Resear ch sen-oboe
Ottol otasloaten                                                     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~provIde fra  a  ilel-ocos  .....na  of 60 fran. of total proteIn per day, and
Crudo birab inato   I.or    ...ut ... snrnoe-ooAta  lise births pre aboosad of               20 ecasa of nabeal and poIse prorate, ef hbsh 10 fr-        hbould is aeba
aidyoe    oylstloo, te-yarstonorit sesrsgan ending in 1960 nod 1970,                      prtin     chese stndards or lIwe r than    h...n of 75 aren    of tota  protin
no7d fice-yeer   --rgo e-dina In 1975 for coot recen.t sotfste-                             and 23 grsas of seLaol peoro.. an sesro--o toe the -srid, propose.d by FA0
rde doil    -tot nor thos.nod.  -orsgr - MAnual deaths per thousand of old-year            In the Thied Wel1d Food Survey
populstion;: te-year -Ihtedi tei  neerage   ndia   in 1960 anod 197  and Ifins-          Pee onnit. eroisiasuppl      fcoo anLal tdpne- Protin -opply of food
y   --aoSgentding in 1975 for not    eto     "ntae                                      deeied fros alna-le nod polaa itfnron ~pee day
Infan soilit     oe s    hc    - Ao..n I dearhe of iefanta noise one Ysea ofag            Doscth rate f/rho0; ana1         toldnI        ereon         naeaop        -
perIbunnd lIce- births,.                                                                   yearn, to ehtldrn in hibi    K.e greop  toffee-td an so tediensr of
Li fe netheooc- at bir,th_(yes) - icoesgo neober of years of life raensting at                 1-letrition.
birr", usull    RI e-yer acrngee eadie     Ia 1960, 1970 and 1975 for develop-
Cres r...   orto ae         Aoieonbro          lice degtee0              11eol  bea        Adjoetrd earol.ioner rai      _pee  tasol-icllnr           of  lla,s    s   et
It Nornoerma neocdsetlc  perfo  if sonaparsesnapreener  fe-spoetfle          neeog   ofpisy       obo-e pephaina         lcWsde     chIldren aged bI   er
fettl It   sates,Iuoaly fee-eocaenofe         e    ingo 1960, 1970 sod 1975                hon adjosted for diffor-t 1legebs of peLnars edoc.oin. for       --ottelea use
for dn-e1oplng     oto iote.                                                               Ontes-1asodusotion, onolenetna        nmd 100% sioce ewe      popln are below
Pepol,otn_ ,oth_rate (7,3 - totol     C-Copood   -n.-I growth rates of aid-year              or above the offioialhscin       oge
po Jtton lor 1950-60, 1960-70 sod 1970-75.                                           Adjustetd OnrOllan   atosuodenbe               - Copo~ted an aboc-, secodar
Poooingrot,   at_  7.    ro    - Coopood like growth rate of total                     edutaton en juices at losi (in       years of oppr-cd prianryletcti,
pplto;differron  definitions of zebsa sten     osy affeec teocprability of           prceides geerl,c       tsiona1 or teseher trieing lotornnfee pupils
data eatig eucesof 12 to 17 yeses of age; ecrnnsp oodnne-e                                                                               -ee  ae..l0raIly enelded
nbon, poesi-ro      (Q, of total) - Ratio ofcorbIn to tOtalfpopaslation; different         Yerpf teltnoeidad ((11Les.odsmodLve,                       TotalIpace    f
dofiniti-n of nhan ecron      ay offeet   -opseb ilityo   data a,ong eousantree.           soboliS at eneodary 1e-          eealo-l innstruction cay be portla11y 
enaplotnly eneluded.
Annecuctor  (rcc.-,3  -Children (3-li years), notkiog-gfe (15-hi years),            Poreo       nobet(,o          oodmL-cc          tnltesstosteld
sond r-t-rd (65 cros    -Ad   -,e) an s    tageo      aid-yea    pepolatbon.                tehIa.-dora             rohrporo            whet operat  fodepsod-rsIo     a
~e deedoey rato  - bris J  Pop   iorbo    ederIIsod 65 sad over to tbnse              deparrosets of sneondor    Inlttle
of agea II thresf, NA                                              A~~~~~~~~~~~~~    ~~~~~~~~~dult lienyrt  1- Lesrtecr   adults (obic- to toad and ole onpe-
ino--ir deop-deov. roe      -K-Rtio of popolaibon undrr 13 and 95 and over to                 etg      fttlautppl.eeat                 5oaendoo
thn labor force Iase groo..p of 15-64 years.
(maim  elonio    - seneto.  (P- ozlatee   hsin) - Coniatto- nooor of areeptorn             H.osoIna
of birth -tooted I deIc-e -tder -opisno of tnionol fonily planoiog progrn                Pesnapr rea (uba)           -keroge n-oohe    of  to per-  pren-  In ar-pled
sIlat    ioo P opro                                                                        cne-tienaI doel1iags In leaosese         d-ell-,5 eoslode no-petcaeoec
tEniy lono        - .sr Ct7 of carried one)-Peora-ngee of ntrited .aoo.e.of                   atest.rae    and sestPied poets.
nhild-b-arlo     010 (:5-.4 cones   hba on  blrth-eooorol d-d005 en nIl earne.d          Intoned         I dulig   scithoot pIpd oue  7  -cotd Cocoet..Ioa       deollinfs
w     -o t.te ear grOOp.                                                               in urban and rarat  __es  wiuho_  feid e     oc t55 dppe   aser foelllies
as.. penetags of all netopied dwellngs
Rot ioo,ane                                                                        mase to eEearriotol(7 .ofiall cllldigg(      - doCeerseelsd  I doelllege n  t d
fortes and .ooeployed but ...wIud-g h-osei-na, etodeeta, et      ; dofinieioan             re    aes
In-sio-i  cosentito are eat enapo   ale                                                 RIa ~dallirg   cnnctd to Clorsa             t   -fop,td    nabc     teroo
iaaefrtel       aelolso      j  - AStile-trn1 Isbor fnres Cia fanning, forestry,            delnsol
bootleg sad fis(sne) as per-ntaf       of total iobot fort
Itenlnod 37 ofisle foe U) - Onployoi ore onus ily defined as pomeone  h.o          fannto
see able and atlllog to tsbk.    job, eel of a job so a eiian day, re.naiod ont          fai    eeee      pato       of-A        ne    f eelenfor -ad- bredoasta
of a jb,sd noebiag ne.ek Ie apsceified aini-in        period oat .....od1eg .e.            C. fenara1 poblee per th-ndsnoif popolosttn      -eeladne  -lio...rd rentei-ra
week,      "Iy on   he "nP,rable between eooorsce   doe 'tofdiffe'ret definicone            intnnce      oe Ieorowereltar-hf.os.550                          cefet
of onnp inynd   o. soeton o   data, eg. , enployesoe     ffItestaite,a        l            datafo re en oto a.nr    y net be onapor.hb loe a' Oa-t ce-e-le      abel Inhed
..orve.. cenpoleoy oaenployosnt inaseaneeI... leIng
P....ne er(pttoen)- Po....nger tars toopelso aoOrtere sea. .tinf
Ioasdiatrlb_ottn - Peroentage of prle-te macn (both it ea.h and bind                       ee  tha  siibt porsona; -ooldee enbolanret     hersee and ti1itar
reco-eod by riebest iY., riobeac SIC. peroe. 20It, and p.oloea   hOt of base-              nehiole..
boldt                                                      Ileatrirlay (beN/or nor tan) - annual enasnapeloo of ledostelal , toesserolal~~n k  I tt  _pr "P"  r' l
istrlbstrio- of land_o    orhie - fere...tagno of load otod by ...altibet 107,               boand an pndurtien data, wIthoutl a1b_nanth fo     oae   t rI  ds   utalow
and ponrese 10%. of load oer.ing foe iparts and .oP.r_. of jeleetelit
Ir2f7L,&Ll,,os±) - Pee capita annuel ooesn.ptloa In kileg-o
Resith sod Roticiton                                                                          estimaLed fren do,nesric producIon plsaner Imports of ne-pelos
Poen1atlee ear physc.  s     Ppolotino dielded by enther of pesactolig
pbyeiniona joa1iftod fron a aedd1ea   nese aoo   esoeIIeraIty local



PINM0  8VIDPQ pDATAI                                               Page 3 of 4 pages
(Amont.   n   ili,.o     US   dol-lars)
Actual                        Pcetdj.0~7.                   1.973 -   1975 -   1975 -    17       95      L8
T~~T   1974  1975  1976    1977     1~~      ~~0 132   1975     1977      19BO
NATIONAL ACCOU2ICD                                                                 ____         1                                   9 3     19 5    L6
Al: 9193              _rez&       ~.e    ~           .       -rg  nnal Groswth Races    As PcerLet (.f GDY
Irons Ilumestic 0rs,duct  1s66.4 1917.6    1966. 7     2065. 1  2168.3   2510.1       6.0      2.7      5.0       5.0    100.0    102 .0   101.0
Gainis JPron T,rms of Trae-i     ____      -20. 5    -38.4      -49.7      -5.0   -24.9                                                -   -2.0     -1.0
Gros, 1uet.      r.comc          1E66.4                        2087-  UT3 TOa4.8  TI 3-  4     5.0      1.6      5.9       5.2    100.0c  100.0    10-0.
import. (ino. 113S,              545       508.4    474. 6      427.4    464. 1   549.1        7.4    -6.7     -1. 1      3.0D    29.2     24.6     22.1
EX   I1t.4     arono-rt capacity) 617 .2   304.1     275.5      328.2     324.1   436.8        2.7   -18.7       8.5      9.7      22.4     14.3    17.6
Resou.rce Gap                     127.9    20-4.3    19 9.1      99.2     140.0   112.3                                            6E.9    10.3      4 . 5
Consumsption F-cponditures       1568.8   1654.2    1669.1     1719.0    1829.1  2062.5        5.5     2.5       4.7      4.3      65.1     86.6    83.0
Invtstment       (mncl. stocks) 405.5      447.2    458.3       465.0     474.2   535.0        9.7     6.3       1.7      3.1      21.7    23.6     21 5
Ivnmestlc Savings                 27 7 .6  242.9     259.2      365.8     334.2   422.7        2.5    -3.3      13.5     10.3      14.9     13.4    17.0
National Savings                  271.3    269.5     309 7      402.1     375.1   447.5        3.2      6.8     10.0       7.6     14.5     16.1   118.0
MEPRCHAND1SE TRADE                           Annual Data at Current Prices                                                         As Percent of Total
1973     1974    1975
imports
Capitlt Voods                   116.0    149.6     199.8                        709.4                                            23.9     20 . 8   77. 3
intermediate gOods 67(.fuels) 180.?      228 .7   213 .7                        455.9                                            37.2     31.8    29.2
Fuels and,relaLed materials     41.8      74.8     87.8                         156.2                                             8.6    10.4     12.0
of which:   Petroleson       (41.8)    (74.8)    (87.8)                      (15G.2)                                           (8.6)   (10.4)  (12.0)
Con2umption_.6oOds              147.2    266.0     230.5                        279.5                                            in I 3..   3.2.L  2L1..
Totail March. Tirmports (rif)  CTTT      719.1    731.9       692.1     835.0  12.00.9                                          100.0    100.0   100.0
Export's
Prmr      rout>     cl  ul)261.3         304.9     259.4                        581.6                                            79.7     80.1    79.0
Fujels and related materials    12.5      18.3     18.1                          36.0                                             3.8      4.6     5.5
o~' which: Petroleum         (12.5)    (18.3)    (18.1)                       (36.0)                                           (3.8)    (4.8)   :5.5)
1Manuafact,ured goo,ds          54.1      57.5     50.9                         132.9                                           .4&..     1..i.  .l..ia
Total Merch. Siscoorts (fob)   327.9     3-7      3-n:2       438.3     4-80.0  750.5                                           100.     100.0   100.0
Toucisn arc Bova-    Traoe       -,       -.        .
McrcuhanCsss  TrsJ- Jodiec                     Av,erage 1)73   - 130
Extort. Pric, ncoex            100.0  -145. 5     142.0      -18 9.2  -187.9    218.~6
Jmport Price index             100.0     159.0    168.4       178.6    195.3    239.7
Terms of' trade index          100.0      91.5     84.3       105.9     96.2     91.2
Exports Volume Index           100.       79.8     70.5        70.3     77.9    104.3
VALUE ADDED BY -'ECTI?             Artnual tatm at 19.73-   iUt eao and lx-cha.tge le             vrg An.       Got Patees          A Percent ofTota,!.1
1967-72   1973-75  1975-80         1973     1975    1980
Agriculture                    645.1     624.1    666.7       700.0    724.3    808.4           2.6    1-. 5       3.-9-         39.4    38.B1    3:6.2
Industry and Mining            306.2    306.2     299.2       314.2    329.9    395.3           5.0     -1.2       5.7           18.7    17.1     17.7
Service                        686.1    742.6     783.9       823.1    _74.7   1029.5           6.1      6.8       5.6         ..4]...9  ..4.4...  I.4j
To tal.                       1-637.4  16 73.1   0749.8      1837.2   1929.1   2233.2           4.5      32        5.0          100.0   100.0    100.0
Prelim. Est.
PUBLIC FINANCE                    FT 73     FY 74    FY 75       FY 76                                                               _Au Percent _of GIIP
(Centrl Gnoverunment)                                                                                                               1973    19374    1975
Current Receipts              2284     3022      3900        3994                                                                20.1    21.8     21.2
Curr'ent Exedtrs              2066     2695      3991        3630                                                                18.1    21.1     20.5
Dsudgetw.ny Savings            216      327       -91     ~   364                                                                 2.1     0.77     1.4
Other Public Sector            564       754       ..          .                                                                  3.9      4.7
Public Sector Investment       956     1642      2352        2309                                                                 9.9    12.6     12.5
CURkRENT EXPENDITUR1E DETAILS                  Actual        Prelim.   Est.
As So Total Current Expend.            FY197Z  PT1974    FY1975    FY1976
Education                                17.E   D17T7       TiTU   .17 .1
Other Social 5ervices                   14.5     15.5      12.2      14.4
A.grccuIlture                            8.9     12.1       13.3      7.0
Other Economic D~ervioes                12.4     12.2       10.3      9.2
Admunestraticn somd Defense             36.2     35.1       30.9     31.9
Otner                         ~~~~~~~10.3  7.9   18.3      20.4
ToTtal Current Excpenditures           100.0o   100.       100.0 o  100.0
SELECTEt, INDICATORS                               1915-      1973-    197 5-   1935-
(Calculated from 3-year averaged data)             1972       1975     1977     1978
Average ICOR                                         .        T3-        4T        4
Deport Elasticity                                   1.6      -2.5      -0.2     0.6
Miiaginal Domnestic Savings Ra:e                    0.1      -0.2       0.4     0.3
Marginal National Savangs Rate            -         0.2       0.6       0.3      0.2
!ATeR FORCE AND                        Total Labor Force                                     Value Added Per worker (Current Prices)
OUTPIT PMR WORKER                 In Million            ofToal                               InU IJ.D.lOolas     PrenofA        re
1971          ~~1971                                   1971                    1971
Agriculture                            5.3                91                                       98                     43
Industry                               0.1                 2                                     1590                    694
Service                                0.4                 7                                     2170                    948
TOtal                                  5.8              -107029
not applicable         - ill or negli-gi'ble
not available         -  loss than haLlf the
smallest unit sbownEAPA
February 1977



Page 4 of 4 pages
BAlANCE OF PAY19IENTS, EXTERN~Al, ASSISTANGCE AND MEIT
~7amumts inm-illiars of U.S. dollars a     current pr1ces)
Avg. Annual
Actu~al                          Estimated                          Projected                                                  Growth Rate
1973         1974         1975-                 197            19 77        1978         1979         i1980                                  3973198
S¶7NMARY BALANCE OF PA-33AENTS
Exports (incl. NF'S)                             417.2        465.9        461.0                 576.0          621.7       809.8         915.2        1029.6                                    13.6
Dstports(incl. NFS)                              545.1        779.1        794.2                 750.1          890.2      1025.3        1138.5        1294.1                                    13.1
Vio-gEe Balance     X-M)                        -127.9        :I.          -333.2                TZT            7W          -22lS        -243.3         5ir                                       170.9
Interest (net)                                    -3.9           0            2..1               -i.             -17.9       -21.3        -28.1         -36.6                                    38.0
Direct Inveetment Income                           -7.4        -4.0          -7.3                 -3.8            -3.1        -5.0         -5.0          -5.0
Workers' Remittance                                   -            -            -
C,urra.t Transfers (ret)                            3 0-.      45.3          93.0                  83.3          100.0       100.0        100.0         100.0                                     55.0
Balance on Current Accounts-                    -134.2       -279          -29I.14                               10.0       -151.8       -76.4         -206.1                                      6.3
Private Direct Investment                           9.9          6.3          5.6                   6.0            6.0         6.0          6.0           6.0
Official Capital. Grants
public bg,LT Loans
Disbursaments                                   98.7        138.G1'      229.4.&1              188.8-2'       234.4        282.9        328.7         364.7                                    21.0
-g,                                            -16.4        -14.1        -15.0                 -21.6          -23.2       -23.9         -25.8         -34.2                                    10.5
Net       aen  nt                                8i2 .3       123.9        214.4                  f7Y7117                   -25'9'.0     T 2-97        13~30                                     22.0
Other WeLT Loans
Disbursements
-Repayments                                    ___           __
Net igurs.                                                                                                            ~~~~~            ~          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Actmsl  lKstimtet
Capital Transactions n.e.i.                        72.6         56.92/       20.42'/               -3.9                                          Ul-        1)7 3      UZ74       122          1976
Change in Net Raseryes                            -30.6         84.8          9.2                 -58.9         DEBT M1D DEPT' SERVICE
Psic=cDebt Out. & Disbursed     359.9      460.2      611.1      707.5        787.5
lAN ADlOAN            -iieNMI658938137                                                                         nees      nEuNc      et        6.           .        86S
OfficiaL Gats T& Gant-lk                            5.           658          9.12.ItaesonPbcDbt                                                    .6.2.6                          1.2         12.8
Redaym.ents on Public Debt     29.1        16.4       14.1       15.0        21.6
Total TUblic Debt Service       35.7       24.7       22.7       26.2         34.5
Public M4&LT Loans                                    -         65.0         30.0                                 Olth,' Debt 5Service (not)        ..
TMD ~ ~ ~    ~     ~    ~    ~   ~    2.           12          1.                                    oa    eb   evc      nt           ..
TDA                                              2.            12          1.                                   o~!Db         evc      nt
Other                                             1.8          7.1          7.1
Other Multilateral        .                         -            -            -                              Burden on Excport Earnings()
Governments                                      82.8        127.1         91.3
Suppliers                                           -            -             -                               Public Debt Service              9.0        5.9        4.9        5.7          6.0
Financial Institutions                              ---Tot-al D-ebt Service..                                                                                .
Bods                                                                                                         PDS'Direct Invest. InL.         10.1        7.7        5.7        7.3          6.6
Publ,ic loans n.e.i.                                           -
Total Pusblic l4tT  mans~                         107.1        260.4        138.4                              Average Termsa of Public Debt
Ac tia. Debt Outstan,ding on D-c    z.1975                       Iot, as % prior Yea    M)3D      2.3        2.3        1.9        1.8          1.6
EXTERNJAL ORB'?                                    Disbursed Dnly                 Percent                           kmsort, as % Prior Year DX2&D   10.2        4.6        3.1        2.5          2.7
World Bank                                              27
IDA                                                     80.8                      10.3                         INN!) Debt Out. & Disbursed
Other ?islts.latcrol                                    19.0                       2.4                           "   as % Public Debt DAD          6.7        7.1        6.7       10.2         10.1
Governments                                            557.6                      70.8                               as % Public Debt Service,4/ 3.5          8.9       12.5       18.4         20.4
Slsnnl,ers                               ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~23.8          3.0
Financial Institutio-                                   12.3                       1.6                         TOD ADebt Out, & Disbursed
Bonds                                     ~~~~~~~~~~4.2              0.5                             as A Public Debt O&Di         13.7       12.5       10.4       10.3         12.0
Public DXebts n-c.i                                      9.4                       1.2                             a s % Public Debt Service4/     1.2        1.7        2.9        2.8          2.6
Total Public MAlT Debt                                 7.5100.0
Other MALT Debts
Short-twms Debt (dosb. only)
not applicable                                                       e   staff estiseate                    l/   Includes drawing en Arab Fund for Africa ($7.1 a
not available                                                         -nil or negligible                    2/   includes bilateral and multilateral program asaistsoce
.  not available separately                                            --less thac half the                    3/   Icludes use of IMF resources
but included in total                                                    smallest unit shown               4/    BlRD ankd IDA debt service as 7. of public debt service
EA CPUA
February 1977



ANNEX II
Page 1 of 13
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS TO TANZANIA
As of August 31, 1977
(US$ million)
Amount less cancellations
No.      Year      Borrower    Purpose                         Bank   IDAL' Undisbursed
Four loans and ten credits fully disbursed.                    70.2   72.0
586-TA   1969     Tanzania     Roads                            7.0             1.4
217-TA   1970          "       Tobacco                                 9.0      0.3
232-TA   1971                  Education                               3.3      0.2
265-TA   1971          "       Roads                                   6.5      0.7
287-TA   1972                  Smallholder Tea                        10.8      2.6
371-TA   1973                  Education                              10.3      6.2
382-TA   1973                  Livestock                              18.5      7.8
454-TA   1974                  Cotton                                 17.5     14.6
460-TA   1974                  Tanzania Investment Bank                6.0      1.3
1014-TA   1974                  Cashewnut                       21.0            10.4
495-TA   1974                  Sites and Services                      8.5      4.3
507-TA   1974                  Highway Maintenance                    10.2      7.9
508-TA   1974                  Rural Development                      10.0      8.3
1041-TA   1974          "       Sugar                            9.0             3.6
580-TA   1975                  Dairy                                  10.0      8.4
1128-EA   1975                  Textile                         15.0             6.6
1172-TA   1975     TIB          Tanzania Investment Bank        15.0             8.7
601-TA   1976     Tanzania     Technical Assistance                    6.0      5.9
606-TA   1976                  National Maize Program                 18.0     15.2
607-TA   1976                  Education                              11.0     10.4
1306-T TA 1976                  Power                           30.0            29.4
1307-TA   1976                  Forestry                         7.0             6.7
652-TA   1976                  Fisheries                               9.0      8.8
658-TA   1976                  Tobacco Processing                      8.0      7.0
1354-TA   1977                  Urban Water Supply              15.0            15.0
1385-T-TA  1977                 Morogoro Industrial Complex     11.5            11.5
1386-TA   1977                  Morogoro Industrial Complex     11.5            11.5
703-TAI' 1977                  Rural Development (Tabora)              7.2      7.2
TOTAL                                           212.2   251.8    221.9
of which has been repaid                     2.6     5.8
209.6  246.°
Amount sold                       0.1
of which has been repaid    0.1
Total now outstandingl/                         209.6  246.0
Total undisbursed                               104.8   117.1
1/   Net of exchange adjustments
2/   Includes Norwegian participation of $6.2 million of which $1.4 is undisbursed.
3/   Not yet effective.   Amount excludes Canadian participation of $4.8 million.
Note: An IDA credit of $12.0 for a Second National Sites and Services Project was
approved on July 7, 1977 but has not yet been signed.



ANNEX II
Page 2 of 13
B. SUMMARY STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS FOR COMMON SERVICES GUARANTEED
BY KENYA, TANZANIA AND UGANDA AS OF AUGUST 31. 1977
(US$ million)
Amount less cancelleation
No.      Year     Borrower    Purpose                     Bank          Undisbursed
Five loans fully disbursed
638-EA   1969    EAHC         Harbours                    35.0              1.5
674-EA   1970    EARC         Railways                    42.4              8.1
865-EA   1972    EAHC         Harbours                     26.5             2.0
914-EA   1973    EAPTC        Telecommunications          32.5              6.1
1204-EA   1976    EADB         Development Finance         15.0            14.7
Total                                           244.8            32.4
of which has been repaid                       39.6
Total now outstanding                           205.2
Amount sold                     24.4
of which has been repaid      24.4             0.0
Total now held by Bank il                      205.2
Total undisbursed                                32.4
1/   Net of exchange adjustments.



ANNEX II
Page 3 of 13
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION
(As of August 31, 1977)
There are currently 27 projects under execution in Tanzania.
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
Credit No. 217-TA - Tobacco Project: $9.0 million
Credit of October 9, 1970; Date of Effectiveness -
February l1. 1971; Closing Date - December 30, 1977
Project infrastructure investments are 95% complete, all 15 com-
plexes and 114 villages are established and water development has improved.
Only 314 km of roads have been established compared with appraisal estimates
of 1,104 km, but the reduced road construction program is considered sufficient
for present production. A total of 11,300 farmers, about 81% of appraisal
estimates, have been recruited. However, only about 6,900 are growing tobacco.
Area under tobacco is 2,170 ha, and with an estimated yield for 1976/77 of
774 kg/ha, production is expected to be 1.68 million kg (30% of appraisal
estimates). TAT will intensify their efforts to encourage more farmers to
grow tobacco in the project area, and to improve extension and cooperative
services. There are still middle-management gaps in TAT, but steps have
been taken to improve financial control and bring the accounts up to date.
Credit No. 287-TA - Smallholder Tea Project: $10.8
million Credit of March 3, 1972; Date of Effectiveness -
July 26, 1972; Closing Date - December 31, 1978
After initial serious management problems the Tanzania Tea Author-
ity (TTA) has finally reached a satisfactory level of senior staffing and this
has had a clear impact on the working of TTA and an improvement in the control
over field activities. Because of poor extension and farm practices in the
past, about 1,600 ha of the 9,671 ha planted since 1971 wvill have to be infilled
or rehabilitated, and yields have been lower than anticipated. Bank recom-
mendations regarding crop yields, husbandry techniques, field organization,
TTA structure and extension activities are now being implemented. Further-
more, market trends in tea have taken a favorable turn. Progress on the
project is expected to continue to improve.



ANNEX II
Page 4 of 13
Credit No. 382-TA - Second Livestock Development Project:
$18.5 million Credit of May 23, 1973; Date of Effectiveness -
September 28, 1973; Closing Date - December 31, 1979
Project implementation has been extremely slow. This reflects the
size and complexity of the project as well as delays encountered in recruit-
ing staff, selecting Ujamaa ranch sites, and concluding contracts for the
construction of abattoirs and supply of heavy earth moving machinery. Project
implementation is gathering momentum now that 'some of these problems have been
resolved. However, a number of post-appraisal developments such as marked
reduction in the world market price of bully beef and meat products, esca-
lation of project costs, the availability of adequate beef supplies, and
the weak financial positionsof the implementing organizations have adversely
affected viability of the project. Because of this, an in-depth review was
undertaken by Bank staff and consultants; the recommendations of the review
mission have been accepted in principle by the Government and a plan of action
to improve project execution is being implemented.
Credit No. 454-TA Geita Cotton Project: $17.5 million
Credit of January 17, 1974; Date of Effectiveness - April 5,
1974; Closing Date - December 31, 1982
Project implementation continues to be frought with difficulties
and the project now faces a staffing problem as only five out of eleven
senior staff posts are currently filled. The Government is taking steps to
fill these vacancies, but the hiatus is clearly creating problems. The credit
recovery rate is 8% of total lending. Fertilizer is being used on approxi-
mately 20% of the cultivated hectarage, but yield responses to the input
package still appear to be low. Few field trials or extension demonstrations
have been implemented. The main project achievements are land consolidation
and the building construction program. Analysis of research data by RMEA
and the Bank-financed project preparation team in Mwanza raised questions
about the technical package originally recommended for this project. This
matter received a close examination by the Bank technical review mission
which visited Tanzania in March, and the recommendations of that mission were
endorsed by the Government. Actions based on those recommendations are being
kept under close review.
Loan No. 1014-TA - Cashewnut Developmient Project: $21.0
million Loan of June 24, 1974; Date of Effectiveness -
September 26, 1974; Closing Date - December 31, 1981
The project has been progressing satisfactorily, and the original
completion target dates are likely to be achieved in spite of an initial delay
of about two months. The Cashewnut Authority's (CATA) takeover of the indus-
try and consolidation of its activities is proceeding slowly as its manage-
ment capabilities are limited. While the Government's consultants have
effectively supervised construction and the project includes provision of
technical assistance for factory operation, development of CATA is import-
ant to future progress and is receiving close attention.



ANNEX II
Page 5 of 13
Credit No. 508-TA - Kigoma Rural Development Project: $10.0
million Credit of August 21, 1974; Date of Effectiveness -
November 20, 1974; ,Cl.osing Date - December 31, 1980
Substantial progress has.been rnade on the construction of infrastruct-
ure during the past six months as a result of-the arrival of project-financed
transport equipment, the overcoming of problems related to the procurement of
construction materials, improved.organization at the district level, and im-
pressive mobilization of village self-help resources. On the other hand,
progress in the agriculture sector has been less than expected, particularly
for cotton.  During the past crop season, the usage of agricultural inputs in
project villages was lower than anticipated, principally due to late procure-
ment of inputs by the procurement and credit institution. The trials estab-
lished were limited in number, but should give useful information regarding
crop responses to technical recommendations.   Standards of village bookkeeping
and the level of credit repayment in project villages have improved. A total
of 57 villages are to be included in the investment for this fiscal year, and
disbursements are expected to improve.
Credit No. 513-TA and Loan No. 1041--TA *- Iilombero Sugar
Development Project:  $9.0 million Credit and $9.0 million
Loan of September 27, 1974; Date.of Effectiveness - February 14,
1975; Closing Date - December 31, 1979
The sugar factory related-to this Project is now operating and estate
and outgrower development continues satisfactorily.   Due to lower cane yields
an    area of 13,890 acres will be established instead of the 11,900 acres
envisaged at appraisal. Planting will be completed in the 1977/78 season.
All buildings and roads are completed. Kilombero Sugar Co. suffers from
cash flow problems because there are still delays in providing counterpart
funds. A new Advisory Management Agreement has been concluided with the HVA
of Amsterdam with effect from May 1. The policy of sugar growing has been
clarified and the,ex-factory price of sugar has been raised from TSh 2,200
per ton to TSh 2,500, per ton,with effecL from July 1.  The first stage of
the National Sugar Survey has been completed and the reDort is expected shortlv.
Credit No. 652--TA - Fi-sheries.Development Project: $9.0
million Credit. of ..Julv 12, 1-976; Date of Effectiveness -
October 12, 19.76;. .Closing Date -.December 31, 1981
Declared effective.on October .12, 1976, progress achieved so far in
implementation, of the v,illage fisheri.es.d,evelopment program on Lake Tanganyika,
and of the market and pollution studies i's on schedule.  However, there have
been delays in establishing the commercial fishing centers both on the
coast and on Lake Tanganyika. While temporary changes in Government arrange-
ments for management are expected to eliminate further delays :'n the Lake Tangan-
yika center - timely construction of whlich is also important for the village
program - Government is considering ways of strengthening the management of
TAFICO to enable it to play its intended role in the commercial aspects of the
project.



ANNEX II
Page 6 of 13
Credit No. 606-TA - National Maize Project: $18.0
million Credit of January 29, 1976; Date of Effectiveness -
May 28, 1976; Closing Date - June 30, 1980
Although the project has made some satisfactory progress with
regard to village participation, delivery of inputs, and concentration on
high potential maize regions, at its mid-term it is beset by a number of
problems which must be overcome if the project is to achieve its primary
objectives. The project's extension services and the Government's continued
indecision on reorganization are constraints affecting project implementa-
tion. Motorcycles and landrovers delivered to the Regions have greatly
increased mobility of supervisory staff; however, other essential equip-
ment and aids will not be available before mid-1978 because of consider-
able procurement and administrative delays. Farmers' contributions to
the financing of project inputs vary from Region to Region; in areas of
high maize potential about 80% of the inputs have been distributed in the
agreed manner, but in the remaining Regions contributions have ranged
from 13% to 42%. A recent decrease in the subsidy element from 75% to
50% for all inputs has doubled the cost to the farmers. Many of the diffi-
culties experienced result from limited cooperation between the central
ministry responsible for the overall project and the Regional authorities
in charge of local implementation. Proposals to improve project imple-
mentation by transferring authority for input financing to the Regional
authorities, and by increasing their responsibility for assessing, order-
ing and distributing input requirements are under preparation. Another
problem is the tendency for villages to place undue emphasis on mono-culture
of maize production. A joint RMEA/Headquarters mission is scheduled to
review the above difficulties and identify appropriate solutions.
Credit No. 580-TA - Dairy Development Project: $10.0
million Credit of August 15, 1975; Date of Effectiveness -
November 13, 1975; Closing Date - April 30, 1981
Progress on the development of large farms has been generally
satisfactory although they are facing difficulties owing to a lack of ade-
quate working capital. The Government and Project entities are currently
exploring ways to deal with this problem. After a careful review of the
justification for changing the appraisal stocking plan, approval has been
given to import 2,000 dairy heifers over a two-year period to fully stock
all the large dairy units. Subprojects for the Ujamaa component are pre-
sently being identified. The dairy processing component is practically
completed.



ANNEX II
Page 7 of 13
Loan No. 1307-TA - Sao Hill Forestry Project: $7.0
million Loan of July 12, 1976'; Date of Ef'fectiveness -
October 12,, 1976.;Closing Date - June 30, 1982
Progress on the project has been slow so far. About 1100 ha (63%
of the appraisal target) were planted during the first year. The survival
rate of these plantings is low,.but nursery and plantation techniques are
being improved, and future results should be much better, particularly since
the 1977 planting season was climatically erratic and atypical. There are
some serious management problems, which are in the process of being solved.
All key posts are-now filled,,except that of the Roads/Mechanical Engineer
which is expected to be filled very shortly. The road construction program
is on schedule, but the building program has barely begun, and is now ex-
pected to take 3 - 4 years to complete, instead of the appraisal estimate of
2 years; however, this delay will not materially affect the production
aspects of the project. Disbursements and procurement have just started.
Credit No. 658-TA.- Tobacco Processing Project: $8.0
million Credit of September 16, 1976; Date of Effectiveness -
February 15, 1977; Closing Date - December 3L, 1981
Retroactive financing was authorized in January 1977 in order to
commence work on the.:improvements-to the existing processing line and stores
at Dar es Salaam, but because of delays in shipping and import formalities,
installation of equipment for the processing line can now be completed only
in time for the 1978 processing.season.   Work on the Dar es Salaam store was
also delayed due to sub-contractor problems, but these problems have now been
resolved. Workshop equipment and machinery for the new processing line has
been ordered.  However, as the new'line will occupy twice the space envisaged
at appraisal, the building program under the project will be more extensive
than anticipated.
Credit No. 703-TA/Credit No. 703-TA-5 - Tabora Rural
Development Project:   $12.0 million Credits of May 11,
1977; Closing Date - June 30, 1983.
These-Credits2 are- expected to beKde'claied effective shortly.



ANNEX II
Page 8 of 13
EDUCATION SECTOR
Credit No. 232-TA - Third Education Project: $3.3 million
Credit of February 5, 1971; Date of Effectiveness - May 10,
1971; Closing Date - December 31, 1977
The Closing Date for this project has been extended to December 31,
1977 to provide ample time for its completion. Ineffective project unit manage-
ment, failure to utilize the technical assistance component of the project, and
shortages of construction materials all contributed to the delays in completion.
All civil works, furniture and equipment contracts have now been awarded, and
civil works are approaching completion. Procurement of remaining equipment,
finalization of accounts, and disbursement of the remaining funds by the Clos-
ing Date will be closely monitored.    Transfer of the nine rural training
centers (now called Folk Development Colleges) from the administration of the
Ministry of Agriculture to the Ministry of National Education appears to have
significantly improved the management of the centers; training objectives and
the target group intended for the original centers have been retained.
Credit No. 371-TA - Fourth Education Project: $10.3 million
Credit of April 13, 1973; Date of Effectiveness - July 2, 1973;
Closing Date - June 30, 1978
The project is being implemented with assistance from DANIDA.
Projected estimates of project cost overruns have been reduced within manage-
able limits as a result of curtailments of the project (deletion of three
secondary schools) and more favorable than anticipated bids on civil works.
Civil works contracts have been awarded on all project institutions and construct-
ion is proceeding on 12 of 15 sites. The experimental self-help construction
project item (eight Community Education Centers) continues to require special
attention to help overcome problems of supply, distribution and control of
building materials and supervision of construction standards. Recruitment of
technical assistance specialists included in the project has been slow but
arrangements are now being made with WHO to recruit these specialists. Dis-
bursements are now 40% of appraisal estimates, and implementation is, in
general, proceeding satisfactorily. It is likely that the closing date will
require a postponement of up to eighteen months.
Credit No. 607-TA - Fifth Education Project: $11.0 million
Credit of January 29, 1976; Date of Effectiveness - March 23,
1976; Closing Date - June 30, 1982
The project made a good start with respect to the Village Management
Technicians (VMT) Training Program. Five Rural Training Centers have been
rehabilitated, instructional staff have been trained, and courses have commenced.
However, delays are now being experienced due to the limited availability of
local resources and some problems have emerged with respect to the utilization
of the VMTs. Expansion of the capacity of 15 secondary schools is slightly
ahead of schedule.



ANNEX II
Page 9 of 13
TRANSPORTATION SECTOR
Credit No. 265-TA - Third Highway Project:ll $6.5 million
Credit of August 6, 1971; Date of Effectiveness - October 12,
1971; Closing Date - December 31, 1978       _   -
Project implementation has been slow and the Closing Date of the
project has been postponed twice. The new construction on the Mikindani-
Mingoyo section of the Mtwara-Mingoyo road was virtually completed in December
1976. A more detailed investigation of pavement, subgrade and material ser-
vices is required before work can commence on repair, improvement and reseal-
ing of the road from Mtwara to Mikindani. The Mara Betterment and Maintenance
Unit has completed its work and except for a small maintenance unit, the equip-
ment and personnel have been sent to assist the Geita unit. We have received
one of the two pre-investment studies financed under the project. Project
completion is now estimated by the end of 1978.
Credit No. 507-TA - Highway Maintenance Project: $10.2
million Credit of August 21, 1974; Date of Effectiveness -
November 20, 1974; Closing Date - June 30, 1979
Orders have been placed and deliveries are well advanced for about
US$4 million worth of equipment, and tenders for a further US$1.8 million
worth have been approved. A contract for 634 man-months of technical assist-
ance has been signed and 18 of the 21 experts have commenced their duties in the
country. Construction of road camps, deployment of equipment and training of
maintenance personnel is in hand.
URBAN SECTOR
Credit No. 495-TA - Sites and Services Project: $8.5
million Credit of July 12, 1974; Date of Effectiveness -
October 3, 1974; Closing Date - December 31, 1978
Construction of all the site and service areas has been completed and
the sites handed over, and upgrading works are nearing completion. Overall
progress and standards of work have been satisfactory. The take-up rate of
housing loans was initially poor, but the Government has now approved more
flexible lending criteria that are within the reach of the target population
and the situation is expected to improve. Lack of qualified personnel, and
shortcomings in the organization structure of the implementing unit have led to
difficulties in management of the project. Organizational changes agreed for
the second urban project (approved on July 7, 1977 but not yet signed) are
aimed at addressing these problems.
1/ The Second Highway Project included Loan 586-TA which was for US$7.0
million. In 1975, surplus funds of US$1.9 million were allocated to the
Third Highway Project, and the Closing Date was extended to December 31, 1977.



ANNEX II
Page 10 of 13
WATER SUPPLY SECTOR
Loan No. 1354-TA - Urban Water Supply Project: $15.0 million
Loan of January 5, 1977; Date of Effectiveness - March 2, 1977;
Closing Date - June 30, 1981
The project is expected to be commissioned in May 1980, compared to
the original target date of October 1979, as a result of delays which occurred
during detailed design and exploratory works for construction of the Mindu Dam.
However, new arrangements proposed by the Bank relative to priority orders for
construction of works would still allow the project to match the water demand
of the new industrial estate (Ln. 1385-T-TA and Ln. 1386-TA). Delays occurred
in recruiting the three senior advisers to be financed by the loan. Suitable
candidates have now been identified, but two of them will take up duty more
than three months behind schedule. Establishment of the urban water supply
unit in Morogoro is also delayed because of these problems. Discussions are
underway with the Government regarding the Bank's requirement that water
tariffs be adjusted periodically to maintain charges in line with actual costs.
POWER SECTOR
Loan No. 1306-T-TA - Kidatu Hydroelectric Project Phase II;
$30 million Loan on Third Window Terms of August 12, 1976;
Date of Effectiveness: March 1, 1977; Closing Date: December 31, 1981
Bids have been received for all major components and revised cost
estimates are 45% above the appraisal estimate. Regular consultants and
temporarily engaged consultants separately reviewed tenders received for the
major contract (civil works in Mtera) where most of the overruns occurred.
They concluded that the project cost was underestimated and that the lowest
bid warranted negotiations with the bidder. Bank staff recommended that TANESCO
obtain alternative offers for the main civil works, after modifying designs to
reduce cost, revalue all the tenders on the basis of new offers and open
negotiation with the final lowest bidder instead of rebidding. These negotiations
have now been completed, and all major construction supply contracts have been
awarded. The contract for the consulting engineer in relation to supervision
is being negotiated. Although total foreign funds available could still cover
the foreign exchange requirements, the total financing gap is about $40.6 million.
The most important issue facing TANESCO is mobilizing adequate financial     -
resources. This is presently under discussion between the Government and TANESCO.
INDUSTRIAL SECTOR
Credit No. 460-TA - Tanzania Investment Bank Project: $6.0
million Credit of February 13, 1974; Date of Effectiveness -
April 18, 1974; Closing Date - June 30, 1978
This Credit has been fully committed.



ANNEX II
Page 11 of 13
Loan No. 1172-TA - Tanzania Investment Bank: $15.0
million Loan of November 12, 1975; Date of Effectiveness -
February 20, 1976; Closing Date - December 31, 1980
Commitments under this Loan are proceeding quickly. Subprojects
totalling $13.9 million have been approved for disbursements.   There are
no problems with regard to the project, and TIB has developed into a well-
organized and well-managed development bank.
Loan No. 1128-TA - Mwanza Textile Project: $15.0 million
Loan of June 19, 1975; Date of Effectiveness - October 6,
1975; Closing Date - July 1, 1979
The project, which is designed to have an annual fabric production
capacity of 20 million linear meters, is experiencing some delay because of
difficulties in equipment transportation. Efforts are being made to
expedite rail transportation of equipment from the Dar es Salaam port to
Mwanza. According to present indications, the project is likely to be
commissioned June 1978, three months behind schedule. However, the revised
project cost is within the appraisal estimate. There has been a deteriora-
tion in the operating performance of the existing Mwanza plant as well as
some other textile mills. The National Textile Corporation (TEXCO), the
holding company for state-owned textile mills, has agreed to institute
immediately an action program to improve the operating performance of the
existing mills.
Credit No. 601-TA - Technical Assistance Project: $6.0
million Credit of January 9, 1976; Date of Effectiveness -
September 14, 1976; Closing Date - June 30, 1980
After some delays, the Tanzania investment Bank (TIB) selected
TATA Consulting Engineers to provide personrnel to implement the project.
The contract was signed in October 1976 and the personnel arrived in late
1976. As a result of these unanticipated delays the identification of
priority feasibility studies has been slower than expected. However,
performance is expected to improve and the training program is proceeding
satisfactorily.
Loan No. 1385-T-TA/Loan No. 1386-TA - Morogoro Industrial Complex:
$11.5 million Loan on Third Window Terms and $11.5 million Bank
Loan, both of April 6, 1977; Date of Effectiveness - July 6, 1977;
Closing Date - December 31, 1982
These loans became effective on July 6, 1977. Engineering design
and procurement are proceeding on schedule and, at this time, there is no
reason to anticipate any significant slippage in the projected dates for
factory start-up (second half of 1979) and full capacity production by 1982.



ANNEX II
Page 12 of 13
Credit No. 688-TA - Program Credit: $15.0 million Credit
of March 24, 1977; Date of Effectiveness - May 3, 1977;
Closing Date - May 31, 1978
This Credit has been fully disbursed as at August 9, 1977.
EAST AFRICAN COMMUNITY
There are currently five projects under execution in the EAC.
Loan No. 638-EA - Second Harbours Project: $35.0 million
Loan of August 25, 1969; Date of Effectiveness - December 16,
1969; Closing Date - December 31, 1977
Loan No. 865-EA - Third Harbours Project: $26.5 million
Loan of December 18, 1972; Date of Effectiveness - April 16,
1973; Closing Date - June 30, 1978
Considerable delays have occurred in implementing the project
financed partly by Loan 638-EA. However, construction is now more than
95% complete. The Closing Date has been postponed from December 31, 1976
to December 31, 1977. The major civil works financed partly by Loan 865-EA
were completed in September 1975, six months behind schedule. All loan
funds are now committed. Some smaller project elements intended to be
financed under Loan 865-EA will have to be deleted. Cost overruns for
cargo handling equipment, tugs and lighters financed by CIDA have occurred,
and their credit has been increased accordingly from Can.$26.0 million to
Can.$33.5 million. Port labor productivity has stagnated in Mombasa where
general cargo throughput has declined considerably. General cargo through-
put has increased above appraisal forecasts for Dar es Salaam, where the
three berths financed under Loan 865-EA have been completed and are being
used. Cargo handling productivity here has improved with increasing
throughput. The Closing Date of Loan 865-EA has been extended from June
30, 1977 to June 30, 1978.
Loan 674-EA - Third Railways Project: $42.4 million Loan
of May 25, 1970; Date of Effectiveness - October 30, 1970;
Closing Date - June 30, 1978
The physical execution of the original project has been seriously
delayed due to political problems within the Community. In November 1974,
the Executive Directors approved a reallocation of the uncommitted invest-
ments. Agreement was reached in July 1975 for the hiring of consultants
to assist EARC with outstanding organizational and financial issues.
Coopers and Lybrand (financial consultants hired by ODM) completed their
asset studies in early 1976 and CANAC (technical consultants) have submitted
a report on decentralization of the railways. The Closing Date has been
extended to June 30, 1978.



ANNEX II
Page 13 of 13
Loan No. 1204-EA - East African Development Bank: $15.0
million Loan of March 1, 1976; Date of Effectiveness - June 7,
1976; Closing Date - March 31, 1980
This Loan was declared effective on June 7, 1976. Ten
subprojects have so far been received from EADB. Of these, two have
subsequently been withdrawn and seven have already been approved for
a commitment of $8.6 million against this Loan; the remaining project
is under review.
Loan No. 914-EA - Third Telecommunications Project:   $32.5
million Loan of June 22, 1973; Date of Effectiveness -
September 19, 1973; Closing Date - December 31, 1979
All major works other than microwave or UHF/VHF system
construction have now been completed despite initial delays caused by
staffing and other problems associated with the relocation of the head-
quarters. Because of the long lead time required for the microwave
equipment, the project is expected to be fully completed by mid-1979.
The Closing Date has accordingly been postponed to December 31, 1979.






ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
TANZANIA
TRUCKING INDUSTRY REHABILTTATION AND
IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
1. Timetable of key events
(a)  Time taken to prepare:             19 months
(b)  Preparation by:                    Consultants, Ministry of
Communications and Transport
and IDA
(c)  Initial discussion with Bank:      June 1974
(d)  First Bank mission:                March 1976
(e)  Appraisal mission departure:       October 1976
(f)  Negotiations:                      July 1977
(g)  Planned date of Effectiveness:     December 1977
2.  Special Bank Implementation Actions:    None
3.  Special Conditions
(1) An action plan for the trucking industry will be formulated by
the Government (para 37).
(2)  The public trucking companies financed by the proposed project
will be parastatals under autonomous operational and financial
management and will be general carriers with region wide and
inter regional franchise (para 45). Their fleet size will be
agreed to at negotiations and they will be formed by specified
dates (para 46 ). Any new expansion of the public fleets in
project regions would be discussed with the Association (para 47).
These companies would have the authority to negotiate competitive
rates for their services and all licences necessary for their
efficient operation will be issued in a timely manner (para 47).
Finally any policy proposals and recommendations that would
significantly affect the operations of these companies would be
discussed with the Association (para 47).



ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
(3) By March 31, 1978 a plan designed to ensure the adequate avail-
ability of vehicle spare parts in Tanzania would be submitted
to the Association for approval. Approval of this plan by the
Association is a condition of disbursement for the spare parts
component of the project (para 50).
(4) Government would establish and implement procedures for the
collection of data on the overall trucking industry and provide
timely information on the implementation schedule, operating targets
and progress reporting on the project components (para 56).
(5) The Subsidiary Loan Agreement between the Government and the
Tanzania Rural Development Bank would be on terms and condi-
tions acceptable to the Association (para 58). Furthermore,
each public company involved in the project would negotiate an
individual loan agreement with TRDB on terms and conditions
acceptable to the Association before disbursements to the company
could commence (para 58).



