Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-7211-TH
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$350 MILLION
TO THE KINGDOM OF THAILAND
FOR
FINANCE COMPANIES RESTRUCTURING
December 16, 1997
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(As of December 4, 1997)
Currency Unit  = Baht (B)
$1.00          = B 42.35
B 1.00         = $0.0236
ABBREVIATIONS
ADB       -  Asian Development Bank
AMC       -  Asset Management Corporation
B/Es      -  Bills of Exchange
BIBF      -  Bangkok International Banking Facilities
BOT       -  Bank of Thailand
FC        -  Financial Company
FIDF      -  Financial Institutions Development Fund
FRA       -  Financial Sector Restructuring Authority
FRACU   -  FRA Coordinating Unit
FRCP      -  Finance Companies Restructuring Program
FSIAP    -  Financial Sector Implementation Assistance Project
GDP       -  Gross Domestic Product
IFC       -  International Finance Corporation
KTB       -  Krung Thai Bank
KTT       -  Krungthai Thanakit Public Co., Ltd.
IMF       -  International Monetary Fund
MOF       -  Ministry of Finance
MOU       -  Memorandum of Understanding
NCDs    -  Negotiable Certificates of Deposit
NEP       -  Note Exchange Program
NPL       -  Nonperforming Loan
P/L       -  Promissory Note
PLMO      -  Property Loan Management Organization
PN        -  Promissory Note
RADP      -  Regulatory, Accounting and Disclosure Practices
SEC       -  Securities and Exchange Commission
SFI       -  Specialized Financial Intermediaries
VAT       -  Value Added Tax
KINGDOM OF THAILAND - FISCAL YEAR
October 1 - September 30
Vice President:          Jean-Michel Severino, EAP
Country Director:        Jayasankar Shivakumar, EACPF
Sector Manager:          Hoon Mok Chung, EASFP
Staff Member:            Ijaz Nabi, Lead Economist, EASPR



CONTENTS                            FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Loan And Program  Summary ...................................................... iii
1. INTRODUCTION .......................................................1
2. BACKGROUND  AND  RATIONALE ........................................................1
A. The Economic Crisis and the Financial Sector ...................................................1
B. The Thai Authorities' Stabilization Program ......................................................2
3. THE  FINANCE  COMPANY  SUBSECTOR ....................................................6
A. Historical Antecedents .......................................................7
B. Structural Weaknesses .......................................................8
C. Recently Taken Measures .......................................................8
4. GOVERNMENT'S PROGRAM FOR RESTRUCTURING FINANCE
COMPANIES ........................................................9
A. Liquidity Support and the Comprehensive Guarantee ...................................... 10
B. Resolution of Suspended Finance Companies .................................................. 11
C. Reestablishing the Finance Company Subsector on a Sound Basis .................. 13
D. Strengthening the Enabling Environment for Financial Institutions ................ 16
5. BANK GROUP STRATEGY ......................................................                                 19
A. The Bank ......................................................                                   19
B. The International Finance Corporation (IFC) ................................................... 20
C. Coordination with IMF and the Asian Development Bank (ADB) .................. 20
6. THE PROPOSED LOAN .......................................................                                   21
A. Conditions for Board Presentation ......................................................          21
B. Loan Administration .......................................................                       21
C. Benefits and Risks ......................................................                         22
7. RECOMMENDATION ......................................................                                      23
The task team includes Ijaz Nabi (EASPR, Task Manager), Tom Glaessner, McDonald Benjamin (EASFP),
Michel Cardona, Paul Murgatroyd (FSD), Hoi-Chan Nguyen (LEGEA), Dominique Dwor-Frecaut, Stefan
Koeberle, Vivek Suri (EASPR), R. Thillainathan, Eric Rice, and Sanjaya Lall (consultants). The proposed
operation has benefited from work under the Thailand Financial Sector Implementation Assistance
Project-managed by Jonathan Fiechter, with support from David Scott (FSD), Jacques Bussieres and
Marina Moretti (EACTF). Tom Tsui and Charu Vasil (EACTQ) provided logistical support. Flavia
Femandes (EASPR) and Sirirat Sirijaratwong (EACTF) were task assistants with support from Rommel
Velasquez (EASPR) and Mike Kessler (EACTQ).
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



- ii -
TABLES
Table 1: Thailand: Macroeconomic Framework, 1994-98 ................................................ 25
Table 2: Thailand: Summary of Public Sector Operations, 1994/95-1997/98 ................... 26
Table 3: Thailand: Monetary Projections, 1996-98 ........................................................... 27
Table 4: Thailand: Balance of Payments and Financing Need, 1996-98 .....................e ..... 28
Table 5: FIDF  Credit Outstanding, June-November 1997 ................................................. 29
Table 6: Selected Interest Rates, 1992-97 ............................................................                      29
Table 7: Thailand: Net Capital Flows, 1992-96 ............................................................     30
FIGURES
Figure 1: Baht per US Dollar, Spot Exchange Rate, December 1996 - December 1997 ... 3 1
Figure 2: Ratio of Credit to GDP, 1987-96 ............................................................                      31
SCHEDULES
Schedule 1: Letter of Development Policy ............................................................                       32
Schedule 2: Policy Matrix ............................................................                                      41
ANNEXES
Annex  1: Resolution of Suspended Finance Companies .................................................. 50
Annex 2: Note Exchange Programs in the Suspended Finance Companies ..................... 63
Annex 3: Short-Term Plan for Strengthening Spervision of the Remaining Finance
Companies ............................................................                                       71
Annex 4: Licensing Requirement for Banks and Finance Companies .............................. 74
Annex 5: Main Prudential Regulations for Commercial Banks and Finance
Companies ............................................................                                       85
Annex 6: Status of Bank Group Operations in Thailand .................................................. 88
Annex 7: Thailand at a Glance .............................................................                                 90



- 111 -
THAILAND
PROPOSED LOAN FOR FINANCE COMPANIES RESTRUCTURING
LOAN AND PROGRAM SUMMARY
Borrower:         Kingdom of Thailand.
Amount and terms: $350 million-Single Currency Loan (SCL) in US dollars for 15
years, including a 3-year grace period, at the Bank's standard fixed
US dollar (SCL) interest rate.
Description:      The proposed Loan would provide balance of payments assistance
to the Kingdom of Thailand in implementing a program for
restructuring finance companies. The loan supports government
efforts toward the resolution of suspended finance companies and
ensuring safety and resiliency of the remaining finance companies
through (a) better handling of weak companies, (b) strengthening
prudential regulations, and (c) ensuring that finance companies
pursue more viable strategies. The operation also sets the agenda
for future reform of all financial institutions by initiating actions to
improve the incentive for financial market participants to be
prudent and responsible in their decisions. This is the first step in
the government's program to make the financial sector efficient,
competitive and robust. The program would strongly complement
the macroeconomic stabilization package agreed by the
Government with the International Monetary Fund (IMF). The
Government's commitment to the program supported by this loan
is set out in a Letter of Development Policy.
Benefits and risks:  The structural measures supported by the loan will help restore
confidence in Thailand's ailing financial sector. The proposed
framework for restructuring finance companies lays out a process
of accountability through closing down nonviable finance
companies and creating better incentives for creditors, depositors
and debtors. The emphasis in the program on strengthening the
regulatory and supervision regimes will ensure the safety and
soundness of the remaining finance companies and will help
prevent similar crises from recurring. Credible streamlining of
finance companies will strengthen the rest of the financial sector
and will restore confidence, which is key to the resumption of
capital flows. This, in turn, will improve the balance of payments
and provide much needed liquidity, at lower interest rates, to the
corporate sector to resume growth.



- iv -
There are many risks. Political instability and economic leadership
that lacks credibility would cause further loss of market
confidence and instability. These, in turn, would increase the stress
on the already fragile financial sector. Under weak leadership, the
program for restructuring finance companies would lack
credibility and would not yield the benefits listed above. The
objectives of the loan would be put at risk also if the
macroeconomic stabilization program falters either because the
political cost of the adjustment is perceived to be too high or
because of a failure to manage expectations regarding outcomes.
Inflexibility in the design of the macroeconomic program that
limits policy options in the face of continued economic contraction
would prolong the crisis and would pose a risk to the loan. The
program would be at risk if the Thai authorities failed to mobilize
the skills needed in financial restructuring, if the Thai market
could not absorb the impaired loans and if the process was not
transparent. Finally, failure of a large bank could trigger further
deposit shifting and could lead to a systemic collapse.
However, a number of recent developments indicate that these
risks are being mitigated. Thailand has a new government with a
respected economic team that has reaffirmed its commitment to
both macroeconomic stabilization as well as the program for
financial sector restructuring. The recent revisions in the
macroeconomic framework are leading to more realistic
predictions regarding outcomes and performance targets. The
pressure to take decisive action on finance companies is dictated
by the realization that the economic crisis would otherwise deepen
and the cost of inaction would mount.
Bank operations will also help to mitigate the risk to the loan by
providing timely technical assistance that will lend credibility to
government decisions regarding both the resolution of the closed
finance companies and the policy framework for strengthening the
remaining finance companies. This assistance is provided via the
ongoing Financial Sector Implementation Assistance Project.
Poverty Category:  N.A.
Estimated          The loan would be disbursed in a single tranche upon
Disbursements:    effectiveness.
Project ID Number: TH-PE-53615.



THAILAND
PROPOSED LOAN FOR FINANCE COMPANIES RESTRUCTURING
1. INTRODUCTION
1.    I submit for your approval the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
for restructuring Thailand's finance companies. The proposed loan is designed to restore
confidence in Thailand's financial sector by supporting government efforts toward the resolution
of closed finance companies and reestablishing the subsector on a sound basis. The loan would
be part of a broad effort to support the macroeconomic stabilization and structural adjustment
program that Thailand has embarked upon to restore sustainable levels of economic growth.
2.    The Bank's initial contribution to this effort consisted of a Financial Sector
Implementation Assistance Project (Loan 4233-TH) approved by the Board on September 11,
1997. The proposed loan, focused on restructuring the finance companies, constitutes the first
phase of the Bank's expanded lending operations in Thailand. A follow-up operation will focus
on the remaining agenda for the financial sector as well as on broader structural measures
designed to strengthen the macroeconomic policy implementation and competitiveness of the
Thai economy. The Bank's contribution would complement the standby facility provided by the
International Monetary Fund (IMF) and the emergency financing package from bilateral and
multilateral sources agreed upon in Tokyo (August 1997).
2. BACKGROUND AND RATIONALE
A. THE ECONOMIC CRISIS AND THE FINANCIAL SECTOR
3.    Structural weaknesses in Thailand's financial sector helped the economic crisis. Since the
early 1990s, the sector has expanded rapidly, registering a fourfold increase in six years. This
expansion took place in a setting of weak prudential regulations and regulatory forbearance so
that problems such as high exposure to risky activities, related party lending and rapid
accumulation of foreign exchange risk were not dealt with in time. Furthermore, due to
inadequate accounting and disclosure requirements, market discipline did not exert pressure on
financial institutions to improve performance and reduce excessive risk-taking. These problems
were especially acute in the finance company subsector, which accounted for 20 percent of
financial system assets.
4.    Macroeconomic developments in the early 1990s put further stress on finance companies
and exposed their vulnerabilities. Thailand had enjoyed rapid export-led economic growth for a
decade, which fueled optimism externally and internally and led to an investment boom.
Macroeconomic policy (fixed exchange rate and high domestic interest rates) and the
institutional framework (tax advantages that encouraged foreign borrowing through the Bangkok
International Banking Facility, restrictions on foreign equity ownership and the absence of a
domestic market for long-term debt) provided incentives for short-term foreign borrowing,



-2 -
despite the high domestic saving rate of 34 percent. At end-1996, total short-term liabilities held
by the private sector stood at $39.1 billion.
5.    The financial sector's fragility, a slowdown in export earnings, a collapse of demand in
the property sector, a sustained bearish sentiment on the stock market and depreciation of the
Baht would each have led to serious macroeconomic and financial sector problems. In 1996 and
1997, all four moved adversely and fed on each other. Exports stagnated, the real estate bubble
finally burst, the stock market lost 80 percent of its value relative to its peak in 1993 and the Baht
depreciated by nearly 50 percent. The combination of these events has resulted in severe
difficulties for the financial sector, and has clouded Thailand's medium term growth prospects.
6.    The economic crisis has had a particularly adverse impact on finance companies, viz.,
(a) the fall in share prices and the collapse of the property sector has resulted in a sharp
deterioration of the assets of finance companies; (b) the exchange rate depreciation has led to
difficulties for corporate borrowers in repaying loans and has resulted in increased losses to
finance companies due to their unhedged foreign exchange liabilities; and (c) the sharp rise in
interest rates has further exacerbated the difficulties of corporate clients in servicing their loans
to finance companies and has also led to rapid decapitalization as short-term funding rates have
risen more rapidly than lending rates. All of these factors have combined to cause a massive
deterioration in the loan portfolios of finance companies.
7.    The difficulties noted above and the already poor financial situation of many finance
companies led to the need to suspend the operations of 58 finance companies on June 27 and
August 5, 1997 and the subsequent closure of 56 of the suspended companies.
B. THE THAI AUTHORITIES' STABILIZATION PROGRAM
8.    The Government's stabilization program designed with IMF assistance in the Standby
Arrangement of August 24, 1997 has two prongs. The first is an orthodox program of bringing
down the current account deficit to manageable levels to relieve the pressure on the Baht. The
second prong addresses financial sector difficulties and has been designed in close collaboration
with the Bank. The two together were expected to restore confidence and stabilize the economy.
Macroeconomic Developments
9.    Because of political uncertainty, slow progress in addressing financial sector problems
and regionwide pessimism, the macroeconomic program has met with limited success in
restoring confidence. In early December, four months after the program was put in place, the
exchange rate had depreciated to B 42 per $1 and its volatility remains high., Capital outflows
were larger than expected. Uncertainties in the financial sector continue to fuel depositors' flight
to quality, exacerbating liquidity problems of small banks and finance companies that are
perceived to be weak. In this climate of uncertainty, even the larger banks flush with liquidity are
reluctant to lend.
10.   As a result of continued macroeconomic and financial sector difficulties, Thailand is
experiencing an economic contraction after decades of rapid economic growth. The adjustment in



-3 -
the current account deficit, down to 3.9 percent of gross domestic product (GDP) from 7.9
percent in 1996, has come about largely from a sharp decline in private investment. Some
adjustment in private investment was necessary following the excesses associated with the
investment boom, especially in the property sector. However, even manufacturing firms are now
curtailing their activities. The index of manufacturing production has shrunk in the last two
quarters and corporate income tax receipts are likely to fall by nearly B 29 billion this year.
Increasing job separations and declining real incomes have weakened private consumption, and
are evidenced in the sharply reduced retail sales and the larger-than-expected reduction in value
added tax (VAT) collections.
11.   The program had envisioned that following the sharp depreciation of the exchange rate,
recovery would be led by external demand. Although exports have picked up in recent months,
the effect of the real exchange rate depreciation on exports has been partly offset by
manufacturers' difficulties in accessing credit and regional developments. Competitor countries
in the region have also experienced sharp adjustments in the exchange rate. Moreover,
regionwide reduction in GDP growth has curtailed intraregional trade, which was a large
proportion of Thailand's international trade prior to the crisis.
Short-Term Macroeconomic Outlook and Financing Need
12.   As a result of the adverse developments outlined above, the short-term economic outlook
remains worrisome. Real GDP growth is expected to decline by up to 2 percent of GDP in the
first half of 1998 before recovering later in the year. Because of the contraction, the inflationary
pressure will be checked at about 12 percent in mid-1998, falling to about 6 percent by end-1998.
Given the steep nominal depreciation, the substantial real depreciation of the Baht is expected to
bring down the current account deficit to 3.9 percent of GDP at end-1 997 (1.8 percent of GDP in
1998).
13.   The capital account is expected to register a deficit of about $18 billion for 1997 and to
be in balance in 1998. A fall of $7 billion in short-term debt will result from difficulties in
rollover ($1 billion in 1998) while payments associated with the Bank of Thailand's (BOT's)
unwinding of forwards and swap obligations are estimated at $12 billion ($8.9 billion in 1998).
14.   Thus, Thailand will record an overall balance of payments deficit of $24.6 billion in 1997
and $2.2 billion in 1998 (see table below). Given the target of four months of imports in reserves,
the net financing need is about $9 billion in 1997 and $4 billion in 1998. This total of $13 billion
is well within the financing package of $17.2 billion announced at Tokyo in August 1997.
The Need for Flexibility
15.   The macroeconomic scenario outlined above is subject to considerable uncertainty arising
from political instability and uncertainty related to financial sector restructuring. However, the
new Government, in place since early November 1997, is determined to redress these
shortcomings. It has demonstrated credible leadership and is fully committed to the
macroeconomic stabilization program.



-4 -
THAILAND: BALANCE OF PAYMENTS AND FINANCING NEED, 1997-98
($ billion)
1997 Revised Program 1998 Revised Program
1. Current account balance                                -6.4              -2.5
2. Capital account balance                                -17.9              0.3
3. Errors & omissions                                      -0.3              0.0
4. Net balance 1+2+3                                      -24.6             -2.2
5. Targeted changes in official reserves (increase,-)     15.7              -1.8
6. Financing need -4-5                                     8.9               4.0
Source: IMF.
16.   The Government's fiscal policy program provides the cushion to cope with the cost of
financial sector restructuring. A number of new fiscal measures have been implemented recently
to make up for the revenue shortfall due to the weakening of economic activity. These included a
rise in VAT rates, excise taxes, and import duties as well as cuts in investment expenditures.
However, in view of the faster-than-expected decline in output and better-than-expected current
account and inflation outlook, there is some risk that the tight fiscal stance could further depress
aggregate demand and economic activity. The authorities, therefore, will review the fiscal target
in the next quarter to retain flexibility.
17.   Monetary policy seeks a balance between the objectives of currency stabilization and low
domestic interest rates to prevent a sharp downturn in growth. Following the July 2, 1997 float of
the Baht, domestic interest rates have risen sharply-with the repo rate rising to the 20-25
percent range against 10-15 percent before the crisis, while credit and monetary aggregate growth
have been well below the authorities' targets, reflecting the weaker-than-expected real sector and
the increasing difficulties of the financial sector. The authorities remain mindful of the need to
avoid exacerbating corporate and financial sector difficulties and will review interest rate policy
in view of developments.
18.   A number of measures are being taken to encourage a supply response to the real
depreciation of the Baht: (a) firms are allowed to deduct from their tax bill the valuation loss
resulting from the depreciation of the Baht during 1997, (b) a credit line has been opened to
supply working capital to exporters through commercial banks and the Thai EXIM Bank, (c) the
rise in the minimum wage-the reference wage in the manufacturing sector-has been limited to
2 to 3 percent, well below inflation, and (d) customs procedures are being streamlined to reduce
costs to domestic producers.
19.   With assistance from  the World Bank and the Asian Development Bank, a
comprehensive program is being prepared to provide safety nets for the poor.



- 5 -
20.   Several policy options are being considered to revive capital flows but especially to
encourage more stable forms of capital. These include (a) removal of restrictions on the
borrowing of Baht by nonresidents to help restore investor (domestic and foreign) confidence,
(b) streamlining of the tax regime to encourage development of the bond market and the
domestic interbank money market, (c) liberalization of the strict rules on foreign equity
ownership, and (d) better management of market expectations through improved dissemination
of economic information and regular consultation with foreign creditors.
A Vision for the Financial Sector and Streamlining of Finance Companies
21.   Recognizing the linkages between macroeconomic stabilization and financial sector
reform, the government has designed a comprehensive program for reforming the financial
sector. Over the medium term, the financial sector needs to become more efficient and robust. It
has to be more balanced in terms of the type of services provided, including greater emphasis on
capital markets. A reformed financial sector would constitute an important pillar of the overall
strategy for promoting competitiveness of the Thai economy to resume sustainable long-term
growth. In the near term, five steps are needed to realize this vision:
*  a streamlined finance company subsector that allows faltering companies to exit, facilitates
company restructuring, is subject to tighter supervision and provides sufficient information to
market participants to weigh the risk of available options.
-  a streamlined banking sector that is free of weak institutions and is governed by "best
practice" supervision and regulatory standards.
-  strengthened loan classification, loan loss provisioning, interest income recognition and
capital adequacy requirements to bring them up to international standards;
-  eased entry for foreign equity owners to facilitate recapitalization of financial institutions and
tougher licensing procedures .
*  enhanced  market discipline  through  tougher public  disclosure  requirements  and
accountability.
22.   While all five steps are important for the realization of a robust and efficient financial
sector, and are being supported through a series of operations by multilateral institutions, the
first, i.e., streamlining of the finance companies, has taken on particular urgency for the
following reasons:
* Delay in restructuring the suspended finance companies has signaled a lack of government
resolve to take tough decisions to restructure the financial sector.
* Continued deterioration of assets "locked" in the suspended finance companies has led to a
more rapid deterioration in the loan portfolios for the remaining financial institutions.



-6 -
* Measures aimed at the resiliency and soundness of the operating finance companies will help
prevent the recurrence of similar crises that jeopardized the entire financial sector.
3. THE FINANCE COMPANY SUBSECTOR
23.    Thailand has a highly monetized economy and a relatively deep financial sector for its
level of income. High growth and savings rates together with substantial capital inflows led to
rapid growth in the ratio of broad money to GDP during 1986-96 (from 59 to 74 percent). At the
end of 1996, total financial sector assets amounted to B 9 trillion ($355 billion at the then
exchange rate of B 25.25/$i). Commercial banks dominate the sector with approximately two-
thirds of assets and of funds mobilized from households. However, 91 finance companies
accounted for the next largest group of financial institutions (FIs), with around 20 percent of
assets and 17 percent of funds from households (Table 2.1).
TABLE 2.1: OVERVIEW OF KEY FINANCIAL SECTOR INSTITUTIONS
Figures for banks and fnance companies as of    Commercial   Finance   Specialized Financial   Total
December 1996, SFIs as of March 1996          Banks    Companies  Intermediaries (SFIs) (see Note)
Number of Institutions:                          29         91            6              4,870
of which Foreign:                            14          0            0                 n.a.
Total Assets (million Baht)                   5,627       1,812         842              9,030
Share of Financial System Assets (%):            62         20            9               100
Total Funds from Households (Deposits):       2,643        661          321             3,948
Share of Financial System Deposits (%):          67         17            8               100
Note: Total includes Credit Foncier, mutual fund management and insurance companies, agricultural and savings
cooperatives (estimated at end- 1995), and provident finds.
Source: BOT.
24.    Key Features of the Finance Company Subsector. While some finance and securities
companies were independent, many originated as affiliates of commercial banks to provide
specialized services that banks were not permitted to provide (e.g., securities dealing) or as
specialized providers of high-margin, high-risk consumer finance.' Finance companies fund their
operations by issuing large-denomination promissory notes (PNs), as well as negotiable
certificates of deposit (NCDs) and bills of exchange (B/Es). Loans and overdrafts from domestic
A number of finance companies have securities business. In 1995, finance and securities companies were
required to split their finance and securities businesses into two separate companies; however, compliance has
been slow.



-7 -
and foreign banks are also significant sources of funds. Finance companies' assets as of
December 1996 were dominated by loans (77 percent of total assets) and securities investments
and receivables (18 percent). Due to commercial banks' regulatory and cost advantages, finance
companies sought profits by allocating a major share of their portfolios in high-risk areas,
including real estate (28 percent), margin loans and hire purchase (15 percent) and personal
consumption loans (26 percent). The profitability of finance companies declined by 60 percent
over the period 1993-96, due to the glut in the real estate market and the 70 percent decline in the
securities exchange index.
25.   The legal, regulatory and supervisory framework governing finance companies is such
that they cannot effectively compete for most commercial bank mainstream business and are left
largely with more risky activities that banks choose not to engage in. Their activities are covered
by the Law on the Finance Business, Securities Business and Credit Foncier Business of 1979
(B.E. 2522), as amended in 1983 and 1985.2 While this law allows finance companies to conduct
similar business to commercial banks, several important restrictions apply to their activities.
They cannot (a) mobilize sight or time deposits, but are permitted to issue fixed-term promissory
notes and negotiable CDs; (b) offer overdrafts or credit cards; (c) offer credit facilities related to
trade finance; (d) provide foreign exchange services; or (e) establish a domestic branch network
in the Greater Bangkok area.
26.   Finance companies are therefore structurally predisposed to greater cyclical fluctuations
in their returns than are banks and have been a destabilizing factor for the financial sector. This
problem is exacerbated by the fact that, in spite of the greater risks, finance companies have been
subject to less stringent prudential requirements than banks.
A. HISTORICAL ANTECEDENTS
27.   This is not the first crisis in the finance company subsector. In the early 1980s, Thailand
experienced a financial crisis associated with a slowdown in the economy, globally high interest
rates, and fraud and mismanagement on the part of several finance companies and of a few
banks. The economic downturn was particularly detrimental for finance companies: BOT
intervened at that time in around 50 finance companies and 5 commercial banks. In 1994-95,
liquidity was provided to several institutions through the so-called April 4 Lifeboat Scheme and
24 finance companies were closed. Their depositors were repaid the principal on their deposits
over a 10-year period.
28.   This experience led to the creation of the Financial Institutions Development Fund
(FIDF) in 1985, a separate legal entity under BOT with a mandate to reconstruct, develop and
provide liquidity support to financial institutions. The FIDF is funded by a fee paid by FIs (0.1
percent of deposits) and by BOT contributions. It is playing a key role in the resolution of the
current financial crisis (Chapter 4).
2 Securities companies are governed by the Securities and Exchange Act of 1992.



-8-
B. STRUCTURAL WEAKNESSES
29.   The origins of the weaknesses in Thailand's financial sector fall into two broad
categories.
30.   Misjudgments and Poor Incentives as Sources of Weaknesses. Risky behavior led to
four major types of problems on the assets side of balance sheets for finance companies:
(a) unduly rapid asset growth, with a twelvefold increase in finance company assets during
1986-96, compared to a sevenfold increase for banks and a twofold increase in real GDP; (b)
misallocation of funds, especially to finance speculative investments in real estate (25 percent of
lending); (c) excessive concentration of risk; and (d) aggressive term transformation: more than
35 percent of finance company loans are long-term (often 5-7 year real estate loans), compared to
less than 5 percent of finance companies' borrowings.
31.   Finance companies' problems on the asset side were compounded on the liabilities side of
the balance sheet by errors with regard to: (a) concentration on volatile sources of fund and
(b) excessive foreign exchange exposure arising from significant foreign currency borrowing to
take advantage of high domestic interest rates.
32.   Regulatory Forbearance and Inadequate Recognition of Problems. At the end of
1996, there were a reported B 225 billion in nonperforrning loans on the books of finance
companies (15 percent of gross loans) and another B 487 billion on the books of commercial
banks (11.5 percent of gross loans). Most banks and finance companies have failed to adopt
appropriate loan classification, resulting in vastly understated nonperforming loans, postponed
loan loss provisioning and continued accrual of interest on nonperforming assets. Regulations
governing income recognition on nonperforming loans are lenient by international standards.
Provisions are far below what would be required to address the problems at hand, and the ratio of
provisions to non-performing loans actually fell for both finance companies and banks during
1996. Finally, auditing and disclosure practices have been weak, resulting in underreported
lending to related parties and a limited role for market discipline. Reported capital adequacy
ratios vastly overstate the capital positions of both finance companies and banks: the gap
between their capital positions, adjusted for proper asset classification and provision, and the
capital they require to meet minimum capital adequacy standards are estimated at B 353 billion
to B 570 billion.
33.   Until early 1997, there appears to have been a presumption that problems were short-term
and would largely be resolved with liquidity support from the FIDF. The FIDF's support was
also provided at below-market interest rates, often with inadequately perfected collateral, and
was not related to increasingly stringent conditions or holding actions.
C. RECENTLY TAKEN MEASURES
34.   The Measures Taken Prior to August 1997 to deal with the crisis included:
(a) establishment of a (largely inactive) Property Loan Management Organization (PLMO) to
fund viable, unfinished real estate projects; (b) direct intervention in Bangkok Bank of
Commerce following a run on deposits; (c) phasing in of tighter asset classification, income



-9-
recognition and provisioning requirements, and higher capital adequacy standards for finance
companies; (d) imposition of controls on deposit rates; (e) issuance of decrees to facilitate
mergers and acquisitions in the finance company sector; and (f) provision of liquidity support
through the FIDF to almost 70 finance companies and at least 2 banks. These measures, taken
during the first half of 1997, were piecemeal and half-hearted and did not stem the growing loss
of confidence.
35.   When these measures failed to resolve the problems, they were followed by:
(a) suspension of the operations of 58 weak finance companies; (b) blanket guarantees to eligible
depositors and creditors of suspended financial institutions; and (c) a mandatory program
involving recycling of excess deposits from certain banks via BOT to banks with liquidity
shortages. In retrospect, the measures adopted inadvertently compounded the scale of the crisis,
increased resolution costs for Government, and increased the danger of contagion from finance
companies to the banking sector and thus the potential for a systemic crisis.
36.   Measures Taken After August 1997. Since the launching of the IMF program and
World Bank support in August 1997, the Government has begun to implement a more structured
program aimed at stabilizing and reforming the financial sector. The recent measures are
presented in Chapter 4.
4. GOVERNMENT'S PROGRAM FOR
RESTRUCTURING FINANCE COMPANIES
37.   The Government's Finance Companies Restructuring Program (FCRP) that this loan
supports is anchored in the overall plan for reforming the financial sector so that it contributes
more effectively to future economic growth. This plan will be phased in over several years and is
being supported by a series of operations by multilateral institutions (the Bank, IMF and the
ADB). The FCRP is a critical first step in the realization of the medium term plan. It seeks to:
(a)   redefine and clarify the policies of the Financial Institutions Development Fund (FIDF)
with respect to future liquidity support to finance companies and the program of
emergency comprehensive guarantee;
(b)   develop an institutional and policy framework for the resolution of the suspended finance
companies;
(c)   reestablish the finance company subsector on a sound basis through stricter supervisory
standards, strengthened prudential regulations, and more viable operating strategies; and
(d)   reduce systemic risk to the financial sector as whole by improving incentives for financial
market players to be efficient and prudent.
38.   These objectives are to be met through a program of actions already taken (with extensive
Bank/Fund technical support) and a number of agreed future actions that are contained in the
attached Letter of Development Policy (Schedule 1).



- 10-
A. LIQUIDITY SUPPORT AND THE COMPREHENSIVE GUARANTEE
39    The FIDF provided nearly B 400 billion in liquidity support over several months prior to
the suspension of the 58 finance companies, but this did not succeed in arresting the financial
sector crisis. The support had been provided without effective agreement with the recipient
finance companies on: (a) stabilization strategies, (b) changes in management and shareholder
rights, (c) collaterization and subordination to other creditors, (d) contingency plans for exit in
the event the cash infusions proved inadequate, (e) penal interest charges for resorting to support
from lender of the last resort, and (f) transition to a limited deposit insurance regime.
40.   The emergency comprehensive guarantee provided by the Government at a potentially
large fiscal cost was also not viewed as sufficiently credible by the market. There was confusion
with respect to the depth of the Government commitment to honor it, the exact liabilities that
were or were not covered and the mechanisms for funding the guarantee and executing it for
individual liability holders. Thus neither the FIDF liquidity support nor the comprehensive
guarantee had helped to bolster confidence and stem the depositor flight to quality and the
associated instability in the financial sector.
41.   The authorities have taken aggressive steps to remedy these inadequacies:
(a)   FIDF interest rates for loans to financial institutions have been raised to the repurchase
agreement rate plus 1 percent and could rise to 2.5 percent depending on the extent of
uncollateralized lending and the level of indebtedness; at over 20 percent per year in
nominal terms (as of October 1997), the FIDF liquidity support rate is now well above
the highest deposit rates.
(b)   Depending on the extent of borrowing, FIDF liquidity support now triggers the
following: (i) cessation of all dividend payments and bonuses or benefits to directors and
executives; and (ii) once FIDF borrowings equal 75 percent of Tier One capital, FIDF
may assign a representative to the board of the borrower, restrict asset growth and take
additional actions.
(c)   A Decree was issued on October 25, 1997 that defines depositors and creditors, clarifies
the liability holders covered by the guarantee, and specifies that subordinated debt
holders, off-balance sheet creditors, and shareholders' funds are not covered. The Decree
promises additional government support to FIDF. FIDF is required to administer the
guarantee program, which is to be funded with a fee of 0.4 percent per year on all covered
liabilities.
(d)   Deposit rates are capped at a maximum 3 percent above the average deposit rates of the
five largest commercial banks to prevent weak, liquidity constrained institutions from
paying rates that are higher than lending rates. As a result, interest rates throughout the
system have risen substantially.
42.   The authorities have also agreed to:



- 11 -
(a)   undertake a thorough review of the objectives, roles and functions of the FIDF in the
aftermath of the immediate crisis. The review will include an assessment of the FIDF's
role in liquidity support, resolution programs, procedures for taking collateral and
converting advances to capital and quasi-capital. Recommendations for reforning the
FIDF based on the review would be presented by December 1998.
(b)   prepare an action plan for the phasing-in (to begin by April 1998 and be completed by
December 1998) of a permanent limited deposit insurance system to replace the present
emergency comprehensive guarantee.
B. RESOLUTION OF SUSPENDED FINANCE COMPANIES
43.   Rapid and credible resolution of the 58 suspended finance companies is seen by the
market as a critical first step in restoring confidence. It would also cap the costs that delay has
imposed on the suspended companies, their creditors, depositors, and debtors who have not been
able to obtain liquidity and repay loans. Market estimates are that as a result of deterioration in
the loan portfolios, as many as 50 suspended companies now have a negative capital ratio.3
Timely exit of insolvent finance companies is particularly important to enhance prospects of the
open finance companies and minimize contagion to the commercial banking sector.
The Newly Established Institutional Structure for Resolutions
44.   The passage of six emergency Decrees in October 1997 has created a well-defined
institutional structure for overseeing the resolution of the 58 suspended finance companies. The
new structure has proven far more effective than the previous Ministerial Screening Committee.
The legal and institutional impediments to the resolution process are now being addressed in a
systematic and comprehensive manner. Based on the Decrees, two new institutions, the Financial
Sector Restructuring Authority (FRA) and the Asset Management Corporation (AMC), have
been established as the focal points for resolving the suspended finance companies.
45.   The new Decrees permit FRA to take over and rapidly change management in the
suspended companies. FRA serves as the focal point for the resolution of all suspended finance
companies as described in Annex 1. It is assigned the responsibility for reviewing all
rehabilitation proposals submitted by the suspended companies using criteria discussed below. In
addition, it is to oversee the orderly closing-down of finance companies not reopened and the
disposition of their assets.
46.   With strong economic leadership provided by the new Government, FRA is moving with
impressive speed, decisiveness and transparency in dealing with the resolution process. It has
been effectively supported by experts from consulting, accounting, law and public relations firms
3 This assumes that nonperforming loans as a percent of total loans are 30 percent for all 58 suspended finance
companies taken together. These calculations have also adjusted capital for the existing deficient practices in
interest income recognition.



- 12-
of international standard, mobilized at short notice, and funded under the World Bank-financed
technical assistance loan.
47.   AMC's role is to bid for impaired assets auctioned by FRA at a reserve price. AMC is
designed to overcome the near-term impediments to asset liquidations, create a market for
distressed assets, and utilize new troubled debt restructuring techniques to assist in what will be a
large number of industrial restructurings. AMC thus acts as a disposition corporation for open or
suspended finance companies as well as for commercial banks. Its goal is to maximize the value
of the assets to be sold and maintain an orderly real estate market. AMC Board members and the
chief executive officer have been appointed and its financing and governance structure are being
developed. It will be staffed and operational by January 31, 1998. By that date, it will have
established a business plan, capital and funding strategy, and will have written policies and
procedures on asset bidding (valuation), asset management and restructuring and asset sales. The
authorities have authorized B I billion in AMC capital, of which B 250 million have been
approved.
Progress in the Rehabilitation/Resolution Process
48.   The rehabilitation criteria issued by FRA include recapitalization required of both
existing and new owners; guidelines for conversion of FIDF debt to equity; requirements that
existing shares be fully written down; imposition of upper limits on allowed conversions; and
allowance for up to 100 percent foreign equity investment for 10 years with the investment, but
not the percentage ownership, grandfathered thereafter. FIDF debt can now be restructured
provided other creditors restructure their claims in a similar manner. BOT has announced criteria
for assessing new management and fresh sources of capital for finance companies whose
rehabilitation plans are approved by FRA.
49.   FRA adopted a three-step process for deciding on rehabilitation proposals: (a) design of a
modeling framework within which the FRA evaluated the submitted rehabilitation and business
plans, (b) validation of asset valuations implicit in the rehabilitation proposals, and
(c) examination by an independent third party to ensure that the process is consistent with the
criteria designed in close coordination with the Bank and the IMF. Following this process, the
finance companies whose rehabilitation plans are accepted would be allowed to reopen while
those finance companies whose plans are rejected would be closed down.
50.   On December 8, as per schedule, the authorities announced that only 2 of the of the 38
rehabilitation plans submitted to FRA by suspended finance companies had been approved, and
36 rejected. Thus, 56 of the 58 suspended companies are to be closed down. This bold decision
has been welcomed in Thailand and abroad.
51.   The next step is to put in place a framework for the orderly disposal of assets of the
finance companies that have been closed down. This involves appointing committees4 for finance
4 The Committees consist of representatives from the Ministry of Finance (MOF), BOT, FRA, and FIDF.



- 13 -
companies to replace the original boards of directors. The committees are to appoint special
managers with responsibility for (a) assuming control of each company, (b) stratifying the assets
into categories according to their quality, and (c) recommending specific options for the
resolution to a special advisory board (the Sales Group) under FRA. To ensure the integrity of
the asset disposal process, the government established on December 15, 1997 the Financial
Restructuring Authority Coordination Unit (FRACU). FRACU will monitor and conduct
surveillance of the committees and managers engaged in asset disposition. The Government is
committed to begin selling the closed finance company assets in the first quarter of 1998, and to
complete all asset sales by December 1998.
Treatment of Suspended Finance Company Depositors and Creditors
52.   Depositors in the 16 first suspended finance companies, and depositors and creditors in
the 42 finance companies subsequently suspended, were given the option of exchanging their
claims for notes issued by the KTT/KTB (publicly-controlled financial institutions) under two
distinct note exchange schemes (see Annex 2). While these programs are administered by KTT
and KTB, FIDF will service payments of interest and principal on the notes. Creditors of the first
16 suspended finance companies do not have the option of exchanging their claims, and will
have to modify the claims under a shareholder rehabilitation program or negotiate them out of
the proceeds of FRA-administered liquidation of the finance company's assets.
53.   As part of the commitmnent to a transparent and credible process for liquidating
companies, the FIDF has been empowered to relinquish its preferential claim over collateral it
has perfected in cases where specific finance companies are taken into liquidation.
Fiscal Impact of the Resolution Process
54.   The costs of restructuring finance companies could potentially be large, are not
transparent and need to be monitored. The costs arise from the following: (a) FIDF liquidity
support that may become solvency support; (b) debt to equity conversions by the FIDF or other
forms of support, e.g., stretch-out of FIDF repayment terms; (c) Government contribution to
initial capital or contingent liabilities associated with AMC; and (d) FIDF costs associated with
paying interest and principal payments on KTB and KTT notes held by depositors and creditors.
The Government is committed to monitoring these costs carefully and on a regular basis by
implementing a fiscal monitoring framework for the financial sector restructuring program.
Based on the framework, the costs incurred by FIDF, AMC and all other agencies involved in the
resolution process will be reflected explicitly in the budget.
C. REESTABLISHING THE FINANCE COMPANY SUBSECTOR ON A SOUND BASIS
55.   The Thai authorities are well aware that, while the 33 nonsuspended finance companies
controlling roughly 40 percent of finance company assets are considerably stronger as a group
than those suspended, they are also facing significant risks. For the most part, these companies
have been more conservatively managed and about 75 percent of them are strengthened by close
relationships with much larger commercial banks. Nonetheless, they, too are heavily
concentrated in high risk lending arenas and with generally more marginal borrowers who were



- 14-
unable to raise all their credit requirements from cheaper funds from banks. Also, the remaining
finance companies have, until recently, been losing deposits as their credibility has been
undennined by the wide publicity associated with the 58 suspensions.
56.   Therefore, in parallel with the FRA program for resolving the suspended companies,
BOT has launched an effort to deal directly and quickly with the underlying causes of poor
finance company performance to mitigate the high potential risks the remaining institutions pose
to the overall financial system. They are doing so through implementing a three-pronged
program for the remaining 33 finance companies by (a) quickly identifying and addressing
problems in nonsuspended finance companies; (b) strengthening finance company prudential
regulations; and (c) ensuring that surviving finance companies pursue more viable future
strategies. This program is described below in greater detail.
Identifying and Addressing Nonsuspended Finance Company Problems
57.   BOT, based on its review of monthly off-site reports and more focused on-site
examinations, stratified all 33 operating finance companies based on present capital adequacy
(following application of classification and provisioning requirements that will be effective
December 31, 1997), projected capital adequacy, the seriousness of their problems, and their
principal shareholders' financial strength.
58.   BOT is aggressively taking action based on these findings. Under its new intervention
powers created by October 1997 amendments to the Finance Company Act and the Banking Act,
it has (a) taken over management of one finance company where fraud was alleged and which
BOT plans to close down in an orderly fashion; and (b) replaced management of a second small
finance company that was experiencing serious liquidity problems. BOT plans to sign
memoranda of understanding (MOUs) by December 31, 1997 with companies identified with
serious problems. BOT will follow-up carefully on compliance with time-bound MOU targets
and is prepared to take increasingly stronger intervention steps where situations worsen or there
is significant noncompliance. To help monitor the MOUs, BOT will conduct diagnostic reviews
under specific terms of reference and with external assistance. In parallel, BOT plans to sign
MOUs and monitor compliance, in line with the submitted rehabilitation plans, of the previously
suspended finance companies that have been allowed to resume operations.
59.   BOT has established the principle that it will intervene in seriously undercapitalized open
finance companies that are unable to propose, or fall significantly out of compliance with, an
acceptable recapitalization plan or that are forced to borrow excessively from FIDF (at penal
interest rates) over significant time periods. When BOT intervenes in a financial institution, it
will choose one or several actions among the following possibilities: (a) management is replaced
by industry professionals or by BOT staff, (b) capital is reduced so that existing shareholders are
the first to take losses, (c) FIDF funding is converted in capital or subordinated loans.
Strengthening Finance Company Prudential Regulations
60.   Finance company prudential regulations have been less stringent than those for
commercial banks, although their operations are significantly and unavoidably more risky than



- 15 -
those of commercial banks. Therefore, finance company regulations have been or will be
strengthened as follows:
(a)   Finance company regulations will be strengthened by July 1998 in line with commercial
bank requirements by (i) limiting maximum total risk exposure of one credit risk to 25
percent of Tier One capital; and (ii) limiting maximum net long foreign exchange
position to 20 percent of Tier One capital and net short foreign exchange position to 15
percent of Tier One capital.
(b)   New requirements will be imposed by July 1998 on finance companies that will reduce
maximum investment in equity shares on a time-bound basis to 20 percent of capital.
(c)   Announcements will be made by July 1998 that will subject finance companies, to the
same requirements that are imposed on banks with respect to (i) submitting semiannual
credit plans to BOT (useful for portfolio diversification, risk profile and growth
planning); and (ii) loan-to-deposit (promissory note) ratio guidelines.
61.  In addition, other prudential regulations will be strengthened for both banks and finance
companies as follows:
(a)   Announcements have been made, to be applied to both banks and finance companies, that
will tighten loan classification by requiring provisioning for all loans more than six
months overdue, effective December 31, 1997 and prohibit accrual of interest on all loans
more than six months overdue effective January 1, 1998.
(b)   New, more stringent, loan classification and provisioning rules, including troubled debt
restructuring guidelines, applicable to both banks and finance companies will be
announced by March 31, 1998 that will, on a time-bound basis, bring loan provisioning
and accrual of interest requirements in line with international standards by year-end 2000.
(c)   New licensing requirements will be set progressively. Guidelines have already been
issued by BOT for the proper assessment of existing owners, board members and
managers in merged finance companies or new banks resulting from the resolution
process of the 58. BOT will propose legal amendments to the Banking Act and Finance
Company Act to empower BOT and MOF to assess the executive managers, directors and
shareholders of both existing and new banks and finance companies. In addition, BOT
will issue new guidelines to lay down a comprehensive and single set of licensing
procedures for both banks and finance companies in line with international standards.
These procedures will apply to licensing of new institutions as well as approving major
changes in capital structure and senior management of existing institutions.
(d)   New requirements will be imposed on finance companies and banks that will (i) limit
maximum lending to a single related party and on a combined basis to all related parties
as a percentage of Tier One capital; and (ii) impose stricter limitations on net foreign
exchange exposure.



-16 -
Ensuring that Finance Companies Pursue more Viable Strategies
62.   The widespread poor finance company performance during the past six months,
(including the collapse of both lending and securities businesses in many cases) together with a
significant expansion over time of commercial banks into spheres of activity previously
dominated by finance companies has raised questions as to whether the present pattern of finance
company structure and modus operandi will prove sufficiently viable over the long term. While
that question will be answered in the marketplace, the authorities have taken several steps to
enhance prospects for viability as follows:
(a)   commercial banks, both domestic and foreign, can take 100 percent ownership positions
in finance companies so long as they maintain a sound financial condition. Commercial
banks may provide much of the capital funding required by some finance companies; the
grouped bank and finance company portfolios thus created may reduce finance company
risk through diversification.
(b)   FRA decisions not to approve 36 rehabilitation plans of companies representing 10
percent of total industry assets will reduce industry capacity relative to demand and thus
will reduce pressure to lend to risky clients.
(c)   BOT is encouraging additional mergers and consolidation among the remaining
companies where appropriate, thus enhancing economies of scale, strengthening
management, and easing the future supervision requirement. Estimates suggest that the
number of finance companies could be reduced by about 15 percent through merger.
(d)   Agreement has been reached with the management of each finance company to
recommend to their assembly of shareholders that dividend not be paid for the remaining
of 1997 and the first half of 1998.
D. STRENGTHENING THE ENABLING ENVIRONMENT FOR FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS
63    The Thai authorities are convinced that weaknesses in the financial institutions' enabling
environment have played a major role in contributing to the present financial sector crisis. Thus,
the authorities have committed themselves to implement a consistent and reinforcing set of
actions to improve the institutional and incentive framework for the financial system over the
next six months to one year. In particular, they have identified serious weaknesses in three areas,
i.e.,
* inadequate financial institution supervision systems, policies, and procedures;
* inadequate financial institution accounting, auditing and disclosure standards; and
inadequate legal and regulatory framnework for corporate workouts and debt collection.
64.   Reforms in policies and processes in these areas will require a significant period of time
to prepare. Considerations relating to design and planning are often complex. The process of



-17-
consultation and achieving consensus can be time-consuming, as changes can affect a number of
stakeholders, many of them outside the banks and finance companies. Implementation, too,
requires time as it involves institutional change and/or changes in legislation.
65.   Therefore, the authorities, during this first-phase response to the crisis, have appropriately
focused their attention on the most urgent issues and those for which action can achieve rapid
and significant impact. However, they intend, over the next months, to initiate a significant
reform program, which the Bank intends to support in the proposed second adjustment operation,
in each of these three areas.
Strengthening Financial Institution Supervision Systems, Policies and Procedures
66.   The Thai authorities are taking a number of immediate steps to effectively utilize
supervision and liquidity support resources augmented by important policy changes, to deal with
the immediate finance company crisis. However, to address the causes of the inadequate
supervisory response that contributed to the depth of the crisis, they are also preparing a more
fundamental longer-term reform program to strengthen their ability to supervise financial
institutions. In addition to regulatory changes affecting both finance companies and banks that
have earlier been presented (see above), this supervision and regulatory reform program will,
inter alia, include:
(a)   Establishment of Policies and Procedures for Dealing with Troubled Financial
Institutions Through Prompt Corrective Action. In view of the high costs that were
incurred due to delays in dealing with the finance companies when they first became
seriously troubled, BOT plans to establish objective criteria and formal procedures that
mandate remedial actions by supervisors commensurate with any financial or
management weaknesses or rule violations that are detected. By May 1998, BOT will
develop and implement internal guidelines for prompt corrective action based on
specified triggers, e.g., capitalization ratios and need for liquidity support. By the end of
1998, BOT will propose legal amendments to strengthen the applicability and
enforcement of these internal guidelines.
(b)   Consolidated Supervision of Financial Groups. MOF, BOT and the Securities and
Exchange Commission (SEC) will develop and issue regulations that will deal with
consolidated supervision of financial groups (groups comprising banks, finance
companies, and/or securities companies).
(c)   New Prudential Regulatory and Accounting Standards for Specialized Banks. The
Government intends to issue requirements for the specialized banks that it supervises (and
that are, for the most part, less immediately affected by the crisis) that parallel those
required for commercial banks, including, in particular, similar loan classification,
provisioning, and interest accrual requirements.
(d)   Review of Overall Supervisory Regime. By April 1998, the Government will establish
an interagency task force that will review and recommend changes in the legal and



- 18-
regulatory framework for supervision. This will be conducted in light of the Thai strategy
to modernize its financial structure and services.
67.   Finally, BOT has agreed to develop by March 1998 a medium-term  institutional
development plan for strengthening its supervisory capacity. This plan will primarily aim at
strengthening on-site and off-site supervision as well as enforcement procedures.
Strengthening Financial Institution Accounting, Auditing and Disclosure Standards
68.   In retrospect, it is obvious that the authorities, depositors and, to some extent, even the
finance company managers themselves were unaware that a number of finance companies were
experiencing seriously deteriorating financial condition and performance for many months before
the initial group of 16 finance companies were suspended. Annual audited statements provided
inadequate transparency and largely failed to disclose the extent of deterioration and, more
generally, the quality of information available to credit institutions (e.g., information on real
estate prices and markets) was insufficient to permit proper credit evaluations. Hence, depositors
were slow to begin withdrawing deposits and there were long delays in bringing the discipline of
the marketplace to bear on the poor performers, with the consequent costs borne by many
creditors and the taxpayers.
69.   The new loan classification, provisioning and interest income recognition requirements
being phased in (see above) will address the most serious accounting disclosure inadequacies.
However, audited statements now being produced, which are regulated as stock exchange
requirements designed for listed firms generally, not for financial institutions specifically, fall far
short of meeting international financial institution disclosure requirements. In addition, the
disclosures to be required of financial institutions and the existing nonuniformity in the
information disclosed to the public by financial institutions (e.g., nonperforming loans) are also
short of international standards. Finally, BOT has not established a policy with respect to the
public disclosure of the information it now collects.
70.   To improve the quality of information available to market participants and the public, the
authorities will embark upon a series of steps. Initially, they will announce (at the end of
December 1997) a stricter and uniform definition of nonperforming loans, which financial
institutions will need to disclose beginning with end-of-year 1997 financial statements. Under the
new definition, loans in nonaccrual for six months will automatically be classified as
nonperforming with no account taken of collateral (see Policy Conditionality Matrix-Schedule
2).
71.   Subsequently, by December 31, 1998 (see the Letter of Development Policy, Schedule 1),
BOT will finalize a public disclosure program to be required of all financial institutions under its
supervision [Regulatory Accounting and Disclosure Practices (RADP)]. It will include guidelines
and a phase-in schedule for disclosing information in such areas as volume of renegotiated loans,
rollovers, loan loss provisions, and lending to related parties. In addition, BOT will establish an
overall policy by December 31, 1998 with respect to public disclosure of information it now
collects (e.g., credit plans of financial institutions, large debtor reports, etc.). Finally, and more
broadly, the authorities will outline improvements to be made in enforcing or modifying



- 19-
accounting and auditing standards. This program will focus on areas such as how to utilize
internal and external auditors and related guidelines to assist supervisors in improving the quality
of information provided to market participants by financial institutions.
Addressing Inadequacies in the Legal and Regulatory Framework for Debt Collection and
Corporate Workouts
72.   Highly inefficient, time-consuming bankruptcy and collateral foreclosure procedures have
proven dysfunctional, contributed to an inadequate credit disciplinary environment, and
exacerbated the crisis. Finance institutions' ability to collect overdue debts has been undermined.
The procedures discourage voluntary debt restructuring and creditor willingness to provide
liquidity to solvent but illiquid companies under reorganization.
73.   To overcome these critical problems the authorities have already submitted legislative
changes to the bankruptcy act. However, they intend to submit additional, more comprehensive,
legislative proposals by March 31, 1998) to permit a more efficient process of corporate
reorganization, speed collateral foreclosure, facilitate financing to companies undergoing
reorganization, and permit greater scope for out-of-court settlements. On the side of lenders, the
phase-in of troubled debt restructuring guidelines will be a critical determinant in supporting the
process of voluntary workouts.
5. BANK GROUP STRATEGY
A. THE BANK
74.   The last Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) prepared for Thailand was discussed by the
Board in August 1994. At the time, Thailand was experiencing high rates of growth and therefore
Thai officials and Bank staff agreed that Bank assistance would be selective, focused on
infrastructure, human resources development, and protection of the environment. Given the
changed circumstances of the country, this strategy will be revised.
75.   A new CAS, reflecting recent developments, is under preparation and is expected to be
presented to the Board in April 1998. Under the new CAS, the Bank would pursue a two-pronged
strategy: first, the Bank would address immediate macroeconomic and financial sector issues
and, second, the Bank would respond to medium- and long-term requirements for
macroeconomic and financial sector strengthening and assist Thailand's reform of its public
sector, financial system, economic management system, enabling environment to attract foreign
investment, and related social dimensions. By means of instruments such as lending, economic
and sectoral analyses, and technical assistance, the CAS will also set out a series of real sector
interventions. These are expected to focus on infrastructure development, energy, environment,
and human resource development (including skills development) which will clearly enhance
Thailand's international competitiveness but-at the same time-also address the country's
poverty alleviation and regional equity concerns.



- 20 -
76.   The onset of the current Thai financial crisis has required the Bank to intensify its
analytical work, drawing upon the experience of similar operations in other countries. The first
operation was a fast-track loan designed to provide implementation assistance to the Government
for enhancing the resiliency and soundness of the financial sector, and developing a strategy for
the resolution of the suspended finance companies. This Financial Sector Implementation
Assistance Project (FSIAP, Loan 4233-TH) of $15 million was approved by the Board on
September 11, and is under implementation. The proposed loan has benefited directly from the
technical assistance provided under FSIAP. The next planned operation will focus on the
remaining agenda in financial sector reform and will be presented to the Board in Spring 1998.
Follow-up operations, focusing on broader structural measures to strengthen the macroeconomic
framework and the international competitiveness of the Thai economy, will benefit from the
background work under the proposed Economic Management Assistance Loan that we intend to
present to the Board in January 1998.
77.   Total lending by the Bank to Thailand amounts to approximately $5.6 billion under 115
loans and six credits. During the 1980s, Thailand made use of two single-tranche structural
adjustment loans from the Bank. The current portfolio consists of 15 projects amounting to
approximately $1.5 billion, with projects in the rural development, energy, education, transport,
and economic/financial sectors.
B. THE INTERNATIONAL FINANCE CORPORATION (IFC)
78.  IFC is looking to work closely with the Bank for ways to contribute to the Bank's
program for financial sector reforms and restructuring of Thai industries for long-term
competitiveness. In past discussions, the Thai Government has expressed appreciation of IFC's
investment and advisory activities in Thailand. In recent years, IFC's investment activities have
focused mainly on infrastructure, petrochemicals and capital markets. IFC has played a critical
role in developing Thailand's petrochemicals industry by arranging nearly $1 billion in financing
for six petrochemical projects. In social infrastructure, IFC approved a pioneering project in
financing a private hospital in Bangkok in FY93, and is pursuing additional opportunities in this
area. There is interest by private investors for IFC support in other social infrastructure projects
such as private technical schools and universities. A current priority of IFC is to play a role in the
financial restructuring process in which it has an interest.
C. COORDINATION WITH IMF AND THE ASIAN DEVELOPMENT BANK (ADB)
79.  In August 1997, under the IMF-coordinated Tokyo Pledge, the Thai authorities
committed themselves to a stabilization program. This program is supported by an IMF standby
arrangement, bilateral pledges by Southeast and East Asian countries, and multilateral support by
the World Bank and the Asian Development Bank amounting to $17.2 billion. The Bank's
operations described above would complement the other components of this support package.
80.   On August 20, 1997, IMF's Executive Board approved a 34-month Standby Arrangement
(SBA) for Thailand for an amount equivalent to SDR 2,900 million (505 percent of quota).
SDR 1,200 million (209.1 percent of quota) was disbursed upon Board approval. Access under
the SBA exceeds normal limits in light of Thailand's exceptionally large balance of payments



-21 -
needs, and is heavily frontloaded in order to ensure the early availability of external financing
deemed essential for the restoration of confidence. SDR 600 million (104.5 percent of quota), as
well as the second-tranche disbursements of bilateral contributions under the financing package
for Thailand, were released upon the satisfactory completion of the first review on December 8.
81.   The Bank has been working closely with IMF in Thailand. Since the outbreak of the
financial crisis, the Bank and Fund have jointly assisted the government in designing the
comprehensive financial sector restructuring program that is currently being implemented. IMF
has paid special attention to issues related to commercial banks, while the Bank has focused on
the resolution framework for finance companies and on strengthening the supervision and
regulatory framework for the entire financial system.
82.   ADB pledged $1.2 billion at the August 1997 Tokyo Pledge meeting on Thailand. This
amount represents expected disbursements from ADB over the period 1997-99. One-half of the
disbursements would be from ongoing projects and other project loans that are expected to be
approved by ADB over the same period. The other half would be disbursements from two
proposed program loans-the Capital Markets Development Program Loan and the Social Sector
Program Loan.
6. THE PROPOSED LOAN
83.   The proposed loan, consistent with the objectives of the new CAS under preparation
(discussed in Chapter 5), is a strong response to the current economic crisis, and would ensure
that appropriate actions are taken by the Thai authorities to restore solvency and soundness of the
financial company subsector. The loan is also a critical element in the coordinated response of
the Bank, IMF, ADB, and bilateral lenders to assist Thailand in attaining macroeconomic and
financial stability. As noted above, this loan builds on FSIAP, approved by the Board on
September 11, 1997. The Bank's current and proposed operations, and strategic approach for
program design are an outcome of intensive discussions with the Thai authorities.
84.   Loan Size. A single-tranche loan of $350 million is proposed to be made available upon
loan effectiveness, anticipated for early January 1998. The Closing Date of the loan would be
June 30, 1998.
A. CONDITIONS FOR BOARD PRESENTATION
85.   The Thai authorities have submitted a Letter of Development Policy (Schedule 1) that
describes the current economic crisis and its impact on the finance company subsector, explains
the design of the overall financial sector restructuring program and presents the actions to be
taken for restructuring finance companies.
B. LOAN ADMINISTRATION
86.   Terms and Conditions. At the request of the Government, and consistent with the
country's external debt management policy, the proposed loan, in the amount of $350 million,



- 22 -
would be a Single Currency Loan (SCL) in US Dollars, with a 15-year maturity, including a 3-
year grace period, at the Bank's standard fixed US Dollar SCL interest rate.
87.   Disbursement and Procurement. The proposed loan would support the finance
companies' restructuring program of the Govermment described in the Letter of Development
Policy, and would disburse against expenditures except for items specified in Schedule 1 of the
Loan Agreement. The Government will open and maintain a deposit account with BOT. Upon
effectiveness, the Government will submit a simplified withdrawal application to the Bank,
against which the Bank will disburse the loan proceeds in one tranche into the Deposit Account.
Disbursements will not be linked to specific purchases, and supporting evidence for
disbursements is therefore not required. If after deposit is made in the Deposit Account the
proceeds of the loan and any part thereof are used for ineligible purposes as defined in the Loan
Agreement, the Bank will require the borrower to either (a) return the amount to the Deposit
Account for use for eligible purposes, or (b) refund the amount directly to the Bank, in which
case the Bank will cancel an equivalent undisbursed amount of the loan.
88.   Accounts and Audit. BOT, on behalf of the Government, will maintain the accounts for
this loan in accordance with sound accounting practices. The accounts under the program will be
audited within four months of Bank request.c
89.   Monitoring Arrangement. MOF and BOT will be responsible for monitoring the
implementation of the restructuring program with the help of the Letter of Development Policy,
through regular reviews, as well as in the context of the preparation and supervision of other
projects. MOF and BOT will prepare a final report on the progress of the program within six
months after the closing date of the loan, and submit the report to the Bank.
90.   Environmental Assessment Requirements. In accordance with the Bank's Operational
Directive on Environmental Assessment (OD 4.00, Annex A), the proposed operation has been
placed in Category "C" and will not require an environmental assessment.
C. BENEFITS AND RISKS
91.   Benefits. The structural measures supported by the loan will help restore confidence in
Thailand's ailing financial sector. The proposed framework for restructuring finance companies
lays out a process of accountability through closing down nonviable finance companies and
creating better incentives for creditors, depositors and debtors. The emphasis in the loan on
strengthening the regulatory and supervision regimes will ensure the safety and soundness of the
remaining finance companies and will help prevent similar crises from recurring. Credible
streamlining of the finance company subsector will pave the way for comprehensive
restructuring of the entire financial sector. This will restore confidence, which is key to the
resumption of capital flows and increasing domestic credit. This will improve the balance of
payments and provide much needed liquidity, at lower interest rates, to the corporate sector to
allow growth to resume.
92.   Risks. Political instability and weak economic leadership would cause further loss of
market confidence and continued exchange rate instability. These, in turn, would increase the



- 23 -
stress on the already fragile financial sector. Under wavering leadership, the program for
restructuring finance companies would lack credibility and would not yield the benefits listed
above. The objectives of the loan would also be put at risk if the macroeconomic stabilization
program falters either because the political cost of adjustment is perceived to be too high or
because of a failure to manage expectations regarding outcomes. Inflexibility in the design of the
macroeconomic prograrn that limits policy options in the face of continued economic contraction
would prolong the crisis and pose a risk to the loan. The program for restructuring finance
companies would be at risk if the Thai authorities failed to mobilize the needed human resources,
if the Thai market could not absorb the impaired loans, and if the process was not transparent.
Finally, failure of a large bank could trigger further deposit shifting and lead to a systemic
collapse.
93.   However, a number of recent developments indicate that these risks are being mitigated.
Thailand has a new government with a respected economic team that has reaffirmed its
commitmnent to both macroeconomic stabilization as well as to a significant restructuring of the
financial sector. Recent revisions in the macroeconomic framework are leading to more realistic
performance targets. The pressure to take decisive action on financial sector restructuring is
dictated by the realization that the economic crisis would otherwise deepen and the cost of
inaction would mount.
94.   Bank operations will also help to mitigate the risk to the loan by providing timely
technical assistance that will lend credibility to government decisions regarding both the
resolution of the closed finance companies and the policy framework for strengthening the
remaining finance companies. This assistance is provided via the ongoing Financial Sector
Implementation Assistance Project.
7. RECOMMENDATION
95.   I am satisfied that the proposed loan complies with the Articles of Agreement of the Bank
and I recommend that the Executive Directors approve it.
James D. Wolfensohn
President
by Sven Sandstrom
Washington, D.C.
December 16, 1997
Attachments



T'



-25-                                        TABLES
TABLE 1: THAILAND: MACROECONOMIC FRAMEWORK, 1994-98
1994      1995      1996          1997                 1998
Prog.      Rev.      Prog.      Rev.
Real GDP growth (percent)                  8.9       8.7        6.4       2.5       0.6         3.5       0-1
Consumption                               8.0       7.3        6.2       3.3       0.5         0.8       -1.1
Grossfixedinvestment                     11.5      13.2        6.7     -10.2     -13.3        -0.8      -6.5
CPI inflation (end period, percent)        5.3       7.1        4.8       9.5       10.0        5.0       6.0
CPI inflation (period average, percent)    5.1       5.8        5.9       7.0       6.0         8.0       10.0
Saving and Investment (percent of GDP)
Gross domestic investment                40.4      42.3       41.0      36.3      35.8        35.9      33.3
Private, including stocks               31.7      33.1       31.3      26.4      25.3        26.1      23.7
Public                                   8.7       9.2        9.7       9.9      10.5         9.8       9.6
Gross national saving                    34.9      34.3       33.1      31.3      31.8        32.9      32.5
Private, including statistical discrepancy  22.6  22.2       21.5      21.0      21.3        21.5      21.7
Public                                  12.2      12.0       11.6      10.2       10.6       11.5       10.8
Foreign                                   5.6       8.0        7.9       5.0       3.9         3.0       0.8
Fiscal accounts (percent of GDP) 1/
Central government balance                1.7       2.6        2.2      -1.1      -0.9         1.0        1.0
Revenueandgrants                        18.7      18.8       19.1      17.3       17.6       17.8       16.6
Expenditure andnet lending              17.0      16.2       16.8      18.4       18.5       16.8       15.6
Overall public sector balance             1.8       2.5        2.2      -1.6       -1.5        1.0        1.0
Monetary accounts (end period, percent)
M2Agrowth                                18.1      18.1       12.7       7.0        1.5       11.0       6.8
Reserve money growth                     14.5      22.6       12.0       8.0       4.4        11.0       6.8
Balance of payments (billions of US$)
Exports, f.o.b.                          44.6      55.7       54.7      56.2      56.4        61.0      60.9
Growth rate                             22.3      25.0       -1.3       2.8       3.2         8.6       7.9
Imports, c.i.f.                          53.4      70.4       70.8      66.5       64.2       67.6      64.3
Growth rate                             19.2      30.4        1.8      -6.1      -9.3         1.6       0.2
Current account batance                  -7.8     -13.2      -14.4      -9.0      -6.4        -5.3      -2.5
(percent of GDP)                       -5.6      -8.0       -7.9      -5.0      -3.9        -3.0      -1.8
Capital account balance                  12.2      21.9       18.0     -16.4     -17.9         1.8       0.3
Medium-and long-term                     4.6       9.3       12.2       5.5        6.5        5.3       8.5
Short-term 2/                            7.6      12.6        5.8     -21.9     -24.4        -3.5      -8.2
Overall balance                           4.2       7.2        2.2     -24.7     -24.6        -3.5      -2.2
Gross official reserves                  30.3      37.0       38.7      23.0      23.0        24.5      24.8
(Months of imports)                      6.8       6.3        6.6       4.2       4.3         4.3       4.6
(Percent of short-term external debt)    104        90       103         69        75          74        87
Extemal debt (percent of GDP)             44.9      49.0       48.9      55.5      58.6        59.6       76.4
Total debt(billionsofUS$)               64.8       82.5       90.6      99.1       94.9      105.5      102.5
Publicsector                            15.7      16.4       16.9      27.3      27.8        33.4      35.4
Private sector                          49.2      66.2       73.7      71.7       67.1       72.1      67.1
Medium- and long-term                  20.2      25.2       36.1      38.5       38.0       39.2       39.0
Short-term                             29.0      41.0       37.6      33.2       29.1       32.8       28.1
Debt service ratio 3/                    11.4       11.1      12.3      15.5       15.0       16.5       16.8
Source: IMF
1/ On a fiscal year basis.
2/ Including outflows associated with the closing of swap and forward contracts by the Bank of Thailand.
3/ Percent of exports of goods and services



-26-                                         TABLES
TABLE 2: THAILAND: SUMMARY OF PUBLIC SECTOR OPERATIONS, 1994195-1997/981/
17-r997    1993/9e  -      177U171                19
rrog.     Frei.        Frog.     rrei.
(in billions of baht)
Central government
Revenue and grants                              763       872          870       865          996       895
Expenditure and net lending                     659       765          924       912          940       839
Current expenditure                            438       483          552       516          515       460
Capital expenditure                            217       273          354       380          415       370
Net lending                                      4         10          18        15           11         9
Overall balance                                 104       107          -54        -46          56        56
Local government
Overall balance                                   3         6            1         1            2         2
Nonfinancial public sector operations
Retained income                                 132       153          146       146          133       133
Capital expenditure                             148       149          179       178          133       133
Overall balance                                 -16         4          -33        -32           0         0
Consolidated public sector balance               101       122          -80        -72          60        60
Financing                                       -101       -122          80        72          -60        -60
External                                         17        11           13        17           27        27
Domestic                                       -117       -133          67        55          -87        -87
Banking system 2/                             -122       -145         175       167          -87        -87
Other                                            5        11         -108       -113           0         0
(in percent of fiscal year GDP)
Central government
Revenue and grants                              18.8      19.1        17.3       17.2        17.8       16.6
Expenditure and net lending                     16.3      16.8        18.4       18.5        16.8       15.6
Current expenditure                            10.8      10.6        11.0       10.5         9.2        8.6
Capital expenditure                            5.4        6.0         7.0        7.7         7.4        6.9
Net lending                                     0.1       0.2         0.4        0.3         0.2        0.2
Overall balance                                 2.6        2.3        -1.1       -0.9          1.0       1.0
Local government
Overall balance                                  0.1       0.1         0.0        0.0         0.0        0.0
Nonfinancial public sector operations
Retained income                                 3.3        3.4         2.9        3.0         2.4        2.5
Capital expenditure                             3.6        3.3         3.6        3.6         2.4        2.5
Overall balance                                 -0.4       0.1        -0.7       -0.7         0.0        0.0
Consolidatedpublicsectorbalance                  2.5        2.7        -1.6       -1.5         1.1        1.1
Financing                                        -2.5      -2.7          1.6       1.5        -1.1       -1.1
External                                         0.4       0.2         0.3        0.3         0.5        0.5
Domestic                                        -2.9      -2.9         1.3        1.1        -1.6       -1.6
Banking system 2/                              -3.0      -3.2         3.5        3.4        -1.6       -1.6
Other                                          0.1        0.2        -2.1       -2.3          0.0       0.0
(in billions of baht)
Memorandum items:
Fiscal year GDP                               4,055      4,566       5,031      4,923       5,599      5,378
Revenue, treasury accounts basis                761       850          847       844          973       872
Expenditure, treasury accounts basis            643       750          900       888          903        802
Cash balance, treasury accounts basis           118        100         -53        -44          70        70
Gross cost of financial sector restructuring 3/  ...       ...          ...       ...          1.1       1.3
Source: IMF
1/ The fiscal year is October I to September 30
2/ Including, in 1996/97, a drawdown of deposits (amounting to B 57 billion) to capitalize the Government Pension Fund,
which is offset in domestic nonbank financing.
3/ Estimate based on the imputed interest cost of servicing FIDF loans to the financial sector. In percent of fiseal
year GDP.



-27 -                                                  TABLES
TABLE 3: THAILAND: MONETARY PROJECTIONS, 1996-98
1996                          1997                                         1998
Dec.   Mar.   Jun.   Aug.        Sept.          Dec.       Mar.   Jun.   Sept.        Dec.
Actual Actual Actual Actual  Prog. Actual Prog.  Rev.   Rev.   Rev.   Rev.   Prog.  Rev.
(In billions of baht, end period)
Reserve Money                         453    462    514    436    456   434    489   473    476    461    469    543   505
Net foreign assets 1/                991    987    833    833    726   804    448   452    364    301    328    339   377
Net domestic assets                 -538   -525   -319   -397   -270  -370         41    20      112    159    141    204   128
Net credit to public sector        -290   -240   -255   -186   -213  -191   -187  -165   -165   -218   -231   -228  -205
Credit to financial institutions     62      18    261    268    349   213    565   533    591    652    630    661   573
FIDF credit                         28    145    311    513    530   554    572   572    577    582    587    592   592
Indirect instruments                -5   -164    -90   -284   -228  -380    -52   -80    -27           29       2      23   -60
Other                               40      38     40      40      46    39      46    41      41      41      41      46    41
Other items net                     -310   -304   -326   -479   -405  -390   -337  -347   -314   -274   -257   -229  -240
Memorandum items:
Reserve money growth (percent)       12.0   12.4   29.9    9.9   12.9   7.5    8.0   4.4    3.0  -10.4    5.9    11.0   6.8
Money multiplier (seasonally adjusted)    10.6   10.5    9.0   10.3   10.5   ...   10.5  10.3   10.3   10.3   10.3   10.5  10.3
M2A (billions of baht) 2/          4,725   4,721   4,721   4,622   4,862    ...  5,056 4,796   4,777   4,841   4,911   5,612  5,121
Growth rate (percent)               12.7    7.3    4.6    2.1    6.9    ...    7.0   1.5    1.2    2.6    5.9    11.0   6.8
Velocity(Dec. 1996= 100, seas. adj.)    100    100    101    105    106    ...   104   107    108    109    109    104   109
Source: IMF
1/ Including expected reserve losses, owing to swap and forward transactions of the bank of Thailand, consistent with the balance f paynents;
at the program exchange rate
2/ M2A consists of currency in circulation and the deposits of banks and finance companies.



-28-                                                                   TABLES
TABLE 4: THAILAND: BALANCE OF PAYMENTS AND FINANCING NEED, 1996-98
1996          1997                      1997                      1998                  1998
Actual   Original  Revised   FirstHalf SecondHalf SecondHalf  Original  Revised   Second Half Second Half
Program  Program    Actual   Original   Revised    Program  Program    Original   Revised
Program    Program                        Program    Program
(In billions of U.S. dollars)
1. Current account balance               -14.4      -9.0      -6.4      -5.0       -2.8       -1.4      -5.3     -2.5         0.5        -3.0
Trade balance                          -16.1     -10.3      -7.8      -6.2       -3.3       -1.6      -6.6     -3.5         -0.3       -3.2
Exports, fo.b.                         54.7      56.2      56.4      27.4       29.1       29.0      61.0     60.9        30.2        30.7
Imports, c.i.f.                        70.8      66.5      64.2      33.6       32.4       30.6      67.6     64.3        30.5        33.8
Services and transfers                   1.8       1.3       1.4       1.2        0.5        0.2       1.3      1.0         0.8         0.2
2. Capital account balance                18.0     -16.4    -17.9        1.3      -15.3      -19.2       1.8      0.3         -2.6        2.9
Medium- and long-term capital           12.2       5.5      6.5        4.3        1.3        2.2       5.3      8.5          5.0        3.6
Short-termn capital                      0.0      -5.3      -6.9       0.4       -4.7       -7.3       0.0     -0.9        -2.0         1.1
Other capital 1/                         5.8      -5.4      -6.0      -3.4       -0.7       -2.6       2.2      1.6        -0.5        2.1
Forwards/Swaps                            ...    -11.2    -11.5        ...      -11.2      -11.5      -5.7     -8.9         -5.0       -3.9
3. Errors and omissions                   -1.5       0.6      -0.3      -2.7       -0.4        2.4       0.0      0.0         0.0         0.0
4. Net balance = 1+2+3                     2.2     -24.7    -24.6       -6.4      -18.4      -18.2      -3.5     -2.2         -2.1       -0.1
5. Targeted changes in official reserves   ...      15.7      15.7       ...        9.3        9.3      -1.5     -1.8         0.0        -1.8
(increase, -)
6. Financing need = -4-5                   ...       9.0      8.9        ...        9.0        8.9       5.0      3.9         2.1         1.9
7. Financing package                        ...      9.0      8.9        ...        9.0        8.9       5.0      3.9         2.0         1.9
Fund                                    ...       2.4      2.4        ...        2.4        2.4       0.7      0.7         0.4        0.3
Other 2/                                ...       6.6      6.4        ...        6.6        6.4       4.3      3.2          1.6        1.6
(in percent; unless otherwise specified)
Memorandum items:
Current account balance/GDP              -7.8      -5.0      -3.9      -3.5       -1.6       -0.4      -3.0     -1.8         0.3        -2.1
Export growth                            -1.3       2.8      3.2        0.9        5.4        5.4       8.6      7.9         10.2       5.8
Import growvth                            1.8      -6.1      -9.3      -7.4       -6.2      -11.2       1.5      0.2        -9.2        10.6
Gross official reserves                  38.7      23.0     23.0       32.3       23.0       23.0      24.5     24.8        23.0       24.8
(In months of imports)                   6.6       4.2      4.3        5.8        4.2        4.5       4.3      4.6         4.5        4.6
(In percentofstock ofshort-term debt)  103.0      69.2     77.7       87.5       69.2       77.7      73.8     86.6        83.3       86.6
Source: IMF
1/ Consists mostdy of unidentified portfolio flows
2/ Consistent with the agreed financing package and assuming that bilateral creditors disburse proportionally with the Fund.



-29-                          TABLES
TABLE 5: FIDF CREDIT OUTSTANDING, JUNE-NOVEMBER 1997
Suspended FCs    33 Open FCs       Banks         Total
June                 285                6             20           311
July                 368                8             47           423
August               368               16            128           512
September            365               21            168           554
October              360               25            206           591
November 05          359               25            209            593
Source: Bank of Thailand.
TABLE 6: SELECTED INTEREST RATES, 1992-97
(In Percentage)
BOT          Interbank      Minimum         Inflation
Bank Rate        Rate         Loan Rate      Rate (CPI)
Dec31, 1992         11.00           7.95           11.50           -
Dec 31, 1993         9.00           4.38           10.50           3.36
Dec31, 1994          9.50           7.22           11.75           5.10
Dec 31, 1995        10.50          11.15           13.75           5.77
Dec 31, 1996        10.50           9.66           13.00           5.85
Mar31, 1997         10.50           8.34           13.00           4.55
Jun30, 1997         10.50          15.10           12.75           4.40
Sep 30, 1997        12.50          23.87          14.15            7.00
Dec 04, 1997        12.50          22.00           14.25           7.50
Source: Bank of Thailand.



-30-                               TABLES
TABLE 7: THAILAND: NET CAPITAL FLOWS', 1992-96
(In $ million)
1992       1993       1994        1995        1996
Net Capital Flows ($ million)       9,652      10,515     12,183      21,921      18,031
Medium and long term               4,263      7,396       4,606      9,332      12,242
Private Sector                    3,972      6,647       4,628      8,140      10,964
Direct investment (equity)      1,548       1,232        813       1,129       1,602
Loans and credits               1,745       1,847      3,161       3,915      8,243
Portfolio and other2              679       3,568        654       3,096       1,119
Public Sector                      291         749         -22       1,192      1,278
Public Enterprises                501        622         192        810         828
Central Government               -210        127        -214        382         450
Short term capital                 5,389      3,119       7,577     12,589       5,789
Net Capital Flows (as % of Total)    100.0      100.0      100.0       100.0       100.0
Medium and long term                44.2       70.3        37.8       42.6        67.9
Private Sector                     41.2       63.2        38.0       37.1        60.8
Direct investrnent (equity)      16.0        11.7        6.7         5.2         8.9
Loans and credits                18.1        17.6       25.9        17.9       45.7
Portfolio and other 2             7.0        33.9        5.4        14.1         6.2
Public Sector                       3.0        7.1        -0.2        5.4         7.1
Public enterprises                5.2         5.9        1.6         3.7        4.6
Central Government                -2.2        1.2       -1.8         1.7        2.5
Short term capital                  55.8       29.7        62.2       57.4        32.1
Source: IMF
1 These capital flows do not include any movements in monetary capital such as monetary gold or net balances in
IMF accounts.
2 Including debt securities.



- 31-                                   FIGURES
FIGURE 1: BAHT PER US DOLLAR, SPOT EXCHANGE RATE,
DECEMBER 1996 - DECEMBER 1997
25.00
25.00 4 * ' * 4 N ~~baht per
30.00 ~  ~                         US dollar
30.00x
35.00 -
40.00
45.00     i         l  l  l  l  l
.  C  .0  L-  L   b   c: j                       ) i;
z 
Source: Bank of Thailand.
FIGURE 2: RATIo OF CREDIT TO GDP, 1987-96
1.5
1.4
1.3
1.2
1.1
0.9
0.8
0.7
0.6
0.5I           I     I     I     I     I     I     I    I
1987 1988  1989  1990 1991  1992 1993  1994 1995  1996
Year
Source: IMF Intemational FiNancial Statistics.



- 32 -                       SCHEDULE 1
SCHEDULE 1: LETTER OF DEVELOPMENT POLICY
(English Translation of Original Document in Thai)
[Date]
Mr. James D. Wolfensohn
President
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
1818 H St. N.W.
Washington, D.C.
Subject: Proposed Loan for Restructuring Finance Companies
Letter of Development Policy
1.    Following a decade of macroeconomic stability and rapid economic growth, the external
environment for Thailand began to deteriorate in the last two years and resulted in a large current
account deficit that peaked at 8 percent by the end of 1996. On the domestic front, rapid
expansion of the stock market and a construction boom absorbed a large proportion of national
savings. Even though asset prices had risen considerably, the quality of assets was doubtful and
reflected poor intermediation by financial institutions. The finance companies sector, in
particular, was afflicted with excessive loan growth in the property sector and a large exposure in
the volatile stock market. Meanwhile, finance company liabilities increasingly took the form of
short term foreign borrowings subject to considerable foreign exchange risk.
2.    In June 1997, we decided to float the Baht because it was clear that the market no longer
viewed our exchange rate regime (i.e. a fixed exchange rate pegged to a basket of currencies) as
tenable and that large reserve losses would be incurred to support the forward and swap positions
taken by the Bank of Thailand. The rapid depreciation of the Baht following the decision to float,
along with a fall in export earnings, a collapse of demand in the property sector, and a sustained
bearish sentiment on the stock market have led to serious macroeconomic and financial sector
difficulties.
3.    The main short-term impact of the economic crisis on the fiancial sector as a whole has
been to reduce liquidity in both foreign and domestic currency. In the domestic Baht market,
there has been a flight to quality as funds have been moved to the strongest Thai banks or to
branches of foreign banks. In the offshore markets, many short term credit lines have not been
rolled over.
4.    The economic crisis has had a particularly adverse impact on finance companies, viz., (i)
the fall in share prices and the collapse of the property sector has resulted in a sharp deterioration
of the assets of finance companies; (ii) the exchange rate depreciation has led to difficulties for
corporate borrowers in repaying loans and has resulted in increased losses to finance companies
due to their unhedged foreign exchange liabilities; and (iii) the sharp rise in interest rates has
further exacerbated the difficulties of corporate clients in servicing their loans to finance
companies and has also led to rapid decapitalization as short term funding rates have risen more



-33 -                       SCHEDULE 1
rapidly than lending rates. All of these factors have combined to cause a massive deterioration in
the loan portfolios of finance companies.
5.    We are responding to the crisis by implementing a strong macroeconomic stabilization
program and initiating the much needed reform of the financial sector beginning with a
restructuring of the finance companies. The actions that we have already taken to streamline the
finance companies and those that that we propose to take in the near term, prepare the ground for
a comprehensive reform of the financial sector (outlined in the remaining agenda below).
Simultaneously, we will be addressing problems of the real sector to strengthen the competitive
foundations of the economy, which will involve rationalizing public expenditure programs, trade
facilitation and modernizing industry. We also propose to put the privatization program on a fast
track to generate revenues and to increase further the role of the private sector in the economy.
The Macroeconomic Stabilization Program
6.   In August, we announced a number of measures to bolster investor confidence and
strengthen the economy. These include cutting back public expenditure, raising the VAT and
suspending 42 troubled finance companies (in addition to the 16 suspended earlier). We also
entered into a standby arrangement with the IMF, obtained bilateral pledges by Southeast and
East Asian countries and secured multilateral support from the World Bank and the Asian
Development Bank amounting to a total $17.2 billion.
7.    The macroeconomic framework for stabilizing the economy, developed jointly with the
IMF and modified somewhat in the first quarterly review in November, is aimed at achieving
balance of payments adjustment with a minimum loss of output and employment. The modified
program manages better the expectations regarding macroeconomic outcomes and embodies
more realistic fiscal, monetary, inflation, and GDP growth targets. Our fiscal policy program
aims to restore confidence through building the cushions needed to cope with the cost of
fmancial sector restructuring. The monetary policy program seeks a balance between the
objectives of currency stabilization and low domestic interest rates to stimulate growth. We are
mindful of the need to avoid exacerbating corporate and financial sector difficulties and will
review interest rate policy in view of market developments. We have retained flexibility in
setting fiscal and monetary targets to strike a proper balance between the objectives of
stabilization and economic growth.
8.    We have taken a number of measures to strengthen the supply response to the real
depreciation of the Baht viz.: (i) firms are allowed to deduct from their tax bill the valuation loss
resulting from the depreciation of the Bahi' during 1997, (ii) a credit line has been opened to
supply working capital to exporters through commercial banks and the Thai EXIM Bank, (iii) the
rise in the minimum wage, which is the reference wage in the manufacturing sector, has been
limited to 2 to 3 percent, well below inflation, and (iv) customs procedures are being streamlined
to reduce costs to domestic producers.
9.    With assistance from the World Bank and the Asian Development Bank, we are preparing
a comprehensive program to provide safety nets for the poor.



-34-                            SCHEDULE 1
10.   We are considering several policy options to revive capital flows and especially to
encourage more stable forms of capital. These include: (i) removal of restrictions on Baht sales
and a review of restrictions on Baht lending to nonresidents to help restore investor (domestic
and foreign) confidence; (ii) a review of the regulatory and tax regime for Baht denominated debt
instruments with a view to facilitate the creation of a domestic debt market; and (iii) better
management of market expectations through improved dissemination of economic information
and smoother relations with foreign creditors.
The Program for Reforming the Thai Financial System
11.   Recognizing that macroeconomic stabilization and reform of the financial sector are
intertwined, we have designed a comprehensive program for reforming the financial sector. Over
the medium term, the financial sector needs to become more efficient, competitive and robust.
The financial system would be more balanced in terms of the type of services provided, including
greater emphasis on capital markets. This would constitute an important pillar of our overall
strategy for promoting competitiveness of the Thai economy to resume sustainable long term
growth. In the near term, five steps are needed for the realization of this vision:
*  a streamlined finance company sector that allows faltering companies to exit, facilitates company
restructuring, is subject to tighter supervision and provides sufficient information to market
participants to weigh the risk of available options; the ultimate objective is to avoid the recurrence of
a finance company-led financial sector crisis.
* a streamlined banking sector that is free of weak institutions and is governed by supervision and
regulatory practices in line with international standards.
* strengthened loan classification, loan loss provisioning, interest income recognition and capital
adequacy requirements to bring them up to international standards;
* eased entry for foreign equity owners to facilitate recapitalization of financial institutions and
tougher licensing procedures.
* enhanced market discipline through improved public disclosure requirements and accountability.
12.   While all five steps are important for the realization of a robust and efficient financial
sector, and will be phased in over the next year with support from multilateral institutions, we are
of the view that the first, i.e. streamlining of the finance companies sector, has taken on particular
urgency for the following reasons:
-N
* Delay in restructuring the suspended finance companies has been interpreted as a lack of resolve to
take tough decisions to restructure the financial sector.
Continued deterioration of assets "locked" in the suspended finance companies and lack of access to
financing for their solvent borrowers has led to a rapid deterioration in the loan portfolios of the
remaining financial institutions.
Doubts about the resiliency and soundness of the remaining finance companies have put at risk the
entire financial sector.



- 35 -                      SCHEDULE 1
13.   We believe that the decisive and credible actions that we propose to take to address the
problems of finance companies will boost confidence, thereby helping to restore liquidity
through both a resumption of capital flows and through the gradual easing of domestic credit.
Restructuring Finance Companies
Rapid Resolution of Suspended Finance Companies
14.   We have put in place a well defined institutional framework for the orderly resolution of
suspended finance companies. Emergency decrees passed in October have created a Financial
Sector Restructuring Authority (FRA) and an Asset Management Corporation (AMC). Based on
the criteria announced on October 13, 1997, FRA made an assessment of the rehabilitation plans
of the suspended finance companies and on December 8 we announced that 56 of the 58
companies are to be closed and only 2 will be allowed to reopen. Thus we have kept our promise
of taking firm action to restore the health of the financial sector
15.   We are committed to taking a series of steps to complete the institutional framework for
rapid resolution of the suspended finance companies. We are currently finalizing the guidelines
for the handling of good and impaired assets of the suspended companies that will be issued
publicly by January 15, 1998. In order to minimize the fiscal costs associated with excessive
delay in the final resolution/liquidation of finance companies, we shall, ensure that the FRA will
have completed the sale of all assets of closed finance companies by December 31, 1998. To
implement this process in an orderly manner, a Financial Restructuring Authority Coordinating
Unit (FRACU) has been established for the monitoring and appropriate surveillance of the
activities of the special managers and the board of directors of each closed finance company
(Section 13 committees).
16.   The AMC will be staffed, operational, and adequately funded by January 31, 1998. It will
have issued regulations regarding its administration, operations and personnel management, and
established its budget. It will have developed written policies and procedures for asset valuation
for bidding purposes, for asset management and asset sales. Of the initial authorized capital of B
1 billion for the AMC to support its asset purchase operations, we have already approved the first
B 250 million. We stand ready to participate with private investors in making further injections
of capital to support its operations. We are committed to providing adequate funding to all
agencies involved in the resolution process. However, to reduce the number of institutions
involved in the process, we expect the Property Loan Management Office (PLMO) to play no
substantive role in the future.
17.   We expect the fisal_st of resolving the 58 suspended companies to be manageable. To
monitor these costs on a regular basis, we will establish and implement a fiscal monitoring
framework for the financial restructuring program. We will reflect explicitly in the budget the
costs of financial sector restructuring, including those incurred by FIDF, AMC and all other
agencies involved in the resolution process.
18.   We are concerned that depositors are treated fairly and do not bear the costs of the
resolution process. To that end, we have established two note exchange schemes; one for



- 36 -                       SCHEDULE1
depositors in the 16 suspended companies and the other for depositors and creditors in the 42
companies suspended later. These schemes give depositors the option of exchanging their
promissory notes issued by the suspended finance companies for promissory notes issued by
KTT or KTB (publicly controlled financial institutions). The note exchange programs allow
timely payments to eligible depositors that are more attractive the smaller the size of the deposit.
The scheme for creditors is designed to allow some losses to be borne by these claim holders.
19.   Our commitment to implementing the liquidation process in a transparent and credible
manner is evidenced by our announcement on December 8, 1997 that creditors, both domestic
and international, can rest assured that they will be treated equally and in pari passu with the
FIDF and that the asset disposal process will be orderly.
Reestablishing the Resiliency and Soundness of the Finance Company Sector
20.   We are aware that the remaining 33 nonsuspended finance companies, while considerably
stronger than those that have been suspended, are also facing significant risks.I Consequently, we
have launched a three-pronged program to deal urgently with the underlying causes of poor
performance. The program will focus on early recapitalization, strengthening prudential
regulations and ensuring that operating finance companies pursue more viable strategies in the
future.
21.   We have developed and begun to implement a short term plan for strengthening
supervision of the remaining 33 finance companies. Following careful off-site analysis and on-
site examinations, BOT has stratified all 33 remaining finance companies and has identified near-
term capital inadequacy and/or other problems, and has pursued aggressive actions, including
interventions based on these findings. These actions have included replacement of the Board in
one finance company experiencing severe liquidity problems and taking over management in
another after discovery of fraud. In addition, we are initiating the first steps toward requiring
time-bound action plans for all companies which have not yet met the 8 percent capital adequacy
requirement.
22.   By December 31, 1997 we will have entered into memoranda of understanding (MOUs)
with finance companies that need to increase their capital. To evaluate recapitalization plans the
BOT will conduct diagnostic reviews with expert assistance in the case of finance companies
under MOUs, beginning in February 1998. Terms of reference for these diagnostic reviews
would be prepared in January 1998. BOT will monitor compliance with the terms of those
MOUs and will take increasingly stronger intervention steps where there is no compliance.
23.   The emergency decrees issued in October have removed legal impediments to timely
intervention and have outlined principles that will guide the intervention process in those cases
where a finance company must be intervened. The policy and procedures we have been
employing in interventions are based on the principle that BOT will intervene seriously
The two suspended finance companies whose rehabilitation plans were accepted on December 8, 1997 will be
transferred to BOT for supervision after they have satisfied the conditions of the rehabilitation plans.



- 37-                       SCHEDULE 1
undercapitalized finance companies which are unable to propose and comply with an acceptable
recapitalization plan, or which are forced to borrow excessively from FIDF over an extended
period of time. Moreover, in intervening financial institutions, BOT will choose to act among the
following possibilities: (i) replacing management by industry professionals or by BOT staff; (ii)
requiring writing off of capital so that existing shareholders are the first to take losses; and (iii)
converting FIDF funding to equity or to subordinated loans or restructured loans.
24.   To ensure a stronger structure for the entities that would emerge from the process of
resolution of the 58 suspended finance companies, we issued in November 1997 guidelines for
"fit and proper" tests to be met by (i) shareholders of any merged finance company, and (ii)
shareholders and managers of any new bank which may result from the resolution the 58 finance
companies. These guidelines have been applied when considering specific merger and
rehabilitation proposals submitted by different types of acquirers (e.g. other suspended
companies, operating companies, commercial banks).
25.   We are aware that certain key prudential regulations for finance companies have been less
stringent than those for commercial banks, thus exacerbating the risks associated with their
inherently nonconservative practices. We intend to tighten these prudential regulations for
finance companies to bring them to the standards applicable to commercial banks. This process
will be phased in the manner set forth below.
26.   We have imposed new loan classification standards applicable to both banks and finance
companies that will take effect at the end of December 1997. This step will be followed by the
adoption in March 1998 of a package of new loan classification regulations (see below). We will
further tighten the prudential regulations for finance companies by July 1998, by applying to
them the same prudential rules applicable to commercial banks, according to an agreed phase-in
schedule namely: (i) maximum investment in equities limited to 20% of capital; (ii) maximum
total risk exposure to any one credit limited to 25% of capital; (iii) net long and short foreign
exchange positions limited to 25% and 20% of Tier I capital respectively; and (iv) submission of
semiannual credit plans to BOT.
27.   We have taken two additional steps to facilitate recapitalization of finance companies to
enhance their viability. First, a consensus was reached with the management of every finance
company to recommend to their shareholders that dividends not be paid in the remainder of 1997
and the first half of 1998. Second, we have established a clear policy authorizing commercial
banks, both domestic and foreign, to take up to 100% ownership positions in finance companies.
The Remaining Agenda to Strengthen the Financial Sector
28.   The reforms we have outlined above for the finance company subsector constitute only
the initial significant efforts that we must make to strengthen the institutional and incentive
framework for all financial institutions (both banks and finance companies). The framework for a
well-functioning financial sector is based on a system of mutually reinforcing incentives that
allows all participants in the sector to perform their functions efficiently and responsibly. It
includes: proper incentives for managers and owners to manage financial institutions safely;
fortified incentives for supervisory agencies to enforce regulations and take prompt corrective



-38 -                       SCHEDULE 1
action; improved ability of and incentives for market participants to monitor financial
institutions; and less costly workouts between lenders and borrowers. This framework will be
developed over the next six months to 1 year.
29.  In moving forward with this agenda it is critical to reform the operations of the FIDF.
Although the FIDF cannot be radically restructured in this critical stage of the ongoing financial
crisis, we are convinced of the need to streamline the FIDF and its many roles to make it more
effective and to reduce the burden on the budget. As a start to this process, we have decided to
conduct a careful review of the objectives of the FIDF and examine its day to day operating
procedures for providing different forms of financial support. We would expect this review to
begin in April 1998 and conclude before December 31, 1998. The review would result in specific
recommendations for reforming the objectives and functions of the FIDF and defining more
clearly its relationship to the BOT.
30.   To create better incentives for owners and managers of financial institutions, BOT will
issue by December 31, 1997 a circular requiring information that will permit a more accurate
assessment of the "fit and proper" condition of new managers and directors of existing finance
companies. Moreover, BOT will propose amendments to the Commercial Bank Act and the
Finance Company Act to empower MOF and BOT to evaluate executive managers, directors and
shareholders of both existing and new commercial banks and of finance companies. Based on
these amplified powers, we plan to develop uniform licensing procedures, that are in line with
international standards, for both commercial banks and finance companies. These procedures will
focus not only on the fit and proper test but will also include: verification of minimum capital
requirements; assessment of the sources and quality of capital; assessment of future viability; and
transparency of ownership structure. These procedures will apply in licensing new institutions as
well as in approving changes in the capital structure and management of existing institutions.
31.   Building on the ongoing reform of finance companies, we will establish processes for
finance company and commercial bank interventions that make clear to owners and managers the
consequences of imprudent and unsound banking practices. Defining and executing a clear policy
in respect to exit and loss allocation will force directors and managers to act more prudently.
32.   We are committed to improving prudential regulations in several key areas that will have
particularly important implications for the incentives for owners and managers. Specifically, we
will develop new prudential regulations with respect to: (i) lending to related parties; (ii) foreign
exchange exposures; and (iii) consolidated supervision of financial groups (banks, finance
companies, and securities), all according to a time-bound phase-in schedule. Weaknesses in these
areas and problems of enforcement contributed to the current crisis and it is important to improve
incentives of bank management to properly address these risks.
33.   Finally, to better place all financial institutions under the same prudential regulatory
framework and to limit the fiscal costs to Government of the operations of the specialized banks,
we are committed to issuing and beginning to phase in, by September 30, 1998 new accounting
and prudential regulations similar to those for commercial banks.



- 39-                         SCHEDULE1
34.   For improving incentives for supervisors to take forceful corrective actions, the BOT will
adopt by May 31, 1998 (with technical assistance from the Bank), and publicize to the industry
guidelines for prompt corrective actions for all financial institutions. In addition, the BOT shall
submit specific amendments to the Commercial Bank Act and the Finance Company and Credit
Foncier Act by December 31, 1998 to strengthen the enforcement of prompt corrective actions.
These amendments, coupled with new loan classification guidelines (see below), will enable us
to act much more forcefully in dealing with distressed institutions and will reduce incentives for
delaying action.
35.   To strengthen supervision capability, the BOT will, by March 31, 1998, prepare an
Institutional Development Plan (IDP) for strengthening its supervision capacity particularly in
the areas of on-site examinations, off-site supervision, and enforcement. In addition, we will
form, in January 1998, a special interagency task force to review the location of the supervision
function and examine revisions needed to financial legislation to better align responsibilities with
regulatory jurisdiction, and minimize overlap of Thailand's five separate supervisory agencies.
36.   We are committed to taking three reinforcing sets of actions to improve the quality of
information available to market participants and supervisors to assess the financial condition and
risk management capacities of financial institutions: (i) loan classification standards will be
strengthened by requiring all financial institutions by December 31, 1997 to set aside provisions
for all loans that are more than six months overdue; (ii) by January 1, 1998 accrual of interest
will be prohibited on loans which have been under nonperforming status for more than six
months as opposed to the current 12 month rule and (ii) as a last and essential next step we shall
issue by March 31, 1998, a new regulation for loan classification and provisioning that is
consistent with international standards. These new requirements will be gradually phased in and
will be fully implemented by December 31, 2000.
37.   In order to improve the quality of information available to market participants and the
public, we shall embark on a series of steps. First, the BOT will announce no later than January
15, 1998 a stricter and uniform definition of non performing loans that will be applicable to
December 1997 financial statements. Under the new definition, loans in nonaccrual for six
months will automatically be classified as nonperforming with no account taken of collateral.
Moreover, in the calculation of nonperforming loans, netting out of restructured loans will no
longer be permitted. The BOT will issue by June 30, 1998, for comment by the industry, public
disclosures to be required of all financial institutions under its supervision (Regulatory,
Accounting and Disclosure Practices or RADP). These will be finalized by December 31, 1998.
Guidelines will include a well defined phase-in schedule for disclosing information in such areas
as volume of renegotiated loans, rollovers, loan loss provisions, and lending to related parties.
More broadly, we shall develop an action program for strengthening and enforcing accounting,
auditing and disclosure standards for financial institutions by December 31, 1998, and
subsequently for the remaining corporations.
38.   We are committed to phasing out the emergency comprehensive guarantee and replace it
with a self-financed limited deposit insurance regime. Amendments to legislation introducing
such a scheme will be developed by December 31, 1998, with technical support from both the



-40-                        SCHEDULE 1
Bank and the IMF. This legislation will aim to eliminate incentives for undercapitalized banks to
take excessive risk given the broad nature of liabilities covered under the emergency
comprehensive guarantee.
39.   We are implementing measures to limit the impact of the financial crisis on the real
economy. This involves both preventing the closure of illiquid solvent enterprises as well as the
efficient winding up of insolvent businesses. Unfortunately, our legal/regulatory framework (as
in many developing countries) is not conducive to corporate restructuring and has not provided
adequate incentives to borrowers and lenders to restructure loans of viable companies.
Bankruptcy proceedings typically take many years and collateral foreclosure can be very time
consuming and cumbersome.
40.   To address these critical problems, we have already submitted legislative changes to the
Bankruptcy Act. However, we intend to submit for legislative approval by March 31, 1998,
additional measures to permit a process of corporate reorganization, speed-up collateral
foreclosure, and facilitate financing to companies undergoing reorganization.
Signed
Minister of Finance



-41 -                                                             SCHEDULE 2
SCHEDULE 2: POLICY MATRIX
OBECTIVE AND PROGRAM                    |BOARD CONDmTONS                                                      LE=rR OF DEVELOPMENT POLICY
1. MACROECONOMIC ANID FISCAL STRATECY
1. Maintain nsacroecononsic stability andf scal balance
Issu: The Govemment has agreed with the IMF on a program    Satisfactory progress made in implementing the macroeconomic    Govemment will maintain the macroeconomic program
for macroeconomic stabilization that needs to be maintained.    stabilization program announced on August 20 and revised on  including an adequate resene position, a small fiscal surplus
Obiectives and Progam: Pursue agreed strategies to ensure  November 241 1997.                                     and a prudent monetary policy to stabilize the economy.
economic stability and sustained growth.
2. Facilitate stable capitalflows
JIssue: (i) Recent measures to restrict the flow of Baht between                                                  Government will remove restrictions on Baht sales and
residents and nonresidents have undermined confidence,                                                            review restrictions on Baht lending to nonresidents.
destabilized capital flows and reduced opportunities to hedge                                                     Govemment will review existing restrictions on capital
foreign exchange and interest rate risk through the currency                                                      outflows with a view to liberalizing the two-way flow of
swap (CCS) market. (ii) Regulatory restrictions and the tax                                                       capital.
regime have hampered the development of a long-term
domestic debt market.                                                                                             Govemment will review regulatory and tax regime for Baht-
denominated debt instruments to facilitate the creation of a
Obiectives and Program: Remove recently introduced                                                                long-term debt market.
exchange controls to improve confidence and increase the                                                                                                                i
liquidity of domestic and offshore funding markets while
facilitating improved exchange rate risk management. Review
the regulatory and tax regime goveming Baht debt instruments.



-42-                                                             SCHEDULE 2
OBJECrwVE AND fRocRm                                       BOARDCONDMTONS                                    LETrER OF DEVELOPMzNT POLICY
I                                            U~~~~~~~~~~~H FINANCE COMPANY RESTRUCTURING fROGRAMS
1. Resolution of Suspended Finance Companies
|L1 Estabflsh irsdiuonal structurefor the resolutlon of sasPendedfinance coNpaniesl
Issu: A well-defined institutional structure is required for  1. FRA established by decree promulgated on October 25, 1997.   I . AMC will be staffed, made operational, and adequately l
orderly resolutions. The roles and responsibilities of relevant    2. FRA Decree allows prompt closure and takeover by FRA of  funded (January 31, 1998). It will:
agencies need to be well defined.                      suspended finance companies.                             * issue and implement regulations on administration,
Obiectives and Program: (i) Establish the structure for  3. FRA fully staffed.                                    operations and personnel management.
resolutions and define the roles and responsibilities of the key   3.laRiefullynstaffed.
agencies; (ii) Establish new institutions, including the FRA and  4. FRA fully operational. It has:             * develop and implement all written policies and procedures
AMC; and (iii) define policies governing asset disposition (for   * established processes for evaluating rehabilitation plans,  sales.
impaired and performing assets).                        including, (i) development of models to evaluate viability of
proposed business plans and (ii) validation, in accordance with * establsh Its budget.
BOT rules, of the asset values utilized in submitted   2. FRA will adopt guidelines for asset disposition, including
rehabilitation plans;                                  asset bidding, and begin disposal of impaiTed assets of closed
* established step by step procedures for takeovers of suspended   finance companies oduringts tbhy December 31, 1998.
* developed guidelines to be used by the committees and  3. Institutional and policy framework for the disposal of good
managers appointed to resolve closed companies.        and impaired assets outlined by the Government (January 15,
managrs apoined toresove cosed ompaies.1998)
5. AMC established by decree promulgated October 25, 1997. It
will be able to purchase impaired assets from either suspended
finance companies or commercial banks and operating finance
companies that are intervened.
6. AMC Board members appointed on December 2, 1997. Search
for a Manager underway.
7. Responsibilities of BOT, MOF, FIDF, FRA and AMC in the
resolution of suspended finance companies rationalized via
decree package of October 25, 1997.
8. Financial Restructuring Authority Coordinating Unit (FRACU)
established (December 15) for the monitoring and appropriate
surveillance of the activities of the special managers and the
Board of Directors of each closed finance company (section 13
committees).



-43-                                                              SCHEDULE 2
OBJECTIVES AND PROGRAM                  |                   BOARD CONDITIONS                                   LETTER OF DEVELOPMENT POLICY
2. Progress in the rehabiitadonlresolution process
Issue: The FRA needs to finalize its decision on the    1. Final Rehabilitation criteria announced on October 13, 1997,
rehabilitation or resolution of each finance company.   in agreement with the IMF and World Bank.
Obiectives and Program: Implement resolution options and  2. Rehabilitation Plans submitted by the suspended FCs to FRA
show concrete progress.                                 on October 30, 1997.
3. Rehabilitation plans for all 58 suspended finance companies,
consistent with the above criteria, reviewed by FRA.
4. An independent third party review of the FRA decisions
completed (December 8, 1997).
5. Decision taken and announced on December 8, 1997 to
close-suspended finance companies and approve-
rehabilitation plans.
3. Fiscal inyact of the resolutions process.
Issue: The Government has not been explicitdy accounting for    1. Emergency Decrees of October 25, passed enabling the  1. The Government will cany out fiscal monitoring of
the fiscal impact of the finance company restructuring  Government to provide appropriate financial assistance if losses    financial sector restructuring costs.
program.                                                are incurred by FRA or AMC.                               2. The Govemment will establish the principle that it will
Obiectives and Program: Establish the financing strategy and    2. The Decree amending the BOT Act, promulgated enabling  explicitly reflect in the budget, the costs of financial sector
arrangements for restructuring and resolving suspended  Government to provide FIDF with financial assistance to finance   restructuring.
finance companies and define a realistic budgetary process for   the note exchange program for the 58 suspended finance
their resolutions                                       companies and for losses incurred.
3. Separate accounts established by FIDF to reflect costs it incurs
in financial sector restructuring.
4. Government has (on December 9, 1997) authorized all
funding, B 500 million for the FRA. In the case of AMC initial
capital of B I billion authorized. The first payment has been
approved.
4. Treatnent of depositors and creditors
Issue: Whereas creditors of the 42 finance companies    1. Note Exchange Programs in place and operating.
suspended in 8/97 have the option to participate in notes  2. Decree passed to empower FIDF to relinquish preferential
exchange schemes, the creditors of the first 16 finance  claim on collateral.
companies to be suspended (6/97) were not given this option.
(All depositors were given the option).                 3. Announcement made that creditors can request stretch-out of
.bjectives and P.ogr-am: Ensure equitable resolution of  FIDF repayment terms if they similarly restructure their own
Obiectives and Program: Ensure equitable resolution of  claims. Other creditors can convert claims to equity pari passu
suspended financial institutions by revising the FIDF's claims    with the FIDF.
on payments and assets of suspended finance companies.I
4. Creditors (domestic and intemational) will be treated equally
and in pari passu with the FIDF and that the asset disposal
process will be orderly.



-44 -                                                             SCHEDULE 2
I         ~~~~OB"CTIVS AND PROGRAM                TBOARDCoNDrRoNsI                                                        LETTER OF DEVELOPMENT POLICYI
1                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~2. Liquidity Support
|1. Conditons offliquMdiy provision by FIDF
|Issue: Conditions for granting liquidity advances by FIDF were  1. Interest rates payable on FIDF advances raised beyond the  The Govemment will review the objectives, role, and
|not well defined and advances were provided at nonmarket  highest deposit rates in the financial system.          fuinctions of the FIDF and possible changes needed in its
rates creating incentives for finance companies to rely  2. Decision taken that FIDF advances are to be made at a  operating procedures (e.g. the procedures for taking collateral
excessively on govemment (FIDF) liquidity support. Also  minimum (in case of collateralized advances) of the repurchase  when providing advances), after the immediate crisis
procedures for granting liquidity and the practice of requiring    agreement rate (RP) plus 1% (i.e. over 20% per year nominal):    subsides. The review will begin by April 1998 and completed
collateral only after advances have been made has      rates can rise to RP+2.5% in the case of noncollateralized  by December 1998.
compromised the solvency of the Fund.                   advances.
Objectives and Program: Implement a series of reforms to  3. Conditions for granting advances to financial institutions
FIDF operations to charge rates above "markef' rates for  beyond certain thresholds implemented by FIDF. If the ratio of a
liquidity advances and start to set conditions for the granting of  financial institutions borrowing from FIDF to its Tier I capital is
liquidity. Review operating procedures to ensure FIDF   75% or greater, further advances will be granted under the
solvency.                                               following conditions:
* an immediate cessation of dividends will be required and all
bonuses or benefits to directors and executives will be
eliminated.
* FIDF representative(s) may be appointed as member(s) of the
Board of the borrowing finance company (FC) and will restrict
future asset growth as well as not permit payment of dividends.
3. Strengthening the Supervision and Regulatory Environment for Financial Institutions
1. Handle weak openfnance conmanies
Isue: The economic crisis and the suspension of the 58  1. Intervention of unsafe or unsound Finance Companies (FCs)  BOT will complete all supervisory actions laid in the short
suspended Finance Companies (FCs) have led to a        advanced:                                                  term plan for strengthening supervision of the 33 remaining
deterioration in the financial condition of some nonsuspended    * principle established that distressed FCs will be intervened in    FCs.
financial institutions. It is very important for the stability of the  by the BOT/FIDF.                          In addition, diagnostic reviews will be initiated by BOT in
financial sector that other problem FCs be detected early and                                                                       *         I ted by June 1998, for FCs
handled by supervisors.                                  O Finance Company Act amended by Emergency Decree of     February, 1998 an wit l BOT mThesediagnostic reviews will be
Obiectives and Prorm: Conduct indepth assessments ofthe  BOctober 1997 to permit timely intervention of FCs by    performed with the assistance of international experts under
financial condition of the weakest nonsuspended Finance                                                          terms of reference to be agreed upon in January 1998.
Companies and undertake corrective action/rehabilitation for    * BOT actually intervened in two FCs (in one FC experiencing
these institutions.                                      serious liquidity problems, the Board has been replaced; in
another FC, the management has been taken over by BOT after
discovery of fraud)
2. A short term plan for strengthening supervision of the 33
nonsuspended FCs*/ prepared by BOT, including:
* stratification of all the 33 FCs in categories through careful
off-site analysis
* undertaking of diagnostic reviews in specific FCs



-45 -                                                              SCHEDULE 2
OBJECTIVES AND PROGRAM                                       BOARD CONDITIONS                       |           LErrER OF DEVELOPMENT POLICY
* agreement on MOUs with undercapitalized FCs
* intervention of distressed FCs that are unable to propose an
acceptable recapitalization plan                         Stratification outcome will be updated by the end of the first
3. A Preliminaiy screening of all non suspended FCs undertaken    quarter of 1998.
by BOT (applying the new stricter loan classification and
provisioning criteria to be applied year end 1997) to stratify them
into categories:
* standard FCs (in compliance with statutory risk adjusted
capital adequacy ratios);
* undercapitalized FCs (risk adjusted capital adequacy ratios
under 8%) that are expected to be recapitalized by their
shareholders;
* undercapitalized FCs (risk adjusted capital adequacy ratio
under 8%) whose parent companies are weak;
* unsafe and unsound FCs that require sound supervisory
measures.
4. Steps taken by BOT to promote capital strengthening of
undercapitalized FCs:
* each FC has been communicated the amount of capital
estimated to fully meet the forthcoming imposition of tougher
loan classification and provisioning requirements to be issued
at the latest on March 31, 1998 with progressive
implementation (see Section 11.3.2.), and has been asked to
voluntarily increase capital in anticipation of these needs.
* agreement has been reached with the management of each FC
to recommend to their shareholders that no dividend be paid
for the remaining of 1997 and the first half of 1998.
* foreign investment framework has been liberalized for FCs as
well as commercial banks.
*j The two suspended finance companies whose rehabilitation
plans were accepted will be transferred to BOT for supervision,
after they have satisfied the conditions of the rehabilitation plan.
2. Ensure stricter loan classification, income recognition andprovisioning requirements, to be consistent with international standards
Issue: Timely detection of any deterioration in the asset quality   1. Law passed to permit Financial Institutions to treat all loan  1. BOT will adopt, at the latest on March 31, 1998, a package
of financial institutions and assessment of its impact on  loss provisioning required by BOT as a tax deductible expense.    of new regulations covering inter alia loan classification and
profitability and solvency is crucial for both financial  2. Provisioning requirement for substandard loans set to 15% for   provisioning requirements, that is consistent with
institutions and supervisors.                            commercial banks and 20% for finance companies as of June  international standards. The package will be gradually
Obiectives and Program: Ensure compliance with strict loan  1997, to be fully phased by December 31, 1998; immediately  phased-in and fully implemented by December 31, 2000.
classification, interest income recognition, loan provisioning,    applicable for all loans classified after June 1997.  2. An intemational workshop (with participation by Thai
and restructured debt regulations in line with international                                                        authorities and banking community) on loan classification



-46 -                                                              SCHEDULE 2
OBJECTIVES AND PROGRAM                                       BOARD CONDITIONS                                   LETTER OF DEVELOPMENT POLICY
standards. These new standards will facilitate timely detection    3. FCs and commercial banks required by BOT to set aside  and provisioning will be conducted in Bangkok to help
of problems with portfolio quality, solvency and profitability    provisions for all loans that are more than 6 months overdue,  strengthen prudential standards used in the region. The
and provide incentives for appropriate classification and  effective December 31, 1997.                             outcome of this workshop will be used to finalize the
provisioning.                                           4. Accrual of interest on nonperforming loans for more than 6  package of new regulations to be issued on March 31, 1998.
months prohibited by BOT for FCs and commercial banks
(versus current regulations that permit 12 months), effective
January 1, 1998.
3. Establish proceduresfor prompt corrective action
Issue: Delays in dealing with problem institutions increase the                                                     1. BOT will adopt, with support under the Technical
difficulty and cost of restructuring or resolving them. Pressures                                                   Assistance program of the Bank, and publicize among the
on supervisors and lack of clear guidelines can lead to delayed                                                    industry guidelines for Prompt Corrective Action for finance
responses to problems, especially when supervisors are granted                                                      companies and banks (May 30, 1998).
considerable discretion on the timing and nature of supervisory                                                     2. Specific criteria will be established for triggering
actions.                                                                                                            supervisory actions. These will include, inter alia, triggers
Obiectives and Program: Establish objective criteria and                                                            based on capitalization ratios, liquidity support and unsafe
formal procedures that mandate remedial actions by                                                                  and unsound practices etc. for: (i) holding actions under a
supervisors commensurate to any weaknesses or rule violations                                                       preventive surveillance regime; (ii) establishing a
that are detected. Enable supervisors to monitor the liquidity                                                      recapitalization plan; (iii) undertaking diagnostic reviews;
situation of problem institutions.                                                                                 (iv) requiring an MOU; and (v) takeovers by BOT/FIDF.
3. BOT will submit by end 1998 a series of amendments to
the Banking Act and the Finance Company Act for
improving the overall legal framework of supervision,
including specific amendments to strengthen the applicability
and enforcement of BOT corrective actions.
4. Strengthen licensing requirement
Issue: The resolution of suspended FCs is likely to attract both   1. Guidelines issued by BOT on the "fit and proper" conditions,    1. By December 31, 1997, BOT will issue a circular to
foreign and domestic investors into the Thai financial sector.    to be met by:                                     request specific information to conduct a more accurate and
These newcomers should bring adequate financial expertise  * shareholders of any merged FC                          credible assessment of the "fit and proper" condition of new
and run financial institutions in a safe and sound manner;                                                          executive managers and directors of FCs.
regulations governing their rights and responsibilities as  * shareholders and managers of new banks resulting from the  2. BOT will propose legal amendments to the Banking Act,
shareholders need to be clarified.                        resolution process of the 58 FCs.                         and Finance Company Act to empower BOT and MOF to
Obiectives and Program: Strengthen licensing procedures for    2. Announcement made by Govemment that financial institutions   evaluate the executive managers, directors and shareholders
financial institutions to ensure the selection of qualified  will be allowed to purchase up to 100% of an existing finance  of both existing and new Banks and FCs.
investors, and issue appropriate regulations for share  company so long as they maintain a sound financial condition.  3. BOT will issue new guidelines (building partially on
ownership and the role of foreign investors in financial  3. New licensing policy adopted and announced whereby the  guidelines issued in November 1997 on the "fit and proper"
institutions.                                           capital base, liquidity position, loan portfolio quality, and  conditions) to lay down a comprehensive and single set of
management quality of an institution will be the primary criteria   licensing procedures for both banks and finance companies in
for getting a bank license, in addition to its asset size.  line with intemational standards and will ensure that
conditions are maintained.



-47 -                                                             SCHEDULE 2
OBJECTIVES AND PROCRAM                                      BOARD CONDITIONS                                   LETTER OF DEVELOPMENT POUCY
5. Strengthen prudential reguladon.
JSL: The financial crisis has highlighted the risks associated                                                    1. By July 1998, MOF/BOT will amend existing prudential
with foreign exchange exposures. Another important source of                                                      regulations or issue new regulations so that finance
potential risks is excessive lending to related parties. More                                                     companies are subject to the same prudential rules as
generally, although FCs have proven for more risky than                                                           commercial banks. Implementation of these new provisions
banks, they are subject to more lenient prudent regulations.                                                      will occur according to an agreed phase in schedule. The
Objectives and Program: Strengthen prudential regulations for                                                     regulations will include:
banks and finance companies to limit foreign exchange risks                                                       * maximum investment in equities (20% of capital);
and reduce risks associated with insider lending. Strengthen                                                      * maximum credit risk exposure to one credit risk (25% of
prudential regulations for finance companies so they are at                                                         capital);
minimum equal to that for bankscail)
* limit on net long and short foreign exchange positions
(25% and 20% of Tier One capital)
* require all FCs to submit semiannual credit plans to BOT
2. MOF/BOT will strengthen key prudential regulations
applicable for both banks and finance companies in the areas
of i) lending to related parties, and ii) limit to foreign
exchange positions.
3. MOF/BOT/SEC will develop and issue regulations that
will deal with consolidated supervision of financial groups
(groups comprising banks, finance companies, and/or
securities companies).
4. Govemment will develop new prudential regulatory and
accounting standards by September 1998, to be phased in for
specialized financial institutions.
6 Strengthen supervisory regime
JIss: Quality and consistency in the supervisory regime needs                                                     1. By March 1998, BOT will develop a Medium Term
to be ensured for different categories of financial institutions                                                  Institutional Development Plan for strengthening its financial
and financial groups. Timely detection of and response to                                                         supervision capacity (particularly on-site examination, off-
problems in financial institutions requires adequate capacity                                                     site supervision and enforcement).
for both off-site monitoring and on-site examinations.                                                            2. Government will establish by January 1998 an interagency
Obiectives and Program: Rationalize the supervisory system to                                                    task force that will review and recommend changes in the
better coordinate and integrate supervision of banks, finance                                                     legal and regulatory framework for supervision. This will be
companies, specialized banks, securities companies, and                                                           conducted in light of the Thai strategy to modernize its
financial groups (i.e., groups comprising at least two of these                                                   financial structure and services.
institutions). Strengthen off- and on-site monitoring of
financial institutions.



-48 -                                                             E HEDULE 2
OBJECIVES AND PROGRAM                   |                   BOARD CONDITiONS                                  LErTER OF DEVELOPMENT POLICY
IV. Strengthening Market Discipline
1. Legal and regulatoryfraneworkfor corporate workouts
ID=e The cost of existing bankruptcy procedures and of  1. Amendments to the Bankruptcy Act passed first reading of the   The authorities will submit for approval by March 31, 1998,
foreclosure on collateral is high because of the time it takes to   of Parliament in November 1997, and now in second reading.  legislative proposals that will:
resolve disputes. This discourages voluntary debt restructuring.                                                  * permit a process of corporate reorganization
In addition, the bankruptcy statute discourages creditors from
providing liquidity to solvent but illiquid companies under                                                       * speed collateral foreclosure
reorganization (given provisions in Section 94(2)).                                                               * facilitate financing to companies under reorganization
Objectives and Progren: Establish adequate legal
infrastructure to simplify the restructuring of problem
borrowers. In particular, address problems associated with the
lack of well defined out-of-court settlement procedures for
workouts; collateral foreclosure; and uncertainties in lending to
companies under reorganization.
2. Strengthen and enforce accounting, audifing and disclosure standards
lsu: In Thailand, generally accepted accounting principles:                                                       1. Stricter Definition of Non Performing Loans (NPL)
disclosurea regarding portfolio quality, income recognition                                                       adopted and will be announced no later than January 15,
practices and ownership structures; and auditine standards fall                                                   1998; and it will be applied to December 1997 financial
short of intemational standards in certain critical areas.                                                        statements:
Enforcement of existing standards has also been uneven.                                                           * definition of NPLs to be 6 months in nonaccrual rather
Objectives and Program: Facilitate greater market discipline by                                                    than 12 months with no account taken of collateral
upgrading standards to intemational standards in a phased                                                         * netting out of restructured loans will no longer be
manner and strengthen enforcement of standards.                                                                     pemitted in calculations of NPLs
2. The BOT will issue for comment by the financial industry
on June 30, 1998 guidelines on public disclosure to be
required of financial institutions under supervision
[Regulatory Accounting and Disclosure Practices (RADP)] .
The guidelines will be finalized and will start to take effect
under a phase in schedule by December 31, 1998.
3. The BOT will issue for comment a proposed policy by
June 30, 1998 in respect to public disclosure of information it
now collects. It will implement this policy beginning in
December 31, 1998.
4. The authorities will develop an action program for
strengthening and enforcing accounting, auditing, and
disclosure standards-including financial institutions by
December 31, 1998 and subsequently for remaining
corporations.



-49-                                                              SCHEDULE 2
OBJECTIVES AND PROGRAM                                      BOARD CONDMONS                                     LETTER OF DEVELOPMENT POLICY
3. Strengthen capabtlity of the Energency Comprehensive Guarantee and devdop strategy for Phasing it out
Issue: The Government has provided a comprehensive      1. Emergency comprehensive guarantee program implemented by   Govermment will propose a plan by December 31, 1998 for
guarantee through FIDF to eligible depositors and creditors as   amending the BOT Act in the October decree package.  phasing out the emergency comprehensive guarantee and
an emergency measure. The Govemment is aware that this has   2. A guarantee fee of 0.15% introduced for the remainder of  replacing it with a new limited deposit insurance system that
systemic implications and can result in inappropriate   1997. In 1998 it will be 0.4% and will be applied to all covered  will be largely self-financed.
incentives for market participants beyond the immediate crisis,  liabilities. This includes the previously existing fee of 0.1%.
It had also become clear that market participants were
questioning the Govemment's commitment to provide fiscal    3. Deposit rates capped at 3% above the average deposit rate of
resources if payouts were required.                     the five largest banks (implemented September26, 1997 and in
bjectives and Program: Take actions (including legislative) to  force).
underline the Govemment's near term commitment to make
the comprehensive guarantee credible. Over time phase out the
emergency comprehensive guarantee and replace it with a
limited, self-financing deposit insurance scheme.



50
ANNEX 1: RESOLUTION OF SUSPENDED FINANCE COMPANIES
1.    This annex sets out in greater detail the institutional arrangements and policies that the
authorities have put in place to deal with the resolution of the suspended finance companies. It
outlines government actions to resolve the situation of the 16 finance companies suspended on
June 27, 1997, and the 42 finance companies suspended on August 5, 1997.
1. BACKGROUND
2.    Structure and Size of the Finance Company Industry. The Thai financial system
includes 91 finance companies (FCs) and finance and securities firms worth B 1.7 trillion in
assets as of May 1997. Over 40 percent of this amount was held by 11 FCs prior to the
suspension of the 58 companies. The FC sector accounts for about 22 percent of total banking
assets. (This includes commercial banks, finance companies, and five specialized public banks.)
Many FCs are affiliated with and controlled by commercial banks, often in a nontransparent
manner. Specifically, of the remaining 33 nonsuspended finance companies, 5 are affiliated with
foreign banks and 20 with wholly domestically owned Thai commercial banks.
3.    FC loans and investments are concentrated in real estate or construction lending,
consumer hire-purchase loans (primarily automobile financing), loans against shares, and other
securities operations (much of which is linked to the real estate market). The quality and value of
all these assets have deteriorated sharply during the current economic downturn. Most FCs are
funded with wholesale liabilities, and thus run significant liquidity risk. FCs also typically run
significant interest rate risk due to the maturity mismatch between their assets and liabilities-35
percent of loans and 5 percent of funding have on average a maturity of over one year. The recent
increase in interest rates therefore has resulted in significant losses. Finally, FCs also obtained
foreign funding via syndications (particularly the largest FCs), and in many cases these funds
were onlent to nonhedged companies or sectors.
4.    The fixed exchange rate regime coupled with a lack of adequate information reia ing to
the sectors (notably real estate) to which the FCs lent contributed to the severe problems facing
the FCs. First, the fixed exchange rate made it attractive to borrow at low rates internationally
and to on-lend funds at higher rates into risky sectors. Second, the poor quality of information
about the sectors where FC lending was concentrated made it difficult for such entities to
properly assess the risks to which they were exposed.
5.    Suspension of 58 Finance Companies. On June 26, 1997, the Ministry of Finance
(MOF) ordered 16 FCs into suspension, effectively halting their operations. A further 42 FCs
were suspended on August 5, 1997. The suspended companies were ordered by the Committee to
Supervise the Mergers and Acquisitions of Financial Institutions (Screening Committee) to
submit rehabilitation plans and be subjected to due diligence by independent accountants under
terms of reference designed by the Bank of Thailand (BOT). Four categories of rehabilitation



51
plan were invited to be submitted: self-recapitalizations or recapitalizations with new ventures,
mergers among suspended finance companies, mergers with other local financial institutions as a
core, and mergers with commercial banks. The companies had until October 30, 1997, to submit
the rehabilitation plans after issuance of final rehabilitation criteria on October 13, 1997.
2. BOTTLENECKS TO THE RESOLUTION PROCESS
6.    Lack of Accurate Information on the Solvency of Financial Institutions. The capacity
of BOT to ascertain the present solvency situation of financial institutions and identify insolvent
institutions was limited at the time of the suspension. Evidence of this problem is the fact that
suspension of the 58 finance companies was largely based upon the extent of borrowing from the
Financial Institutions Development Fund (FIDF), rather than their solvency situation. This was
largely due to the very poor information available on the quality of financial institutions' loan
portfolio. In particular, income recognition policies allowing the accrual of interest into income
(for collateralized loans), even in the case of loans in nonaccrual for 12 months, led to great
difficulties for the authorities to determine the "true" capitalization of specific financial
institutions.
7.    Limited Capacity to Take Control of Insolvent Institutions. As a matter of good
practice, when a financial institution is forced to suspend its operations, the authorities must act
aggressively to take control of the institution's records and assets in order to preserve value on
behalf of depositors, creditors, and other claim-holders. It is important that the value of assets not
be dissipated. BOT, however, lacked the legal power, as well as the institutional capacity, to take
immediate control of the suspended FCs and to proceed with disposal of the assets:
(a)   BOT did not have the legal power to take inmmediate control over insolvent or rapidly
deteriorating financial institutions. This occurred because existing legislation (the
Banking and the Finance Company and Credit Foncier Acts) did not give BOT and/or
FIDF the power to rapidly extinguish shareholder rights. During suspension therefore,
shareholders and managers remained in control of the institution, and are potentially in a
position to strip the institution of substantial value.
(b)   BOT lacked the capacity in terms of skills and manpower to practically remove the
existing management and put each company under conservatorship.
(c)   No institutional framework existed for disposal of the assets of suspended finance
companies in the event they were taken over and liquidated. In addition, the role of the
public and private sectors in this process had not been clearly defined nor had that of the
overall institutional framework.
8.    Other Constraints to a Timely Resolution: The government faced other practical
constraints to liquidating the assets of the suspended FCs, which have delayed the resolution
process and undermined market confidence in the authorities' capacity and willingness to act:



52
(a)   A significant proportion of assets in suspended companies were of poor quality; this
situation has worsened in the months between suspension and the takeover of the
companies on December 8.
(b)   Under the Thai legal system, it is difficult to foreclose on assets or take delinquent
borrowers to bankruptcy.
(c)   Very few, if any, healthy domestic financial institutions existed that could bid for the
assets of the suspended FCs.
(d)   Market liquidity continues to be limited.
(e)   The government had limited institutional capacity and banking and investment banking
skills needed to implement a resolution strategy for the FCs.
9.    Effects of Delays in the Resolution Process: The way the suspension was managed in
its early stages had significant adverse consequences for the institutions' customers. Borrowers,
including viable firms, have been unable to obtain additional credit from the suspended FCs. As
a result, they have increasingly gone into default with other lenders, such as commercial banks
and nonsuspended finance companies. In many cases, they have been unable to establish credit
relationships with other financial institutions, since their assets and deposit-account relationships
are tied up in the suspended institutions. Liability holders generally have not had access to their
fumds according to original contractual terms, which has contributed to an undermining of
confidence in the financial system.
10.   As the confidence crisis intensified and the suspension period lengthened, more of the 58
suspended companies became technically insolvent. Calculations based on reasonable
assumptions suggest that the suspended FCs came under greater stress than the 33 remaining
companies and that at least 51 had a negative capital ratio as of October 1997. This result
assumes that nonperforming loans as a percentage of total loans for the suspended FCs together
would be almost 30 percent.
3. OBJECTIVES AND INSTITUTIONAL SETUP FOR THE RESOLUTION PROCESS
11.   Objectives of the Finance Company Resolution Strategy: Against this backdrop, the
objectives of the recommended strategy for the resolution of the 58 suspended FCs were to:
(a)   obtain adequate legal powers and adopt better institutional arrangements and policies for
the speedy takeover and ultimate liquidation of suspended FCs;
(b)   rapidly sell obligations of good borrowers in FCs that will not be authorized to reopen;
(c)   clarify the status of creditor claims in suspended FCs; and
(d)   ensure adequate financing to achieve the above.



53
12.   Institutional Arrangements and Overall Resolution Process. The large number of
suspended finance companies presented BOT and FIDF with difficult management problems
Hence, to provide coordination and insure a speedy process for resolution of the 58 suspended
finance companies, the authorities issued a package of six new emergency decrees promulgated
on October 22, 1997. Two new institutions, the Financial Sector Restructuring Authority (FRA)
and the A..sset Management Corporation (AMC), were established as the focal points for
resolving the suspended finance companies. The new structure addresses these problems in a
systematic and comprehensive manner.
13.   FRA was established on October 24 as an independent body with the mandate to evaluate
the rehabilitation plans submitted by the suspended finance firms in accordance with the
Emergency Decree on Financial Sector Restructuring-one of the six emergency decrees. Figure
Al .1 below illustrates the functions that FRA has undertaken from the time the 38 rehabilitation
plans were submitted, until the final decision on rehabilitation plans, which was made public on
December 8, 1997.
FIGURE A1.1: FRA RESOLUTION PROCESS
|FINANCIAL SECTOR RESTRUCTURING AUTHORITY|
OVERVIEW
Sources                       Suspended                     Bank of       Financial
O2f            /   Plan        Company      DueDiligence   Spviion     from Suspcnded
Information                    DiaLoue                      Division   Finance Companiee
Tools ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Financial Model
Toolsf
Rehabilitation Plan
and DD Work
Program                            Financial Model
Work Program
Independent
Consultancy    Business Strategy                                       Economic Assumption
Assessment:  Asset Compliance  Roll Forward Asset  Capital Adequacy  Stress Tests:
Assistance:      Robustness of  Review      Quality Review    Compliance Review    Robustness of
Assessment,      Business Plan                                           Business Plan
Validation And
Control
Detailed                     Rehabilitation Plan           Finacial Model
and Due Diligence               and
Reports                       Detailed Report             Stress Test Report
Final Reports                                FRA Board
Summary Report



54
14.   FRA was responsible for reviewing the rehabilitation plans submitted by the suspended
FCs according to explicit criteria outlined in Attachment 1 to Annex 1 and in the following
section. In addition, it is to oversee the orderly winding up of finance companies not reopened
and the disposition of their assets. This process is discussed in greater detail in section 5 below.
FRA is not to engage in the restructuring of individual assets nor will it directly manage or
finance note exchange schemes (with Krungthai Thanakit Public Co. Ltd., or KTT, and Krung
Thai Bank, or KTB-see Annex 2). FRA is committed to begin selling the closed finance
company assets in the first quarter of 1998, and to complete asset sales by December 1998.
15.   The second institution created under the October emergency decrees, the AMC, is to act
as a de facto asset disposition corporation for either suspended finance companies or for open
finance companies and commercial banks. This entity is responsible for buying, through reserve
bids, impaired assets put up for sale by FRA in competition with private sector institutions (see
Figure A1.2). It would subsequently manage, restructure, collect on the assets, and/or resell the
assets to corporate buyers. The goal of AMC is to maximize the value of the assets to be sold,
and to maintain an orderly real estate market. AMC is designed as a vehicle to overcome the
impediments to asset liquidations in the near term, so as to create a market for distressed assets,
and to utilize new troubled debt restructuring techniques to assist in what will be a large number
of industrial restructurings.
FIGURE A1.2: AUCTIONING SUSPENDED FINANCE CoMPANY ASSETS
16.   The government has appointed the AMC Board and Chairman, and is in the process of
examining options for its financing and governance structure. The authorities have committed
themselves to a series of additional actions so that AMC will be staffed and operational by
January 31, 1998. The authorities have authorized a capital outlay of B 1 billion for AMC, of
which B 250 million have already been approved.



55
4. EVALUATION OF SHAREHOLDER-LED REHABILITATION PLANS
17.   The shareholders of the suspended finance companies have been given an opportunity to
propose voluntary rehabilitation plans. Criteria for the evaluation of these plans were originally
issued in early September by the special Screening Committee, and subsequently modified by the
authorities, in negotiations with the Bank and the International Monetary Fund (IMF), to reflect
relevant agreements between the government and IMF. In particular, it was deemed crucial to the
integrity and credibility of the overall resolution package that FCs be permitted to emerge from
suspension only if they had adequate equity capital and liquidity, strong management, and fit and
proper shareholders.
18.   The final criteria against which the rehabilitation plans were measured included (a)
adequate recapitalization of the suspended firm for both existing and new shareholders; (b) plans
for repayment of debt; (c) guidelines for conversion of FIDF debt to equity as part of
rehabilitation plans; (d) sufficient and reliable sources of funds for liquidity management; and (e)
quality of management. To gain approval, a submitted rehabilitation plan had to pass evaluation
on each of these criteria (see Attachment 1 to Annex 1 for details).
19.   The final criteria have been applied by FRA in its evaluation of the rehabilitation plans. A
total of 38 rehabilitation plans were submitted in accordance with the prescribed deadlines. Of
the 38, 29 involved recapitalizations, 2 were based on mergers among suspended companies, 5
anticipated mergers with other local financial institutions, and 2 involved mergers with
commercial banks. Operationally, FRA has implemented a three-step decision making process
for rehabilitation proposals:
(a)   design of a modeling framework within which FRA  evaluated the submitted
rehabilitation and business plans;
(b)   validation of asset valuations implicit in the rehabilitation proposals; and
(c)   examination by an independent third party to ensure that the process followed by FRA in
assessing rehabilitation plans is consistent with the criteria designed in close coordination
with the Bank and IMF.
20.   With strong economic leadership provided by the new government-in place since early
November, 1997-and the full backing of MOF, FRA has moved with impressive speed,
decisiveness, and transparency in dealing with this stage of the resolution process. It has been
effectively supported by experts from consulting, accounting, law, and public relations firms of
international standard, mobilized at short notice, and funded under the World Bank-financed
technical assistance loan.
21.   On December 8, the authorities announced that 2 of the 38 rehabilitation plans had been
approved, and 36 rejected. This has meant that only 2 of the 58 suspended companies have been
authorized to reopen. Strict conditions have been applied to the companies, whose rehabilitation



56
plans were approved by FRA in agreement with BOT, particularly in respect to capitalization.
FRA will monitor implementation of the approved rehabilitation plans.' Once rehabilitation has
been satisfactorily completed, FRA will report this to MOF, which will transfer supervision
responsibility to BOT.
5. ASSET DISPOSITION PROCESS
22.   Asset Recovery Process: As of the December 8 announcement, those suspended
companies whose rehabilitation plans were not accepted and who were put under the direction of
committees, which have been established and appointed by the FRA Board in accordance with
Section 30 of the Emergency Decree on Financial Sector Restructuring. 2 The committees, in
turn, have appointed special managers under a power of attorney to take control and manage the
business of each company and to safeguard the interests of creditors. The mandate of the special
managers is clear and specific-to preserve and maximize the value of assets on behalf of
depositors and creditors.3 In addition to managing day-to-day operations of the companies, the
special managers will conduct a thorough review of all assets and liabilities, make a
determination on asset quality and realizable value, and recommend asset disposal strategies with
the aim of maximizing recovery for creditors. They will also review the staffing situation at each
company in accordance with relevant Thai labor laws and work with remaining staff to
rejuvenate loan collection and enhance the value of existing businesses.
23.   Guidelines and procedures are currently being finalized for the orderly disposal of assets
of the FCs not authorized to reopen. This will include the guidelines to be used in determining
how to stratify impaired and nonimpaired assets. Assets are to be sold through competitive
bidding. Bidders would include private sector financial institutions and other firms or
individuals, the creditors of suspended finance companies, AMC, and one or two "new good
bank(s)." Further initial details on the disposition process are set out in the Figure A1.3.
24.   Finally, to ensure that the asset disposal process is carried out with speed, integrity, and
transparency the. authorities will outline an institutional and policy framework for disposal of
good and impaired assets by no later than January 15, 1998. The framework will clearly outline
(a) the criteria and processes to be used stratify different assets for disposition; (b) the scope for
creditor-led wind-downs or dispositions; (c) the precise roles a of the committees and mangers;
and (d) the structure and role of a new bank (good bank) that would compete to buy the good
assets via bidding. This process will be of prime importance to the financial outcome of the
closure of the designated finance companies. The institutional and policy framework for disposal
BOT is formally represented in the FRA Board.
2 Each committee contains three core members who serve on all committees: a Chairman from the Inspector
General's office of MOF, a second representative from MOF and a representative of BOT. Each committee also
contains three members specific to each individual company, including an FRA representative knowledgeable
about the specific finance company, a BOT supervisor and a nongovermment-affiliated representative of the
company's creditors.
3 Shareholders may recover some of their investment in the event that funds remain after repayments to depositors
and creditors.



57
of good and bad assets is to include the specific roles of FRA, AMC, and FIDF. The government
has also committed itself to establishing a special FRA Coordinating Unit (FRACU) to ensure
integrity of the asset disposition process. The FRACU, which was established on December 15,
1997, has been set up to monitor and undertake surveillance of the special managers and board of
directors of each closed finance company.
25.   Treatment of Depositors and Creditors. Depositors in the suspended banks are fully
protected through the option of exchanging their claims on the suspended FC for claims on KTB
or KTT-two publicly controlled financial institutions. These claims will be serviced (both
principal and interest) by FIDF. Similarly, creditors of the 42 FCs suspended in August (out not
those of the 16 FCs first suspended) have the option to exchange notes with KTB. The deadline
for exchanging to KTB notes, which are fully guaranteed by the government, has been extended
to 75 days from the announcement date (December 8, 1997). Creditors in the 16 FCs first
suspended do not have the option of exchanging their claims, and will have to modify their
claims under a shareholder rehabilitation program, or negotiate their claim to the proceeds of the
liquidation of the FCs' assets administered by FRA. (See Annex 2 on the Note Exchange
Programs for greater detail.) Creditors, both domestic and international, are to be treated equally
and pari passu with the FIDF, which is the largest creditor.
26.   Financing: The principal financing requirements under the overall restructuring plan are
for the AMC's purchase of impaired assets in FRA auctions, and FIDF's obligations under the
Note Exchange Program. FRA financing needs should be limited to its overhead expenses (that
can be covered through its initial capitalization that was recently approved) and the cost of
consultants, the latter to be financed in large part by the World Bank under the Financial Sector
Implementation Assistance Project.
27.   Early estimates suggest that AMC may need to purchase around B 250-300 billion
(market value) in assets. This estimate is based on the assumption that about B 500-700 billion
(book value) in assets of the companies taken over are likely to be judged "impaired." Although
the initial capital of B 1 billion has been authorized, with a first payment of B 250 million
already approved, capitalization would need to be much greater to support cash purchases.
Currently, AMC has the authority to issue notes guaranteed by the government for up to 12 times
its capital. The low capital base provided by MOF may hinder the effectiveness of AMC during
the resolution process. AMC will be forced to issue notes or equity, either by paying for assets
purchased from FRA with those instruments, or by issuing notes or equity into the market to
raise cash. There is no guarantee, however, that the latter alternative can be achieved under
current market conditions, and paying in notes or equity may leave many liquidating FCs with
insufficient cash to satisfy even employee dnd other priority claims. It is important to realize,
however, that in the case of many finance companies taken over, FIDF will be the primary
creditor-particularly in the case of the 42 suspended companies if other creditors utilize the note
exchange option. In this case, AMC could purchase the impaired assets from FIDF with equity,
thereby permitting it to realize some possible gain on the assets through an equity claim on AMC
and forcing a proper writing down of its exposure. However, payments owed to employees and
severance would still need to be covered.



58
28.  It is estimated that FIDF's total funding requirement associated with the Note Exchange
Programs of KTT and KTB will aggregate to around B 500 billion over the next five years under
the assumption of maximum utilization of the programs. Hence, this may be an overestimate of
the costs of these programs. Even under this assumption, the bulk of the financing would only be
required in the fifth year (see Annex 2 for detailed calculations).



-59 -                                   ANNEX I
CHART 3 -OVERVIEW OF ASSET REALIZATION PROCESS
......I....
................~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~....   ........._ ... 'I



- 60 -                       ANNEX I
ATTACHMENT 1: CRITERIA FOR REHABILITATION AND BUSINESS PLANS OF SUSPENDED
FINANCE COMPANIES
This annex provides detailed information about the criteria that will be used in
assessments of rehabilitation plans submitted by October 30 and upon which FRA must act by
November 30 with approval by the Minister of Finance to be no later than six business days after
the recommendations by FRA have been received. The rest of this annex presents a translation of
the criteria.
No. 3/2540
Re: Criteria used in evaluating rehabilitation and business plans of suspended financial
institutions
The Committee would like to announce the detailed criteria, approved by the Minister of
Finance and the Bank of Thailand, used in evaluating rehabilitation and business plans of
suspended financial institutions as follows;
1.    Recapitalizations
1.1   Guidelines for the capital adequacy ratio
1) In the case of self recapitalization or with new ventures or mergers among the
suspended firms, the capital adequacy ratio that financial institution must comply
with are not less than 15 percent (where first tier is not less than 12 percent) in the
first year, 12 percent in the second year, and 10 percent (or that prescribed by law,
which ever is greater) in the third year.
2) If the merger is with other local financial institutions that act as core, capital funds
after the merger, less loan loss provisions, must be sufficient to maintain the
capital adequacy ratio at not less than 12 percent in the first and second years and
not less than 10 percent (or at the level prescribed by law, whichever is greater) in
the third year.
3) In the case where the merger is with commercial bank, the financial institution
must comply with the capital adequacy ratio specified by the Bank of Thailand.
4) The capital adequacy ratio can be calculated from the capital funds, which means
the sum of the paid-up capital, including premiums of shares received, statutory
reserve, reserve appropriated from net profits at the end of each accounting
period, net profit after appropriation, and money which a financial institution
receives from issuing a long-term debt instrument with a maturity of over five
years, less the loan loss provisions, according to the guidelines approved by the
Bank of Thailand as directed by the Committee.



-61-                         ANNEX 1
1.2   FIDF's conversion of debt to equity
1) In case of self recapitalization or merger among other suspended firms where the
structure of the major shareholders remain unchanged, FIDF will not be permitted
to covert its debt to equity.
2) If the merger is with another local financial institution that is acting as core, FIDF
may convert debt to equity once the existing shareholders have realized the loss
incurred. Nevertheless, the conversion must not exceed 33 percent of the
recapitalized funds. An additional clause will also be amended for FIDF to reserve
the right to convert debt to equity up to 25 percent of the institution's fully paid-
up capital.
3) Loan loss provisions resulting from due diligence are tax deductible.
1.3   An unlimited amount of shares may be held by foreign shareholders up to the
period of 10 years. After the end of the given period, foreign investors may not purchase any
more shares unless the amount held is less than 49 percent of the total shares, and they may thus
acquire further shares until the 49 percent mark is reached.
1.4   Evidence of the source of funds used for rehabilitation may be a Bid Bond, which
can be in the form of cash, bonds, and other liquid assets. The evidence presented must not be
less than 5 percent of the total recapitalized fumds. Once the plan has been approved, the new
investors must transfer the total recapitalized funds into an escrow account not less than 15 days
prior to pursuing a normal course of business.
2.    Repayment of debt to FIDF
The company that submits the rehabilitation plan may request an extension of the period
of repayment to FIDF to the maximum of eight years. The interest charged to the suspended
financial institutions by FIDF will be equivalent to that of nonsuspended financial institutions,
plus an additional penalty fee.
3.    Criteria in approving the management
General guidelines for the approval of financial institutions' executives require them to:
* demonstrate that they are good managers and prove that they have a good track
record;
* be honest and trustworthy;
* possess an employment history that is free of dishonesty, fraud, irresponsibility, or
unfair play;
* prove that they are not substandard customers of any financial institution;
* show that they have not engaged in any business affair that may lead to questioning of
their ability or prudence, both in the business matter involved and in the way it was
carried out.



-62 -                        ANNEX I
Nonetheless, the evaluation will depend largely on the discretion of the Committee.
4.    Liquidity management
The source of funds reserved for liquidity management must be sufficient to support
customers' withdrawals and other operational expenses. The source of funds must be in the form
of cash from recapitalization, standby credit, line of credit, aval line, including the name and
status of the strategic alliance, or any other form of fund that is permitted by the Committee on a
case-by-case basis.
5.    Directive for financial institutions whose rehabilitation plan is unacceptable
In cases where the plans submitted are not justifiable and the Committee does not allow
the financial institutions in question to pursue their normal course of business, the authority will
step in and implement measures set out by the FRA.
The Committee believes that the criteria and guidelines issued in evaluating the
rehabilitation plans of suspended financial institutions will bring about transparency in
evaluation of plans, and will make certain that financial institutions that come through will be
able to compete effectively in the competitive financial system.
The Secretariat
October 13, 1997
The Committee to Supervise the Merger
and Acquisition of Financial Institutions



-63 -                       ANNEX2
ANNEX 2: NOTE EXCHANGE PROGRAMS IN THE SUSPENDED
FINANCE COMPANIES
1.    This annex describes the operation and funding of the Note Exchange Programs (NEPs).
These programs were designed to restructure the liabilities of suspended finance companies in a
way that ensures limited losses to small eligible depositors as the suspended finance companies
are resolved. The first part of the annex outlines the nature of the programs and the exact
arrangements for their financing. The last section provides tentative estimates of the financing
that may be required overall to meet the payments on the notes under the assumption of
maximum utilization of the programs.
THE 16 SUSPENDED FINANCE COMPANIES
2.    The Minister of Finance suspended the operations of 16 finance companies on June 27,
1997. On July 25, 1997, the authorities (i.e., the Screening Committee) issued guidelines for the
treatment of promissory note (P/N) holders (depositors) and creditors.
3.    Depositors: Under these guidelines, eligible depositors (see Attachment 1 to Annex 2 for
a detailed definition) were allowed to avail themselves of the option of exchanging their P/Ns
with the suspended companies for the nonnegotiable P/N of KTT in the principal amount of the
original note according to certain prespecified terms. In this case negotiable certificates of
deposit were not considered eligible "deposits." (See Attachment 1 to Annex 2 for detail.) These
notes were payable by KTT at a market interest rate with principal repayments payable at
specific maturity dates as follows:
(a)   six months for PlNs or negotiable certificates of deposit in principal amount less than B 1
million;
(b)   three years for P/Ns or negotiable certificates of deposit in the principal amount of at least
B 1 million but less than B 10 million; and
(c)   five years for P/Ns or negotiable certificates of deposit in the principal amount of B 10
million or more.
4.    This option given to note holders within the 16 companies will expire 30 days after
December 8, 1997-the time final decisions were rendered on the rehabilitation plans of each
company. If a note holder chooses not to swap, he or she will be classified as a creditor after the
expiration date. Those that do not participate in the program lose their rights as depositors on the
suspended companies, because under a liquidation depositors and creditors have equal standing
under Thai law.



- 64 -                       ANNEX2
5.    Almost all depositors in the first 16 FCs have converted their notes to those offered by
KTT. As of October, over B 60 billion of deposits (P/Ns) had been swapped for KTT notes,
leaving only B 15 billion (see Table A2.1 below). The remainder includes deposits held by
managers and directors that are not eligible for this NEP. In most cases eligible depositors have
opted for payment of interest monthly at a rate of 12 percent per year. KTT has been permitted to
charge an administration fee of 1 percent of the value of the notes exchanged, although most of
the fee (0.9 percent) will cover expenses and taxes.
6.    Creditors. Creditors of the 16 companies include holders of Bills of Exchange (B/Es)
and Negotiable Certificates of Deposit (NCDs) along with other lenders and investors (including
financial institutions or nonfinancial corporations). They are not entitled to any guarantee or
payments under this initial NEP.
7.    The final treatment of creditors in these companies is still under active discussion
pending the adoption of final processes for resolution in the cases of those companies taken over
and closed on December 8, 1997. If the companies will be liquidated, the process will entail the
following prioritization of claims: employees, pensioners, severance payments, and outstanding
tax payments prior to all other creditors and depositors. Depositors do not obtain a priority claim
under liquidation relative to other creditors under Thai law. The NEP for the 16 companies was
implemented-as a means of permitting prioritization via a voluntary process at the option of the
depositor.
8.   In the case of creditors, those with secured claims need to be differentiated from
unsecured creditors. It appears that some creditors of the 16 have secured claims on assets, and it
is not clear if these claims are perfected relative to FIDF claims. Hence, this raises the issue of
FIDF conditioning the release of its rights over collateral upon similar release by all other
creditors, which is now possible, given the amendments to the Central Banking Act that
empower FIDF to take such actions.
9.    FIDF Exposure. Data for October 1997 indicate that total FIDF support to the 16 finance
companies amounted to B 196.5 billion. The amount is likely to increase substantially over the
next few years as the FIDF honors interest and principal repayments on KTT notes (see section
on required financing below). FIDF makes advances prior to taking collateral. Based on available
information, it is likely that the value of the collateral held by the FIDF is less than 50 percent of
its outstanding exposure. This gap will only grow wider with the expected increase in FIDF
exposure under the KTT NEP.
THE 42 SUSPENDED FINANCE COMPANIES
10.   On August 5, 1997, 42 additional finance companies had their operations suspended. In
this case, both eligible depositors and creditors were permitted to avail themselves of the NEP.
11.   Depositors. In these suspended companies, eligible depositors (see Attachment 1 to
Annex 2 for a detailed definition) were defined to include both P/N and NCD holders (NCD
holders were not defined as depositors in the first 16 companies). The depositors have the option
of exchanging their deposits with the suspended companies for notes issued by KTB. These



- 65 -                      ANNEX2
exchanges can be undertaken on the same terms and conditions as for the 16 suspended finance
companies as noted above. The only exception is that the KTB notes provided to depositors will
be negotiable. Depositors that are related persons or directors are not eligible under this exchange
program.
12.   FIDF will ultimately honor principal and interest repayments. Total deposits amounted to
B 80.7 billion in October 1997 (see Table A2.1) where the applications and actual notes already
exchanged amounted to B 87 billion as of November 13, 1997. This amount will gradually be
converted into KTB notes and ultimately to FIDF claims on the suspended finance companies as
it covers the delc service on the these notes.
13.   Creditors. Eligible creditors (see Attachment 1 to Annex 2 for a definition) are permitted
to swap their claims for notes issued by KTB under the same conditions regarding maturities and
size of claims as for the depositors of the 16 and 42 companies. However, the interest rate on
these claims will be 2 percent in nominal terms per year-substantially below market rates.
Under these terms large creditors that are repaid over five years at a 2 percent rate of interest will
lose almost 60 percent of the value in present value terms. Ineligible creditors include those
holding debentures, subordinated debt, and convertible debentures. The foreign currency claims
eligible for conversion under this program must be converted to their Baht equivalent at the
exchange rate applicable on the date of suspension (August 5, 1997).
14.   Creditors have claims of about B 85 billion (see Table A2.1 below), which over time may
be replaced by KTB and ultimately by FIDF claims if creditors utilize this swap program. As of
December 8, no requests for conversion had been made by creditors under this exchange
program, since they have just learned the outcome of the rehabilitation process and related
criteria.
15.   Finally, the option given to depositors and creditors is not open-ended, since they have 75
days from December 8, 1997, before the program expires, as indicated in the recent government
announcement.
16.   FIDF Exposure. FIDF has an exposure to the 42 companies of about B 220 billion. If all
depositors and creditors of the 42 companies opt to swap their claims (as a maximum), an
additional B 274 billion would be assumed by KTB. Ultimately FIDF will assume the interest
and principal repayments on the KTB notes and become the primary creditor of the 42
companies.
17.   Even for the 42, the value of the collateral will likely be less than 30-40 percent of total
existing and expected future FIDF exposure, particularly if many depositors and creditors
ultimately utilize the NEP.



- 66 -                        ANNEX2
EXISTING LIABILITY STRUCTURE FOR THE 16 AND THE 42 SUSPENDED FINANCE COMPANIES
AND NOTE EXCHANGE PROGRAMS
18.   The summary table below provides a picture of the liability structure of the suspended
finance companies as of the end of July 1997. It does not provide information on the contingent
liabilities of these companies.
TABLE A2.1: EXISTING LIABILITY STRUCTURE FOR THE
16 AND 42 SUSPENDED FINANCE COMPANIES
(B billion as of the end of October)
16 fimance                     42 finance
companies    Percent of total  companies       Percent of total
1. Depositors           15.0            4.2             80.7             15.4
Opted for NEP (KTT)     61.0           17.0              87.0            16.6
2. FIDF                 196.5          54.8             219.5            41.9
3. Creditors           130.3           36.3             193.4            36.9
Foreign                 23.0            6.4             30.8              5.9
Domestic               107.3           29.9            162.6             31.0
4. Others                16.9           4.7              30.6             5.8
5. Equity              -10.8            0.0             33.7              6.4
Total Liabilities    358.9                           524.1
Source: BOT and IMF-World Bank estimates.
19.   Table A2.1 highlights two issues. First, the table highlights the fact that the foreign
creditors have about the same exposure to the 16 finance companies as to the 42. The total
exposure of foreign creditors is hard to measure, because current information does not allow
certification of holdings by foreigners of B/Es, which are part of domestic creditors and off-
balance sheet swap exposures. Moreover, given that the number of companies suspended is far
smaller in the case of the 16, foreign creditor exposure is relatively more concentrated in these
companies.
20.   Second, as indicated above, as the NEP takes place, FIDF will have its exposure grow
relative to other creditors. Table A2. 1 highlights that in the extreme case of all depositors of the
16 converting their notes, the total FIDF exposure as a percentage of total liabilities would be 75
percent. In the case of the 42, if all depositors and creditors opt to swap their claims for KTB
notes, the exposure of FIDF would grow to 91 percent of total liabilities. Potentially the exposure
of FIDF could amount to roughly B 838 billion if it is assumed that all eligible creditors and
depositors participate in the NEPs and if existing FIDF exposure is also taken into account. Of
this amount, B 257.5 billion would be the exposure to the first 16 suspended companies, and
B 580.5 billion would be the exposure to the remaining 42.



- 67-                       ANNEX2
ESTIMATED OVERALL FINANCING REQUIREMENTS: NOTE EXCHANGE PROGRAMS
AND FIDF SUPPORT TO SUSPENDED COMPANIES
21.   An important element in assuring the integrity of the NEPs was the need to demonstrate
that all commitments entered into by the government as part of the liability restructuring process
could be fully backed financially. Hence, ultimate funding for the NEPs by FIDF will have to be
seen by market participants as earmarked for and sufficient to permit pay-outs on all notes
exchanged. FIDF will finance all the interest and principal repayments on the notes issued by
KTT under an operating agreement that was defined this past September.
22.   According to Table A2.2, the majority of all depositor and creditor claims are above B 10
million in value. This size distribution of claims will determine the terms and conditions under
which KTT or KTB notes will be exchanged for depositor or creditor claims.
23.   The debt service costs of the NEPs are shown in Table A2.3, under the assumption of
maximum utilization of all programs.
24.   The total value of claims that can be exchanged for notes amounts to B 421 billion (the
sum of rows 1 and 2 of Table A2.2). Of this overall amount B 358.6 billion in principal will
come due in 5 years, B 56.31 billion in 3 years and the remainder of B 9 billion after 6 months
(see Table A2.3).
25.  In the case of interest payments, roughly B 27-30 billion per year will need to be
covered. This includes B 27.4 billion of interest repayments annually paid to depositors that
would swap into KTT or KTB notes at an assumed interest rate of 12 percent per year. In
addition, there would be B 3.9 billion in interest repayments made annually to creditors given an
interest rate of 2 percent per year. Total cumulative debt service associated with all NEPs will
amount to B 561.19 billion over the five-year period under the assumption of maximum
utilization of the program.
26.  It can be assumed that the 58 suspended finance companies will not be able to
immediately service the loans they have obtained from the FIDF for liquidity support of B 416
billion. FIDF will most likely have to roll over the debt service associated with this support.
Assuming that the cost of rolling over these liabilities will be 20 percent per year-close to the
RP rate-debt service costs per year would amount to an additional B 83 billion.
27.   Note that the obligations of the FIDF outlined above (both actual and expected) in respect
to the NEPs and existing solvency support could be as large as B 977 billion in stock terms or
19.8 percent of gross domestic product (GDP). This estimate is an extreme value, since it
assumes that there is maximum utilization of both NEPs and that all existing FIDF exposures
previously made become solvency support. Hence, the cumulative interest cost on the FIDF debt
issued to finance the liquidity support granted (B 84 billion per year for 5 years) is added to total
debt service for the NEPs of about B 561 billion. The final cost to the FIDF and the government
at large will be dependent on the results of the asset disposition process.



-68 -                       ANNEX2
TABLE A2.2: SIZE DISTRIBUTION OF CLAIMS AND OBLIGATIONS OF THE FIDF:
SUSPENDED FINANCE COMPANIES (JUNE 1997)
16 companies         42 companies
Size distribution of claims (percent)
Below B 1 million                            3                     2
B 1 million toB 10 million                   9                    14
Above B 10 million                          88                    84
Obligations of FIDF                     In billions of Baht   In billions of Baht
1. Note exchange (depositors)               61                   167.7
2. Note exchange (eligible creditors)       --                   193.4
3. Subtotal: NEPs                           61                   361.1
4. FIDF liquidity support                  196.5                 219.5
of which avaled deposits /a            21                    29
/a These are deposits issued by finance companies that were guaranteed by the FIDF.
Source: BOT.
TABLE A2.3. ESTIMATED ANNUAL FINANCING COSTS NOTE EXCHANGE PROGRAM
(B billion)
1997    1998    1999    2000    2001  Cumulative total
Principal repayments       -       9.1    56.31      -     358.6      424.01
Interest repayments       31.26    31.26   27.06    23.8    23.8      143A1
Total Principal and    31.26   40.36    83.37   23.8   382.4       561.19
Interest
Note: Under the assumption of maximum utilization of all note swap programs.
Source: BOT and Bank-IMF staff estimates.



-69-                        ANNEX2
ATTACHMENT 1: DEFINITION OF ELIGIBLE DEPOSITORS AND CREDITORS
With respect to the finance companies suspended on June 27, 1997,
(a)   "Depositor" shall mean a natural or juristic person, both domestic and foreign, who hold a
promissory note, or a natural person who is the original holder of a negotiable certificate
of deposit.
"Depositor" shall not mean
*  Persons and entities who acted in bad faith in obtaining a promissory note or other
instrument, or who obtained a promissory note or other instrument outside of the
normal course of business, unless such person or entity can establish good faith;
*  Holders of subordinated debenture or convertible debentures;
*  Affiliates and subsidiaries of such financial institutions;
3  Directors, executive officers, and related parties, as defined by the Law on the
Undertaking of Finance Business, Securities Business, and Credit Foncier Business,
of the finance company or a subsidiary or affiliate of the finance company, unless
such person can prove good faith;
3 Debtors of any such finance company;
3  Any person who has filed suit against the applicable finance company.
3  Creditors who hold as collateral assets of the finance company; and
(b)   "Creditor" shall mean all other creditors and obligees of such a finance company.
2.    With respect to the finance companies suspended on August 5, 1997:
(a)   "Depositor" shall mean the holders, both domestic and foreign, of promissory
notes and negotiable certificates of deposit. Such a holder shall include a juristic
person, such as an asset pool, ministry, bureau, department, partnership, limited
company, association, foundation, securities exchange, thrift or credit cooperative,
or registered provident fund.
(b)   "Creditor" shall mean the holders, both domestic and foreign, of bills of
exchange, loan contracts or similar commercial paper and any holders of
contingent claims including: avals, discount notes endorsed with recourse, and
financial guarantees mature and not mature.
The term shall not include any other obligees of such institution.



-70 -                       ANNEX2
* Persons and entities who acted in bad faith in obtaining a promissory note or other
instrument, or who obtained a claim or other instrument outside of the normal course
of business, unless such person or entity can establish good faith;
* Holders of subordinated debentures or mandatory subordinated convertible
debentures;
* Affiliates and subsidiaries of such financial institutions unless such entity can prove
good faith;
* Directors, executive officers, and related parties, as defined by the Law on the
Undertaking of Finance Business, Securities Business, and Credit Foncier Business,
of the finance company or a subsidiary or affiliate of the finance company, unless
such person can prove good faith;
* Debtor of any such finance company to the extent of the debt; and
* Creditors who hold as collateral assets of the finance company.



-71-                        ANNEX3
ANNEX 3: SHORT-TERM PLAN FOR STRENGTHENING
SPERVISION OF THE REMAINING FINANCE COMPANIES
The downturn in the economic sectors that finance companies are most exposed to-real estate,
hire-purchase, and securities-makes it is critical for the Bank of Thailand to closely supervise
and examine the remaining nonsuspended finance companies. Projections conducted by the
World Bank team highlight the need for additional capital in the case of between 20 and 28
finance companies within the remaining 33 nonsuspended companies, depending on
assumptions. The additional capital required would amount to B 13 to 36 billion (see outcomes
and assumptions of the projections used in Annex 1). Estimations conducted later by BOT come
up with 9 to 19 finance companies needing additional capital, for a total of B 4 billion (based on
loan classification rules as of end 1997) to B 27 billion (based on loan classification loans to be
issued in March 1998).
Irrespective of the amount of capital needed that may only be estimated today, the strengthening
of finance company supervision will clearly result in a recapitalization process that can be
expected to be lengthy and difficult.
BOT should take the following immediate steps to identify and address the weak finance
companies:
1. A careful analysis of all 33 remaining finance companies should be conducted so as to
stratify these finance companies and identify the weak ones. Criteria to be applied will
include shortfalls in provisions to meet with existing and future loan provisioning requirements,
noncompliance with the existing statutory capital adequacy guidelines (after deduction of any
shortfalls in provisions and accrued interests), liquidity support by the FIDF (also,
noncompliance with minimum liquid asset requirements, level and maturity of foreign
borrowings, and overall maturity mismatch), and financial condition of shareholders.
This analysis should be based mainly on prudential information collScted for off-site supervision
purposes. In addition, standard on-site examinations or diagnostic reviews (see below) could be
conducted to get more reliable information.
The purpose of this analysis is to identify (a) finance companies that need fresh capital and (b)
the finance companies whose financial condition and/or mismanagement requires strong
supervisory measures, including BOT or FIDF interventions. Annex 2 describes the outcomes of
the stratification undertaken in November 1997 by BOT.
2. All fmance companies will be required to demonstrate to BOT their short-term ability to
absorb losses already incurred, and to comply with the statutory capital adequacy
requirement (taking into consideration the new rules for loan classification and interest



- 72 -                      ANNEX3
accrual already announced and to be implemented by year-end). In addition, BOT will
have to assess the medium-term ability of finance companies to meet the stricter rules on
loan classification and provisioning to be issued at the latest on March 31, 1998, and fully
implemented by year-end 2000. Discussion will be conducted by BOT with each of the finance
companies in order to determine the level of appropriate capital needed. This calculation should
incorporate the writing off losses already incurred, as well as complying with the more
conservative rules on loan classification and provisioning to be progressively implemented by
BOT, and the existing capital requirement.
3. Finance companies identified as undercapitalized through off-site screening or diagnostic
reviews will enter into a Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) with BOT by the end of
December 1997, demonstrating how the institution plans to raise its capital base to a level
deemed appropriate by BOT. Under this agreement, existing owners would be given more time
to increase capital, provided that they can provide BOT with reliable, legally binding plans for
recapitalization. Until capital is raised, institutions might be required to limit or reduce some of
their activities, cease the payment of dividends, or develop concrete plans to issue new capital,
including the search for an outside investor. Institutions should be required to provide BOT with
specific details regarding their strategy (e.g., whom they plan to hire to raise capital, and
institutions they will approach as partners), along with specific dates and performance measures.
The planned increase in capital should be injected as quickly as possible and no later than the
first quarter of 1998, so that the finance company complies with prevailing loan provisioning
rules as of early 1998. As far as possible, fresh capital should permit finance companies not only
to comply with mandatory capital requirement at the end of 1997, but also to head toward
meeting stricter loan classification and provisioning requirements to be issued by March 31,
1998.
4. Diagnostic review of each of the weakest remaining 33 finance companies (as identified
above) should be conducted by BOT examination teams with expert assistance. Over the
next two to three months, such reviews should be programmed at least for all finance companies
that will be entered into an MOU by the end of December 1997. These diagnostic reviews could
be performed, as deemed appropriate by BOT, either before or after BOT signs the MOU.
These diagnostic reviews would be performed under specific terms of reference satisfactory to
the Bank. They would focus on valuation of assets, with particular emphasis on large loans in
high-risk sectors like real estate. This process will result in a more accurate assessment of
additional provisions and new capital that are needed to restore finance company financial
condition. Moreover, they would assess credit risk management procedures and internal control
to ensure that presently impaired institutions will be better managed in the future.
Foreign consultants should assist the BOT examination teams in these diagnostic reviews. Thus,
they will help BOT staff make an accurate assessment of impaired finance companies. In
addition, expert assistance will provide the BOT staff with essential on-the-job training.
5. With respect to finance companies that are unsound and unsafe (according to above
criteria) or unable to comply with agreed upon time bound actions under an MOU, BOT



-73 -                       ANNEX3
must make clear that FIDF will intervene in these institutions under new power laid down
in Emergency Decrees issued in October 1997. The directors and managers of an intervened-in
finance company should be immediately dismissed, and replaced either by industry professionals
or by BOT staff. After a thorough analysis of the finance company situation and problems, BOT
should agree with the new management on actions. With respect to restoring the capital base of
the finance company, losses should be written off against capital so that existing shareholders
will bear the losses before any new investor comes in or before FIDF converts any liquidity
support into new capital or subordinated loans. The impaired institution may be alternatively
merged with another institution. If none of these solutions is effective, BOT might envision to
orderly wind down the impaired institution.



-74-                        ANNEX4
ANNEX 4: LICENSING REQUIREMENT FOR BANKS AND
FINANCE COMPANIES
General licensing requirements are laid down in the Banking Act and the Finance Company Act.
The licensing authority has undertaken to complement these general requirements by more
specific guidelines in certain areas of particular importance. Thus, BOT has issued guidelines on
the "fit and proper" conditions to be met by shareholders and/or managers for merged fmance
companies and banks that may result from the resolution process of the 58 suspended finance
companies. In addition, BOT intends to issue a circular by the end of December 1997 to request
specific information to conduct a more accurate and credible assessment of the "fit and proper"
conditions of new managers and directors of existing finance companies.
Beyond these very useful improvements in specific areas, all existing legal and regulatory
requirements that deal with licensing requirements need to be reviewed to ensure that (a) MOF
and BOT have a full range of powers to discharge their licensing responsibilities, and (b)
comprehensive guidelines exist so that BOT staff can conduct effective licensing procedures.
The objective is to propose legal amendments and develop regulatory texts that are needed to lay
down a comprehensive and single set of licensing requirements and procedures for both
banks and fmance companies in line with international standards. The set of legal licensing
requirements should empower MOF and BOT to (a) ensure that comprehensive licensing
requirements are met before granting a license for new institutions, (b) approve any substantial
change in the capital structure or the management of licensed institutions, and (c) ensure that
comprehensive licensing requirements are met before rechartering existing institutions after
merger. The set of licensing procedures should focus, inter alia, on (a) "fit and proper" test for
owners, directors and senior managers, (b) verification of minimum capital requirements, (c)
assessment of the source and quality of capital, (d) assessment of the future viability of the entity
to be licensed, and (e) assessment of the transparency of the financial group structure when the
entity to be licensed has capital relationships with other licensed institutions.
1. Granting a License to a New Institution
BOT and MOF may face different situations. Basically, the institution to be licensed may be a
single financial institution whose shares are held by companies or individuals who do not hold
directly or indirectly the control in other Thai financial institutions. In other cases, the institution
to be licensed may be included in a Thai financial group or conglomerate. In such a case, the
licensing process must take into consideration both the single entity and the group of related
entities. (Attachment 1 provides a detailed list of information to be provided.)
Licensing of Single Institutions. The main requirements for granting a license are usually
minimum capital requirement, quality of shareholders, quality of senior managers and directors,



-75-                          ANNEX4
and a convincing business plan. Compliance with strict requirements should be checked and
would be the sole responsibility of BOT in coordination with MOF.
1. Minimum capital requirement: Generally the capital of a new bank must be sufficiently
large to absorb the losses of the bank during the initial period of its operation, and still be
sufficient to provide an adequate base to support its level of operations. Therefore, a substantial
minimum capital requirement should be required for commercial banks and finance companies.
2. Quality of shareholders: The "qualifying shareholders" (i.e., founders who intend to
acquire at least 10 percent to exert voting control in the institution to be licensed) must have the
capacity to oversee the affairs of the institution. They need not necessarily have prior banking
experience, but they should demonstrate good business sense and be able to serve as the source
of direction and deliberation for the management of the bank. However, for the rehabilitation of
specific entities, it may be requested that shareholders be able to provide the financial institution
with professional expertise in finance or banking businesses.
The "qualifying shareholders" must be in a position to provide a real capital base for the financial
institution. It is therefore necessary to assess their financial condition and their business
affiliation. They must have a strong financial standing so as to be able to provide additional
capital to the institution. The exact source of capital must be scrutinized. For example, the shares
purchased in the financial institution should not be funded with borrowed money.
The shareholders must be of great integrity. Their motivation for establishing a financial
institution should be assessed very carefully. Particular attention must be paid to the links
between prospective shareholders and their interests in related nonfinancial companies. It will be
important to prevent the shareholders from establishing a financial institution so that it can be a
source of loans for related companies or affiliates.
When controlling shareholders are foreign financial institutions, it is of great importance to
request information from the home supervisors and to ensure the scope of their supervision
(consolidated supervision or not).
3. Quality of managers and directors: Senior managers (particularly the chief executive
officer, the chief financial officer, and the head of the credit department) must be skilled
professionals with at least 10 years of experience in the finance or banking businesses. Their
professional record must show their administrative, organizational, and decisionmaking skills, as
well as demonstrate reliability and sound character. In particular, they must be of great integrity.
The designation of the board of directors should ensure that nonexecutive directors represent at
least two thirds of all directors. In addition, at least three nonexecutive directors should be
individuals without any relationships to the main shareholders. These directors might be chosen
from among representatives of foreign companies, external auditors, accountants, lawyers, and
finance professors. All directors must be of great integrity.
4. Quality of the business plan: This will be developed through further consultations with
the government.



- 76-                        ANNEX4
Licensing of an institution that will be part of a financial group or conglomerate. The
position of an institution to be licensed must be known in relation to other companies owned by
its shareholders. Particularly, it will be of great importance to know whether the new entity will
be part of a financial group (i.e., including other financial institutions, such as finance companies
or commercial banks) or a financial conglomerate (i.e., including security or insurance
businesses).
In addition to the above-mentioned requirements for a single entity, specific diligence should be
performed when the institution is part of a group. First, in complex structures, particularly those
where a commercial bank and other nonfinancial companies are linked and are not licensed or
regulated themselves, the identification of the real shareholders and the review of their soundness
should be performed with great care and via special procedures. As a general requirement, the
overall structure of the group should be disclosed to the supervisors who should make sure that
they have an adequate knowledge of the group with a particular emphasis on nonregulated
entities.
Second, a consolidated assessment of the capital adequacy of a financial group should be
performed. Ideally, consolidated financial statements, including statements from all financial
institutions within the group, that are based on international accounting standards should be
provided. Based on this information, the capital adequacy of the whole group should be assessed;
the consolidated capital ratio should be in compliance with regulatory requirements. In cases
where consolidated financial statements cannot be provided in time, as well as for financial
conglomerates (which include entities such as banks or insurance that are subject to very
different capital requirements), a strict review should ensure that no double gearing takes place
when complying with prudential capital requirements.'
2. Approving Substantial Changes within the Lifetime of the Licensed Institution
The role and responsibilities of licensing authorities (MOF and BOT) should not end after a new
license has been granted. They must be empowered to ensure that conditions required before
granting the new license are maintained overtime.
Therefore, licensed institutions should be required to obtain prior approval from the licensing
authorities before specific changes such as (a) acquisition by an existing shareholder or a new
investor of 10 percent or more of the institution capital; (b) appointment of new directors and
senior managers; (c) changes in the name of the licensed institution; (d) very substantial changes
in the activities performed by the institution; and (e) opening of new branches by the licensed
institution (the approval may cover all branches or only branches located overseas).
Similar procedures to those used during the licensing process should be used by MOF and BOT
before approving the above-mentioned modifications.
Double gearing means that same prudential capital is used twice for complying with different prudential
requirements.



-77-                         ANNEX4
3. Authorizing Mergers of Existing Institutions
When a financial institution is willing to merge with one or several financial institutions, the
supervisory authorities have to approve the merger. Basically, the same prudential assessment,
using the criteria noted above, should be conducted by BOT. Given the fact that the institutions
involved in the merger have already been licensed, however, this assessment should be
facilitated. Normally, shareholders and managers should already be known and satisfactory to the
supervisory authority. Nevertheless, given the fact that the licensing of financial institutions may
have been pretty lax in Thailand in the past, it might be wise to adopt the same standards that are
applied to new institutions (Attachment 2 provides a detailed list of information to be provided
by merging institutions.)
Particular attention should be paid to mergers involving several finance companies. Such a
merger is likely to be aimed at getting a bank license for the new entity. It should be made clear
that the asset size will not be a decisive criterion to grant a bank license. On the contrary, quality
of management, efficiency of internal control procedures, and reliability of the business plan
should be stressed as the main criteria for a finance company to apply for a bank license.
Attachment 3 provides information on the licensing process and timing.



-78-                          ANNEX4
ATTACHMENT 1: APPLICATION FOR A FINANCIAL INSTITUTION LICENSE
3.    The application for a license must contain the following information:
(a)   name of the bank or the finance company for which a license is being requested;
(b)   legal status of the bank;
(c)   address of the institution's headquarters;
(d)   date of the application;
(e)   capital (amount of capital subscribed and paid in by the founders, number of shares, value
of each share);
(f)    general inforrnation on the "founders" (persons who intend to acquire at least 1 percent of
the voting control in the financial institution to be licensed), including full name, age,
occupation, nationality and legal status (individual or legal entity);
(g)   number and value of shares held by each "founder";
(h)   legal status of each "founder" that is a legal entity, its nominal and paid-in capital,
establishment license number, commercial registry number, names of the members and
chairman of the board of directors and name of the chief executive officer; and
(i)   name(s) of person(s) authorized by the "founders" to pursue the license application.
4.    The following should be attached to the license application:
(a)   a certificate stating that a "founder," if a legal entity, has been duly licensed and
registered in accordance with the law (with an authorized translation in Thai for foreign
corporations);
(b)   a draft of the financial institution's by-laws;
(c)   names of envisaged directors (including the chairman) and senior managers (chief
executive officer, chief financial officer, head of credit department);
(d)   a draft of the organizational structure, and the management and decisionmaking
procedures of the financial institution with a description of administrative procedures and
proposed methods of establishing an internal control system;
(e)   a clear definition of the type and scope of activities anticipated for the financial institution
to be licensed;
(f)    a document including the exact definition of the planned area of operation;



-79-                          ANNEX4
(g)   a medium-term plan, for the first three years, and the plans to provide the personnel and
material conditions required for the operation;
(h)   a certificate evidencing payment into an account with BOT for the full amount of the
required registered capital of the institution to be established; and
(i)   in the case of applicants located abroad, submission to the jurisdiction of the courts of
Thailand and the designation for an agent for service of process.
5.    If there is a person among the "founders" who intends to acquire at least 10 percent of the
voting control in the financial institution to be established ("qualifying holder"), the following
should be provided in addition to the information noted above:
(a)   information regarding control of the "qualifying holder," professional experience, areas
of specialization, and the banks with which they do business;
(b)   a certificate or declaration that the amount required for the payment of registered capital
results from a legal income of the "qualifying holder";
(c)   the balance sheets and income statements of any "qualifying holder" for the previous
three calendars years, certified by a reputable auditor;
(d)   a declaration about the liabilities of any "qualifying holder" as contingent or future
liabilities according to international accounting standards;
(e)   in the case of persons who as a group will constitute a "qualifying holder," a detailed
description of the capital structure of such a group, as well as the consolidated balance
sheet and income statement of the group for the previous year, provided that the group
was required to prepare consolidated statements; and
(f)    a declaration of the persons participating in the application, stating that each of such
persons agrees to give the BOT access to all data necessary for the issue of the license.
6.    Specific information to be provided when a "qualifying holder" is a foreign bank:
(a)   location of its headquarters and subsidiaries in home country and abroad;
(b)   nominal and paid-in capital;
(c)    date of issue of license to operate in home country and starting date of operations;
(d)   activities of the bank;
(e)    documents and contract establishing the bank (in original language and in Thai);
(f)    chairman and members of the board of directors of the bank, and persons authorized to
represent the bank; and



-80-                        ANNEX4
(g)   certificate issued by the competent bank supervisory authority in the home country of the
bank stating the type of activities in which the bank is engaged, that its level of
performance is not below A+ (or an equivalent supervisory rating) and that its capital
adequacy ratio is not less than 10 percent of risk-adjusted assets as defined by the Basle
Committee for Bank Supervision.



- 81-                         ANNEX 4
ATTACHMENT 2: APPLICATION FOR AUTHORIZING A MERGER
1.    The application for a merger must contain the following information:
(a)    name(s) of the suspended financial institution(s) that is proposed for merger into a
running financial institution;
(b)   name of the running financial institution into which the merger is proposed;
(c)   reasons and justification for the merger;
(d)   period of the proposed merger;
(e)    general information on the "founders" (persons who intend to acquire at least 1 percent of
the voting control in the financial institution to be licensed), including full name, age,
occupation, nationality, and legal status (individual or legal entity);
(f)    number and value of shares held by each "founder";
(g)   legal status of each "founder" that is a legal entity, its nominal and paid-in capital,
establishment license number, commercial registry number, names of the members and
chairman of the board of directors, and name of the chief executive officer; and
(h)   name(s) of person(s) authorized by the "founders" to pursue the license application.
2.    The following documents must be attached to an application for a merger:
(a)   results of the due diligence process performed in the suspended financial institution(s);
(b)   financial position showing the rights and obligations of the financial institution into
which the merger is proposed;
(c)   the latest financial position of both entities corresponding to the period during which the
merger is proposed;
(d)   results of the consolidated financial position (pro forma balance sheet of the combined
entities);
(e)   the merger plan;
(f)    proposal by the extraordinary general assembly of the financial institution to be merged;
(g)   decision of the extraordinary general assembly on the financial institution to be merged;
(h)   a certificate stating that a "founder," if a legal entity, has been duly licensed and
registered in accordance with the law (with an authorized translation in Thai for foreign
corporations);



- 82-                         ANNEX4
(i)    a draft of the merged financial institution's by-laws;
(3)    names of envisaged directors (including the chairman) and senior managers (chief
executive officer, chief financial officer, head of the credit department);
(k)   a draft of the organizational structure, and management and decisionmaking procedures
of the financial institution with a description of administrative procedures and proposed
methods of establishing an internal control system;
(1)    a clear definition of the type and scope of activities anticipated for the financial institution
to be licensed;
(m)   a document including the exact definition of the planned area of operation;
(n)   a medium-term plan, for the first three years, and the plans to provide the personnel and
material conditions required for the operation; and
(o)   a certificate evidencing payment into an account with BOT for the full amount of the
required registered capital of the institution to be established.
3.    If there is a person among the "founders" who intends to acquire at least 10 percent of the
voting control in the merged financial institution ("qualifying holder"), the same information as
that requested in case of a new license (see Attachment 1) should be provided in addition to the
information noted above.



- 83 -                        ANNEX4
ATTACHMENT 3: LICENSING PROCESS
1.    Granting of license:
a. Decision criteria:
During the licensing process, BOT shall thoroughly assess the available documents and
information related to the application. BOT may request additional information, and shall grant
or decide not to grant the requested license based on its judgments of:
(a)   the institution's management;
(b)   the financial institution's future earning prospects;
(c)   the adequacy of its capital structure;
(d)   the best interest of the Thai economy;
(e)   the likelihood that the institution will be operated in a safe and sound manner;
(f)   the compliance with legal and regulatory provisions; and
(g)   the future viability of the financial institution to be established (assessment of the
business plan).
With respect to the chief executive officer, BOT will ensure that the proposed chief executive
officer:
(a)   possesses skills that complement the directors' skills and that fit the needs of the new
financial institution;
(b)   is thoroughly familiar with the proposed new financial institution's plan;
(c)    has managed a financial institution successfully or has successful experience as an officer
in an area relevant to the proposed financial institution strategic business plan; and
(d)   has executive experience in operations or administration.
b. Background investigations:
BOT will ensure that the qualifying holders, directors, and the senior managers have the
experience, competence, and willingness to operate the financial institution in a safe, sound, and
legal manner. Qualifying holders, directors, and senior managers whose previous financial
experience is tied to failed or problem financial institutions will be carefully scrutinized by BOT
to determine their ability to safely and adequately carry out their duties.
BOT will conduct background checks on candidates for the position of directors (including
chairman) and senior managers, as well as qualifying holders. BOT will scrutinize the



-84-                        ANNEX4
competence, experience, integrity, and financial ability of these persons. BOT will make an
independent determination of the accuracy and completeness of any information submitted in
conjunction with those persons. Background checks are to be specified.
If a license application is incomplete, BOT shall instruct the applicant, in writing, and shall
indicate the applicable deadline by which to provide the missing information.
BOT may set such fees as it may determine appropriate for each element of the licensing process.
2.    Rejecting a license:
BOT may recommend rejecting any application if:
(a)   the applicant fails to provide the required information;
(b)   the applicant provides deceptive or false data in the licensing procedure;
(c)   the financial institution to be established does not meet the legal and regulatory
requirements;
(d)   on the basis of the available data, information and documents, in the judgment of the
BOT, the applicant does not have sufficient capital, management or other required
resources to safely perform the proposed function; and
(e)   as otherwise permitted by the Banking Act or the Finance Company Act.
3.    Timing:
BOT shall submit to MOF its recommendation regarding the license application within a period
of 60-90 days from the date of submission of the application. This recommendation shall be
justified.
Within one week, MOF shall endorse the recommendation of BOT or may instruct BOT to
reexamine the application or to submit additional information. In the latter case, BOT shall
submit another recommendation within two weeks; MOF shall approve or reject the application
within one week.
The applicants shall be notified in writing of the approval or rejection of their application within
a period of one week after the MOF decision. If the application is rejected, justification must be
provided to the applicants.



- 85 -                             ANNEX5
ANNEX 5: MAIN PRUDENTIAL REGULATIONS FOR
COMMERCIAL BANKS AND FINANCE COMPANIES
Fields                      Commercial Banks                  Finance companies
1. Loan quality
Loan classification               * Loans that have not been serviced   Same classification.
by borrowers are classified.
* Loans are classified in three
categories (substandard, doubtful,
and loss) according three criteria:
past due period (6 or 12 months),
value of collateral, and repayment
capacity of the borrower.
Loan provisioning                 . Minimum provisioning requirement . Minimum provisioning requirement
of 15% for substandard loans since   of 20% for substandard loans since
June 1997.                       June 1997.
* Requirement of 100% provisioning * Same rules for doubtful and loss
of unsecured loan value for      loans.
doubtful (since 1995).
* Loss loans (principal and interest)
must be written off.
Income recognition                . Since July 1995, no interest accrued Same rules as for banks.
for unsecured loans past due for
more than 6 months; limit extended
to 12 months for secured loans
(principal and interest).
* From January 1998, the limit will
be 6 months irrespective of the
collateral.
2. Prudential rules
Capital ratio                     * 8.5% for domestic banks since 1996 * 7.5% since January 1997 (with at
(with at least 6% for Tier 1).   least 5% for Tier 1) against 7%
* 6.75% (or 7.5% ?) for foreign    before.
banks.                          * 8% from January 1998 (with at least
. Bangkok Intemational Banking     5.5% for Tier 1).
Facilities (BIBFs) are not required * Same calculation methodology.
to maintain the capital adequacy
ratio.
* Drawbacks in calculation
methodology [nondeduction of
shortfall in provisions and accrued
interests for nonperforming loans
(NPLs)].



- 86 -                            ANNEX5
Fields                     Commercial Banks                Finance companies
Single lending limit            * Risk exposure (including credit,    * Credits and security investments on
contingent liabilities, investment,    a single counterpart must not
debt underwriting, financial    exceed 25% of finance companies'
derivatives) on a single counterpart  Tier I capital funds.
must not exceed 25% of banks' Tier * Contingent liabilities on a single
I capital (the definition was   counterpart must not exceed 25% of
broadened in July 1996).        fnance companies' Tier 1 capital
Single counterpart includes an  funds.
individual or a company and its    * Total risk exposure on a single
affiliates (defined as shareholding    counterpart (credits, security
exceeding 300%).                investment and contingent
liabilities) must not exceed 35% of
finance companies' Tier 1 capital
funds.
* Same definition of a counterpart.
Investment limit                * Commercial banks cannot hold   * Finance companies cannot hold
more than 10% of the shares of a  more than 10% of the shares of a
company (including financial    company (including financial
institutions).                  institutions).
* Commercial banks cannot hold  * Finance companies cannot hold
more than 20% of their capital  more than 60% of their capital
funds in company shares (debt   funds in company shares.
instruments are excluded).
Insider lending                 * Commercial banks are not allowed  * Same rules for the directors.
to grant any credit or contingent    * Same rule for the lending to a
liability to their directors and  company with common director or
affiliates (spouse, minor children,   senior managers.
and professional partners).    * No specific rules for the
. Lending to a company with      shareholders.
common director or senior
managers must be strictly
collateralized (such as government
bond).
* No specific limit for shareholders.
Liquid assets requirement       * Domestic banks must hold 6% (7%  * Finance companies must hold 6%
until September 1997) of their  (7% until September 1997) of their
deposits in liquid assets; at least 2%   domestic borrowings (deposits) and
of these 6% must be in the form of   long-term foreign borrowings in
deposits with the BOT.          liquid assets; at least 0.5% of these
* Domestic banks and BIBFs must    6% must be in the form of deposits
hold 6% (7% in between July 1996   with the BOT.
and September 1997) of their short- * Finance companies must hold 6%
term foreign borrowings (with less   (7% in between July 1996 and
than 1 year maturity) in the form of  September 1997) of their short-term
deposits with the BOT.          foreign borrowings in the forms of
* Foreign branches are subject to the   deposits with the BOT.
same requirements.



- 87 -                            ANNEXS
Fields                     Commercial Banks                Finance companies
Net foreign exchange position limit  * Net long foreign exchange position * Finance companies are not
must not exceed 20% of Tier 1   authorized to perform any foreign
capital.                        exchange business (this does not
* Net short foreign exchange position  include borrowing and lending in
must not exceed 15% of Tier 1   foreign currency).
capital.                       * Since May 1996, large and sound
. The net open position includes all   finance companies (total assets over
types of exposures, including spot   B 20 billion and Tier I capital of
and forward positions, as well as  B 2 billion) are permitted to apply
currency derivatives.           to the BOT for foreign exchange
* In October 1995, the calculation  business operations (trade
method was revised: foreign     financing, deposits and lending in
currency-denominated loans      foreign currencies for foreign
granted to high-risk activities and    exchange trading).
past-due loans are totally or  * Net long foreign exchange position
partially excluded from foreign  must not exceed 25% of Tier I
assets (unless fully hedged against   capital.
losses).                       * Net short foreign exchange position
must not exceed 20% of Tier I
capital.
3. Activity limit
Limit on hire-purchase loans    Banks are not authorized to grant
hire-purchase loans.
Minimum loan disbursement for   Since April 1995, the minimum loan
certain BIBF operations         disbursement made for out-in lending
operations was increased from
$500,000 to $2 million equivalent
(the objective was to ensure that loans
are granted to large size business,
able to manage the foreign exchange
risk.
Loan-to-deposit ratio           * Since July 1995, domestic banks   * The finance companies do not
whose loan-to-deposit ratios are  collect deposits from the public.
above industry average are required * However, in the same time as
to cap their growth; they are also    foreign branches, same capping was
required to specify their targets to    adopted for finance companies; but
lower the ratio over time.      higher loan-to-deposit ratios than
* Later ? same approach for foreign    local banks are accepted.
branches; but higher loan-to-deposit
ratios than local banks are accepted.
Credit plan                     * Since 1990, domestic banks are    Since 1995, credit plan are required
required to submit to the BOT their from large finance companies (total
credit expansion and targets with   assets exceeding B 20 billion).
respect to both total credit growth
and sector allocation of credit.
* Since 1995, credit plans are
required to off shore banks for
domestic lending.



- 88 -                                                                ANNEX 6
ANNEX 6: STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN THAILAND
IBRD Loans and IDA Credits in the Operations Portfolio
Difference
between expected and       Last ARPP
Loan or   Fiscal                                                        Original amount in $ million        actual disbursements L   supervision rating l
Project ID    Credit No.  year       Borrower                Purpose           IBRD        IDA      Canceled    Undisb.     Orig.    Fni Rev'd   Dev Obj   Imp Prog
Number of Closed Loans/Credits: 106
Acting Loans
TH-PE-4787  IBRD 34460  1992 Kingdom of Thailand        Hway IV                  177.50      0.00       0.00      23.94      21.90        0.00        HS          S
TH-PE-4772  IBRD 34040  1992 Prov. Electricity Authority  Distrib. Syst. Upgrading  40.00    0.00       0.00      10.58       10.58       7.01        S           S
TH-PE-4796  IBRD 35980  1993 Metro Elec Authority       Distrib. Sys & Egy E      109.00     0.00       0.00      22.09      26.19       -9.23        S           S
TH-PE-4802  IBRD 38890  1995 Bangehak Petroleum PCL  Clean Fuels & EA Qua         90.00      0.00       0.00      90.00      49.67        0.00        S           S
TH-PE-4799  IBRD 3884A  1995 EGAT                       Lam Takhong Pump Sto      70.47      0.00       0.00      66.66       15.81       0.00        S           S
TH-PE-4797  IBRD 37990  1995 Petroleum Authority        Second Gas Transmiss     155.00      0.00      42.58       2.00      44.58        0.00        S           S
TH-PE-4801  IBRD 37980  1995 Prov Elec Authority        Distribut.System Rei      50.00      0.00       0.00       9.29        5.59       0.00        S           S
TH-PE-4803  IBRD 37970  1995 RTG                        Land Titling III          118.10     0.00       0.00      75.13      21.16        0.00        S           S
TH-PE-4793  IBRD 40530  1996 Govt of Thailand           Technical Education       31.60      0.00       0.00      31.60        6.00       0.00        S           S
TH-PE-4791  IBRD 40520  1996 Govt of Thailand           Sec.Educ. Qualitylm       81.90      0.00       0.00      81.90       12.67       0.00        S          S
TH-PE-4800  IBRD 39680  1996 Gov. of Thailand           Highways V               150.00      0.00       0.00     149.65       87.65       0.00        S           S
TH-PE-37086 IBRD 41990  1997 Metropolitan Electricity    Metropol'n Dist Rein    145.00      0.00       0.00     145.00        0.00       0.00        S           S
TH-PE-4805  IBRD 41600  1997 Govt of Thailand           Univer Sci & Eng.Edu     143.40      0.00       0.00     143.40        8.34       0.00        S           S
TH-PE42268 IBRD 40670  1997 PEA                        Distr Autom & Relia       100.00      0.00       0.00      99.89      22.64        0.00        S           S
TH-PE-53616 IBRD 42330  1998                            Economic/Fin. TA          15.00      0.00       0.00      15.00       0.00        0.00
Total                                                                           1,476.97     0.00      42.58     966.13     332.78       -2.22
Active Loans    Closed Loans       Total
Total Disbursed (IBRD and IDA):                   468.25        4,049.71       4,517.96
of which has been repaid:                        5.86        3,045.43       3,051.29
Total now held by IBRD and IDA:                 1,428.53         1,004.56       2,433.09
Amount sold                                         0.00          196.73         196.73
Of which repaid:                                  0.00           196.73         196.73
Total Undisbursed:                                966.13            0.00         966.13
a Intended disbursements to date minus actual disbursements to date as projected at appraisal..
L  Following the FY94 Annual Review of Portfolio performance (ARPP), a letter based system was introduced (HS = highly Satisfactory, S = satisfactory, U = unsatisfactory, HU = highly
unsatisfactory): see proposed Improvements in Project and Portfolio Performance Rating Methodology (SecM94-901), August 23, 1994.



- 89 -                          ANNEX6
Statement of IFC's Committed and Disbursed Portfolio, as of November 30, 1997
(In $ million)
Committed                     Disbursed
FY Approval    Company            Loan Equity Quasi  Partic    Loan  Equity Quasi  Partic
1979/81/84/87/91 Siam City        20.00   0.00  0.00    55.00    20.00   0.00  0.00   55.00
1984/91        SEAVI Thailand      0.00   1.50  0.00     0.00     0.00   1.50  0.00    0.00
1987/96        HMC Polymers        0.00  3.92   1.07     0.00     0.00   3.92  1.07    0.00
1988           Peroxythai           5.52  0.00   0.00    0.00     5.52   0.00  0.00    0.00
1989           SCB-CKAP            0.00   .41   0.00     0.00     0.00    .41  0.00    0.00
1989           SCB-Thai Baroda     0.00   .78  0.00      0.00     0.00    .78  0.00    0.00
1989           TFB-Ladprao         0.00   .33  0.00      0.00     0.00    .33  0.00    0.00
1989           TFB-Top Easy        0.00   .15  0.00      0.00     0.00    .15  0.00    0.00
1990           Siam Asahi          0.00   7.59  0.00     0.00     0.00   6.37  0.00    0.00
1990/95        Shin Ho Paper       13.75  7.54  0.00    21.13    13.75   7.54  0.00   21.13
1991           Bank of Asia-AL     17.50  0.00   0.00    0.00     0.00   0.00  0.00    0.00
1991           BOA-Wing Fat        2.50  0.00   0.00     0.00     2.50   0.00  0.00    0.00
1991           VIM Thailand         0.00  0.00   0.00    0.00     0.00   0.00  0.00    0.00
1991/93/96     Ayudhya Leasing      0.00   1.50  0.00    0.00     0.00   1.50  0.00    0.00
1992           Krung Thai IBJ       0.00   .35  0.00     0.00     0.00    .35  0.00    0.00
1993           Advance Agro        10.00  0.00   0.00    0.00    10.00   0.00  0.00    0.00
1993           Bumrungrad         25.00  2.24  0.00    32.00    25.00   2.24  0.00   32.00
1993           Central Hotel       0.00  13.95  0.00     0.00     0.00  13.95  0.00    0.00
1993           Samui Beach         2.79  0.00  0.00      4.64     2.79   0.00  0.00    4.64
1993           Star Petroleum     100.00  0.00  0.00   332.50   100.00   0.00  0.00  332.50
1993           Sukhontha            1.86  0.00   0.00    4.64     1.86   0.00  0.00    4.64
1993           TUNTEX              12.00  4.92   0.00   123.50    12.00   4.92  0.00  123.50
1994           Dhana Siam         26.00  0.00   0.00     4.00    26.00   0.00  0.00    4.00
1994           Vinythai            38.21   0.00   0.00    51.13    38.21   0.00  0.00   51.13
1995           Finance One        30.00  0.00   0.00   150.00    30.00   0.00  0.00  132.40
1995           Saha Farms         25.00   9.90  10.00    25.00    25.00   9.90 10.00   25.00
1995           UPOiC               0.00   1.08  0.00     0.00     0.00   1.08  0.00    0.00
1995/96        BTSC                50.00  9.83  9.83     0.00     0.00   9.83  9.83    0.00
1996           NFS                 30.00  0.00  0.00   250.00    30.00   0.00  0.00  190.00
1996           Thai Petrochem      80.00  0.00 20.00   400.00    76.67   0.00 20.00  383.33
1997           Phatra Thanakit     23.53   0.00   0.00   0.00    11.76   0.00  0.00    0.00
Total Portfolio            513.66  65.99  40.90 1,453.54   431.06  64.77 40.90 1,359.27
Approvals Pending Commitment
Loan Equity Quasi   Partic
1996           ADLC II             10.00  0.00   0.00    15.00
1998           HMC RI II            0.00   1.84  0.00    0.00
1996           NFS                 10.00  0.00  0.00     0.00
1997           PHATRA               0.00  0.00   0.00    13.04
1996           TUNTEX II           45.00  0.00   0.00   200.00
Total Pending Commitment    65.00  1.84  0.00   228.04



-90-                                           ANNEX7
ANNEX 7: THAILAND AT A GLANCE
Lower-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                             East  middle-
Thailand     Asia  income       Development diamond^
Population mid-1996 (millions)                       58.7     1,726    1,125
GNP per capita 1996 (USS)                           3,020       890    1,750                Life expectancy
GNP 1996 (billions US$)                             177.3     1,542    1,967
Average annual growth, 1990-96
Population (X)                                        0.9       1.3      1.4      GNP                              Gross
Labor force (%)                                       1.3       1.3      1.8      per
par                    ~~~~~~~primary
Most recent estimate (latest year available since 1989)                           capita                       enrollment
Poverty: headcount index (% of populaeion)             13
Urban population (% of total population)               20        31       56
Life expectancy at birth (years)                       69        68       67
Infant mortality (per 1,000 live births).              35        40       41              Access to safe water
Child malnutrition (% of children under 5)             13
Access to safe water (X of population)                 81        49
Illiteracy (X of population age 15+)                    6        17
Gross primary enrollment (X of'school-age population)  87       117      104                Thaland
Male                                                 ..       120      105                Lower-middle-income group
Female                                               ..       116      101
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1975    1985       1995    1996   !
Economic ratlos
GDP (biHlions US$)                          14.9    38.9      168.4   185.0
Gross domestic investment/GDP               26.7    28.2       42.3    41.0              Openness of economy
Exports of goods and services/GDP           18.4    23:2       41.7     38.8   !         O
Gross domestic savings/GDP                  22.1     25.5      36.7     36.3
Gross national savings/GDP                  22.7     24.2      34.3    33.1
Current account balancedGDP                 -4.1      -4.0     -8.0      -7.9
Interest payments/GDP                        0.7      2.3       2.5      2.4     Savings    -                 Investment
Total debUGDP                               12.5    45.1       49.4    49.1
Totaldebtservicefexports                    12.0    31.9        11.6    i1.5
Present value of debUGDP                       ..      ..        .,        . ,
Present value of debUexports                  ..       ..        ...      ..                 Indebtedness
1975485  1986-96    1995      1996  199705
(average annual growth)                                                                -   Thailand
GOP                                 6.5      9.6      8.7       6.4
GNP per capita                      4.1      8.3      7.8       4.1                        Lower-middle-income group
Exports of goods and services       9.5    15.9    14.8         2.4       ..
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1975    1985       1995    1996      Growth rates of output and investment(
tx of GDP)
Agriculture                                 26.9    15.8        10.8    10.7    40
Industry                                    25.8    31.8       39.4    39.8    s0
Manufacturing                              18.7    21.9       28.5    28.6    20
Services                                    47.3    52.3       49.7    49.5    10o
Private consumption                         67.6    61.0       53.8    54.1              G1   92   93   94   95   98
General government consumption               10.3    13.5       9.5      9.6                     GDI         GDP
Imports of goods and services               23.0    25.9       47.3    43.2
1975tlS  1986-6      1995    1996
(average annual growth)                                                         j Growth rtes of exports and Imports
Agriculture                                  4.1      3.7        3.2      3.0    25
Industry                                     7.9    13.2        11.3      7.7    20 
Manufacturing                               7.0    13.6       12.4      7.3
Services                                     6.7      9.1        7.7      6.0 10
Private consumption                          6.2      8.2       8.3      6.2      s
General government consumption               9.1      5.1       0.8      4.5      o
Gross domestic investment                    6.1     16.1       13.3     8.2             91   92   93   94   95   so
Imports of goods and servies                 6.2     17.8       16.9     2.8                   Exporb   IIT
Gross national product                       6.3      9.4       8.4      5.4
Note: 1996 date are preliminary estimates. Figures in italics are for years other than those specified.
The diamonds show four key Indiators in the country (in bold) compared wfih its income-group average. If data are missing, the diamond will
be Incomplete.



-91-                                             ANNEX7
Thailand
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
Domestic prices                              1975     1986       1995     1996      Inflation (%)
(% change)                                                                         8_
Consumer prices                                5.3      2.5       5.8      5.9
Implicit GDP deflator                          3.5      2.2       6.2      5.1     4
Government finance                                                                 2 +
(% of GDP)                                                                         o                          ,
Current revenue                                 ..    15.2       18.8      19.1           91   92   53   94   95   94
Current budget balance                          ..    -0.6        8.0      8.5              -     GDPdaf. --*-CPI
Overall surplus/deficit                         ..       ..       2.6      2.3
TRADE
1975     1986      1995     1996       Export and Import levels (mill. US$)
(millions US$)
Total exports (fob)                             ,    7,120    55,735   54,675       80,00O
Rice                                          ..      829      1,928    2,012     70,000t
Other food                                    ..       ..    4,312    4,239       s0o000
Manufactures                                  ..   2,920    46,445   45,653       0000_
Total imports (cit)                             ..    9,248    70,387   70.814      4000
Food                            ..  ~~~~~~~~~~~               ~~~~~348   2.025  2.234 30i   M fl H
Fuel and energy                                     2,696     4,620    6,203      209.
Capital goods                                 ..    2,598    31,950   33,494       09
Export price index (1987=100)                   ..      73        139      138            90  GI  92  93  94  9s  9s
Import price index (1987=100)                   ..      72        154      153                   oExports  [Elmports
Terms of trade (1987= 100)                      ..    101          90       90
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
1975     1985      1995     1996
(tmillons US$)                                                                      Current account balance to GDP ratio (%)
Exports of goods and services                2,780    9,100    70,590   71,725    *0 .          
Imports of goods and services               3,478   10,160    82,169   83,617    -1  90  91   92   93   94   95   94
Resource balance                             -698   -1,060   -11,579  -11,892      -
Net income                                     11      -643    -2,114   -3,257    -3
Net current transfers                          80      165        487      780      4
Current account balance,
before official capital transfers           -607   -1,537   -13,206  -14,369    -7
Financing Items (net)                         555    1,620    19,954   16,066    -B
Changes in net reserves                        52       -82    -6,748   -1,697    -9
Memo:
Reserves including gold (mill. USS)          2,008    3.003    37,027   38,725
Conversion rate (Ibcal/lS$)                   20.4     27.2      24.9     25.3
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1975     1986      1995     1996
(milions USS)                                                                       ComposItIon of total debt, 1996 (mill. US$)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed         1,865   17,552    83,166   90,813
IBRD                                        270    2,202      1,805    1,607                       A
IDA                                           4      105        102      100                    01607 
Total debt service                            357    3,263      8,608    8,666
IBRD                                         32      232        336      318
IDA                                           0        1          3        3
Composition of net resource flows
Officialgrants                               11      120         99      110   I
Official creditors                           93      556        511      634
Private creditors                           107      956      5,788    9,618    i
Foreign direct investment                    22      163      2,068    2,900                     D
Portfolio equity                              0       44      2,154    1,551                    8
World Bank program
Commitments                                  95      113        190      250      A- IBRD                     E- Bilateral
Disbursements                                44      285        146      138   | B-IDA    D -Other multlateral  F- Private
Principal repayments                         13       75        203      198      C - IMF                     G - Short-term
Net flows                                    31      210        -57      -60   ' 
Interest payments                            20      158        136      122
Net transfers                                12       51       -193     -183
Development Economics                                                                                               12/1t597



