Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
ReportNo. 19245
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
THE KINGDOM OF THAILAND
FINANCE COMPANIES RESTRUCTURING
Loan No. 42680-TH
June 15, 1999
Poverty Reduction and Economic Management Unit
East Asia and Pacific Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Baht (B)
US$1.00 = B36.9
(June 15, 1999)
GOVERNMENT FISCAL YEAR
October 1 - September 30
ACRONYMS AND ABBREVIATIONS
ADB  -      Asian Development Bank
AMC  -      Asset Management Corporation
BOT  -      Bank of Thailand
CAS  -       Country Assistance Strategy
EFAL -      Economic and Financial Adjustment Loan
FRCL -      Finance Companies Restructuring Loan
FIDF  -     Financial Institutions Development Fund
FRA  -      Financial Restructuring Authority
FSIAP -     Financial Sector Implementation Assistance Project
GOT  -       Government of Thailand
ICR   -     Inplementation Completion Report
IMF  -       International Monetary Fund
KTT  -      Krungthai Thanakit Public Co., Ltd.
MOF  -      Ministry of Finance
QAG  -      Quality Assurance Group
SBA  -      Stand-By Arrangement
TA    -      Technical Assistance
Vice President                        Jean-Michel Severino, EAP
Country Director                      Jayasankar Shivakumar, EACTQ
Acting Sector Manager                 Homi Kharas, EASPR
Task Manager                          Ijaz Nabi, Lead Economist, EASPR



FOR OFFICLAL USE ONLY
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
THE KINGDOM OF THAILAND
FINANCE COMPANIES RESTRUCTURING
Loan No. 42680-TH
CONTENTS
PREFACE
EVALUATION SUMMARY ....................................................i
PROJEC'T IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A.    Project Objectives and Description                                                  .I
B.  Achievement of Objectives                                                        .2
C.           Implementation Record and Major Factors Affecting the Project                                   .5
D.  Project Sustainability                                                       .6
E.  Bank Performance                                                           .7
F.  Borrower Performance                                                         .0
G.  Assessment of Outcome .10
H.  Future Operations .10
I.  Key Lessons Leared .11
STATISTICAL TABLES
TabLe 1:   Summary of Assessments ...............................................                                       14
Tab Le 2:  Related Bank Loans ...............................................                                           15
Table 3:  Project Timetable ...............................................                                             16
Table 4:  Loan Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual ........................................ 16
Tab'le 5:  Key Indicators for Project Implementation ...............................................                    16
Table 6:  Key Indicators for Project Operation ...............................................                          17
Table 7:   Studies Included in Project ...............................................                                  17
TablLe 8A: Project Costs ...............................................                                                17
Table 8B: Project Financing ...............................................                                             17
Table 9:  Economic Costs and Benefits ...............................................                                   18
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants ...............................................                                     18
Tab]L[e 1 1: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements ...............................................  18
Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs ...............................................                                  19
Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions ...............................................                                      19
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World ]Bank authorization.



ANN1EXES
A. Borrower contribution to the ICR
EB. Status of Policy Agreements as of June, 1998
C. Quality Assurance Group Summary



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
THE KINGDOM OF THAILAND
FINANCE COMPANIES RESTRUCTURING
Loan No. 42680-TH
Preface
The Finance Companies Restructuring Loan to the Kingdom of Thailand in the amount of
US$35;0 million equivalent was approved on December 23, 1997 and made effective on December
29, 1997. The loan was fully disbursed the day of effectiveness. The loan closed on June 30, 1998,
which was the original closing date.
This Implementation Completion Report (ICR) was prepared by Richard Carroll as a desk
assigmnent, based on interviews with staff and materials from the project file. Mr. Jayasankar
Shivak:umar was the Country Director for Thailand and had overall responsibility for monitoring
and updating the policy matrix for the Finance Companies Restructuring Loan (Annex B). Messrs.
Jonathan Fiechter, (SFO), Michel Cardona (SFO), Thomas Rose (SFO), Tom Tsui (EACTQ-
Count'y Program Coordinator), Charu Vasil (EACTQ-Country Officer), and Stefan Koeberle
(EACTF-Resident Mission) provided comments. Messrs. Ijaz Nabi (EASPR-Task Manager for the
loan) and Kyle Peters (Lead Specialist-Coordination and Program Management) also reviewed the
report.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
THE KINGDOM OF THAILAND
FINANCE COMPANIES RESTRUCTURING
Loan No. 42680-TH
Evaluation Summary1
Project Origin and Objectives
1.   In an effort to restore confidence to Thailand's financial sector, the Bank funded a $350
million Finance Companies Restructuring Loan (FCRL) which was the first phase of the Bank's
$1.5 billion expanded lending program in Thailand. The FCRL followed the $15 million
Financial Sector Implementation Assistance Project (FSIAP-Loan 4233-TH) which was
approved by the Board on September 11, 1997. The FCRL was approved by the Board on
December 23, 1997, and became effective and was fully disbursed on December 29, 1997.
2.    The objectives of the FCRL were to provide emergency balance of payments assistance
to support the Government of Thailand's program for: (1) macroeconomic stabilization and
structural adjustment during the first half of calendar 1998; and (2) resolution of closed finance
companies and reestablishing the soundness of this financial subsector. The Government's
program of structural reforms was specified in the Government's Letter of Development Policy
in December 1997.
Implementation Experience and Results
Overview
3.    The FCRL was prepared in close cooperation with the International Monetary Fund (IMF).
The Thai Government committed to a stabilization program in August, 1997 under the IMF-
coordina[ted Tokyo Pledge.  The total support package, which included an 1MF Stand-by
Arrangeiment (SBA), bilateral pledges from East and Southeast Asian countries, and support from
the Banki and the ADB, amounted to US$17.2 billion. The 1IMF SBA (SDR2.9 billion equivalent)
was approved by the IMF board on August 20, 1997. The IMF focused on commercial banks,
while the Bank focused on the resolution framework for finance companies.
4.    The FCRL was prepared by the Bank on an accelerated basis during October and November
1997 and negotiated in December 1997. In summary, the objectives of the FCRL were largely
accomplished by the closing date of June 30, 1998. Although the Bank was surprised by the crisis
The Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Finance Companies Restructuring Loan (FCRL) covers policies and events in Thailand
relating to the loan through June 1998, when the FCRL closed and prior to Board approval of the Economic and Financial Adjustment Loan
(EFAL 1).



- Ui -
and its depth, it responded rapidly with funding and a reform program to restore stability and
growth. Initially, the Bank's focus on a financial subsector was narrow, indicating that the full
breadth of the crisis was not assessed initially. Subsequent planned loans reflect increased
understanding of the crisis' scope and include a reform program expanded to include restructuring
in the corporate sector, measures to ease the impact of adjustment on the poor and unemployed, and
measures to improve the competitiveness of Thai corporations. The report from the Quality
Assurance Group (QAG) rated the major aspects of the implementation of the FCRL from
"satisfactory" to "good" with the overall assessment at entry rated as "satisfactory" (Annex C). The
FCRL was the first loan in a series of four loans dealing with major aspects of the crisis.
Summary of Reforms
5.    The Government made significant progress on all major fronts of the FCRL:
Resolution of Closed Finance Companies
*  October 1997: Issuance of six emergency decrees to restructure the financial structure
including setting up the Financial Sector Restructuring Authority (FRA) and Asset
Management Corporation (AMC).
*  November 1997: Review rehabilitation plans for suspended FCs.
•  December 1997: 56 FCs closed and taken over in one day (announced on December 8,
1997).
•  February 1998: The FRA completed the classification of assets of closed finance
companies (Salvageable value of B450 billion). Creditors of each company were
provided with a "statement of affairs." Details on loan portfolios are to be provided to
qualified bidders during the auction process.
- February 1998: The FRA defines the forms of payments required from bidders.
*  February 1998: Sales of finance company movable assets (cars, computers, works of art,
etc.) begun.
D  March 1998: Creditors of the 40 finance companies make final decision whether to
choose the note exchange program or to participate in the FRA auction process.
*  March 1998: Implementation of plans for adequate recapitalization of financing for
AMC and timetable for the disbursement to AMC.
*  March 1998: The operating rules and guidelines for AMC are partially completed.
*  March 1998: Rules, guidelines and procedures for the Radhanasin Bank for bidding for
high-value assets completed.
*  May 1998: FRA Act amended to facilitate good title to pre-empt legal challenges to
sales.
* June 1998: First sale of core financial assets. Earns 48 percent of principal.
I)isposition of the Weakest Institutions
*  January 1998: The Bank of Thailand (BOT) and Financial Institutions Development
Fund (FIDF) intervened in 4 commercial banks and managers and directors were
removed, existing shareholders wiped out and FIDF claims were converted into equity.
*  May 1998: Additional 7 FCs (above the original 58) were taken over by the BOT/FIDF
and shareholders were wiped out and managers removed. Responsibility for another 12
FCs was given to the Krungthai Thanakit Public Co. Ltd. (KTT).



- 111 -
Recapitalization Process
*  December (end) 1997: Stricter loan classification and provisioning rules implemented.
*  Fourth Quarter 1997: The BOT signs Memoranda of Understanding (MOUs) with 11
commercial banks in order to achieve the recapitalization plan by March 1998 (later
extended).
*  Fourth Quarter 1997: MOUs signed with 16 finance companies to achieve
recapitalization plan by March 1998 (later extended).
* March 31, 1998: New loan classification and provisioning rules (in line with best
international practices) issued.
Assessment of Financial Institutions
* January 1998: Terms of reference (TOR) for diagnostic review of finance companies
drafted.
* February 1998: Diagnostic review test in one finance company undertaken.
* Program and schedule for diagnostic reviews of 24 finance companies completed.
Licensing
3 December 1997: The BOT issues circular requesting specific information to conduct a
more credible and accurate assessment of the "fit and proper" condition of new
executives and directors of finance companies.
Supervisory Regime
- December 1997: Government sets up Investigation Commission to investigate how the
BOT has managed foreign currency reserves, granted its liquidity support and supervised
banks and finance companies. The Commission will decide whether supervision will
remain with BOT.
* March 1998: Agreed plan between Bank and the BOT for Institutional Development, in
particular of supervision capacity.
Bank Performance
6.    Although the Bank did not anticipate the crisis, it responded rapidly when the crisis was
manifest. The Bank had reduced its activity in Thailand, had only a small staff administering
some remaining operations, and was not closely monitoring the economic developments.
However, it responded rapidly with an expanded lending program of a planned $1.5 billion.
Initially, the view of the crisis and the Bank's role were narrow, confined to the financial sector.
Within that mission, the Bank worked with the Thai authorities to suspend and resolve 56
troubled finance companies which was perhaps the most outstanding achievement associated
with the FCRL. Subsequent operations have broadened the scope of the Bank supported policy
framevvork to include, in particular, the corporate sector. The establishment of the SFO equipped
the Baink with a new capacity for dealing with countries in financial distress.



- iv -
Future Operations
7.    The Economic and Financial Adjustment Loan (EFAL I) was the immediate follow-up
operation, effective July 1998. EFAL I supported Government efforts to deepen structural
reform in the financial sector and revive the corporate sector. The next loan (EFAL II) is
designed to create employment opportunities and provide essential services to the poor and
unemployed during the crisis. The fourth and final planned loan of the two-year structural
adjustment program will incorporate all of the elements of the previous three loans and add
measures to improve the competitiveness of Thai corporations.
Lessons Learned
8.    The main lessons learned are:
*  Counterpart quality. The capability of the counterpart is a prerequisite to a successful reform
program. The interim and new Thai Governments were able to understand, contribute to and
commit to a comprehensive reform program. The predecessor Government was unable to make
use of the financial and economic expertise orchestrated by the Bank and IMLF and did not grasp
the gravity of the crisis.
*  Tracking borrowers' economies approaching graduation. The Bank should maintain, or
have access to, a capacity to more effectively track developments in financial sectors of
countries that are near graduation, or have graduated. The crisis took the Bank by surprise
because the Bank was not carrying out economic and sector work in Thailand and did not
analyze the underlying financial framework (prudential regulations, supervisory capacity,
corporate governance, etc.), nor verify the accuracy of financial information.  Good
performance of the Thai economy including years of sustained, export-led growth, may have
led to optimism by the Bank and the Thai authorities that Thailand was not vulnerable to a
multi-dimensioned, sustained economic crisis, and financial oversight was not a priority.
*  Siingle vs. double tranche loans. A single tranche policy-based operation (such as the FCRL),
with the bulk of policy actions clearly laid out in a precise timetable prior to Board approvai,
was a focused and flexible approach to provide support for structural reforms in a rapidly
changing situation as in Thailand. However, the single tranche approach does not have the two-
tranche advantages of allowing the Government to take a longer view of the reform process and
more time to make adjustments. A second tranche also provides an incentive to comply with
conditionality.
*  Coordination among multilateral lenders. It is important to the success of a recovery
operation with multiple financiers to agree on the best course of action which includes an
appropriate division of responsibility. In the FCRL, the Bank's role may have been defined too
narrowly initially, which artificially limited its contribution to easing the crisis.
*  Streamline Bank processes. In emergency circumstances, as the Thai crisis, the Bank should
relax the labor-intensive activities of repetitive reporting and refining so that expertise may be
freed for more substantive analysis and creative solutions. Emergency conditions also call for a
shorter procurement process (e.g., one week as opposed to three months), especially for timely



application of technical expertise. The flexible budget of the SFO proved helpful in this regard
after FCRL implementation.
Added challenge of a regional crisis. When a crisis is regionalized, aggregate demand is
harder to stimulate, and the crisis is usually more difficult to defuse. Aggregate demand will be
more sluggish than in a crisis confined to one country, as experienced after FCRL effectiveness.
The Government and the Bank had to demonstrate greater resolve in adhering to the reform
program.
* Technical Assistance as an essential ingredient for implementation. A well-designed set of
loan conditions is not sufficient without substantial TA. Sustained TA is needed to implement
the conditions and to supplement Bank staff resources, and helps establish strong relationships
with government authorities essential to a long-term reform process. Procurement short-cuts
for this type of TA should be followed in crisis situations.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
THE KINGDOM OF THAILAND
FINANCE COMPANIES RESTRUCTURING
Loan No. 42680-TH
PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A. Project Objectives and Description
1.   In July 1997 a severe financial crisis hit Thailand. In a rapid response to the crisis, the Bank
funded a $350 million Finance Companies Restructuring Loan (FCRL). The FCRL was the first phase
of the Bank's expanded lending structural adjustment program in Thailand to address the deepening
economic crisis. The FCRL was approved by the Board on December 23, 1997, became effective on
December 29, 1997 and was disbursed in a single tranche on the same day. A Financial Sector
Implementation Assistance Project (FSIAP-Loan 4233-TH) had already been approved by the Board on
September 11, 1997. This loan financed technical assistance to the Thai authorities dealing with the
crisis. The FSIAP remains under implementation.
2.    The objectives of the FCRL were to provide urgent balance of payments assistance to support the
Govermnnent of Thailand's (GOT) program for: (1) macroeconomic stabilization and structural
adjustment; and (2) the resolution of closed finance companies and restoring the soundness of this
financial subsector. The Government's program of structural reforms was specified in the Govermment's
Letter of Development Policy which was signed by the Minister of Finance (see President's report P-
7211 -THI December 16, 1997, Schedule 1). Many of the reforms, including the establishment of the
Financial Sector Restructuring Authority (FRA) and the Asset Management Corporation (AMC), and a
number of measures to allow firms to adjust to the financial crisis, were implemented prior to Board
presentation. The Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) for Thailand was under development at the time
of FCRL implementation and FCRL was consistent with the principles on which it was based. With the
compleltion of the policy actions supported by the FCRL, the Government met the conditions to justify
continued expanded Bank lending of US$1.5 billion for the two-year emergency period. Annex B
summar-izes the specific policy reforms supported by the FCRL and their status as of June 1998.
3.    The FCRL was prepared in close cooperation with the International Monetary Fund (IMF). The
Thai Government committed to a stabilization program in August, 1997 under the IMF-coordinated
Tokyo Pledge. The total support package, which includes an IMF Stand-by Arrangement (SBA),
bilateral pledges from East and Southeast Asian countries, and support from the Bank and the Asian
Develolpment Bank (ADB), amounted to US$17.2 billion. The IMF SBA (SDR2.9 billion equivalent)
was approved by the IMF board on August 20, 1997. The Bank and the IIMF worked with the
Government to design a comprehensive financial restructuring program. The agreed division of labor
between the Bank and the IMF was that the IMF focus on commnercial banks, and the Bank deal with the
resolution framework for finance companies (FCs) and improve the supervision of the remaining ones.
Details of the coordinated efforts are found in Borrower Perfonnance and Bank Performance sections
below.



- 2 -
4.    The FCRL's aim was to strengthen confidence in the FC subsector, which accounts for a
substantial share of financial system assets, and improve the supervision and regulatory framework for
the financial system in general. FCs were hit especially hard by the economic crisis including: (a) a
sharp exchange rate depreciation combined with unhedged foreign exchange liabilities resulted in
corporate loan defaults; (b) the increase in interest rates made it more difficult for corporations to service
their debts to finance companies; (c) the collapse of the real estate sector; and (d) the fall in share prices
that eroded FC assets.
5.    The FC subsector was also a victim of its own practices which contributed to the economic crisis.
Weak regulations and supervision allowed the problems from increasing exposure to investment and
foreign exchange risk and related party lending to grow until the crisis hit. Inadequate accounting and
disclosure requirements obscured signals of the finance companies' deteriorating positions. A decade of
rapid export-led growth had created an investment boom that stressed Thailand's financial institutions
beyond their capability to respond and fostered an optimism that delayed efforts to take corrective
measures. The FCRL aimed at overcoming these weaknesses in the FC subsector.
B. Achievement of Objectives
Recent Macroeconomic Performance
6.    Macroeconomic indicators were mixed after loan effectiveness. There were several positive
signs, but also clear indications that the crisis was ongoing. The Baht's fall to a low of B53/US$ in
January 1998 reversed and it appreciated to about B40/US$ by June 1998. In spite of the 40 percent
depreciation after July 1997, inflation was moderate, increasing from 4.4 percent in June 1997 to just
over 10 percent by April 1998, owing in large part to moderate monetary growth. The current account
balaTnce continued to adjust rapidly after recording a US$2.2 billion surplus in the second half of 1997.
Exports remained steady while imports declined nearly 30 percent. The fiscal balance also deteriorated,
estimated at 2.4 percent of GDP for fiscal 1998, but not as badly as earlier feared.
7.    The worst effect of the crisis is that the economy fell into recession with an unemployment rate
between 6 and 7 percent. Manufacturing production fell sharply and real incomes declined. In the
financial sector alone, 80,000 workers were laid off and prospects for 400,000 new graduates were
seriously diminished. Investment fell sharply, although savings rates remained high. Table 1 provides
an overall picture of the deterioration of the Thai economy since 1996.



- 3 -
Table 1 Selected Economic Indicators
Real GDP growth(%)                8.8    5.5    -0.4      -8.0
Consumption                      7.1    6.7      0.1    -13.0
Gross fixed investrnent         11.2    6.0   -16.0    -36.0
CPI inflation (end period, %)     5.8    5.9      5.6      8.1
Saving and Investment (% of GDP)
Gross domestic investment       41.6   41.7    35.0      25.4
Gross national saving           33.3   33.2    32.6      37.6
Balance of payments ($ billions)
Exports, f.o.b.                 55.7   54.7    56.7      52.8
Imports, c.i.f.                 70.4   70.8    61.3      40.8
Current account balance        -13.2  -14.4    -3.1      13.8
Capital account balance (private)    20.8   18.2    -7.3    -16.7
Gross Official Reserves          36.9   38.6    26.9      29.6
source: IMF
Summary of Actions
8.    The Government made significant progress on all major fronts associated with the FCRL as the
following summary of actions shows.
Resolution of Closed Finance Companies
*  October 1997: Issuance of six emergency decrees to restructure the financial structure including
setting up the FRA and AMC.
*  November 1997: Review rehabilitation plans for suspended FCs.
*  December 1997: 56 FCs closed and taken over in one day (announced on December 8, 1997).
*  February 1998:  The FRA completed the classification of assets of closed finance companies
(SaLlvageable value of B450 billion). Creditors of each company were provided with a "statement of
affairs." Details on loan portfolios are to be provided to qualified bidders during the auction process.
*  February 1998: The FRA defines the forms of payments required from bidders.
*  February 1998: Sales of finance company movable assets (cars, computers, works of art, etc.)
begun.
*  March 1998: Creditors of the 40 finance companies make final decision whether to choose the note
exchange program or to participate in the FRA auction process.



- 4 -
*  March 1998: Implementation of plans for adequate recapitalization of financing for AMC and
timetable for the disbursement to AMC.
*  March 1998: The operating rules and guidelines for AMC are partially completed.
*  M[arch 1998: Rules, guidelines and procedures for the Radhanasin Bank for bidding for high-value
assets completed.
* May 1998: The FRA Act amended to facilitate good title to pre-empt legal challenges to sales.
* Jtme 1998: First sale of core financial assets. Earns 48 percent of principal.
Disposition of the Weakest Institutions
* January 1998: The Bank of Thailand (BOT) and Financial Institutions Development Fund (FIDF)
intervened in 4 commercial banks and managers and directors were removed, existing shareholders
wiped out and FIDF claims were converted into equity.
* May 1998: Additional 7 FCs (above the original 58) were taken over by BOT/FIDF and
shareholders were wiped out and managers removed. Responsibility for another 12 FCs was given
to the Krungthai Thanakit Public Co. Ltd. (KTT).
Recapitalization Process
* December (end) 1997: Stricter loan classification and provisioning rules implemented.
* Fourth Quarter 1997: The BOT signs Memoranda of Understanding (MOUs) with 11 commercial
banks in order to achieve recapitalization plan by March 1998 (later extended).
* Fourth Quarter 1997: MOUs signed with 16 finance companies to achieve recapitalization plan by
March 1998 (later extended).
* March 31, 1998: New loan classification and provisioning rules (in line with best international
practices) issued.
Assessment of Financial Institutions
* January 1998: Terms of reference (TOR) for diagnostic review of finance companies drafted.
* February 1998: Diagnostic review test in one finance company undertaken.
* Program and schedule for diagnostic reviews of 24 finance companies completed.
Licensing
* December 1997: The BOT issues circular requesting specific information to conduct a more credible
and accurate assessment of the "fit and proper" condition of new executives and directors of finance
companies.
Supervisory Regime
* December 1997: Government sets up Investigation Commission to investigate how the BOT has
managed foreign currency reserves, granted its liquidity support and supervised banks and finance
companies. The Commission will decide whether supervision will remain with the BOT.
* March 1998: Agreed plan between Bank and the BOT for Institutional Development, in particular of
supervision capacity.



- 5 -
9.   ]:n summary, the objectives of the FCRL were largely accomplished by the closing date of June
30, 1998. The performance of the FCRL should also be viewed as part of a broader longer-term series of
efforts to return the Thai economy to the path of sustainable growth. The FCRL was the first loan in a
series of four planned loans dealing with major aspects of the crisis. The second loan, the Economic and
Financial Adjustment Loan (EFAL I), expanded the reform program to include restructuring in the
corporal-e sector. The third loan (EFAL II) will expand to include measures to ease the impact of
adjustment on the poor and unemployed. The fourth loan will expand further to incorporate measures to
improve the competitiveness of Thai corporations.
C. Implementation Record and Major Factors Affecting the Project
10.  'In August 1997, the Bank, along with the IMF and the ADB and bilateral donors agreed with the
Government to support a program of financial stabilization and structural reforms known as the Tokyo
Pledge. Lending was prepared by the Bank on an accelerated basis during October and November 1997
and negotiated in December 1997. The FCRL was declared effective on December 29, 1997. The entire
$350 million was disbursed in one transaction on the same day. The Closing Date for FCRL was June
30, 1998. The report from the Quality Assurance Group (QAG) rated the major aspects of the
implementation of the FCRL from "satisfactory" to "good" with the overall assessment at entry rated as
"satisfactory" (Annex C).
11.   Factors not generally subject to Government's control. Because of the multi-faceted nature
of the crisis, i.e., the drop in demand in the real estate sector, bearishness in the stock market, slowed
export earnings and the depreciation of the Baht, the Government resolved to pursue a far-reaching
macro-stabilization program with substantial external funding. Although its compliance with loan
conditions was good, macroeconomic variables did not respond as well as expected immediately after
loan effiectiveness. This response was due in part to external factors, in particular, the regionalization of
the financial crisis. There were also signs that the Thai economic boom had already begun to slow, as
shown by the stagnation of exports, prior to the crisis. Thus, the crisis was not confined to the financial
sector as originally thought.
12.   The crisis itself precipitated political turmoil that led to the fall of one government, the rise of a
coalition government and, finally, a newly-elected government. However, the change to a new
government was favorable, because of its economic expertise compared with that of the previous
officials, and its greater commitment to undertaking painful reforms (see below).
13.   Factors generally subject to Government control. Measures within the Government's control
were laid out in the Letter of Development Policy for the FCRL. The substantial progress made with
respect to those factors is detailed in paragraph 8. above. This progress can be attributed largely to the
political changes culminating in a new Government which was formed in November 1997. The new
government included a well-regarded economic team that contributed ultimately to successful FCRL
implenientation. This team was committed to reform and not only understood the economic principles
behind the reform, but also made substantive contributions to the policy dialogue and, thus, established
ownership of the reform program. The Thai economic team further recognized Thai responsibility for
the crisis and did not view themselves as victims of external events. The team could have benefited
from a greater degree of political "savvy," which would have helped them gain greater domestic support
for the program sooner.



- 6 -
14.   Another factor to which the Government responded well was general legal reform. When the
crisis hit, the legal framework could not accommodate necessary reform measures. If financial legal
reforms were to be effective, then a general legal framework with enforcibility had to be established.
This initiative was pursued early in the crisis. Ideally, a specific foreclosure and regulatory framework
would have been emphasized earlier in the FCRL preparation, but the basic legal groundwork had to be
laid first. It is unlikely that FC depositors' wait for resolution of their claims would have been shortened
even if specific financial legal reforns were pursued at the outset. Legal reforms typically require a
lengthy process before implementation and the focus in the early preparation of FCRL was on measures
havinrg immediate impact to defuse the crisis.
15.   Factors generally subject to implementing agency control. Early in the crisis, the BOT's
response was mixed. On the one hand, rapid progress had been made in suspending the troubled FCs.
Sixteen were suspended before the devaluation of the Baht (June 26, 1997) and 42 after the devaluation
(August 5, 1997). In other areas, the BOT did not respond adequately. Financial information did not
flow freely, which hampered assessment of the full extent of the crisis. The economic team from the
previLous government was unable to provide sufficient data, nor could it coordinate the influx of experts
advising on the financial sector. The Steering Committee, which evolved into the FRA, had no staff and
was meeting far too infrequently to deal with the crisis.
16.   When the coalition govermment came to power in October 1997, management of the reform
process improved substantially. The BOT and the Ministry of Finance worked well together on a
prog-am to restore confidence in the FC subsector. The most important early progress by the new
Government was the ability to effectively utilize the resources of the FSIAP technical assistance and on-
the-spot advisory services. The speed and comprehensiveness with which the implementing agencies
followed through on the liquidation and restructuring of the 58 troubled finance companies was also
impressive. Nevertheless, it is likely that the FCs were suspended for too long a period, taking a large
amoumt of financial assets out of the productive economy. The lengthy suspension probably also
encouraged additional "strategic" defaults by debtors who judged that they need not struggle to repay to
an institution slated for liquidation.
D. Project Sustainability
17.   At the outset, a large infusion of on-the-spot Technical Assistance was required to assess and
respond to the crisis. This TA, now referred to as the "Essential Technical Assistance Program" (taken
over by the SFO beginning in February 1998), proved essential to launch the FCRL preparation. It was
the mechanism by which the expertise to deal with the crisis was put in place, and included the
monitoring of the remaining FCs and the preparation of the FSIAP. The FCRL subsequently benefited
from the technical assistance of the FSIAP through funding for technical support for the resolution of
troubled finance companies and development of improved financial regulatory and supervisory capacity.
The continued application of financial TA, including monitoring, as well as technical support, has
helped sustain the reforms.
18.   Sustainability of the FCRL program as a whole is promoted because most of the reforn measures
are in place and are mutually reinforcing. Despite some slippages in macroeconomic indicators, overall
continued progress in implementing the objectives of the FCRL has been satisfactory. Future planned



- 7 -
operations (see section H.) support a continued process of stabilization and reform that will expand to
include the corporate sector, mitigate social side effects of adjustment, and address competitiveness
issues.
E. Bank Performance
19.   This section reviews the major issues of Bank performance on the basis of what was a reasonable
standard at the time and what would have been the best course in retrospect. In general, it can be said
that the Bank did respond quickly once the crisis was manifest and some of the shortcomings in
performanxce can be attributed to the compressed timetable for intervention in the crisis. Point by point
critiques of Bank performance are evaluated below.
* The Bank did not, but should have anticipated the crisis.
There is no documentation to suggest that the Bank (or the IMF) anticipated the Thai financial
crisis or its depth, but there are two mitigating circumstances. First, Thailand was on the path to
graduation from the Bank, there were few Bank-funded activities, and the Bank staff working on
Thailand had been scaled down. There was not the manpower to closely monitor the Thai
financial and corporate sectors. Second, the financial information coming from Thai financial
institutions was inadequate to predict the crisis. Without ongoing financial operations in-
country, the Bank did not have staff in place, nor the standing, to persuade the Thai authorities to
improve the information needed to track trends in the portfolios of financial intermediaries.
* The Bank should have better gauged the depth of the crisis.
The Bank initially focused on the outcome of the crisis rather than the root cause. The Bank and
the IMF first diagnosed the crisis as a purely financial crisis that could be stemmed within the
linancial sector. The early prescription was to resolve troubled financial intermnediaries and
stabilize the currency. The Bank did not fully recognize that the corporate sector had faced
(declining demand leading up to the crisis and did not encourage the use of fiscal policy tools. As
the Bank became more familiar with the nature of the crisis, the corporate sector was included in
the reform program. In addition, given the regional nature of the crisis, the Bank could have
made a more thorough assessment of risk ratings for world market conditions as reflected in
Form 590.
* The Bank did not have the appropriate procedures in place and should have shortened the usual loan
process.
'The East Asia Region reorganization was effective on July 1, 1997 and the Asian crisis struck on
July 2, 1997. Insufficient time had passed to solve operational glitches and deal with normal
business, much less a rapidly unfolding crisis. For example, initially it was not clear as to which
division had overall responsibility, and who should sign off on the loan. Accountability and
quality control processes were not fully utilized. Staff indicated also that, in spite of the
immense time pressure, much of their time was spent producing and polishing reports. Staff time
would have been better allocated to activities directly aimed at solving the crisis. A deviation
from standard Bank reporting practices in favor of a more streamlined process was called for.



-8 -
Indeed, there were areas where important analyses could have been done early in the crisis, such
as in analyzing financial statements of intennediaries. Such a reallocated effort might have given
staff a better idea of the depth of the crisis earlier. The amount of time spent on report writing
did not, however, appear to delay disbursement of the FCRL.
* The division of labor between the Bank and the IMF limited the Bank's effectiveness in working on
the crisis.
Specifically, the Bank was responsible for the FCs and the IMF for the banking sector. The
rationale for this division of labor was that the Bank had a comparative advantage in dealing with
non-bank financial intermediaries. The IMF viewed the banks as separate from FCs and, as the
core of the financial system, they were the IMF's proper area of responsibility. The IMF also
believed that the banks were relatively healthy. This distinction, while it created a basis for
working together, may have had costs. Conflicting advice created some difficulty for the Thais
early on. The Bank might have also contributed to diagnosing and remedying the banking sector
problems. The staff's consensus is that the damage caused to the Thai economy by the Bank
assuming a narrower than necessary role was, however, minimal and the division between the FC
and banking subsectors was blurred in any case, with each crossing over into the other's
activities.
* Performing diagnostics of financial enterprises should have been emphasized earlier.
Had more time been spent examining the financial statements of financial enterprises, the design
of the initial program loan (FCRL) might have been more geared to solving a wider crisis, not
just within the FC sub-sector. A thorough analysis of banks and FCs at the start would have
directed the recovery onto the right (broader, including corporates) course sooner. This critique
assumes, to some extent, that the legal system could have handled further suspensions.
Suspension of 58 of 91 FCs was already more than the legal system could dispose of, which may
be why the suspension period of the 58 FCs was so long (between 12 and 18 months). It is also
unlikely that staff had the time to conduct these analyses as they were fully occupied formulating
measures to ease the crisis. Still, postponing a thorough analysis of these and other financial
institutions may have delayed more effective fiscal measures.
* The FRA mandate should have been broader than only handling the sale of the 56 FCs.
The mandate was too restrictive partly because there were additional FCs to deal with, e.g., the
12 that were recapitalized by the FIDF and merged with the KTT. In addition, if the FRA had
been able to do loan workouts, it would have been able to turn non-performing loans into
performing loans which would have enhanced the sale price of financial assets. The FRA could
also have been mandated to manage assets, which would have taken them out of limbo and put
them back into the productive economy sooner.
* The timetable for the resolution of the FCs was too short resulting in too many assets dumped on the
market to allow reasonable sale prices.
The Bank's original position was that it would take longer, but ultimately agreed to the timetable
set by the IMF to complete liquidation by the end of 1998. Indeed prices will fall as a result of



-9 -
the large amount of assets being sold, but completing the process sooner and getting the
suspended resources back into action was important to sustain the Thai recovery. In any case,
the higher quality assets were sold first (realizing $0.48 on the dollar), before a true glut of assets
occurred. The glut consisted of lower quality assets such as leases, which tend to bring a lower
percentage of the dollar. As for absorption capacity, the assets were being purchased mainly by
international buyers. To the extent that prices are not satisfactory, the AMC is set up to purchase
assets.
* Too many resources went into the AMC given the role it played.
At the time it was conceived, it made sense to have the AMC as a bidder of last resort, because it
was unforeseen that the market would absorb all asset sales. It has not played a role so far,
although it may during the final sale of assets. Certainly, substantial resources went into its
creation, including an MIS system with asset valuation capability. In retrospect, these resources
mrnight have been better employed at the FRA under a broader mandate.
*  Reduction of the time period for recognition of non-performing loans (NPLs) further undernined
confidence in the financial sector.
When recognition of NPLs was first reduced to 180 days and then to 90 days, confidence in the
fmancial sector was further shaken. Still, this move was necessary to achieve a better picture of
financial conditions in what had been non-transparent sector operations. Analysts could begin to
assess the true depth of the financial crisis, a prerequisite to solving it.
- The costs of preparing and implementing the FCRL were very high.
It is difficult to precisely estimate the costs associated with preparing the FCRL because
expenditures are embedded in: (a) an overall effort to staff up an undermanned unit to deal with
the crisis; (b) mobilizing a financial advisory SWAT team; (c) the FSIAP technical assistance;
and (d) other loans in the sequence of program lending. Costs are estimated at almost $300,000,
a bit higher than for similar operations, assuming that the other activities have been properly
separated. Costs were controlled to some extent by the highly compressed processing timetable.
When recognizing that the Bank's Thailand unit had to be rapidly geared up, the somewhat
higher costs were acceptable.
20.   A special feature of Bank performance involves the establishment of the SFO. The need to
establish an SFO was a strong response to the need to establish a capacity for dealing with countries'
financial distress. It was also, in some respects, a reflection on the Bank's ability to predict and
readiness to respond to the crisis. The creation of a specialized new department to deal with a crisis
might have caused friction with units that had previously dealt with Thailand. Although there was some
friction in the beginning, the relationship between SFO and EAP quickly evolved into a team effort to
solve the Thai crisis. The SFO became not only a resource to draw on, but a full member of the team
that needed economic experts to measure progress in the macro economy, as well as financial expertise
to provide strong supervision, follow-up and TA to the GOT and the Central Bank.
21.   In summary, although the Bank was not able to anticipate the crisis in the financial sector, it
demonstrated, along with other lenders, a swift response in accelerating balance of payments assistance.



- 10-
Under the Tokyo Pledge, on a compressed timetable, the Bank, with the Government and other donors,
identified several large single tranche operations to address specific aspects of stabilization and
structural reform over a two-year period. The Bank consistently held its position that a Government
plan for effective financial restructuring and macro-economic stabilization were essential conditions for
Board presentation of the FCRL and closely monitored the measures in the policy matrix.
F. Borrower Performance
22.   As measured by its commitment to implement specific structural reforms under the FCRL,
Government performance is considered satisfactory. The Government committed to a detailed timetable
of actions in its Letter of Development Policy and accomplished almost all of its policy reforms
specified under the objectives of the loan. Performance was especially good in the identification of 58
FCs for liquidation or restructuring. This was a difficult step because of the powerful interests linked to
the suspended FCs. The good performance and level of commitment to the reforms is attributed to the
new economic team that took over in November 1997. Until that time, the Government was not
sufficiently engaged, nor able to comprehend the magnitude of the crisis.
23.   The BOT, on behalf of the Government, maintained the accounts for the FCRL in accordance
with sound accounting practices. It was agreed that the program would be audited within four months of
Bank request.  Government compliance with legal covenants under the FCRL was considered
satisfactory.
G. Assessment of Outcome
24.   The overall performance and outcome of the FCRL were satisfactory, as the vast majority of
specific policy measures, and therefore the major objectives of the loan, were achieved and assessed to
be sustainable. This rating is consistent with both the QAG rating at entry (Satisfactory) and the rating
by EASPR of meeting development objectives (Form 590) at project close (also Satisfactory). Because
it was not an investment operation, calculation of benefits in terms of net present value and economic
rates of return is not applicable.
H. Future Operations
25.   The Economic and Financial Adjustment Loan (EFAL I) was the immediate follow-up operation,
effective July 1998. EFAL I supported Government efforts to deepen structural reform in the financial
sector and revive the corporate sector. The next loan, EFAL II, was designed to create employment
opportunities and provide essential services to the poor and unemployed during the crisis. The fourth and
final planned loan of the two-year structural adjustment program will incorporate all of the elements of
the previous three loans and add measures to improve the competitiveness of Thai corporations.



- 11 -
I. Key Lessons Learned
26.   The main lessons learned are:
*  Counterpart quality. The capability of the counterpart is a prerequisite to a successful reform
program. The interim and new Thai Governments were able to understand, contribute to and commit to
a comprehensive reform program. The predecessor Government was unable to make use of the
financial and economic expertise orchestrated by the Bank and IMF and did not grasp the gravity of the
crisis.
*  Tracking borrowers' economies approaching graduation. The Bank should maintain, or have
access to, a capacity to more effectively track developments in financial sectors of countries that are
near graduation, or have graduated. The crisis took the Bank by surprise because the Bank was not
carnying out economic and sector work in Thailand and did not analyze the underlying financial
framework (prudential regulations, supervisory capacity, corporate governance, etc.), nor verify the
accuracy of financial information. Good performance of the Thai economy including years of
sustained, export-led growth, may have led to optimism by the Bank and the Thai authorities that
Thailand was not vulnerable to a multi-dimensional, sustained economic crisis, and financial oversight
was not a priority.
*  Single vs. double tranche loans. A single tranche policy-based operation (such as FCRL), with the
bulk of policy actions clearly laid out in a precise timetable prior to Board approval, was a focused and
flexilble approach to provide support for structural reforms in a rapidly changing situation as in
Thailand. However, the single tranche approach does not have the two-tranche advantages of allowing
the Government to take a longer view of the reform process and more time to make adjustments. A
secoind tranche also provides an incentive to comply with conditionality.
*  Coordination among multilateral lenders. It is important to the success of a recovery operation with
multiple financiers to agree on the best course of action which includes an appropriate division of
responsibility. In the FCRL, the Bank's role may have been defined too narrowly initially, which
artificially limited its contribution to easing the crisis.
*  Streamline Bank processes. In emergency circumstances, as the Thai crisis, the Bank should relax the
labor-intensive activities of repetitive reporting and refining so that expertise may be freed for more
substantive analysis and creative solutions. Emergency conditions also call for a shorter procurement
process (e.g., one week as opposed to three months), especially for timely application of technical
expertise. The flexible budget of the SFO proved helpful in this regard after FCRL implementation.
* AddLed challenge of a regional crisis. When a crisis is regionalized, aggregate demand is harder to
stimulate, and the crisis is usually more difficult to defuse. Aggregate demand will be more sluggish
than in a crisis confined to one country, as experienced after FCRL effectiveness. The Government and
the ]3ank had to demonstrate greater resolve in adhering to the reform program.
*  TA as an essential ingredient for implementation. A well-designed set of loan conditions is not
sufficient without substantial TA. Sustained TA is needed to implement the conditions and to
supplement Bank staff resources, and helps establish strong relationships with government authorities



- 12-
essential to a long-termn reform process. Procurement short-cuts for this type of TA should be followed
in crisis situations.



- 13 -
Part II. Statistical Tables
Table 1:   Summary of Assessments
Table 2:   Related Bank Loans/Credits
Table 3:   Project Timetable
Table 4:   Loan/Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
Table 5:   Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Table 6:   Key Indicators for Project Operation
Table 7:   Studies Included in Project
Table 8A: Project Costs
Table 8B.: Project Financing
Table 9:   Economic Costs and Benefits
Table 10:  Status of Legal Covenants
Table 11:  Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
Table 12:  Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Table 13:  Bank Resources: Missions



- 14-
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
A. Achievement of Objectives         Substantial       Partial         Neghlble         Not applicable
Macro Policies                       3               E                 Cl               I
Sector Policies                        I             M                 =                 O
Financial Objectives                 E                a                a                I
histitutional Development            0]             [                  0 
Physical Objectives                 I                 a               I                 [
Poverty Reduction                      l             El               I                 [
Gender Issues                                                         M o  o            aI
Other Social Objectives             []                                M iE
Environmental Objectives                                              El oo7
Public Sector Management             E              IX]                El                El
Private Sector Development           El             [                  El                M
Other (specify)                      EEl                              El                 El
B. Project Sustainability             Likely                    Unlikely                   Uncertain
(/)                ~~~(/)                      (/)
Higl
C. Bank Performance                  Satisfactory              Satisfactory                Deficient
(v')                     (V)                        (V)
Identification                       El                       ii                         El
Preparation Assistance              El                        [                          El
Appraisal                            El                       li                         El
Supervision                          El                       IXI                        El



- 15 -
(Continued)
Highly
D. Borrower Performance            Satisfactory            Satisfactory               Deficient
(/)                     (/)                      (/)
Preparation                       1                     FE                        Ei
Implementation                                            [El                       ii
Covenant Compliance                                                                 I E]
Operation (if applicable)         I                        E                        I
Highly                                           Highly
E. Assessment of Outcome           satisfactory   Satisfactory    Unsatisfactory   unsatisfactory
Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits
Loan/credit title           Purpose                 Year of approval            Status
Preceding operations
1. Financial Sector     Provide TA to the GOT and            FY98           Under implementation
Implementation          BOT to develop a program of
Assistance Loan          structural reform in the
financial sector
Following operations
1. Economic Management  Build capacity for                   FY98           Under implementation
Assistance Project      macroeconomic management
2. EFAI, I              Deepen financial sector              FY99           Closed
reforms and revive corporate
sector
3. Social Investment    Employment creation and          Planned FY99
Project                 provision of services to the
poor
4. EFAI, II             Deepen EFAL I reforms and            FY99           Under irnplementation
improve competitiveness of
Thai corporations



- 16 -
Table 3: Project Timetable
Steps in Project Cycle              Date Planned          Date Actual/
Latest Estimate
Preparation                                                                        10/97
Appraisal                                                                          11/97
Negotiations                                                                   12/8-10/97
Letter of Development/Sector Policy (if applicable)                                12/97
Board Presentation                                                              12/23/97
Signing                                                                         12/24/97
Effectiveness                                                                   12/29/97
Disbursement                                                                    12/29/97
Loan Closing                                                                     6/30/98
Table 4: Loan/Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
(US$ millions)
FY98
Appraisal estimate             350
Actual                         350
Actual as % of estimate        100
Date of final disbursement   12/29/97
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Estimated                 Actual
I. Key implementation indicators in PAD
For all indicators, see Status of Policy Agreements-Annex B



- 17-
Table 6: Key Indicators for Project Operation
Estimated                 Actual
I. Key operating indicators in PAD
For all indicators, see Status of Policy Agreements-Annex B
Table 7: Studies Included in Project
Study                               Purpose as defined at    Status   Impact of study
appraisal/redefined
1. NO STUDIES
Table 8A: Project Costs
Appraisal estimate          Actual/latest estimates
(US$ million)                 (US$ million)
Itenn                             Local  Foreign   Total        Local  Foreign   Total
costs   costs                 costs    costs
1. Elalance of Payments Support              350       350               350      350
Total                                        350       350                350      350
Table 8B: Project Financing
Appraisal estimate          Actual/latest estimates
(US$ million)                 (US$ million)
Itern                            Local  Foreign   Total         Local  Foreign   Total
costs   costs                 costs    costs
IBFD                                         350       350                350      350
Total                                        350       350                350      350



- 18 -
Table 9: Economic Costs and Benefits
N/A
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants
Thailand
Financial Companies Restructuring Loan
Covenant Present   Original    Revised         Description of Covenant           Comments
Agreement  Section    Type    Status   Fulfillment  Fulfillment
Date        Date
Loan        3.02 (b)  I         NC       10/30/98    10/30/98    Audit of Deposit Account
Covenant types:                                                                          Present Status:
i. = Accounts/audits                             8. = Indigenous people                  C = covenant complied with
2. = Financial performance/revenue generation from  9. = Monitoring, review, and reporting  CD = complied with after delay
beneficiaries                                 10. = Project implementation not covered  CP = complied with partially
3. = Flow and utilization of project funds          by categories 1-9                    NC = not complied with
4. = Counterpart funding                         11. = Sectoral or cross-sectoral budgetary
5. = Management aspects of the project or executing  or other resource allocation
agency                                        12. = Sectoral or cross-sectoral policy/
6. = Environmental covenants                        regulatory/institutional action
7. = Involuntary resettlement                    13. = Other
Table 11: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
Statement number and title            Describe and comment on lack of compliance
1. FU1LL COMPLIANCE



- 19-
Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Planned                   Revised                     Actual
Stage of project cycle  Weeks      US$        Weeks         US$            Weeks        US$
Preparation to Appraisal       27.0   121.2         54.8           212.3          51.9        227.5
Negotiations through Board                           8.5            28.7           8.5         28.4
approval
Supervision                    31.0    66.8         20.5            46.8          15.6         25.7
Completion                     10.0    23.0         10.0            23.0           3.0          7.0
Total                   68.0   211.0         93.8           310.8         79.0        288.6
Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions
Performance Rating     Types of
Stage of project cycle    Month/  No. of Days in  Specialization'    Implem.    Developm. Problems3
Year  Persons  Field                      Status      objectives
Through Appraisal        10-11/97    12     85         EF,A          N/A          N/A
Appraisal through Board   12/97      5      15         E,F,A         N/A          N/A
approval
Supervision              1-3/98     10      30         E,F,A           S           S
Completion              N/A                                            S           S
Total                        12     130
I - Key to Specialized staff skills:  2 - Key to Perfonnance Ratings:  3 - Key to Types of Problems:
E-Economist
F-Financial Analyst
A-Accounting



ANNEX A
BORROWER CONTRIBUTION



Annex A Page 1 of 3
The Kingdom of Thailand
Government's Evaluation Report on
Financial Companies Restructuring Loan
(Loan No. 42680-TH)
The Financial Companies Restructuring Loan (FCRL) in the amount of
US$ 350 million was used by the Government of Thailand to achieve macroeconomic
stabilization and structural reform in the financial section in Thailand during January 1,
1998 - June 30, 1998.
The FCRL was the first of three loans for the Government of Thailand approved
by the World Bank in support of the stabilization and structural reform measures
announced in the $17.2 billion Tokyo financing package of August 1997. The financing
package was a coordinated strategy by multi-lateral and bilateral partners to assist
Thailand's efforts at crisis management and recovery.
Background
In the summer of 1997, Thailand was confronted with the worst economic crisis
in living memory. After two decades of rapid economic growth, financed by high
donmestic savings and inflows of foreign capital, market sentiment was turning
pessimistic. This pessimism was rooted primarily in the difficulties in the financial sector
where imprudent lending and borrowing, specially by finance companies, was leading to
a high incidence of non-performing loans. Many finance companies were in business
only because of the liquidity support provided by the Financial Institutions Development
Fund (FIDF). The result was a large build of contingent liability for the Government and
this, in turn, contributed to the market nervousness.
The problems of finance companies were symptomatic of the broader weaknesses in the
financial sector that needed urgent attention. The prudential rules governing the safety
and soundness of financial institutions and the overall supervisory framework of the Bank
of Thailand were in urgent need of upgrading and modernizing. The authorities saw the
crisis as an opportunity to clean up the financial sector to position Thialnd for economic
growth in the more global setting of the new millenium.
The funds provided under the FCRL were timely both in terms of the balance of
pa-yments support as well as in signaling to the market that a well-financed strategy was
in hand to address the root causes of the crisis. With its focus on the financial sector, the
measures supported by the loan helped start a program of reform that has achieved
several objectives and is continuing to address the remaining weaknesses in the financial
sector.



Annex A Page 2 of 3
Measures supported by the loan
Specifically, the measures taken under the FCRL focused on the following
outcomes:
1. Bring about macro-economic stability and fiscal balance.
(the macro-economic framework was provided under the IMF's
program)
2. Facilitate stable capital flows
(measures included removal of restrictions on the capital account and
rationalization of the regulatory and tax regimes on baht denominated
debt).
3. Rationalize liquidity support by FIDF
(measures affected interest rates on FIDF support, stringent conditions
regarding future advances and a comprehensive review of the FIDF)
4. Strengthen the supervision and regulatory environment for financial
institutions
(measures allowed an in-depth assessment of the financial conditions
of finance companies and corrective action/rehabilitation)
5. Strengthening market discipline.
(Measures aimed to establish adequate legal infrastructure for out of
court settlements and for strengthening accounting, auditing and
disclosure standards).
Comments
Structure of the Loan
FCRL was a single tranche loan that was followed up sequentially, by additional
single tranche operations. The Thai authorities viewed World Bank support as a program
of loans, one building upon the other. This flexible programmatic approach allowed the
authorities to focus on economic management issues as the crisis unfolded. However,
breaking up loan conditions into Board and Letter of Development Policy components
(that were taken up as Board conditions in the next loan) was a mixed blessing. It made
for tedious and laborious preparations and negotiations at a time when Government
resources were stretched to the limit. But, at the same time it helped maintain a sharp
focus on the content and timing of the action that needed to be taken.
Selectivity
Although the loan sought to focus on the finance companies' sub-sector, loan
conditionality broadened into many areas including capital market development, legal
reform for secured lending and corporate Governance. This tended to distract from clarity
and taxed the authorities' put a heavy burden on the authorities' commitment to
undertake reform.



Annex A Page 3 of 3
Focuis
There has been some discussion in Thailand that the crisis should have been better
understood and better anticipated. In particular, the social consequences of the crisis
should have been tackled early on.
Macro-economic framework
Even though the macro-economic framework supported by the loan was the IMF's
responsibility, perhaps the Bank should have been more vocal in its views regarding the
excessively tight monetary and fiscal stance (that had to be reversed subsequently).
Conclusion
Not-withstanding the remarks made above, the FCRL was a good beginning of the
current phase of Thailand-World Bank partnership. The authorities are appreciative of the
hard work that has gone into the structural reform program. The benefits can be seen
clearly in the outcomes of macro-economic stability and return of market confidence.



ANNEX B
STATUS OF POLICY AGREEMENTS
AS OF JUNE 1998



Annex B Page 1of IO
ANNEX B: STATUS OF POLICY AGREEMENTS (JUNE 1998)
OBJECTIVES AND PROGRAM                                BOARD CONDITIONS'                            LETTER OF DEVELOPMENT POLICY
I. MACROECONOMIC AND FISCAL
1. Maintain macroeconomic stability andfiscal balance
Issue: Macroeconomic stability is fundamental to return of Satisfactory progress made in implementing the revised    Government will maintain the macroeconomic program
confidence and corporate recovery.                 macroeconomic program announced on May 19, 1998.    including an adequate reserve position and a prudent
Objectives and Program: Pursue agreed strategies to                                                   monetaoy policy to consolidate the ongoing stabilization of
ensure economic stability.                                                                            teeooy
2. The Fiscal Program
Issue: Maintaining a fiscal surplus in view of economic                                               Develop a framework for a flexible fiscal stance in view of
contraction and reduced revenue collections will                                                      the potentially large fiscal costs of financial sector
exacerbate the decline in aggregate demand and may delay                                              workouts and an extended recession.
economic and corporate recovery.
Objective and Program: Implement a less contractionary
fiscal policy to support economic recovery. Create the
fiscal room for foreign financing of social expenditures.
3. Easing the liquidity crunch of the Thai corporations and increasing competitiveness
Issue: The sharp contraction in credit associated with the  Make available credit to exporting firms through bilateral  By December 1998, MOF will prepare an action plan for
financial sector crisis has resulted in high interest costs and and multilateral sourcing of funds under transparent  increasing competitiveness of Thai corporations.
reduced liquidity for manufacturers. This has reduced  eligibility criteria.
capacity utilization and has adversely affected firm
prospects.
Objective and Program: Implement a credit program to
ease the liquidity crunch faced by Thai corporations in a
transparent and nondistortionary manner.          I



Annex B Page 2 of IO
OBJECTIVES AND PROGRAM                                BOARD CONDITIONS                             LETTER OF DEVELOPMENT POLICY
14. Corporate Restructuring
Issue: Current Tax law favors debt over equity financing; [The Ministry of Finance has established a working group  1. A draft proposal to allow tax deferral on cash free asset
does not promote debt rescheduling; and discourages cash- to provide advice on corporate debt and equity  transfer, share acquisitions, and mergers, for the purpose
free asset transfers, share acquisitions, and mergers as    restructuring.                            of encouraging mergers and acquisitions in support of
methods of corporate restructuring.                                                                   corporate reorganization, will be submitted to the Ministry
Objectives and Program: Regulatory reforms to                                                         of Finance for consideration by July 15, 1998.
encourage equity financing and to promote corporate                                                   2. By September 30, 1998, the Ministry of Finance will
restructuring through debt restructuring and equity                                                   review the Revenue Code in order to remove and/or reduce
restructuring.                                                                                        any impediments to corporate debt and equity
restructuring, including; (a) deductibility of interest
expense, (b) promotion of debt restructuring in selected
cases, and (c) encouragement of mergers and acquisitions
in support of corporate reorganization.
5. Additional Tax Measures
Issue: Securitization industry is virtually nonexistent,                                              In order to promote asset securitization, the Government
which has prevented banks from improving balance sheets,                                              will eliminate any tax disadvantages to the securitization
reducing the need for recapitalization and increase lending                                           business in setting up special purpose vehicles.
to the corporate sector.
Objectives and Program: The tax regime governing
securitization industry has to be reformed to promote
securitization.
II. FINANCIAL SECTOR RESTRUCTURING
1. FINANCE COMPANIES RESOLUTION
1. Progress in the ERA sales process
Issue: The FRA needs to finalize criteria and procedures  FRA has adopted and begun implementation of a program  FRA will target December 31, 1998, to complete the
for the sale of core assets of the 56 finance companies    to sell the portfolio of core financial assets pertaining to   disposal of all assets.
taken over (FCT), and carry out the sales.         finance companies taken over by FRA.
Objectives and Program: Implement the sale of assets of
FTCs, and continue showing concrete progress.



Annex B Page 3 of IO
OBJECTIVES AND PROGRAM                                BOARD CONDITIONS                   I         LETTER OF DEVELOPMENT POLICY
2. Establishment of the AMC
Issue: An adequately funded, well-performing AMC is an The Government has taken steps to enable AMC to be  1. AMC will manage, restructure, and collect on assets in
important component of the resolution process. The AMC  fully operational, including through: (a) approving an  an efficient manner.
will need to have the capacity to acquire, manage,  increase to the authorized capital of AMC; (b) approving   2. AMC will resell in due course all assets.
restructure, collect on the assets, and/or resell the assets to internal policies and procedures; (c) setting-up of a
private sector buyers.                             Management Information System (MIS) for asset      3. AMC's operational plan and MIS will be reviewed and
Objectives and Program: Maximize the price of assets   management and disposition; and (d) approving bidding   endorsed by external experts selected by MOF, by August
sold by the FRA in a way that enhances the confidence of methodology and asset valuation procedures for the  31, 1998.
the domestic and international capital markets.    resolution of assets pertaining to finance companies taken
Iover by FRA.
3. Establishment of the Radhanasin Bank
Issue: The Government has created the Radhanasin Bank                                                 In the coming months, the RAB will actively search for
(RAB), a state-owned commercial bank expected to bid for                                              and acquire a strategic foreign partner with a view to
the highest quality assets.                                                                           strengthening the domestic banking system.
Objectives and Program: Ensure that RAB (i) plays a
market-oriented role in the auction process, and (ii) only
bids for the highest quality assets.
2. SAFETY AND SOUNDNESS OF THE FINANCIAL SECTOR
1. Restructure and strengthen the corefinancial institutions
Issue: The BOT must continue to take tough actions  The Bank of Thailand has launched a due diligence  1. MOF and BOT will develop a restructuring and
against the weakest financial institutions, and speed up the program in order to assess the financial condition of four  privatization strategy for the four intervened banks by
recapitalization and restructuring process of the whole    intervened banks.                          July 31, 1998.
financial industry.                                                                                   2. All scheduled diagnostic reviews will be completed by
Objectives and Program: Assess the financial condition                                                December 31, 1998.
of financial institutions through diagnostic reviews                                                  3. BOT will conduct enhanced onsite examinations in all
conducted under specific TOR and with foreign expert                                                  nonintervened domestic commercial banks with expert
assistance; monitor recapitalization of all financial                                                 assistance.
institutions through the progressive implementation of loan
classification and provisioning standards in line with best                                           4. New MOUs will be signed with banks and finance
international practices; carry out special audits; develop a                                          companies by August 15, 1998; under these new MOUs,
strategy for dealing with the four intervened banks;                                                  recapitalization will be phased in to comply with the new
develop a strategy for dealing with the remaining weak                                                classification and provisioning set of rules at the latest by
institutions, particularly any finance company that is                                                2000.
unable to recapitalize in accordance with the MOUs signed
in 1997.



Annex B Page 4 of IO
OBJECTIVES AND PROGRAM                               BOARD CONDITIONS                           LETTER OF DEVELOPMENT POLICY
2. Redefine the role offinancialplayers in a modernized Thai financial sector
Issue: The authorities must determine a strategy to                                                MOF/BOT/SEC will carry out a study on options for the
develop a more sound and efficient financial sector in                                             future structure of the financial sector and will make
Thailand over the next several years.                                                              recommendations to the Govemment by November 30,
Objectives and Program: MOF must explore ways to                                                    1998.
provide adequate financial services to various economic
players. In particular, it must review the respective role of
commercial banks, finance companies, security companies
and other specialized financial institutions, and determined
how such institutions should be allowed to operate in the
future.
3. Develop a comprehensiveframework for supervision offinancial institution
Issue: The authorities must develop a comprehensive                                                MOF will develop a comprehensive framework for
framework for supervision of all financial institutions to                                         financial supervision by December 31, 1998.
avoid a piecemeal approach that could result in gaps in the
supervisory process and inconsistent decisions regarding
the supervision of different financial functions.
Objectives and Program: The comprehensive framework
will determine the most appropriate supervisory model for
Thailand.
4. Improve legal provisions and regulations for supervision
Issue, Objectives and Program: To develop a                                                         1. BOT will conduct a review of the legal and regulatory
comprehensive supervision framework, MOF and BOT                                                   framework for supervision of commercial banks and
will develop amendments to the law and prudential                                                  finance companies by October 31, 1998. Based on this
regulations related to the supervision of commercial banks,                                        review, by December this year, MOF and BOT will
finance companies and Specialized Financial Institutions                                           present to the Cabinet legal amendments to the Banking
(SFIs). The legal framework governing bankruptcy and                                               Act and the Finance Companies Act.
reorganization of distressed financial institutions will also                                      2. By December 31, 1998, the BOT will begin the process
need to be revisited.                                                                              of revising existing regulations and issue new prudential
regulations for commercial banks and finance companies
including regulations on insider lending and foreign
exchange exposure.
3. MOF will review the legal and regulatory framework for
supervision of the Specialized Financial Institutions by
_____________________________________  __________________________________  July 31, 1998. Based on this review, by December 31,



Amnex B Page 5 of 10
OBJECTIVES AND PROGRAM                               BOARD CONDITIONS                             LETTER OF DEVELOPMENT POLICY
_~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ Y.O Ufl98, ihe.f M F will ihnitiate. Ute. prl%Aoss of. *'.eV;n exiL5sting||
l                                                 }                                                  Iregulations and issue new ones.
5. Strengthen the supervision capacity of the supervisory agencies
Issue: Regardless of the location of the supervision  The Bank of Thailand has adopted a time-bound program   By July 31, 1998, MOF will conduct an assessment of
functions, the MOF and the BOT should start building up  to develop its institutional capacity to supervise banks and MOF's/BOT's capacity to supervise Specialized Financial
supervision capacity in existing agencies.        finance companies.                                Institutions (SFIs). Based on this above assessment, MOF
wObjectives and Program: Based on the assessment of                                                  will develop an Institutional Development Plan for
their supervision capacity, the BOT and FPO must develop                                             strengthening supervision capacity of SFIs by September
an Institutional Development Plan to strengthen this                                                 30, 1998
capacity over the medium term.
6. Strengthen market discipline
1) Enhance transparency                                                                              1. By September 30, 1998 a review of current accounting,
Issue: Lack of transparency in financial institutions has                                            auditing and disclosures requirements for financial
dramatically undermined the ability of both supervisors                                             institutions will be conducted by MOF and BOT and
and investors to assess in a timely fashion the weaknesses                                           amendments proposed in these areas.
and risks bome by financial institutions.                                                            2. New specific rules on accounting, extemal auditing, and
Objectives and Program: The authorities will help                                                   financial disclosure for banks, finance companies and SFIs
introduce transparency by developing accounting, extemal                                             will be proposed by December 31, 1998.
auditing and disclosure standards more in line with best
intemational practices. Thus, shareholders, supervisors and
market participants would be provided with more accurate
and meaningful information on activities carried out and
risks borne.
2) Implement an explicit deposit protection scheme                                                   MOF and BOT will develop a plan for a deposit protection
Issue: The govemment must demonstrate its commitment                                                 scheme by December 31, 1998.
to move away from the general blanket guarantee set in
August 1997 and towards a more limited deposit
protection scheme once the financial markets stabilize.
Objectives and Program: The govermment will define the
scope of the new deposit protection and will clarify the
status of quasi-deposits vis-a-vis the new scheme. It will
set up an institutional framework to manage the deposit
protection scheme and an adequate funding mechanism.



Annex B Page 6 of IO
OBJECTIVES AND PROGRAM                                BOARD CONDITIONS                   |         LETTER OF DEVELOPMENT POLICY
111. LEGAL REFORM
1. Provide appropriate legislative and institutionalframeworksfor corporate bankruptcies and reorganizations
Issue: The Corporate Insolvency regime of Thailand (the  Cabinet has approved further revisions to the amended    1. By July 31, 1998, Govemment will have submitted
Bankruptcy Act B.E.2483 (1940), as amended, including  Bankruptcy Act B.E.2483 (1940) in order to facilitate    these amendments to the Bankruptcy Act B.E. 2483 (1940)
the Companies Reorganization Act, 1998) requires various corporate bankruptcies and liquidations.     to Parliament for enactment.
refinements in order not to deter the reorganization of                                               2. By October 31, 1998, Government will have: (a)
companies whose liquidation values are smaller than their                                             endeavored to have these amendments to the Bankruptcy
values as going concems and the automatic liquidation of                                              Act B.E. 2483 (1940) approved by Parliament; (b)
companies for which the opposite is true.                                                             designed and begun implementation of a program of
Objectives and Program: Make improvements in the                                                      capacity-building within the Reorganization Office of the
legislative framework for corporate bankruptcies and the                                              Ministry of Justice; and (c) on the basis of a diagnostic
possible reorganization of companies in financial distress.                                           assessment of the requirements to implement the
Establish better institutional infrastructure to ensure that                                          insolvency law, adopted an action plan which identifies the
any company in financial distress either gets reorganized                                             procedural and budgetary elements of an efficient system
as efficiently as possible, if reorganization is appropriate,                                         of corporate insolvencies.
or, if not, is liquidated as efficiently as possible. Carry out                                       3. Govemment will continue to provide training in aspects
thorough training of all relevant parties to ensure new                                               of corporate bankruptcies and formal corporate
provisions quickly become fully operational.                                                          reorganizations for judges and receivers and expand such
courses for trustees-in-bankruptcies, company managers,
________________________________________________________________________ _P_ lawyers accountants and others.
2. Provide appropriate legislative and institutionalframeworks for secured lending
Issue: Existing procedures for the realization of secured   Govemment has adopted a time-bound action plan for    1. For the purpose of expediting the process of foreclosing
interests result in inordinate delays. Also, the existing  legislative changes necessary to accelerate the process of  on collateral, by July 31, 1998, Government will have: (a)
provisions on pledges and mortgages in Book III of the    foreclosing on collateral.                  submitted to Parliament, for enactment, appropriate
Civil and Commercial Code (CCC) need to be arnended so                                                amendments to the Civil and Commercial Procedures
that creditors' rights are more certain and effective and the                                         (CCP); and (b) prepared adjustments to the existing
range of assets of borrowers that can serve as collateral                                             procedural frameworks.
greatly expanded. Simple means of registering secured                                                 2. By October 31, 1998, Government will have endeavored
interests and for the public to obtain this information need                                         to have these amendments to the CCP approved by
to be provided.                                                                                       Parliament.
Objectives and Program: Establish new procedures to                                                   3. On the basis of a diagnostic analysis of Book III of the
speed up the realization of secured interests. Establish                                              CCC and the requirements of a registry system for secured
comprehensive legislative regime for secured lending.                                                 interests, by December 31, 1998, the Government will
Establish, and make fully operational, a modern,                                                      have proposed steps to be put in place for: (a) an amended,
automated, centralized registry for secured interests.                                                comprehensive, legislative regime for secured lending; and
(b) an automated, centralized, registry system for secured
interests.



Annex B Page 7 of IO
li  BJECTVES AND PROGRPAM            I               BOARD CONDITIONS                             LETTER OF DEVELOPMENT POLICY
3. Ensure improvements in the process of enforcing commercial contracts and of corporate and commercial legislation, broadly defined
Issue: Judicial procedures in respect of corporate and                                               Govemment will undertake a thorough assessment of the
commercial cases, broadly defined, as well as the process                                            obstacles to the development of a more efficient system of
of enforcing judicial decisions once made, are too slow                                             judicial procedures for the resolution of commercial
and inefficient.                                                                                     disputes, including the enforcement ofjudgments, and, on
Objectives and Program: Ensure early improvement in                                                 the basis of this assessment, recommend legislative
udicial system procedures in respect of the settlement of                                           proposals and institutional changes necessary to achieve
corporate and commercial disputes, broadly defined, and                                              the stated objectives.
ensure the efficient enforcement of judgments of courts
once these are rendered.
Iv. FINANCIAL ACCOUNTABILITY AND CORPORATE GoVERNANCE
1. Rationalize the institutionalframeworkfor setting standards and regulating accounting and auditing practices
Issue: Responsibility for setting formal accounting  Govemment has adopted a time-bound program to   The ICAAT will conduct a comprehensive review of
standards does not rest with a private independent  establish an independent organization responsible for  standard-setting and the regulation framework of the
organization; currently, standards are endorsed by the  setting accounting standards consistent with international  accounting and auditing profession by September 30,
Govemment. Moreover, there are multiple agencies that   best practices, by December 31, 1998.        1998; it will then propose amendments to applicable laws
regulate, supervise, and define reporting requirements.                                              and regulations by December 31, 1998. The review will
Objectives and Program: Rationalize the institutional                                                determine the relevance and appropriateness of the draft
framework for setting standards and regulating the                                                   Accountants Council Act and the Accounting Act.
accounting and auditing profession in order to remove the
role of various agencies in regulating and supervising the
profession. Establish and ensure a proper role for an
independent standard-setting organization.
2. Strengthen the ICAAT to play a leadership role in development of the profession consistent with international best practices
Issue: The ICAAT, which develops all accounting and    Government has adopted a time-bound program to review  The professional body will become the primary private
auditing standards, is not fully independent in the  role and functions of the Institute of Certified Accountants source for developing national qualifications, ensuring
standard-setting process and is not a self-regulating  and Auditors of Thailand (ICAAT) to become an  implementation of accounting and auditing standards, and
national professional body.                       independent self-regulatory professional body consistent  conducting quality control of its members by December
Objectives and Program: Determine an appropriate role  with intemational best practices, by December 31, 1998.  31, 1998. The professional body will ensure that a formal
for the ICAAT in standard-setting and regulating the                                                 quality assurance process for audit firms that audit listed
profession. Ensure that ICAAT's role in standard setting                                             companies will be established. The body will begin
and regulating the profession is consistent with                                                     enforcing the code of ethics for practitioners by December
international best practices. An independent and self-                                               31, 1998.
regulating ICAAT will be responsible for setting auditing
standards and regulating the profession.



Annex B Page 8 of IO
OBJECTIVES AND PROGRAM                                 BOARD CONDITIONS                              LETTER OF DEVEIOPMENT POLICY
3. Improve the quality and reliability of key financial information provided by public corporations to regulators, shareholders, and the general public
Issue: Accounting and auditing standards and practices,   Govemment has announced that financial statements of   ICAAT will issue revised accounting standards for
particularly in the areas of financial statement disclosures, listed and nonlisted public companies, banks and financial financial statement disclosures, asset classification,
loss recognition, asset classification, marketable securities, institutions with assets in excess of one billion Baht will   marketable securities, and loss recognition as well as new
debt restructuring and impairment of assets, as well as    be required to be prepared and audited in accordance with  standards for attestation, debt restructuring and impairment
audit reports, are not consistent with international best    intemational best practices beginning with the year 1999.  of assets, by December 31, 1998.
practices.                                                                                              Along with reputable accounting firms, ICAAT, SET, and
Objectives and Program: Upgrade accounting and                                                          SEC will prepare a plan to improve the quality of audit
auditing standards to make them consistent with                                                         reports conducted for listed companies, nonlisted public
international best practices, and revise relevant laws and                                              companies, as well as banks and financial institutions by
regulations as necessary to require that financial                                                      September 30, 1998, under TOR acceptable to the Bank.
statements of public companies be prepared and audited in                                               The Government will put into effect the revised format
accordance with such standards beginning with the year                                                  (proposed by ICAAT) of audit reports, consistent with
1999.                                                                                                  international best practice, to include a paragraph on the
responsibility of management for preparation of financial
statements and responsibility of the auditor in rendering an
opinion on the fairness of financial statements. The new
format of the audit reports will be effective for the
financial year 1998.
The Government will produce a plan to remove the
burdensome statuary and mandatory requirement for
submitting audit reports to authorities for about 300,000
partnerships and inactive limited companies by September
30, 1998.
4. Strengthen thefinancial oversight role of the board of directors of corporations by requiring the establishment of audit committees
Issue: The internal control and the related oversight role of                                           SET, SEC, ICAAT and IIAT will review existing
the boards of directors of companies is weak. Audit                                                    requirements for the audit committees of the boards of
committees of the boards of directors are nonexistent or                                                directors for public companies by December 31, 1998.
ineffective.
Objectives and Program: Strengthen the internal control
structure of listed companies, banks, and financial
institutions and the related responsibility for oversight of
the internal audit function and selection of extemal
auditors.



Annex B Page 9 of lO
OBJECTIVES AND PROGRAM                               BOARD CONDITIONS                             LETTER OF DEVELOPMENT POLICY
5. Improve accountability of boards of directors and management ofpublic -mcompanuies
Issue: The boards of directors of listed companies and                                               SET and SEC will conduct a comprehensive review of the
financial institutions have not been effective in monitoring                                         duties and appointment process of directors,
corporate management performance.                                                                   responsibilities of officers, and shareholder rights of public
Objectives and Programs: Strengthen the effectiveness                                                companies, including the listed companies, as well as the
and monitoring role of the boards of directors and enhance                                          liability of directors, officers, and shareholders. The
shareholder rights.                                                                                 review will be completed by September 30, 1998 under
TOR acceptable to the Bank. Based on the review, a
working group consisting of SEC, SET, IIAT, ICAAT,
MOF and MOC will recommend appropriate changes to
the legal and regulatory framework to ensure protection of
minority shareholder rights and accountability of officers
and directors by December 31, 1998.
6. Rationalize the regulatoryframeworkfor enforcement of laws and regulationsfor public companies
Issues: SEC and SET responsibilities overlap in                                                      The Government will review the roles and responsibilities
enforcement of laws and regulations.                                                                 of SET, SEC, MOC, BOT and MOF in enforcing laws and
Objectives and Programs: Strengthen the framework for                                               regulations related to public companies, in consultation
enforcement of laws and regulations.                                                                 with the Bank. The Government will revise laws and
regulations as necessary to ensure sanctions in case of
breach of duty by officers of Public Companies.
V. PUBLIC ENTERPRISE REFORM/PRIVATIZATION
1. Organizational Arrangementfor State-Enterprise Reform
Issue: Responsibility for privatization, state enterprise                                            The Government will establish an effective Office of State
reform and private participation in infrastructure services                                          Enterprises within the Ministry of Finance to support the
is fragmented among CGD, FPO, NESDB.                                                                 State Enterprise Policy Commission and work with other
Objectives and Program: Defining authority and                                                       agencies in coordinating the country's overall program for
responsibility of the various entities charged with the                                              privatization and pnvate sector participation in
design and implementation of the reform program,                                                     mfrastructute.
allocating staff of the appropriate seniority and
qualifications, and establishing clear and effective decision
making processes would demonstrate the government's
commitment to advance the privatization agenda.



Annex B Page 10 of 10
OBJECTIVES AND PROGRAM                                BOARD CONDITIONS                             LETTER OF DEVELOPMENT POLICYI
2. Corporatization Law.
Issue: Privatization of individual public enterprises that   The Cabinct has approved the draft Corporatization Law to The Govemment to submit Corporatization Law to
have not been incorporated usually requires complex  enable State-Owned-Enterprises to convert into    Parliament by July 31, 1998. This law will permit
case-by-case legal approvals which leads to delays.  corporatized companies.                          corporatization of state-owned enterprises so that these
Objectives and Program: A Corporatization Law would                                                   may be wholly or partly divested to private owners.
constitute a first critical formal step in initiating the reform
program. The law includes provisions to transform state
enterprises into corporatized companies.
3. Master Plan for State- Enterprise Reform.
Issue: The Government has not as yet formulated a                                                     By August 31, 1998, the Department will submit to the
coherent privatization strategy                                                                       Cabinet a Master Plan on state enterprise reform that
Objectives and Program: A comprehensive "Master                                                       would set out its medium-term strategy for privatization
Plan" setting out the broad medium-term vision form                                                   and SOE restructuring over the next two years.
privatization would be a major factor to restore                                                      This would include a firm commitment on
confidence in Thailand's economy among intemational                                                   (a) objectives, organizational arrangements, strategy of
investors                                                                                             privatization and the future role of the state;
(b) timetables and sequence for the for corporatization and
divestiture of key state enterprises (including energy,
telecommunications, water, EGAT);
(c) choice of the divestiture strategy (liquidation, full or
partial privatization through joint ventures, private
placements or public offers);
(d) establishment of an appropriate regulatory framework
for transport, water, energy, and telecommunications; and
(e) improved monitoring of state enterprises remaining in
public ownership.



ANNEX C
QUALITY ASSURANCE GROUP
SUMMARY



ANNEX C Page i of 3
RAPID QUALITY AT ENTRY ASSESSMENT
Guidance Questionnaire
ADJUSTMENT LENDING
COUN4TRY AND PROJECT TITLE: THAILAND                     FIN. COMP. RESTR. LOAN
ID:  53615 Loan/Credit No              Loan/Credit Amout (USSM):
Appraisal [1130/97 Concept   7/30/97  Board Date:         Effective:_
Region:        EAP            Sector: Finance          Sector code:
Environment Category:   -   Netvork: FPSI              Instrument: SAL
Assesment Panel: (leader) Pedro Belli        Member: Manuel Penalver
Assessment Date:       119/98  Team: Other             Documentaticn:  MOP
Persons       Nabi Ijaz                 TM  7  Other (Title):
Intenriewved:                                   Manager (Title):_
Other (Title):
Processing was:  Field Led       HQ Led i
Cost Benefit Analysis?   5    Is this Questionnaire Completed E
Is this an Adjustment Lending Questionnaire. W
Is this project not part of the random sample O



RAPID QUALITY AT ENTRY ASSESSMENT
Guidance Questionnaire                           ANNf  C Page 2 of 3
Summary Assessment Sheet
Region:  LAP       Country: THAILAND                             Assessment Rating
Project ID:    53615  Project Name: FIN. COMP. RESTR. LOAN        I = Good
2 = Satisfactorn
3 = MNarginal
4 = Poor
1. The Project Concept, Objectives and Approach
2. Technical, Economic and Financial Analvses
3. Environment Analyses                                 W
4. Social and Stakeholder Analysis
3. Institutional Capacity Analysis                      W
6. Readiness for Implementation                       m
7. Risk Assessment and Sustainability                  2W
Project Assessment                                     W2[
8. Bank Inputs and Processes                           W]m
Overall Assessment:                   .2.
IXr, - i:~. zT>,$iluq  reconSst;ituen lements of project at entry qualityn . 
h.'fi+  v;-J~                     and___ S- i tofeach categb*, snd within each"category. i-ario
tdI~                                   e^ons -central to making a balanced assessment. ;



RAPID QUALITY AT ENTRY ASSESSMENT
Guidance Questionnaire                                  ANNEX C Page 3 of 3
Summary Assessment Sheet
Comments on the above assessments, especiallyfor "I", "3,, a'nd "4" ratings.
Commients on the overall assessement
Emergency operation. Well done in light of circumstances.
In light of this assessmnent, list two or threefactors which will reqtire particutlar attentionfor the next 1-2 year to
improyve the prospectsfor achieving the project's development objectives.



