                                   Document of
                                  The World Bank




                                                          Report No: ICR00003153



            IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                            (GEF-TF054687)



                                       ON A

                GLOBAL ENVIRONMENT FACILITY (GEF) GRANT

                      IN THE AMOUNT OF US$18 MILLION


                                     TO THE

                         PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF CHINA

                                      FOR A

         HEAT REFORM AND BUILDING ENERGY EFFICIENCY PROJECT



                                   April 24, 2014




China and Mongolia Sustainable Development Unit (EASCS)
Sustainable Development Department
East Asia and Pacific Region (EAP)
ii
                      CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                   (Exchange Rate Effective 07/01/2013)

                    Currency Unit = Renminbi (RMB)
                         RMB 1.00 = US$ 6.15
                         US$ 1.00 = RMB 0.16

                             FISCAL YEAR
                         January 1 – December 31

                  ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

AAA      Analytical and Advisory Activities
BEE      Building Energy Efficiency
BLS      Building Level Substation
CBB      Consumption-based Billing
CPS      Country Partnership Strategy
DH       District Heating
ECA      Europe and Central Asia
FFEM     Fonds Français pour l’Environnement Mondial
FSR      Feasibility Study Report
GEF      Global Environment Facility
GJ       Gigajoules
GOC      Government of China
HMO      Heat Management Office
HRBEE    Heat Reform and Building Energy Efficiency
ICR      Implementation Completion and Results Report
IP       Implementation Progress
ISR      Implementation Status and Results Report
IT       Information Technology
kg ce    kilogram of coal equivalent
LPMO     Local Project Management Office
M&E      Monitoring and Evaluation
MOC      Ministry of Construction (renamed MOHURD)
MOF      Ministry of Finance
MOHURD   Ministry of Housing and Urban-Rural Development
MOU      Memorandum of Understanding
MS       Moderately Satisfactory
MTR      Mid-Term Review
MU       Moderately Unsatisfactory
NDRC     National Development and Reform Commission
NPMO     National Project Management Office
PAD      Project Appraisal Document



                                    iii
PDO      Project Development Objectives
PMO      Project Management Office
RMB      Renminbi
S        Satisfactory
TA       Technical Assistance
TCE      Ton Coal Equivalent
TF       Trust Fund
TRV      Thermostatic Radiator Valve
TTL      Task Team Leader
UNFCCC   United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change
WBG      World Bank Group

                      Vice President: Axel van Trotsenburg
                    Country Director: Klaus Rohland
                     Sector Manager: Charles Feinstein
                Project Team Leader: Emmanuel Py
                   ICR Team Leader: Emmanuel Py




                                    iv
                        PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
            HEAT REFORM AND BUILDING ENERGY EFFICIENCY PROJECT



                                                          CONTENTS




Data Sheet
    A. Basic Information
    B. Key Dates
    C. Ratings Summary
    D. Sector and Theme Codes
    E. Bank Staff
    F. Results Framework Analysis
    G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
    H. Restructuring
    I. Disbursement Graph

  1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design ........................................................... 1
  2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes ........................................................... 4
  3. Assessment of Outcomes ........................................................................................................ 8
  4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome ..................................................................... 13
  5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance.................................................................. 14
  6. Lessons Learned.................................................................................................................... 16
  7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners ....................... 17
  Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing ...................................................................................... 18
  Annex 2. Outputs by Component .............................................................................................. 20
  Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis ............................................................................. 25
  Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes ......................... 31
  Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results ....................................................................................... 33
  Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results ............................................................... 34
  Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR ................................. 35
  Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders ................................... 40
  Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents................................................................................... 41
  Annex 10. Outcome Indicators ................................................................................................. 42
  MAP




                                                                   v
vi
A. Basic Information
                                                                           Heat Reform and
Country:                China                    Project Name:             Building Energy
                                                                           Efficiency Project
Project ID:             P072721                  L/C/TF Number(s):         TF-54687
ICR Date:               04/24/2014               ICR Type:                 Core ICR
                                                                           PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC
Lending Instrument:     SIL                      Borrower:
                                                                           OF CHINA
Original Total
                        USD 18.00M               Disbursed Amount:         USD 17.41M
Commitment:
Revised Amount:         USD 17.41M
Environmental Category: B                        Global Focal Area: C
Implementing Agencies:
-Ministry of Housing and Urban-Rural Development (overall project coordination and
implementation of the national level component)
-Tianjin Municipality (Tianjin component)
-Municipalities of Tangshan, Chengde, Datong, Wuzhong, Dalian, and Urumqi (other cities
component).

Cofinanciers and Other External Partners: None


B. Key Dates
                                                                                Revised / Actual
     Process             Date              Process           Original Date
                                                                                    Date(s)
Concept Review:        02/06/2003     Effectiveness:             None              09/23/2005
                                                                                   12/22/2011
Appraisal:             01/19/2005     Restructuring(s):          None
                                                                                   12/21/2012
Approval:              03/17/2005     Mid-term Review:           None              09/15/2008
                                      Closing:                12/31/2011           10/31/2013


C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                        Moderately Satisfactory
Risk to Global Environment Outcome:              Moderate
Bank Performance:                                Moderately Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                            Moderately Satisfactory




                                              vii
C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
         Bank                   Ratings               Borrower                     Ratings
Quality at Entry:       Satisfactory            Government:                  Moderately Satisfactory
                                                Implementing
Quality of Supervision: Moderately Satisfactory                              Moderately Satisfactory
                                                Agency/Agencies:
Overall Bank            Moderately              Overall Borrower             Moderately
Performance:            Satisfactory            Performance:                 Satisfactory

C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                           QAG Assessments
                             Indicators                                             Rating
     Performance                                 (if any)
 Potential Problem Project                         Quality at Entry
                           No                                              None
at any time (Yes/No):                              (QEA):
 Problem Project at any                            Quality of
                           Yes                                             None
time (Yes/No):                                     Supervision (QSA):
GEO rating before          Moderately
Closing/Inactive status:   Satisfactory


D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                  Original              Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Central government administration                                     11                    11
Energy efficiency in Heat and Power                                   32                    32
Housing construction                                                  40                    40
Sub-national government administration                                17                    17




Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Climate change                                                        67                    67
Municipal governance and institution building                         33                    33


E. Bank Staff
        Positions                         At ICR                             At Approval
Vice President:            Axel van Trotsenburg                 Jemal-ud-din Kassum
Country Director:          Klaus Rohland                        David R. Dollar
Sector Manager:            Charles M. Feinstein                 Junhui Wu
Project Team Leader:       Emmanuel Py                          Robert P. Taylor
ICR Team Leader:           Emmanuel Py
ICR Primary Author:        Emmanuel Py



                                                viii
F. Results Framework Analysis

Global Environment Objectives (GEO - from Project Appraisal Document, page 4) and Key
Indicators(as approved)
The objective of the project is to achieve substantial, sustained and growing increases in energy
efficiency in urban residential buildings and central heating systems in China’s cold climate
regions.

Revised Global Environment Objectives (as approved by original approving authority) and
Key Indicators and reasons/justifications
Not applicable.

(a) GEO Indicator(s)
                                           Original Target      Formally               Actual Value
                                            Values (from        Revised                 Achieved at
    Indicator       Baseline Value
                                               approval          Target                Completion or
                                             documents)          Values1               Target Years
Indicator 1 :    Cumulative coal savings capacity achieved: 660,000 TCE/year
Value
                                                               660,000        2.6 million
quantitative or 0                         660,000 TCE/year
                                                              TCE/year       TCE/year2
Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/31/2004                  12/31/2011          10/31/2013     10/31/2013
Comments
(incl. %         Achieved
achievement)
                Percent of cumulative new residential stock billed on heat consumption basis:
Indicator 2 :
                50%
Value
quantitative or 0%                        50%                  50%            40%
Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/31/2004                  12/31/2011          10/31/2013     10/31/2013
Comments
(incl. %         Not achieved
achievement)
                Percent of current-year new housing completion compliant with BEE standard:
Indicator 3 :
                80%
Value
quantitative or 40%                       80%                  80%            98.7%
Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/31/2004                  12/31/2011          10/31/2013     10/31/2013
Comments
(incl. %         Achieved
achievement)

1
  Extension of the grant closing date to October 31, 2013 (from originally December 31, 2011). The target
values at closing remained unchanged.
2
  Estimated coal savings comparing the actual coal consumption for heating of the 7 project cities during
the 2012-2013 Heating Season with an estimated/projected business-as-usual scenario for these cities in the
PAD for the same Heating Season (see PAD’s baseline scenario for these cities, page 26).


                                                    ix
(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                          Original Target                    Actual Value
                                                              Formally
                                           Values (from                       Achieved at
    Indicator         Baseline Value                           Revised
                                             approval                       Completion or
                                                            Target Values
                                            documents)                       Target Years
                  Component 1 (Tianjin): Percent of cumulative new housing stock billed on
Indicator 1 :
                 heat consumption basis
Value
(quantitative    0%                      60%                  60%            31%
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/31/2004                 12/31/2011          10/31/2013     10/31/2013
Comments
(incl. %         Not achieved
achievement)
                Component 1 (Tianjin): Percent of current-year new housing completion
Indicator 2 :
                compliant with BEE standard
Value
(quantitative   50%                      89%                  89%            100%
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/31/2004                 12/31/2011          10/31/2013     10/31/2013
Comments
(incl. %         Achieved
achievement)
                Component 2 (national level): Number of cities which will have implemented
Indicator 3 :
                consumption-based billing3
Value
(quantitative    0                       30                  30              33
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/31/2004                 12/31/2011          10/31/2013     10/31/2013
Comments
(incl. %         Achieved
achievement)
                Component 2 (national level): Number of cities which will have integrated
Indicator 4 :
                building energy code compliance into regular construction supervision
Value
(quantitative    0                       30                  30              132
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/31/2004                 12/31/2011          10/31/2013     10/31/2013
Comments
(incl. %         Achieved
achievement)



3
  To be understood as “Number of cities which will have implemented consumption-based billing with at
least 10,000 m2 of pilot areas”. This is substantially less than the number of cities that have issued a
municipal two-part tariff policy for CBB.


                                                   x
                  Component 2 (national level): Number of specialists/officials trained through
Indicator 5 :
                  national seminars or workshops
Value
(quantitative     NA                        200                200            2160
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     12/31/2004                12/31/2011         10/31/2013     10/31/2013
Comments
                  Achieved. More than 2000 specialists/officials were trained in China through the
(incl. %
                  HRBEE Project during the 8 years of implementation.
achievement)
                  Component 3 (other cities): Percent of cumulative new housing stock billed on
Indicator 6 :
                  heat consumption basis
Value
(quantitative   0                       50%                 50%           51%
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/31/2004                12/31/2011          10/31/2013    10/31/2013
Comments
(incl. %         Achieved
achievement)
                Component 3 (other cities): Percent of current-year new housing completion
Indicator 7 :
                compliant with BEE standard
Value
(quantitative   35%                     75%                 75%           95.1%
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/31/2004                12/31/2011          10/31/2013    10/31/2013
Comments
(incl. %         Achieved
achievement)


G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                                   Actual
         Date ISR
 No.                              GEO                         IP               Disbursements
         Archived
                                                                               (USD millions)
  1     06/20/2005           Satisfactory            Satisfactory                         0.00
  2     12/19/2005           Satisfactory            Satisfactory                         1.80
  3     12/19/2006           Satisfactory            Satisfactory                         1.80
  4     01/09/2008           Satisfactory            Satisfactory                         3.05
  5     05/14/2009       Moderately Satisfactory Moderately Satisfactory                  4.95
                                                      Moderately
  6     06/28/2010       Moderately Satisfactory                                            5.54
                                                    Unsatisfactory
                                                      Moderately
  7     02/12/2011       Moderately Satisfactory                                            5.54
                                                    Unsatisfactory
 8      04/11/2012           Satisfactory            Satisfactory                           8.27
 9      12/31/2012           Satisfactory            Satisfactory                          10.01
 10     06/22/2013       Moderately Satisfactory Moderately Satisfactory                   11.41
 11     10/24/2013       Moderately Satisfactory Moderately Satisfactory                   12.43



                                                  xi
H. Restructuring (if any)

                         ISR Ratings at   Amount
                Board    Restructuring Disbursed at
Restructuring                                           Reason for Restructuring &
               Approved                 Restructuring
   Date(s)                                                  Key Changes Made
              GEO Change GEO      IP       in USD
                                          millions
                                                      To extend the grant closing date
                                                      to December 31, 2012,
                                                      reallocate grant proceeds across
                                                      categories, increase the
 12/22/2011                MS    MU            6.92
                                                      percentage of expenditures for
                                                      certain categories from 91% to
                                                      100%, and amend one
                                                      procurement provision.
                                                      To extend the grant closing date
 12/21/2012                S       S          10.01
                                                      to October 31, 2013.



I. Disbursement Profile (Calendar Year)




                                          xii
1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design

1.1 Context at Appraisal
1.    The year preceding the start of project preparation (2002), China consumed about 1.5 billion
TCE of primary commercial energy, second to the U.S. in the world. Even with large improvement
of the economy’s energy efficiency, China’s energy demand was then expected to double in the next
twenty years. Much of this future growth in energy demand would be met by coal, which accounted
for two thirds of primary commercial energy consumption in China. This prospect had very
significant global as well as local environmental ramifications, since coal is not only the most carbon
intensive but also the most polluting fossil fuel. Improving end-use energy efficiency was among the
most economic short to medium-term options to mitigate the global and local environmental impacts
of burning coal.
2.     Few end-use sectors then represented a more compelling and urgent case of the abundant
opportunities for and the critical role of energy efficiency than the urban space heating sector in the
“cold and severe cold regions” of Northern China, covering roughly half of China’s population.
Centralized heating, predominantly coal-fired systems, had expanded rapidly, and then served about
two thirds of urban households. The central heating sector had no mechanisms for consumers to
respond to energy service costs, and heating systems were based on Soviet fixed-flow technologies
that did not allow consumers to control their heating. Heat metering was basically inexistent, and
billing was based on a flat per square meter tariff. Moreover, many employers paid the heat bills of
their employees, representing one of the last vestiges of the old-style welfare system.
3.    China’s urban residential building stock was then expected to more than double in the next
twenty years. China had issued its first mandatory national building energy efficiency (BEE)
standard for new residential buildings in the cold and severe cold regions in 1995. This design
standard (referred to as the “50% BEE standard”) required new buildings to achieve a combined 50%
improvement in energy efficiency over buildings constructed on standard designs of the early 1980s.
However, it had been difficult to implement the regulation.
4.    As a result, the heating energy use per unit floor area of Chinese residential buildings was at
least double that in similar climates in Western Europe and North America, and the potential for
energy savings was huge. For this reason, in July 2003, eight central government ministries and
commissions jointly issued the Heat Reform Guidelines calling for each of the 16 Northern
provinces/autonomous regions to implement the Heat Reform in several pilot municipalities. The
principles of these Guidelines were the commercialization of urban heating, the promotion of
technical innovation in the heating sector, and the improvement of building energy efficiency.
5.    The Project was to contribute to the deployment of the reform in the city of Tianjin and in 4-6
other Northern cities through the “two-handed” approach and to support the Ministry of Housing and
Urban-Rural Development (MOHURD) for the relevant national-level policy development work. The
“two-handed” approach referred to:
      On one hand, the creation of a market mechanism through the heat reform and heat system
       modernization so consumers pay for actual heat consumption (by passing responsibility of
       payment to households from employers, establishing metering consumption and introducing
       consumption-based billing), and to enable consumers to control how much heat they
       consume (by using manual or thermostatic valves to control indoor temperature and by
       adopting demand-driven variable-flow heating systems).
      On the other hand, major improvements in the thermal integrity of urban residential buildings
       to reduce building heat losses substantially, requiring widespread adoption of more energy-


                                                  1
           efficient designs, new or improved materials and components, as well as adjustments in
           construction practices.
6.    The Project was a central part of the Bank-led international assistance program to MOHURD
for its heat reform and building energy efficiency (HRBEE) efforts. This program had been
underway for several years with some studies already completed before the start of preparation.

1.2 Global Environment Objectives (GEO) and Key Indicators
7.   The project development objective (PDO and GEO) was to achieve substantial, sustained and
growing increases in energy efficiency in urban residential buildings and central heating systems in
China’s cold climate regions.
8.    This was to be done through: (i) the improvement of the energy efficiency of residential
buildings; (ii) the implementation of reform on heat pricing and billing; and (iii) the modernization of
heat supply systems for residential buildings.
9.     The key performance indicators for the project were at project completion:
       Annual coal savings capacity achieved by the implementation of the heat reform and building
        energy efficiency programs in the project cities;
       Percentage of cumulative new residential floor area (built since 2004) in the project cities
        subject to heat metering and consumption-based billing; and
       Percentage of current-year new residential housing completion compliant with the ongoing
        BEE standard.

1.3 Revised GEO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators, and
reasons/justification
10. The PDO and the key indicators were not revised during implementation. The grant closing
date was extended to October 31, 2013 (from originally December 31, 2011), and the target values at
closing remained unchanged.

1.4 Main Beneficiaries
11.       The main beneficiaries of the project identified in the PAD were:
          The local and global environment through substantial improvement in energy efficiency.
          The Ministry of Housing and Urban-Rural Development (MOHURD) for the relevant
           national policy development work for the Heat Reform.
          The city of Tianjin and 4-6 other Northern cities to be identified during implementation for
           the project’s support to the deployment of the Heat Reform.
          The heating and housing development companies in those cities that would receive up to one
           third of the incremental cost of the energy efficiency measures implemented.
          The people who would live in the residential communities supported by the project in those
           cities for a more efficient and comfortable approach to indoor heating and for the anticipated
           reduced cost of their heat bills.
          Other Northern Chinese cities that would learn about the experiences of Tianjin and the other
           4-6 Northern cities and would be invited to participate to the project supported workshops
           and study tours.

1.5 Original Components (as approved)
12.       The project had three components.


                                                     2
13. Tianjin Municipality Component: demonstration of the two-handed approach in Tianjin
Municipality. This component sought to provide the project’s first operational demonstration that the
greatest energy efficiency gains and cost savings in residential space heating could be achieved
through an integrated effort (the “two-handed” approach) that simultaneously addressed the thermal
integrity of buildings, the operational efficiency of heat supply systems, the provision of means for
heat control by consumers, and the implementation of heat metering, cost-based heat pricing and
consumption-based heat billing.
14. National Policy Support and Project Management Component: support for the Ministry of
Housing and Urban-Rural Development (MOHURD)4 for national policy development and project
implementation. This component provided the vehicle to support the critical role of the central
government to provide policy direction to localities, to bring the best national and international
expertise to bear on issues surrounding the implementation of the reform and the development of new
technical approaches, to coordinate and guide the implementation of local project activities, to
undertake central project management and monitoring functions, and to disseminate successful ideas
and results outside participating cities.
15. Other Northern Cities Component: replication of the two-handed approach in 4-6 other
Northern cities. This component was to promote simultaneous development of both heating sector
reforms and building energy efficiency improvements in 4-6 additional Northern Chinese
municipalities, achieving broader impact. With emerging results from the Tianjin Component, and
national-level support, comprehensive development of HRBEE measures would be rolled out in these
additional cities.

1.6 Revised Components
16. The project components were not revised. A significant change was the cancellation of the
Xindu Garden subproject (total incremental cost of US$ 8.7 million, and proposed GEF cofinancing
of US$ 2.6 million) from the Project. The proposed GEF cofinancing was instead spent on similar
subprojects in Tianjin (Huaxiajindian, Diliutianyuan, and Taida & Jinhong). There were two reasons
for this cancellation: (a) the real estate market was changing rapidly in Tianjin, and the developer
wanted to move fast to sell the apartments as soon as possible, without the administrative constraints
of the GEF cofinancing; (b) the agreements (in building energy efficiency, inspections, and heat
supply systems) reached with the developer were not implemented.

1.7 Other significant changes
17.       Two level-two restructurings were approved by the Country Director:
          In December 2011: to extend the grant closing date to December 31, 2012, reallocate grant
           proceeds across categories, increase the percentage of expenditures for certain categories
           from 91% to 100%, and amend one procurement provision. The disbursement rate of the
           grant was then 43% and the original grant closing date (December 31, 2011) was extended
           one more year to advance project activities, with the possibility of extending again up to one
           more year if specific time-bound conditions on the implementation progress in year 2012
           could be met.
          In December 2012: to extend the grant closing date to October 31, 2013. During the first
           extension period (year 2012), the project had met the time-bound conditions set for a second

4
 Originally the Ministry of Construction (MOC), but renamed Ministry of Housing and Urban-Rural Development
(MOHURD) during implementation.


                                                     3
       extension of the grant closing date. The disbursement rate of the grant was then 55%. The
       extension was necessary to execute at least 35% of the grant amount during the last ten
       months.
18. In July 2013, a four-month grace period was granted by the Country Director to process final
disbursements until February 28, 2014. The final disbursement rate of the grant was 96.7%.

2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry
19. Quality at entry was satisfactory. This was the first Bank’s project focusing exclusively on the
residential heating sector in China. It was an important next step in the Bank’s support to the
Government of China (GOC) for its heat reform and building energy efficiency efforts. The
HRBEE’s design was informed by two AAA studies, which had already been completed prior to
project preparation. Lessons learned were taken into account during project preparation from
previous Bank-financed projects in the residential heating sector in Europe and Central Asia (ECA)
and from energy conservation projects in China. The project also complemented other donor efforts
which focused on building retrofits.
20. The project design was well thought out. The project properly set as a priority and focused
sharply on new construction, as a rapidly urbanizing Northern China continued its torrid pace of
residential building construction. The design allowed the project to develop a model integrated city
HRBEE program in Tianjin, which was at the forefront of heat reform and building energy efficiency
in China, and follow up with adaptations by other Northern cities so as to establish the applicability
of the two-handed approach in the cold climate regions of China. The introduction of new
technologies and policy innovations through pilots is a successful model used in many projects in
China. The HRBEE’s flexible “learning by doing” approach with simultaneous knowledge sharing
and parallel replication activities in multiple cities was facilitated by a national coordination and
policy support component.
21. The central government was committed but cautious, allowing heating reforms in particular to
be implemented gradually according to local conditions. The MOHURD’s challenge was to identify
cities in addition to Tianjin that would volunteer to pilot the heat reform, the benefits of which had
not yet been tested in China. Two risks were identified at appraisal: (a) that the heat reform might be
reversed or its scope might be significantly reduced (assessed as “moderate”); and (b) that the
demonstration projects might be slow to develop due to lower capacity of the implementing agencies
(assessed as “substantial”). Mitigation measures included: strengthening channels of support between
levels of government; and working with cities that had integrated the HRBEE agenda in their
strategic development plans. Given the substantial risks in slow uptake identified at entry, the project
could have had a more modest disbursement schedule.

2.2 Implementation
22. Project implementation was characterized by a slow progress and therefore initially low
disbursement levels. In December 2010, after five-and-a-half years in implementation, the
disbursement rate was only 30%. This was mainly caused by a long time to build up a pipeline of
subprojects and technical assistance (TA) activities in other project cities. The first implementation
agreements with other project cities were signed after two-and-a-half years in implementation. This
slow progress for selecting other project cities was due to the following reasons mentioned below.




                                                   4
23. A mandatory city commitment to the heat reform. To be eligible for the grant, cities had to
commit to the heat reform and prepare an action plan for the implementation of the HRBEE program.
This was a high standard to access GEF funds for many cities. According to MOHURD, project
cities were among the first to pilot the consumption-based billing reform at the national level. Tianjin
was the very first and the Tianjin results only came during the 2006-2007 heating season. Cities
needed some form of evidence to follow the reform and seek project support, which explains the time
taken to sign the municipal sub-grant agreements.
24. A slow uptake of the heat reform. The implementation of the heat reform was a local level
agenda that depended on the mayor’s commitment. MOHURD had few levers or incentives to offer
mayors, who perceived implementation of heat reform not among their top priorities to improve
energy efficiency in their cities. They were not familiar with the two-part heat tariff promoted by
MOHURD, which raised perceived concerns over affordability (from increased heating bills due to
inefficient housing) or loss of revenues for heating companies (from decreased energy use for heating
by households). International experience suggests that the district heating sector is one of the
toughest municipal services to be reformed because it is considered a vital service in cold climate
regions, and in China this is no exception. External factors also impeded the progress of the heat
reform, such as: the negative impact of the global financial crisis in 2008 (causing a difficult
financial environment for heating companies), high coal prices in 2008 with local pressures to keep
heat prices low, and MOC/MOHURD’s restructuring in 2007-2008. At the time of the Mid-Term
Review in September 2008, the work on the building energy efficiency part of the project had been
much faster than the progress on the heat reform, and the Bank and NPMO assessed that the slow
implementation of consumption-based billing (CBB) was the main obstacle to the full achievement
of the PDO. Consequently, they decided to focus new HRBEE activities as much as possible on the
implementation of CBB, in particular the national TA and the training / dissemination program.
25. Uneven interest of real estate companies. The hot real estate market reduced interest from
developers to take time to optimize building energy efficiency designs. The incremental cost
coverage by the grant (up to one third of the incremental cost of the energy efficiency measures) was
a helpful incentive. It was small relative to the size of the investment and not a major factor in
decision to participate – the most important incentive was association with a national pilot project,
which could be used as a marketing tool. But timing mattered. The project engaged developers
usually when site plans were already approved and construction designs underway. While
suggestions on improved building energy efficiency codes had been accepted by developers, it took
time to gain that understanding. Some developers did not want to wait. Three subprojects in Tianjin
were dropped from the GEF Project, two after appraisal and one during preparation. As noted earlier,
even with slow uptake, advanced building energy efficiency codes and their enforcement achieved
earlier successes, partly due to Tianjin’s successes and because new standards were applied to new
construction. The project focused more attention on heat reform after the Mid-Term Review.
26. Management capacity issues at NPMO until July 2010. The project was designed very NPMO
dependent, since NPMO was responsible for the national component and for identifying and
supporting the other cities component. In the beginning of the project, NPMO was supported with
national technical experts on an as needed basis. However, the depth of engagement required on
building energy efficiency and consumption-based billing overwhelmed NPMO’s capacity. Given the
small amounts of grants (except in Tianjin), local project management units were staffed with
temporary staff and needed greater support from NPMO than originally envisioned. The Bank team
identified this issue consistently but it took time for MOHURD to absorb the point that there was a
need for NPMO (and its director) to have a deep understanding of the heat reform, gathering and
disseminating early lessons learned, an ability to effectively engage and dialogue with potential pilot


                                                   5
cities/developers, and put in place and manage effective systems and procedures to appraise potential
new subprojects and TA activities. The Project Leading Group appointed a se nior NPMO’s technical
advisor with substantial experience in the heating sector as the third project director in July 2010.
With this and other changes, the grant’s disbursement rate started to improve after his appointment
and greater support and attention from the Leading Group. In addition, as results from studies and
demonstrations became known, MOHURD used HRBEE materials for important working level
conferences attended by local government leadership, a key channel for disseminating results.

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization
27. M&E design. The M&E program was designed on a set of ten indicators including three
outcome indicators and seven results indicators covering the three components. NMPO was
responsible for developing and implementing, with the support of project cities, the M&E system for
the entire project, including collecting project performance information and reporting on the impact
and results of the project.
28. M&E implementation. Implementation of the M&E system focused on regular reporting on
the outcome and results indicators, as well as feedback on issues and their resolution. In addition,
after the completion of each subproject, an M&E report on its performance had to be prepared by
external consultants for NPMO’s review. Data was reported annually by NPMO in the project
monitoring report. Some variability was noted due to difficulties with obtaining consistent data from
cities. During the ICR Mission in October 2013, the final data was gathered from the project cities
and was double-checked. The quality and reliability of the data used in the ICR is consistent with
agreed methodologies.
29. M&E utilization. Strengthening of the existing M&E systems and capacity in project cities
and sustainability of the M&E arrangements beyond the operation’s implementation period were key
reasons for supporting the deployment of municipal pilot heat consumption monitoring platforms in
five project cities (Tianjin, Chengde, Tangshan, Wuzhong, and Datong) to gather operation data from
heat sources, primary networks, substations, and sometimes as well from apartment-level heat meters.
Selected data is accessible online and real-time by city heat management offices and could later be
accessible by MOHURD.

2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance
30. The project was a Category B. It actually financed TA activities and subprojects consisting of:
incremental building energy efficiency improvements (such as energy efficient doors, windows, and
insulation material), internal heating systems (mostly apartment-level heat meters and TRV), small
building level substations, and heat consumption monitoring platforms (which are metering and IT
systems).
31. Environmental and Social Safeguards. The environmental impacts of the project were
overwhelmingly positive in terms of reduced emissions as shown in Annex 3. Due-diligence
reporting was required on environmental and social impacts from project heating and housing
development company beneficiaries as part of subproject proposals according to two separate
environmental and social impact frameworks developed by the Bank. They were appraised by
NPMO, and reviewed by the Bank, and provided evidence that all national and local laws and
regulations had been followed. No environmental and social safeguards issues were detected by the
Bank during the eight years of supervision, and no land acquisition and resettlement was required for
the implementation of the project’s energy-efficiency investments.




                                                 6
32. Procurement. Procurement was compliant with Bank rules. There were no procurement issues.
For the Lugang BEE subproject in Tangshan, the HRBEE national experts (advising NPMO)
discovered that some of the windows installed by the real-estate developer did not meet the energy
efficiency requirements of the FSR and the corresponding buildings (part of Lugang Phases II and III)
were dropped from the subproject scope.
33. Financial Management. Project financial management met acceptable standards. Project
funds were used for their intended purposes. Annual audit reports were submitted to the Bank on
time, and no significant issues were identified. Financial management supervision and selected post-
reviews of project accounts, documents, and internal control procedures confirmed that management
of project funds was sound.

2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase
34. Physical assets. The project basically financed three types of investment subprojects: (a)
building energy efficiency improvements and internal heating systems; (b) building level substations
(BLS); and (c) heat consumption monitoring platforms. Building energy efficiency improvements
and internal heating systems are owned by tenants, but city DH companies are responsible for
maintaining apartment-level heat meters. The BLS and the platforms are owned by city DH
companies and they are in charge of maintaining them (see table in Annex 2).
35. Means of sustaining reforms and institutional capacity. Ten years after the issuance of the
Heat Reform Guidelines, the Heat Reform still has a modest but accelerating penetration rate in
Northern China. The project promoted key aspects of the Government’s plan including: (1) making
households responsible for the heating bill; (2) introducing consumption based billing; (3) promoting
energy efficient buildings and technologies. On the first, MOHURD reports that households are now
largely responsible for the heating bill, which was an early reform started but not completed prior to
the project. On the second, consumption based billing for district heating has moved from the 2003
guideline to a clear measure to promote energy savings and energy efficiency improvement in the
12th Five-Year Plan for Energy Development (2011-2015) and it is an explicit measure to promote
clean energy in the State Council’s 2013 Air Pollution Prevention and Control Action Plan5, as urban
air quality is now a top government priority. By 2013, MOHURD estimated that the consumption-
based billing area was 805 million m2 (about the equivalent of Sweden’s entire building stock or the
residential building stock in the Netherlands 6) compared to a total heated building stock of about 8
billion m2 in Northern China (and compared to 1 million m2 at the start of the project). On the third,
the 65% BEE standard, which was the advanced building energy efficiency standard promoted
through the HRBEE has become mandatory for new construction in China’s cold climate regions in
August 2010. The Government is continually studying and improving standards with new emphasis
on green buildings.
36. Next phase / follow-up operation. The HRBEE directly helped to identify two follow on
operations and one regulatory technical assistance AAA: (1) Urumqi District Heating Project (IBRD
$100 million, approved in May 2011) supporting district heating modernization, including
accounting and billing preparations for consumption based billing of the city’s largest district heating
company. Urumqi was one of the HRBEE cities (HRBEE supported an analysis of billing and
accounting systems of the largest district heating company in Urumqi whose recommendations were
incorporated into downstream institutional strengthening under the loan); (2) the Urban Scale
Building Energy Efficiency and Renewable Energy Project (GEF $12 million, approved in April

5
    State Council of the PRC, September 10, 2013, Guofa [2013] 37.
6
    Buildings Performance Institute Europe, Europe’s Buildings under the Microscope, 2011.


                                                         7
2013) with MOHURD supporting changes to statutory urban planning requirements, distributed
generation policy studies, and green building pilots to promote building energy efficiency and
renewable energy applications nationally; and (3) Enhancing the Institutional Model for District
Heating Regulation AAA (completed in 2012 with MOHURD which used HRBEE for supporting
studies), recommending additional regulatory measures that would help advance sector reforms.
37. The project’s outcomes were also taken into account in the preparation of the Urban China:
Toward Efficient, Inclusive, and Sustainable Urbanization (Conference Edition, March 2014) which
defines inter alia an agenda for greener urbanization. In addition, the project informed the
development of a business line on low carbon cities.

3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation
Rating: Satisfactory
38. The project’s objectives and design remain fully consistent with the country’s priorities in
terms of energy conservation, climate change mitigation, and pollution reduction in urban areas.
China is still highly dependent on fossil fuels, with coal accounting for 69 percent of primary energy
consumption, and for most of China’s heating systems. The 12th Five-Year Plan (2011-2015) aims to
reduce carbon intensity by 17 percent, and to contribute to the overarching goal of reducing the
economy’s carbon intensity by 40-45 percent during 2005 to 2020. As noted earlier, the 12th Five
Year Plan for Energy Development and the Air Pollution Prevention and Control Action Plan (State
Council, 2013) clearly identify the heat reform as a measure to promote energy efficiency and reduce
air pollution. While the project did have a slow uptake, in the end, the project’s design and
implementation is relevant and contributed to reinforcing building energy efficiency and heating
sector reforms as important measures to achieve the Government’s above mentioned objectives.
39. The project’s objectives and design remain consistent with the Country Partnership Strategy
(CPS, FY2013-2016) with China. The CPS has supporting greener growth as one of its three strategic
themes and shifting to a sustainable energy path as one of the supporting pillars. It is also aligned
with the WBG engagement in the energy sector 7 , designed to help client countries secure the
affordable, reliable, and sustainable energy supply needed to end extreme poverty and promote
shared prosperity. The project’s objectives and design remain consistent with the Climate Change
focal area of the GEF Trust Fund, which is to help developing countries and economies in transition
contribute to the overall objective of UNFCCC.

3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

40. The project’s achievement of its PDO/GEO is rated Moderately Satisfactory based on the
following assessment. The cumulative coal savings capacity of 2.6 million tce/year achieved by
HRBEE project cities greatly exceeded the target value of 660,000 tce/year (Indicator 1) mainly due
to the better than expected outcome for building design compliance with the 65 percent standard,
achieving a 98.7% compliance rate compared to the 80% target value (Indicator 3), and the
participation of seven cities in the project compared with six cities originally planned at the start of
the project. However, critically, the cumulative new residential stock with consumption based billing
missed the target value of 50% (Indicator 2), achieving 40% by the end of the project.

7
    See WBG Energy Sector Directions Paper, July 2013.


                                                         8
41. The project had a significant contribution to the preparation of the national 65% residential
BEE standard that was made mandatory by MOHURD8 for new construction in China’s cold climate
regions in August 2010, during the project implementation period. Compared to the national 50%
BEE standard, the national 65% BEE standard reduced design building heating energy consumption
by 30%. This raised the floor for minimum building energy efficiency code requirements that
municipalities could exceed but not reduce for new construction. Therefore, local pilots were an
important entry point for building the case for national application. Tianjin adopted the 65% standard
in 2004 through its dialogue with the Bank during preparation and made it mandatory in 2005. The
first Tianjin 65% BEE standard was issued in 2004 (DB29-1-2004) and was implemented in 20059.
Tianjin was the first Chinese city to include heat metering in the 65% BEE standard. Beijing also
issued its 65% BEE standard in 2004 (DBJ01-602-2004) which was implemented in 2005, but
contrary to Tianjin, it did not include heat metering as a mandatory requirement. The national 65%
residential BEE standard made mandatory by MOHURD for new construction in China’s cold
climate regions in August 2010 includes heat metering as a mandatory requirement.
42. The HRBEE helped to promote early adoption and collected important early implementation
experience. The Huaxiajindian and Diliutianyuan subprojects in Tianjin supported by the project
were the first residential building communities in China to implement the 65% BEE standard. Code
compliance at the design stage, used for the purpose of HRBEE performance indicators, was an
essential first step. Building a system to enforce strengthened standards was also needed. The
HRBEE helped to pilot through Tianjin the integration of systematic building energy efficiency code
inspection procedures with the existing construction quality inspection system and strengthening the
supervision capacity for building energy efficiency code compliance. Tianjin accumulated a unique
body of knowledge and practical technical experience on the effective implementation of the 65%
BEE standard, which through the project’s design fed directly into MOHURD’s policies and was
disseminated to other cities by the project’s sponsored workshops and studies (2160 people were
trained in BEE and CBB by the end of the project).
43. The HRBEE also provided tailored support to project cities, depending on their need and stage
of BEE code development. In Chengde, the project supported enforcement improvements after
adoption of the 65% standard. In Tangshan and Urumqi the project supported demonstration of the
standard which led to its adoption as a mandatory standard (in 2008 and 2009 respectively).
44. As compared with the target value of 30 cities (Indicator 4), the 132 medium-size cities in
China’s cold climate regions integrated building energy code compliance into regular construction
supervision by the end of the project. In July 2008, the State Council issued the “Civil Building
Energy Efficiency Management Regulations” to regulate this process and it is supervised annually by
MOHURD in the 132 cities through a random check. The process is documented and has two
elements: (1) energy inspection is part of the routine building construction supervision conducted by
construction supervision companies (third party hired by the developer), meaning that there is a
compliance check list/form which the supervision companies have to fill out; and (2) the municipal
government oversight agency (construction quality supervision office) signs off on the checklist as
part of the final building completion review. The client noted that the project had a direct influence
on the issuance of these regulations10.

8
  Design standard for energy efficiency of residential buildings in severe cold and cold zone, MOHURD, August 1,
2010, JGJ26-2010.
9
  This 65% standard was updated in 2007 (DB29-1-2007) with support from the GEF project and the updated
standard became mandatory in 2007.
10
   Before 2008, NPMO organized two national-level heat metering reform seminars (in 2007 and 2008) and five
national-level training programs. In addition, Huaxiajindian and Diliutianyuan were completed in 2008. They were


                                                       9
45. However, despite an eight year implementation period, the project fell qualitatively short of its
targets for promoting billing based on heat consumption across the country. Nationally, while
consumption based billing objectives are now firmly in official plans and heat pricing reform is
accelerating, they had a slow uptake during most of the project implementation period. MOHURD
reports that while 116 out of 132 northern Chinese cities have adopted the two-part heat tariff, only
33 cities have at least 10,000 m2 of CBB pilot areas (See Indicator 3). The eight pilot subprojects11
demonstrated that CBB, when combined with demand driven heating supply systems required by the
project, could be implemented in the Chinese context and that it could save energy. Eight pilot sub-
projects required variable flow heating supply that enabled systems to respond far more efficiently to
building energy needs than traditional (used widely at the start of the project) constant flow systems.
This demand driven operating mode was especially important with the introduction of end-use
controls (e.g. thermostats) required under building energy efficiency codes and anticipated changes
in consumer behavior from consumption based billing. Without consumption based billing, the
incentive for end user energy efficiency was weak and the modern heating supply systems are likely
to not have reached their full potential.
46. In total, the demonstration subprojects represented 4.13 million m2 of floor area billed
according to heat consumption. While the replication of this experience had a slow uptake, the 50%
target of cumulative new housing stock with CBB in other cities (Indicator 6) was met (51%).
However, Tianjin, despite being a pioneer in CBB, did not achieve its target of 60% (actual, 31%),
which corresponds to 46 million m2 (the HRBEE subprojects in Tianjin represented 5.5% of this
share). Tianjin’s relative underachievement of the target (since it is the first city in China in terms of
actual CBB area) can be explained by the following factors: (a) its large size and fast growth rate12
made the achievement of the target more challenging than for the six other project cities; (b) Tianjin
is a provincial level city (like Beijing and Shanghai) and MOHURD has no direct authority over it
since they rank at the same level in the national/ party hierarchical system; and (c) being a very large
and provincial level city makes effective coordination between departments more difficult for the
deployment of a challenging reform, like the heat reform.
47. The slow progress of the heat reform at the national level was caused by several factors, the
main two being:
    The successful deployment of the reform in several cities in the same province does not
       necessarily translate in its overall implementation at the provincial level. The role of
       provincial-level functions in district heating sector reform and development would gain to be
       enhanced, as recommended by the HRBEE Heat Regulation Report.
    The reform is facing resistance from district heating companies at the municipal level which
       are rarely keen to promote consumption-based billing since it means reduced revenues for
       them.
48. Nevertheless, the project has helped strengthen regulatory and institutional capacity at the
national and local levels. The National Component supported the promulgation of several key studies
(see Annex 2). Under the Other Cities Component, five cities carried out heat price studies to
establish the local two-part heat tariff for CBB. Wuzhong and Datong which joined the project at a
later stage did it on their own based on the national guidelines that emanated originally from the

the first residential building communities implementing the 65% BEE standard (with household heat metering) in
China. Most activities supported by the HRBEE were pioneer in China in terms of BEE and CBB work and
strengthened the case for clause 18 (Chapter 2) of the “Civil Building Energy Efficiency Management Regulations”
which states that “newly constructed residential buildings should install heat meters” (NPMO statement, April 2014).
11
   Six with the 65% BEE standard, one with the 75% BEE standard, and one with the 50% BEE standard.
12
   Tianjin’s residential floor area has increased by 150% in 8 years compared to 62% for the six other project cities.


                                                         10
project. The Tianjin Component supported improving consumer heat price contracts and
improvements in consumer services, consumer awareness and education on heat metering and
consumption based billing. According to MOHURD, support from HRBEE to these pilot cities have
helped sustain the momentum of the heat reform in China and some of the stronger cities (Chengde,
Tangshan, and Tianjin) are often invited to national and provincial-level workshops to share their
experience with other cities.
49. The project also introduced innovative heat consumption monitoring platforms. The platforms
aim to remove barriers to CBB by providing data on energy consumption needed to calculate two
part heat tariffs and benchmark overall heating system performance, i.e. understand actual energy
savings generated from heat price reforms. It can also help monitor energy savings to ensure bills are
calculated properly in case of disputes when CBB is implemented. The platforms might be used at
some stage for carbon trading in the heating sector, which was piloted under the project in Tianjin
(Taida & Jinhong CBB subprojects).
50. The project also piloted the BLS technology, which enhances energy efficiency and reduces
maintenance needs compared to a traditional group substation. Two BLS subprojects were
implemented in Urumqi (9 BLS in 4 buildings covering 72,000 m2) and in Chengde (18 BLS in 10
buildings covering 180,000 m2).

3.3 Efficiency
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory
51. Efficiency can be viewed in two ways: cost effectiveness of the project (“value for money”)
and efficiency of project implementation. Efficiency of project implementation was moderately
satisfactory overall during the 8 years as described in Part 2.2 and in Part 5. Furthermore, 3.3% of the
grant amount was not used, which indicates that counterparts (mostly project cities) did not fully use
all the available financial resources to maximize the achievement of the PDO.
52. The cost effectiveness of the project (“value for money”) was satisfactory. A similar
incremental cost analysis as conducted at appraisal and documented in the PAD was carried out at
the ICR stage (see Annex 3). Since the project supported a comprehensive national policy reform and
regulatory agenda that required many years to implement and would not fully materialize until many
years after the project implementation is completed, its impact in the PAD (and therefore in the ICR
stage analysis) was not limited to the activities and investments which the project directly supported.
Like in the PAD, the analysis did not attempt to separate out the impact of the GEF alternative from
the overall government efforts it supported because there would have been no rationale for
implementing the GEF alternative without the govern ment’s supportive reform and policy efforts.
The incremental cost analysis in the PAD (and in the ICR stage analysis) attempted to assess the
long-term aggregate impact of implementing the HRBEE agenda in the project cities and at the
national level. It is estimated that by 2024 this national effort (compared to the PAD’s estimated
business-as-usual scenario for Northern Chinese cities, see page 26) would result in potential
cumulative coal savings of about 590 million TCE (2004-2024), avoiding emissions of about 440
million tons of carbon. Under this broad definition of project impact boundary, the undiscounted cost
of carbon emission reduction to the GEF is about $0.04/ton carbon (60% less than estimated at
appraisal). For the project cities, 2.6 million TCE annual coal-saving capacity13 has been achieved by
closing (compared to the PAD estimated target of 660,000 TCE) potentially generating over 51

13
  Estimated coal savings comparing the actual coal consumption for heating of the 7 project cities during the 2012-
2013 Heating Season with an estimated/projected business-as-usual scenario for these cities in the PAD for the same
Heating Season (see PAD’s baseline scenario for these cities, page 26).


                                                        11
million TCE coal-savings and reducing CO2 emissions by about 38 million tons of carbon over a 20-
year period (2004-2024). For the project cities only, the undiscounted cost of carbon emission
reduction to the GEF is about $0.47/ton-carbon (74% less than estimated at appraisal).

3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory
53. Based on the above ratings, the project outcome rating is moderately satisfactory. The target
(Indicator 2) of 50% actual cumulative new residential stock billed on heat consumption basis was
not met, despite a 22 month extension. Project efficiency was moderately satisfactory. Despite an
extended 8 year implementation period and underachievement in a key indicator, counterparts did not
fully utilize grant resources (3.3% was not used).

3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts
(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development
54. Social Development. The project has had a positive impact on heating consumers because it
improved the quality of heating services and promoted awareness in using energy wisely for heating.
Building energy efficiency codes improved tightened building envelopes and mandated end-use
controls while the demand driven heating supply mode improved responsiveness and efficiency.
Results from the subprojects showed that CBB had a direct impact on heat consumers’ consumption
patterns. In Tianjin, municipal pilot CBB areas reported energy savings of about 11%. For heat
consumers, this represents financial savings of about 5% compared to their previous annual heating
bills under a fixed tariff. This is not negligible, especially for poorer households. A World Bank
study14 in Liaoning Province showed that on average heating bills represented between 7 and 10% of
income and up to 21% for the poorest quintile. Therefore, the changes in pricing and billing brought
by the heat reform can have a positive impact on the welfare of heat consumers.
55. Poverty Impacts. This project did not have a direct poverty reduction objective. However,
efforts to raise the floor for minimum residential building energy efficiency standards reduce the
energy consumption needs for heating in buildings and can reduce heating bills (depending on the
desired level of comfort). Mandatory end-user controls and metered billing empowered consumers to
determine the desired level of energy consumption for heating, which factors in affordability
concerns. Without metered heating, everyone pays a flat rate per square meter no matter the amount
of energy consumed or level of comfort desired.
56. Gender Aspects. The project did not have any specific gender development outcome. The
benefits of the heat reform are equally positive for men and women.

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening
57. Although the pace of replication in CBB was slow, the project built institutional knowledge
and catalyzed changes in residential building energy efficiency and central heating systems that
supply the buildings as follows:
Building Energy Efficiency
    As discussed in Part 3.2 a), the elements of the building energy code compliance process piloted
     with the support of the project are now integrated into regular construction supervision. This

14
  China, Social Analysis of Heating Reforms in Liaoning Province, World Bank / ASTAE, November 2009, Gailius
Draugelis and Xun Wu.


                                                    12
    process is supervised annually by MOHURD in the 132 cities through a random check, and the
    implementation rate is very high. This implies that the role and capacity of the local agencies
    responsible for this work has been enhanced since 2005, either directly through the project city
    pilots (Tianjin, Chengde, Tangshan, and Urumqi) or indirectly through MOHURD’s own
    regulations and supervision system.
   The project accelerated adoption and/or implementation of the 65% residential building energy
    efficiency standard in the project cities (for new construction) and its analytical studies informed
    MOHURD in its continuous efforts to improve the standards. Through the experience of the pilot
    cities that was monitored by MOHURD, the project had a significant contribution to the
    preparation of the national 65% residential BEE standard that was made mandatory by
    MOHURD for new construction in China’s cold climate regions in August 2010, during the
    project implementation period.

Central Heating Systems

   The project accelerated adoption of consumption based billing in the seven project cities. In
    Tianjin, HRBEE subprojects represented 5.5% of total floor area billed according to consumption,
    and in the six other project cities 2.5%. This provided important experience and lessons learned
    for various institutions – municipal heating offices, municipal pricing bureaus, district heating
    companies, developers and consumers.
   In addition, the project supported national guidelines for the adoption of a two part heat tariff,
    which had a slow uptake but are used for ongoing heat price reform efforts (see Annex 2).
   The project has empowered government institutions in five of the seven project cities to
    supervise the actual progress of DH companies for implementing the heat reform by getting
    objective data on energy savings and CBB / variable-flow penetration rates directly from the
    platforms.
   The project also supported MOHURD’s collaboration with the Bank’s AAA to lay out a
    comprehensive agenda for further enhancements of the institutional model for heat regulation in
    China.
   The project has sponsored four international study tours and 22 domestic training programs and
    workshops that have sensitized and trained a large pool (Indicator 5: 2160 persons) of municipal
    technicians and leaders in city construction commissions about the HRBEE agenda, national
    guidelines, international approaches, and the results of the HRBEE project in China.

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)
Not applicable.

3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops
Not applicable.

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome
Rating: Moderate

58. The risk at closing that development outcomes will not be maintained is moderate. The
achievements on the BEE side, especially the very high penetration of the advanced 65% BEE
standard for new construction in Northern China, are irreversible. The national building and
construction materials industries have now raised their standards in the past four years since the
adoption of the mandatory 65% BEE standard for new construction. The tendency is now to move to


                                                  13
the 75% BEE standard for new construction, which has become mandatory in Tianjin in October
2013. MOHURD is also promoting green buildings. These trends will ensure that the estimated
cumulative coal savings capacity that could be achieved in the project cities between 2004 and 2024
(see Annex 3) will be maintained or even exceeded.
59. The heat reform, however, is still at a crucial stage. Based on discussions carried out during the
ICR mission, the CBB penetration rates in new construction will keep increasing in the 7 project
cities. However at closing only one-quarter of Northern Chinese cities were actually implementing
CBB (with at least 10,000 m2 of pilot areas) and the CBB area was only 805 million m2 (10% of the
total estimated heated building stock15) in Northern China compared to a total heated building stock
of about 8 billion m2. There is strong political willingness at the national level to push for the
deployment of the reform since it is now mandatory by MOHURD for new residential construction,
and it can alleviate the serious air pollution issues that Chinese cities face during the winter. This
should mitigate the risk of backsliding on this reform; however, the two barriers mentioned in
paragraph 47 will still need to be addressed for a full deployment of the reform.

5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1 Bank Performance
(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry
Rating: Satisfactory
60. As summarized in Sections 1.1 and 2.1, the Bank’s support for the project was based on solid
rationale, and the quality at entry it helped attain is considered satisfactory.
61. This was the first Bank project focusing exclusively on the residential heating sector in China,
but lessons learned were taken into account during project preparation from previous Bank-financed
projects in the residential heating sector in Europe and Central Asia (ECA) and from energy
conservation projects in China. Technical expertise through AAA and during preparation was used to
assist in review of design options.
62. The design was appropriate but its NPMO dependence (for components 2 and 3) was an
inherent risk that might have been addressed earlier on during implementation when it became
apparent that MOHURD lacked leverage over the cities and NPMO’s capacity was weak during the
first years of implementation.

(b) Quality of Supervision
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory
63. Until the Mid-Term Review (MTR) in September 2008, the Bank conducted on average three
supervision missions per year, which is more than the usual two weeks. This reflected an enhanced
supervision strategy required during the slow start of the project. Supervision teams were
appropriately staffed to address and report on implementation issues as they emerged. Given the
persistently low disbursement of the project (about 22%), the PDO and IP ratings were downgraded
from S to MS after the MTR. The MTR also appropriately shifted focus on the more difficult part of
the project’s policy support agenda, CBB, noting that the slow implementation of CBB was seen as
the main obstacle to the full achievement of the PDO. Dissemination and training were given a
priority. The team also signed an MOU with the Fonds Français pour l’Environnement Mondial

15
  For residential buildings only (on which the project focused), the CBB area was only 616 million m2 for a total
heated residential building stock of about 6 billion m2 (10% as well).


                                                       14
(FFEM) which had been doing building energy efficiency work in China. The team utilized a FFEM
supported expert who had led the Shanghai work to try to sustain enhanced technical supervision of
the HRBEE. Task management was transferred to the Beijing Office to enhance communications.
(There were four task team leaders under this project but transitions appeared to be smooth.)
64. Nevertheless, in June 2010, the IP rating was further downgraded to MU because disbursement
remained low (30%), project management issues were addressed incompletely, and the build-up of a
pipeline of subprojects and TA activities in other project cities was very slow to materialize. At the
Bank’s urging, MOHURD appointed a more senior NPMO Executive Director (the third of the
project) in early July 2010. The Bank also enhanced the supervision team (with an additional Beijing
based Senior Energy Specialist) and further intensified supervision – the Bank conducted at least
monthly visits to the NPMO. Overall, the Bank was responsive to client demands and made
considerable efforts to help solve implementation issues. However, it could have been faster in
recognizing the project’s slow performance through its performance ratings and in establishing the
increased frequency of meetings earlier during supervision. It is difficult to predict with certainty that
such efforts would have addressed project implementation issues sooner. The project started to take
off again under the new NPMO management. During the last months of implementation, NPMO and
the Bank launched a broad and systematic nation-wide effort to disseminate the results of the project,
which has been effective in establishing conditions for sustained project outcomes.
65. Supervision reports were generally realistic, candid, internally consistent, and focused on the
PDO. Management letters highlighted key issues to be brought to the attention of the implementing
agencies, and of the municipal and national levels. Ratings given by staff were generally appropriate,
but perhaps too slow in reflecting slow progress. As a result, though efforts were indeed very strong,
the Bank’s overall supervision performance is marginally satisfactory.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory
66. Overall Bank performance is rated moderately satisfactory, based on the ratings for quality at
entry and for supervision.

5.2 Borrower Performance
(a) Government Performance
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory
67. The national government performance is moderately satisfactory. The national government
(mainly MOHURD but also NDRC and MOF) was very supportive of the HRBEE project and of the
heat reform. However, project efficiency may have been better with an enhanced National Project
Management Office, capable of engaging more deeply the local project cities and supporting them,
and establishing standardized management procedures. The Government recognized very late in the
process the need for a strong NPMO as a critical element to project success. MOHURD became more
proactive in the later stages of the project, and the results show significant improvement. In addition,
the NPMO was located under the Department of Building Energy Efficiency, Science and
Technology. Heating reform was also under the responsibility of another department. It is possible
that the residential building energy efficiency elements of this project were more successful due to
this direct link to the line department responsible for building energy efficiency. Coordination across
departments was at times difficult, needing greater MOHURD support, and possibly a contributing
factor to more moderate success in the heating sector objectives.




                                                   15
(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory
68. Overall, the performance of implementing agencies (NPMO and project cities) was moderately
satisfactory. Once a new executive director was selected in July 2010, NPMO’s performance
improved to satisfactory for the last three years of implementation. However, for the reasons
discussed in Part 2.2, NPMO’s performance was sub-optimal during the first five years of
implementation. As noted earlier, proactive support from MOHURD was missed in the first part of
the project to address shortcomings early in implementation.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory
69. Overall borrower performance is rated moderately satisfactory based on the ratings of the
performance of the government and the implementing agencies.

6. Lessons Learned

70. Strong project management units are needed especially for projects with transformative
objectives depending mainly on outcomes from technical assistance. Compared with loan projects,
PMOs for technical assistance projects tend to be under-resourced or under-skilled, placed inside an
existing project management unit established for lending, or set up with part time staff. Yet TA
requires deep engagement with counterparts to clearly identify problems, transform them into well
designed activities, establish the institutional arrangements to ensure inputs are transformed into
outcomes, and efficiently monitor progress. TA projects tend to have many small contracts, requiring
strong contract management. Clear project management procedures with annual planning, monthly
supervision, periodic training (if multiple city level PMOs are involved) to become familiar with
Bank requirements, and quality control are key elements. Additionally, institutional arrangements
matter – PMOs managing multi-sector projects, like buildings and heating, will need to have very
strong coordination mechanisms. If left on their own, PMOs may have difficulty engaging across
departments and agencies.
71. Concentration of resources can help to enhance engagement needed to catalyze change,
reduce transaction costs, and increase local government support. Technical assistance projects
tend to be grant financed, smaller and realize outcomes more slowly than loan projects. As a result
they receive less attention than projects needing loan repayment and generating substantial physical
investment. In principle, concentrating resources as much as possible in fewer geographic locations
can help both the Bank team and the main counterpart provide better service and engagement under
their respective budget constraints. Bringing loan and grant resources together to support a common
objective in one location can provide high value added (as in Urumqi).
72. Engaging real estate developers to promote more advanced building energy efficiency
concepts requires more incentives than partial grant support. Developers follow the local
standards and would entertain innovations if they perceive it provides them a competitive advantage.
The incremental cost coverage from the HRBEE grant was not the main incentive for participation –
designation as a national demonstration project was seen to strengthen the development’s marketing.
Labelling programs, for instance, can have a strong impact should the market demand greener homes.
Technical assistance, if provided efficiently, for adjusting building designs can also bring value
added. Regulatory changes are also critical factors in moving markets toward greener buildings.
Projects targeting real estate developers must be very efficient to keep pace with the market.



                                                16
73. District heating sector reform in transition economies requires a long term engagement
that could be accelerated with strengthened institutions and regulations. Heating used to be
provided as a free housing service by the welfare state. Transitioning to selling heat as a commodity
requires a long term effort. Pilots and local policy engagements can be effective if the lessons
learned are absorbed by the institutions responsible for the reform. In China, there are multiple
institutions including local pricing bureaus, heating management offices, mayor’s office, heating
enterprises, consumers and MOHURD at the central government level that have jurisdiction over
parts of the reform. With about 132 cities across 15 provinces and a few tens of thousands of heating
enterprises in Northern China, reaching out to all stakeholders is a very difficult assignment for a
budget-strapped central authority like MOHURD. The HRBEE provided resources for piloting,
policy support and strengthened dissemination. Sustaining this effort may require enhancing
provincial-level institutions that could facilitate knowledge exchange, monitor and even benchmark
district heating enterprises, and provide support to local authorities within the province.

7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners
(a) Borrower/implementing agencies

74. The final draft ICR was shared with the borrower (NPMO and MOHURD) in February 2014.
The borrower’s comments are attached to Annex 7. NPMO expressed two main points:
    The percent of cumulative new residential stock billed on heat consumption basis since 2004
       in the 7 project cities is 66% (and not 40%);
    Project efficiency and implementing agency performance has been satisfactory during
       implementation.
75. Regarding point 1, 66% may indeed be the percentage of the total residential area built in the 7
project cities since 2004 with installed heat meters. Some of them may be working, some not. Of
those working, some may have been used for actual CBB during the 2012-2013 Heating Season
(40%, Indicator 2), some may have been used for the one-year testing period preceding actual CBB
during the following Heating Season, some may be working but may not be used in the short-term
for CBB as stressed by the borrower’s comments.
76. The 7 project cities (LPMOs) reported their figures to the World Bank Task Team, through
NPMO in July 2014. These figures were analyzed and double-checked again by the Task Team with
the project cities during the ICR Mission in October 2013. They were reported in the World Bank
ICR Mission Aide-Memoire (attached to Annex 10). This data is robust and the Task Team has
additional written evidence 16 of Tianjin’s actual CBB area in 2012-2013 (46 million m2), which,
unfortunately, drags the overall project’s CBB indicator down (to 40%, Indicator 2).
77. Regarding point 2, the project closed after a 22 month extension and with grant savings. The
project progress was rated Moderately Unsatisfactory for two consecutive years and the last two ISR
ratings were Moderately Satisfactory. Efficiency of project implementation was Moderately
Satisfactory overall during the 8 years of implementation as described in Part 2.2 and in Part 5 in part
because of weak capacity of the NPMO during the first five years of implementation.

(b) Cofinanciers. None.

(c) Other partners and stakeholders (e.g. NGOs/private sector/civil society)
None.

16
     In the final report “Summary and Conclusion of Tianjin Heat Metering Reform Experience”, October 2013.


                                                        17
Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

(a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)
                                           Table A1
                                                       Actual/Latest
                                   Appraisal Estimate                        Percentage of
           Components                                  Estimate (USD
                                    (USD millions)                            Appraisal
                                                          millions)
A. Tianjin Municipality
                                          21.20             21.20                100%
Demonstration Component
A1. Energy Efficient Investment in
                                          20.00             20.00                100%
Buildings and Heat Supply
A2. Technical and Institutional
                                           1.20               1.20               100%
Capacity Building
B. National Policy Support &
                                           2.30               3.25               141%
Project Management Component
B1. Technical Assistance to
                                           1.35               1.20               89%
Ministry of Construction
B2. Project Management,
                                           0.95               2.05               216%
Monitoring and Dissemination
C. Other Northern Cities
                                          29.10             25.60                88%
Component
C1. Energy Efficiency Investment
                                          26.70             24.00                90%
in Buildings and Heat Supply
C2. Technical and Institutional
                                           2.40               1.60               67%
Capacity Building
Unallocated                                 -                 0.00                n/a
       Total Financing Required           52.60              50.05               95%

(b) GEF Grant Contribution (in USD Millions) by Component (Table A2)

                                         Appraisal          Actual/Latest
                                                                             Percentage of
           Components                    Estimate             Estimate
                                                                              Appraisal
                                       (USD millions)      (USD millions)
A. Tianjin Municipality
                                                    6.00              5.95              99%
Demonstration Component
B. National Policy Support &
                                                    2.25              3.09              137%
Project Management Component
C. Other Northern Cities Component                  9.45              8.37              89%
Unallocated                                         0.30              0.00               0%
Total GEF Grant Contribution                       18.00             17.41              97%




                                              18
(c) GEF Grant Contribution (in USD Millions) by Category (Table A3)

                                       Appraisal           Actual/Latest
                                                                            Percentage of
                Category               Estimate              Estimate
                                                                             Appraisal
                                     (USD millions)       (USD millions)
(1) Sub-grants                                 12.70                12.17             96%
(2) Goods (under Part B.6 of the
                                                   0.05              0.05            100%
Project)
(3) Consultants’ Services                          4.37              4.16             95%
(4) Incremental Operating Costs
                                                   0.15              0.25            167%
(under Part B.6 of the Project)
(5) Training                                       0.44              0.78            177%
(6) Unallocated                                    0.30              0.00              0%
Total GEF Grant Contribution                      18.00             17.41             97%

(b) Financing
                                        Table A4
                                                      Appraisal Actual/Latest
                                      Type of         Estimate    Estimate Percentage of
          Source of Funds
                                     Financing         (USD        (USD       Appraisal
                                                      millions)   millions)
Borrower                            Budget                  34.60       32.64        94%
Global Environment Facility (GEF)   Grant                   18.00       17.41        97%
Total                                                       52.60       50.05       95%




                                             19
Annex 2. Outputs by Component

Components                      PAD                              At Project Completion
A: Tianjin   1. Energy efficiency investment in new     Completed:
Municipality residential buildings and heat supply      -Huaxiajindian BEE
Component    systems                                    -Diliutianyuan BEE
                                                        -Taida & Jinhong CBB
                  a. Improvement of building            -Municipal Pilot Heat Consumption
                     thermal integrity                  Monitoring Platform
                  b. Improvement of building
                     internal heating system            The Xindu Garden Demonstration
                  c. Improvement of heating system      Subproject presented in the PAD was
                     and network                        implemented with counterpart funds
                                                        only (see Section 1.6).
              2. Technical and Institutional Capacity   Completed:
              Building

              2.1 Technical studies and analytical      5 studies produced (see list below).
              work essential to the implementation of
              heat metering, cost-based pricing,
              consumption-based billing, as well as
              more stringent BEE standard;

              2.2 Development of BEE compliance         BEE Standard Compliance TA.
              enforcement capacity through
              introduction of systematic inspection
              procedures compatible with the existing
              construction quality inspection system,
              and by strengthening the supervision
              capacity of the local BEE authority;

              2.3 Public education in the local area on Dissemination TA for Heat Metering
              the benefits of energy efficiency and in Users, training programs, and study
              particular for new residents in the       tours.
              demonstration projects on the use and
              benefits of consumption-based billing
              and heat metering and consumer control
              equipment; and professional training for
              designers, construction supervisors, and
              building inspectors on energy efficiency
              compliance requirements and
              procedures; and

              2.4 Monitoring and evaluation of          Two monitoring and evaluation
              technical outcomes, as well as the        contracts for the Tianjin Component
              economic and social impacts of the        and two studies related to heat
              demonstration projects.                   consumption monitoring (Municipal
                                                        Pilot Heat Consumption Monitoring



                                              20
Components                      PAD                             At Project Completion
                                                        Platform FSR, and Carbon Trading
                                                        Methods for the Heating Sector).
B. National    1. Policy Advice, Technical and          Completed:
Level Policy   Institutional Support
Support and                                             -17 studies produced (see list below).
Project                                                 -4 contracts for the National Experts,
Management                                              providing quality control for the
                                                        national and municipal studies.
                                                        -Training and dissemination activities:
                                                        4 international study tours (to Denmark,
                                                        Finland, Poland, Germany, and Russia),
                                                        and 22 domestic training programs and
                                                        workshops.

               2. Project Management, Monitoring and    Completed:
               Evaluation
                                                        -8 annual project management contracts
                                                        (National PMO).
                                                        -Incremental costs for the National
                                                        PMO.
C. Other       1. Energy efficiency investment in new   Completed:
Northern       residential buildings and heat supply
Cities         systems                                  -Building Energy Efficiency and
Component                                               Internal Heating Network: Dalian,
                     Building Energy Efficiency        Yihexiangxie BEE; Urumqi,
                     Internal Heating Network          Boruixincun BEE; Tangshan, Lugang
                     Network and Substations           BEE; Wuzhong, Jinxing CBB.
                     Heat Supply
                                                        -Network and Substations: Building
                                                        Level Substations: Urumqi, BLS;
                                                        Chengde, BLS.

                                                        -Heat Supply: no direct investment in
                                                        energy efficiency improvement at the
                                                        heat source level, but installation of
                                                        network-wide heat monitoring
                                                        platforms, covering heat sources and
                                                        substations: Tangshan, Chengde,
                                                        Datong, and Wuzhong.
               2 Technical Assistance                   Completed:

               2.1 Project Development Support          7 studies produced (see list below).

               2.2 Development and Piloting Heat        13 studies produced (see list below) and
               Reform Support                           associated training and study tours.




                                                 21
5 Tianjin Studies (Tianjin Component I. 2.1):

   1.    Specifications on Application of Thermal Flow Meters
   2.    Heat Standard Contract
   3.    Variable-flow Heating System
   4.    Determination Method of Heat Energy Consumption Based Billing (CBB) Baseline
   5.    Summary and Conclusion of Tianjin Heat Metering Reform Experience

18 National Level Studies:

   1.    Temporary Management Regulations of Urban Heat Price
   2.    Guidelines for Urban Heat Fee Subsidies
   3.    Guidelines for Promoting the Implementation of Heat Metering
   4.    Heat Regulation Research
   5.    Evaluation and Assessment of China’s Heat Metering Reform
   6.    Datong, Heat Consumption Monitoring Platform FSR
   7.    Wuzhong, Heat Consumption Monitoring Platform FSR
   8.    Summary and Conclusion of Yuzhong Heat Metering Reform Experience
   9.    Technical and Economic Analysis of Ground Source Heat Pump
   10.   Research on BEE Renovation of Existing Buildings; Research on Technology Selection and
         Cost Analysis of Existing BEE Renovation
   11.   Policy Research on Existing BEE Renovation
   12.   Study of heating network reconstruction implementation and planning
   13.   Research for HRBEE program summary and design of second phase HRBEE Project
   14.   Conclusion and Dissemination of the HRBEE Project
   15.   Training and material compiling of 100 questions on the work guideline of heat metering
   16.   FSR of Lanzhou Heat Supply Renovation
   17.   Documentary of HRBEE project achievements

Other Northern Cities Component:

Project Development Support:
    1. Chengde, Heat Consumption Monitoring Platform FSR
    2. Chengde, Study on the potential for integrating renewable energy into the Chengde district
        heating system
    3. Tangshan, Heat Consumption Monitoring Platform FSR
    4. Tangshan, Lugang M&E
    5. Urumqi, Boruixincun M&E
    6. Urumqi, Heat Consumption Monitoring Platform FSR
    7. Wuzhong, FSR of Wuzhong Heat Supply Renovation

Development and Piloting Heat Reform Support:
   1. Chengde, BEE Standard Compliance
   2. Chengde, Research for Optimized Energy Saving Operation Management of Heating
      Company
   3. Chengde, Summary and Conclusion of Chengde Heat Metering Reform Experience
   4. Dalian, Heat Metering and Billing Management Methods
   5. Dalian, Heat Price Research
   6. Datong, Heat Reform Planning Research


                                                22
     7.  Tangshan, Heat Price Research
     8.  Tangshan, Summary and Conclusion of Tangshan Heat Metering Reform Experience
     9.  Urumqi, Heat Price Research
     10. Urumqi, Improvement of Urumqi DH Company’s Accounting and Billing Information
         System for Consumption Based Billing
     11. Urumqi, Study on CBB, Heat Standard Contract, and Training
     12. Wuzhong, HRBEE Planning Research
     13. Yinchuan, Heat Price Research

The project has helped develop the national and local body of methodologies and guidelines
needed for implementing the heat reform17.

At the national level, four key studies were produced for the implementation of the heat reform:

     1.    Guidelines for Urban Heat Fee Subsidies
     2.    Temporary Management Regulations of Urban Heat Price
     3.    Guidelines for Promoting the Implementation of Heat Metering
     4.    Enhancing the Institutional Model for District Heating Regulation

The work done under the first study (Guidelines for Urban Heat Fee Subsidies) was used by
MOHURD for the publication of the “opinion on city heat fee subsidy work” (in June 2007) which
was implemented in December 2007. This document stated that heat was changed from a benefit of
the government-supported welfare system to a commercial commodity (referred to as the “an bu
bian ming bu reform” in Chinese).

The second study (Temporary Management Regulations of Urban Heat Price) resulted in the
publication by MOHURD and NDRC of the “Interim Guidelines for Heat Tariff” in June 2007 and
implemented in October 2007. The guidelines specified that heat tariff had to consist of two parts: (i)
a capacity charge, based on heated square meters (GJ/hour), and (ii) an energy charge, based on heat
consumed. The study also specified the general methodology for assessing the unit costs needed for
the two parts.

The third study (Guidelines for Promoting the Implementation of Heat Metering) finished in 2007
made recommendations to improve the implementation of heat metering. Based on this study,
MOHURD issued two documents in 2008 and 2009: (i) heat metering and billing management
methods (Construction City (2008) No.106), and (ii) heat metering technical norms (JGJ173-2009).
This study influenced the preparation of the “Residential Building Energy Efficiency Ordinance”
issued by the State Council in July 2008, mandating the installation of apartment level heat meters
for new buildings.

The fourth study made specific recommendations for enhancing the institutional model for district
heating regulation. The final report is available in English and in Chinese on the internet 18. One key
recommendation is to enhance provincial-level functions in district heating sector reform and
development.

17
   The client has provided documented evidence of the project’s impact on the development of the national and local
body of methodologies and guidelines needed for implementing the heat reform, which is in the project files.
18
       http://documents.worldbank.org/curated/en/2012/12/18481031/enhancing-institutional-model-district-heating-
regulation-outside-perspectives-suggestions


                                                        23
Arrangements for the Operation and Maintenance of Physical Assets

The physical investments financed by the project are being operated and maintained. The
arrangements for their operation are the following:

 Physical Investment    Subproject and City       Owner of the Asset            Maintenance
Building Energy        Huaxiajindian,            -BEE investments /        -DH companies are
Efficiency             Diliutianyuan             TRV / heat meters         responsible for
Improvements and       (Tianjin); Yihexiangxie   owned by tenants          maintaining heat
Internal Heating &     (Dalian); Boruixincun                               meters
Metering Systems       (Urumqi); Lugang
                       (Tangshan)
Internal Heating &     Taida & Jinhong           -TRV / heat meters        -DH companies are
Metering Systems       (Tianjin); Jinxing        owned by tenants          responsible for
                       (Wuzhong)                                           maintaining heat
                                                                           meters
Building Level         Urumqi, Chengde           -BLS owned by city        -DH companies are
Substations (BLS)                                DH companies              responsible for
                                                 -BEE investments /        maintaining the BLS
                                                 TRV / heat meters         and heat meters
                                                 owned by tenants
Heat Consumption       Tianjin, Tangshan,        -Heat meters (at heat     -DH companies are
Monitoring Platforms   Chengde, Datong,          source and substation     responsible for
                       Wuzhong                   level), software &        maintaining heat
                                                 hardware of the control   meters, the software &
                                                 center: owned by city     hardware of the control
                                                 DH companies              center




                                             24
Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis
(reviewed by Dr. Arto Nuorkivi, PhD, District Heating Expert)

An incremental cost analysis is carried out with the same approach and baseline scenario of the PAD
to derive the following two numbers:
     estimated annual coal-savings achieved by the project cities (the PAD estimated 660,000
        TCE by the end of the project for Tianjin and 5 other project cities19);
     estimated annual coal-savings of the national HRBEE effort in China (the PAD estimated
        about 240 million TCE between 2004 and 2024).
Since the project supported a comprehensive national policy reform and regulatory agenda that
required many years to implement and would not fully materialize until many years after the project
implementation is completed, its impact in the PAD (and therefore in this ICR stage analysis) was
not limited to the activities and investments which the project directly supported. Like in the PAD,
the analysis did not attempt to separate out the impact of the GEF alternative from the overall
government efforts it supported because there would have been no rationale for implementing the
GEF alternative without the government’s supportive reform and policy efforts. The incremental cost
analysis in the PAD (and in this ICR stage analysis) attempted to assess the long-term aggregate
impact of implementing the HRBEE agenda in the project cities and at the national level.

1. Estimated annual coal-savings achieved by the project cities
During the ICR mission, the actual heated residential building stock as of April 2013 (end of the last
heating season before the project closing) was gathered from the 7 project cities that had carried out
both investment subprojects and technical assistance activities through the HRBEE. It is shown
below by building energy efficiency performance standard (from 30% BEE to 65% BEE):

               Tianjin     Chengde Tangshan           Dalian      Urumqi Wuzhong                    Datong
 Total          248.2         8.3          70.7         96.8       112.1         12.0                32.2
 65% BEE        138.4         1.4          16.1         24.2        23.8          0.7                 4.2
 50% BEE         23.5         1.6          25.4         23.0        36.9          5.9                13.4
 30% BEE         86.3         5.3          29.2         49.7        51.4          5.4                14.5
Table 3.1: Actual heated residential building stock as of April 2013 (in million m2)

The actual coal consumption indexes (in kg coal equivalent per m2) were also gathered from the
project cities for the October 2012 – April 2013 Heating Season, and are presented below by building
energy efficiency performance standard (from 30% BEE to 65% BEE) along with the city average:

               Tianjin     Chengde Tangshan         Dalian     Urumqi Wuzhong          Datong
 Average         18.6        10.8       11.6         21.0        25.3        31.0        16.4
 65% BEE         13.4         6.3        7.4         13.0        15.8        18.7        10.1
 50% BEE         19.2         9.0       10.6         18.6        22.6        26.7        14.4
 30% BEE         26.8        12.6       14.8         26.0        31.6        37.4        20.1
Table 3.2: Actual coal consumption indexes for the October 2012 – April 2013 Heating Season (in kg
coal equivalent per m2)

19
  One of the 5 other project cities in the PAD was expected to be Harbin (thus the reference to the French GEF
project in the PAD’s analysis) but Harbin finally did not express an interest to r eceive support from the HRBEE.


                                                       25
From these two tables, the total coal consumption of the 7 project cities during the October 2012 –
April 2013 Heating Season was about 11.3 million TCE as shown below:

                  Total Coal
                 Consumption
                    (TCE)
 Tianjin            4,623,221
 Chengde               89,640
 Tangshan             820,302
 Dalian             2,033,010
 Urumqi             2,835,624
 Wuzhong              372,000
 Datong               528,173
 Total             11,301,969

To derive the estimated annual coal-savings achieved by the project cities by the end of the project,
one has to compare this figure with the PAD’s baseline scenario, which is:
   (a) The share of buildings with relatively good energy efficiency performance (which is referring
       to the 50% BEE standard in the PAD) in the annual new construction will increase by about 2
       percentage points per year, rising from 30% in 2004 to reach 70% in 2024;
   (b) The share of buildings with heat metering, consumer controls and consumption-based billing
       in centrally-heated residential buildings constructed after 2004 will reach 50% by 2024, an
       average annual growth rate of about 2.5 percentage points; and
   (c) Only those buildings that have installed consumer heat metering, consumer controls and
       consumption-based billing will install modern, variable flow control technology to operate
       their systems, which will enable consumers to adjust their heat demand.

During the ICR mission, the actual heated residential building stock was gathered from the 7 project
cities for each year since 2004. Based on this, the PAD’s baseline scenario for the heated residential
building stock in April 2013 (e.g. the business as usual scenario based on the actual total annual
building stock construction in the project cities during the 9 years) was derived as follows based on
point (a) above:

              Tianjin    Chengde Tangshan          Dalian      Urumqi Wuzhong          Datong
 Total         248.2        8.3        70.7         96.8        112.1        12.0       32.2
 65% BEE         0.8        0.0         0.0          0.0          0.0         0.0        0.0
 50% BEE        62.9        1.4        15.0         31.3         24.5         3.8        4.5
 30% BEE       184.5        6.9        55.7         65.5         87.6         8.2       27.7
Table 3.3: Business as usual scenario for the heated residential building stock in April 2013 (in
million m2)

To compare with the actual 11.3 million TCE emitted by the 7 project cities, one has to estimate what
the coal consumption indexes of the 7 project cities would have been for the October 2012 – April
2013 Heating Season under the PAD’s baseline scenario.



                                                 26
During the ICR mission, the coal consumption indexes (in kg coal equivalent per m2) were gathered
from the project cities for the 2004 Heating Season by building energy efficiency performance
standard (from 30% BEE to 65% BEE):

                 Tianjin    Chengde Tangshan           Dalian     Urumqi Wuzhong          Datong
 65% BEE          13.7         7.4        9.8           13.7       16.6         20.9        19.8
 50% BEE          19.6        10.6       14.0           19.6       23.7         29.8        28.3
 30% BEE          27.4        14.8       19.6           27.4       33.2         41.7        39.5
Table 3.4:   Actual coal consumption indexes for the   2004 Heating Season (in kg coal equivalent per
m2)

Then one needs to know what the coal consumption indexes would have been in April 2013 under
the business as usual scenario (PAD’s baseline scenario).

Based on points (b) and (c) above, 20% of the buildings constructed after 2004 would have
implemented consumption-based billing by April 2013 and would therefore have variable-flow
systems with total efficiency of 67.5% (from page 60 of the PAD). 80% of the buildings constructed
after 2004 would use traditional heating systems with constant-flow technology and total efficiency
of 52% (from page 60 of the PAD). The average efficiency of the added heating systems since 2004
would therefore be 55%.

This compares to an average efficiency of about 46% for heat supply systems in Northern China in
2004. Indeed, over the 4 billion m2 of heated area in Northern China in 2004, 2 billion m2 were
using traditional heating systems with constant-flow technology and total efficiency of 52%, and 2
billion m2 were scattered coal-fired heating systems with efficiencies of about 40%.

Since the building stock has almost doubled in China and in the 7 project cities since 2004, the total
efficiency of the heating systems in the 7 project cities was expected to be about half of 46% and
55%, which is 51%, a 10% gain in efficiency overall from 2004 levels. Therefore, under the PAD’s
baseline scenario, the coal consumption indexes of the 7 project cities in April 2013 would have
expected to be 10% lower than their 2004 values, as shown below:

               Tianjin    Chengde Tangshan          Dalian      Urumqi Wuzhong         Datong
 65% BEE        12.5         6.7         8.9         12.5         15.1       19.0       18.0
 50% BEE        17.8         9.6        12.8         17.8         21.6       27.1       25.7
 30% BEE        25.0        13.5        17.8         24.9         30.2       37.9       36.0
Table 3.5: Estimated/projected business as usual scenario for the coal consumption indexes for the
October 2012 – April 2013 Heating Season (in kg coal equivalent per m2)

Based on Table 3.3 and Table 3.5 (estimated/projected business as usual scenario), the total coal
consumption of the 7 project cities during the October 2012 – April 2013 Heating Season was
expected to be about 13.9 million TCE as shown below:




                                                 27
                   Total Coal
                  Consumption
                     (TCE)
 Tianjin             5,735,205
 Chengde               106,327
 Tangshan            1,185,030
 Dalian              2,189,096
 Urumqi              3,177,526
 Wuzhong               414,148
 Datong              1,112,183
 Total              13,919,516

The implementation of the HRBEE agenda in the 7 project cities is therefore estimated to have saved
some 2.6 million TCE during the October 2012 – April 2013 Heating Season. This compares very
favorably to the PAD’s target of 660,000 TCE. This will potentially generate over 51 million TCE
coal savings and reduce CO2 emissions by about 38 million tons of carbon over a 20-year period
(2004-2024).

These high coal savings compared to PAD estimates are explained by the much higher than expected
penetration rate of the 65% BEE standard in the 7 project cities. For example, in 2012, 98.7% of the
new residential building stock in the 7 project cities was constructed according to the 65% BEE
standard, when the PAD was projecting only 16%. By April 2013, 36% of the total residential
building stock in the 7 project cities (some 580 million m2) had been constructed according to the
65% BEE standard. The PAD estimates were also based on a projected 6 billion m2 of net growth in
the heated urban residential building stock between 2004 and 2024, when by current trends, at least
7.5 billion m2 (or an additional 25%) is expected.

Note:

In their comments on the ICR (Annex 7), NPMO pointed out that since the heat consumption
monitoring platforms were not operational during the 2012-2013 Heating Season, it was not possible
to derive the actual average coal consumption indexes of the project cities. Actually, all the cities
interviewed during the ICR Mission had this information which they gathered from the heat sources.
Tianjin for example shared that its average coal consumption index for the October 2012 – April
2013 Heating Season was 18.6 kg coal equivalent per m2.

2. Annual coal-savings of the national HRBEE effort in China

In 2004, Northern China consumed about 180 million TCE for space heating of urban buildings
(residential, commercial, and public buildings) for a total heated building stock of about 4 billion m2.
In 2004, the average coal consumption index in Northern China was therefore 45.1 kg coal
equivalent per m2.

Based on the PAD’s baseline scenario mentioned earlier (e.g. 10% in efficiency gains for heating
systems from 2004 levels and a high penetration of good building energy efficiency standards –
actually translating into an average 4% efficiency gain for the entire building stock compared to 2004


                                                  28
levels), the average coal consumption index in Northern China was therefore expected to reach 38.9
kg coal equivalent per m2 in 2012-13.

Northern China actually consumed about 272 million TCE in 2012-13 for space heating of urban
buildings (residential, commercial, and public buildings) for a total heated building stock of about 8
billion m2. The actual average coal consumption index in Northern China was therefore 34 kg coal
equivalent per m2 in 2012-13.

4.9 kg of coal equivalent has therefore been saved per m2 in Northern China in 2012-13 compared to
the PAD’s estimated baseline scenario. This translates into 29.4 million TCE for the entire heated
residential building stock of 6 billion m2 in 2012-1320. Over a 20-year period (2004-2024), about 590
million TCE would be saved, 2.5 times more than the PAD’s estimate of 240 million TCE. This
represents a potential reduction in CO2 emissions due to coal savings of about 440 million tons
of carbon21 over a 20-year period (2004-2024) compared to the PAD’s estimated business-as-
usual scenario for Northern Chinese cities (see page 26).

3. Coal-savings achieved by the investment subprojects

The total coal-savings achieved by the investment subprojects are shown in the table below. They
reach 345,169 TCE over 20 years, and represent 0.68% of the 51 million TCE coal savings
generated by the implementation of the HRBEE agenda in the 7 project cities. This reduces CO2
emissions by 257,500 tons of carbon over a 20-year period (2004-2024). The project financed
consumption-based billing area reached 4.13 million m2.

                                         GEF                kg ce/m2            Area            TCE saved in
                                      (000 USD)               saved           (000 m2)            20 years
 1. Tianjin
 Huaxiajindian BEE                              707                  3.6               480             34,080
 Diliutianyuan BEE                              918                  3.6               160             11,360
 Taida & Jinhong CBB                          2,061                  5.5             1,880            205,717
 2. Dalian
 Yihexiangxie BEE                               159                  0.9                 95              6,276
 3. Urumqi
 Boruixincun BEE                              1,862                  5.1               320              32,640
 BLS subproject                                 347                  1.2                72               1,706
 4. Tangshan
 Lugang BEE                                     583                  3.9               533              41,379
 5. Chengde
 BLS subproject                                 603                  0.9               161               2,903
 6. Wuzhong


20
   This is comparing actual coal consumption of Northern Chinese cities for heating during the 2012-2013 Heating
Season with an estimated business-as-usual scenario for Northern Chinese cities in the PAD for the same Heating
Season (see PAD’s baseline scenario for these cities, page 26).
21
   Carbon content in tons C per ton coal equivalent = 0.746 ± 2%, Carbon Dioxide Information Analysis Center, Oak
Ridge National Laboratory, Oak Ridge, Tennessee, http://cdiac.ornl.gov/pns/convert.html


                                                       29
                                     GEF             kg ce/m2          Area         TCE saved in
                                  (000 USD)            saved         (000 m2)         20 years
 Platform + Metering                      322                1.1            430             9,107
 Deployment
 TOTAL                                    7,561                             4,132        345,169
Table 3.6: Total coal savings achieved by the investment subprojects (in TCE)




                                                30
Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes


(a) Task Team members
                                                                             Responsibility/
            Names                          Title                    Unit
                                                                               Specialty
Lending
Robert P. Taylor           Lead Energy Specialist                  EASEG   TTL
Feng Liu                   Consultant, Energy Specialist           EASEG   Consultant
Anke Meyer                 Consultant, Energy Economist            EASEG   Consultant
Osmo Tammela               Senior Technical Specialist             EASUR   Technical Specialist
Gailius J. Draugelis       Urban Infrastructure Specialist         ECSIE   Operations
Shenhua Wang               Senior Operations Officer               EASUR   Operations
                                                                           Financial
Haixia Li                  Financial Management Specialist         EAPCO
                                                                           Management
Xiaowei Guo                Procurement Specialist                  EAPCO   Procurement
Teri G. Velilla            Program Assistant                       EASEG   Assistant
Yuling Zhou                Senior Procurement Specialist           EASEG   Procurement
Youxuan Zhu                Consultant, Resettlement Expert         EASEG   Social
                           Consultant, Energy Efficiency                   Building Energy
Marc Bellanger                                                     EASEG
                           Engineer                                        Efficiency
Soren Christensen          Consultant, District Heating Engineer   EASEG   District Heating
                           Consultant. Environmental
Douglas Clark                                                      EASEG Environment
                           Assessment Specialist

Supervision/ICR
Robert P. Taylor           Lead Energy Specialist                  EASEG   TTL
Gailius J. Draugelis       Lead Energy Specialist                  EASCS   TTL
Frederic Asseline          Sr Energy Specialist                    EASCS   TTL
Emmanuel Py                Infrastructure Specialist               EASWE   TTL
Feng Liu                   Sr Energy Specialist                    SEGES   Technical Specialist
Ximing Peng                Sr Energy Specialist                    EASCS   Operations
Yanqin Song                Energy Specialist                       EASCS   Operations
                           Consultant, Energy Efficiency                   Building Energy
Marc Bellanger                                                     EASCS
                           Engineer                                        Efficiency
 Arto Emerik Nuorkivi      Consultant, District Heating Engineer   EASCS   District Heating
Jun Zeng                   Social Development Specialist           EASCS   Social
Xin Ren                    Environmental Specialist                EASCS   Environment
                                                                           Financial
Haixia Li                  Financial Management Specialist         EASFM
                                                                           Management
Xiaowei Guo                Procurement Specialist                  EASR2   Procurement




                                            31
(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                      Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
Stage of Project Cycle                                     USD Thousands (including
                                   No. of staff weeks
                                                           travel and consultant costs)
Lending
  FY01                                   16                           65.59
  FY02                                   15                           60.68
  FY03                                   28                          110.42
  FY04                                   42                          166.99
  FY05                                   27                          106.72
                          Total:        128                          510.40
Supervision/ICR
  FY06                                   17                           86.23
  FY07                                   15                           75.35
  FY08                                    9                           45.00
  FY09                                   11                           55.40
  FY10                                    6                           30.15
  FY11                                    3                           14.90
  FY12                                    7                           36.40
  FY13                                    7                           34.97
  FY14                                    7                           40.00
                          Total:         82                          418.40




                                       32
Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results
Not Applicable.




                                      33
Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results
Not Applicable.




                                          34
Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR

                          Comments on HRBEE ICR from World Bank
                                               NPMO


1、Pviii “Ratings of Overall Borrower Performance” should be Satisfactory.
2、Pix, “PDO Indicator”
        1）The actual coal savings should be 3.65 million TCE/ year. As well as the “percent of
current-year new housing completion compliant with BEE standard’, which should be 100% since
2004. That is also related with the values of “the area of new BEE buildings” and “heating efficiency
indicators”. These values are confirmed through repeated discussions and checking by experts from
HRBEE project summary group, heating offices and BEE offices of each demo-cities, that is more
accurate compare with the data in the ICR which reported by LPMO.
         2）The “percent of new residential stock implementing CBB” should be 66%. This figure is
also confirmed through repeated discussions and checking by experts from HRBEE project summary
group, heating offices and BEE offices of each demo-cities, that is more accurate compare with the
data in the ICR which reported by LPMO.
The heat metering and charging practice for new buildings in the demonstration cities are: reading of
the heat meter was only recorded in the first year after completion of new buildings rather than
metering and charging. Heat metering and charging starts from the second year, which was a cautious
practice. Firstly, in order to observe whether the heat meter worked normally, secondly, Chinese
residents had decoration habit, and generally did not live in new buildings in the first year. In case
occupancy rate was not high, heat metering and charging effect was poor. Such practices were
different from European practices. When reporting the number of heat metering and charging area to
NPMO and the Ministry of Housing and Urban-Rural Development, the demonstration cities did not
differentiate meter reading area from charge area, so in our opinion, the reading area was also the
charging area. So the heat metering and charging area was 70 million m2 in Tianjin. Heat metering
and charging area of other 6 demonstration cities was also summarized in the same way.
Therefore, in the World Bank ICR, the CBB area that reported from LPMO excluding the meter
reading area is not correct since the meter reading area in demo-cities of HRBEE project will become
the CBB area in the next heating season.
Admittedly, there is a different scenario in non-demonstration cities in China. The new buildings in
these cities that installed meters or meter readers would not implement CBB in the next heating
season since the developers of these new buildings only care about getting the certificate of BEE
acceptance.
3）The “percent of current-year new housing completion compliant with BEE standard” has reached
100% in 2008, since these demo-cities are selected by MOHURD that have good performance in
BEE, coupled with the impact of HRBEE project.
3、P8 The rating of “Achievement of PDO” should be Satisfactory. Because the indicators about
coal-saving quantity, proportion of CBB implementation and BEE compliance are not correct. We
believe in the 11 outcome indicators are all reached. Therefore, the rating shou ld be “Satisfactory”.




                                                 35
4、P10 The rating of “Efficiency” should be Satisfactory. Because the ratings “cost effectiveness”
and “efficiency of project implementation” are satisfactory. We think the rating of “efficiency of
project implementation” in World Bank ICR that is “moderately satisfactory” is not correct.
5、P11 The rating of “overall outcome” should be Satisfactory since the ratings “project relevance,
achievement of PDO and efficiency” should be all Satisfactory. We think it is not correct to grade the
“overall outcome” as “Moderately Satisfactory” in World Bank ICR.
6、P15 The rating for “overall borrower performance” should be Satisfactory, since the rating for
“Government performance is Satisfactory. Although, the performance of agencies had some issu es
before 2010, they performed well during 2011 to 2013. Therefore, the rating for “overall borrower
performance” should be Satisfactory.
7、P24-28 The values about coal-savings, proportion of CBB implementation and BEE standard
compliance are not correct, since the raw data reported from LPMO are inaccurate.


Annex: The calculation and interpretation of PDO index by the experts of HRBEE project summary
task group




                                                 36
1. The achievement of PDO index in the summary report by NPMO

                                             Target value
Achievement indexes                  Base    The       The        The      The       The       The       The       The
                                    year    first     second     third    fourth    fifth     sixth     seventh   eighth
                                            year      year       year     year      year      year      year      year
                                    2004    2005      2006       2007     2008      2009      2010      2011      2012
 At the end of 2011:     Plan
amount of coal saving               0       0.55     2.1         6        14.6      26.3      41.9      66        66
was 660 kt of standard
coal/year                Actual             5        23          68.62    111.85    161.51    225.87    296.19    356.32
 Accumulated emission Plan          0       0.42     1.59        4.54     11.04     19.89     34.68     49.90     49.90
reduction of carbon      Actual
dioxide (104 tons of                        12.5     57.5        171.55   279.625   403.775   564.675   740.475   890.8
carbon/year)
 Proportion% of          Plan       0       1%       3%          8%       18%       28%       38%       50%       50%
accumulated metered      Actual
charging area of new
                                            67       20          15       25        32        37        55        66
residences in new
residential area
 Proportion of new       Plan
buildings in                        40%     43%      47%         52%      58%       64%       72%       80%       80%
compliance with
building energy          Actual
efficiency standard:                        66%      75%         99%      100%      100%      100%      100%      100%
80%
 Achievement indexes of each part
 Tianjin Part:
 Proportion% of          Plan       0       2%       5%          15%      25%       35%       45%       60%       60%
accumulated metered      Actual
charging area of new
                                            67       20          18       32        39        42        65        66
residences in new
residential area


                                                                37
 Proportion of new           Plan         50%        53%        57%            62%         68%           75%         82%         89%              89%
buildings compliant          Actual
with building energy                                 66%        100%           100%        100%          100%        100%        100%             100%
efficiency standard
 Central Part:
 Number of cities to         Plan         0          1          2              5           10            15          25          30               30
carry out heat               Actual
consumption based                                    1          2              6           7             9           15          31               33
charging
Number of cities that        Plan
will execute combined                     0          1          2              5           10            15          25          30               30
building energy
efficiency standard and
                             Actual
regular building                                     1          2              6           7             9           15          132              132
supervision22
 Number of                   Plan
experts/officials who                     No         100        200            300         300           200         200         200              200
receive training at
national-level
                             Actual
symposiums or work                                   50         10             10          720           620         120         270              360
meetings
 The Part of other cities:
 Proportion% of              Plan         0          0          2%             5%          15%           25%         35%         50%              50%
accumulated metered          Actual
charging area of new
                                                                               9           17            23          31          44               66
residences in new
residential area
 Proportion of new           Plan         35%        37%        40%            45%         50%           55%         65%         75%              75%
buildings compliant          Actual
with building energy                                                           96%         100%          100%        100%        100%             100%
efficiency standard


22
  With the increasing compliance of new buildings with building energy efficiency standard year after year, construction drawing archiving system and special
inspection system of building energy efficiency have been basically established all over China.


                                                                             38
Note:
1) In this table, we calculate the carbon dioxide emission reduction (which, = amount of coal savings
X 2.5). However, in the World Bank ICR, it is calculated carbon emissions.
2) In the World Bank ICR, the figures about “amount of coal savings, emission reduction and CBB
proportion” are calculated based on the statistics tables in Annex 3 P24. The building area in World
Bank ICR refers to the current building stock, while the data in summary report by NPMO focuses
the project implementation period (from 2004 to 2013) and are collected after the end of each heating
season and also included in the annual energy report, that means to grasp the BEE situation during
the eight-year implementation period of HRBEE project. Therefore, in the newly constructed
buildings, the proportion of BEE standard compliance is 100% and the proportion for CBB area is
also meet and exceed the planning value. In addition, the coal consumption index in World Bank ICR
refers to the actual value. In fact, due to the lack of real-time monitoring platform for heating energy
consumption (some demo-cities established the platform just before the HRBEE project finished),
there is no actual energy consumption value. However, the coal consumption indexes in the summary
report by NPMO are calculated based on energy efficiency standard for each demo-city, which has a
theoretical basis.




                                                  39
Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders
Not Applicable.




                                           40
Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents

1.   The World Bank/ GEF, China Heat Reform and Building Energy Efficiency Project: Project
     Appraisal Document, Report No. 30747-CHA, February 17, 2005.

2.   The World Bank/ GEF, China Heat Reform and Building Energy Efficiency Project: Grant
     Agreement, GEF TF054687-CHA, May 24, 2005.

3.   The World Bank, China Heat Reform and Building Energy Efficiency Project: Aide-Memoires,
     Management Letters, Implementation Status and Results Reports, Official Letters to and from
     the Government of China, and all other Official Project Documents, 2002-2013.

4.   From the National Project Management Office (NPMO): “Implementation Completion Report
     of the Heat Reform and Building Energy Efficiency Project”, received in January 2014.

5.   Studies of the China Heat Reform and Building Energy Efficiency Project, listed in Annex 2,
     2005-2013.

6.   Audit Reports, China Heat Reform and Building Energy Efficiency Project, 2005-2013.




                                              41
Annex 10. Outcome Indicators

From the October 2013 ICR Mission’s Aide-Memoire transmitted to the client:

1.    In July, the TTL circulated a table to gather standard information from the 7 project cities with
subprojects (Tianjin, Tangshan, Chengde, Dalian, Urumqi, Wuzhong, and Datong) to evaluate the
project impacts (both direct and indirect). During the mission, the TTL double checked this
information with each of the 5 cities visited (further to this, Urumqi was contacted by email). From
the information gathered on the heated residential building stock in each city (classified between the
30%, 50%, and 65% BEE standards) for each year between 2004 and 2012 (project implementation
period), it can be seen that the penetration of the 50% (good BEE) and 65% (advanced BEE)
standards has exceeded the expectations of the PAD for these cities. This combined with heating
system efficiencies (at the heat source and network levels) realized in these 7 cities between 2004
and 2012, would have enabled these 7 cities to save more than 2.5 million TCE per year.
2.   Data on actual consumption-based billing in these 7 cities as of April 2013 (end of the heating
season) was also gathered and double checked with each of the 5 cities visited:

                          Heated              Heated           Actual CBB Area     Actual CBB Area
                     Residential Area    Residential Area     (million m2) as of    as a % of new
                      (million m2) in     (million m2) in         April 2013           Heated
                        April 2013          Dec. 2004                              Residential Area
                                                                                   built since 2004
 Tianjin                  248.2                 98.0                 46.0                 31%
 Other Cities
 (OC)
 Chengde                   8.3                  5.4                  3.0                 100%
 Tangshan                  70.7                 38.1                 23.0                70%
 Dalian                    96.8                 71.0                 5.5                 21%
 Wuzhong                   12.0                 2.5                  0.7                  8%
 Datong                    32.2                 20.5                 1.0                  9%
 Urumqi                   112.1                 67.2                 31.6                70%
 Sub-Total OC             332.1                204.7                64.8                 51%
 Total                    580.3                302.7                110.9                40%

3.   It appears that the 50% PAD target (originally set for Dec. 2011) for the Actual CBB Area as a
Percentage of the new Heated Residential Area built since 2004 has not been met since, as of April
2013, the actual value for the project cities was 40%. The Tianjin PAD target of 60% was also not
met as of April 2013.
4.   However, this average 40% CBB penetration rate for the 7 cities is twice higher than the
average in Northern Chinese Cities, estimated to be about 20%. The actual heated building stock in
Northern Chinese Cities was about 8 billion m2 as of Dec. 2012 (it was about 4 billion m2 as of Dec.
2004), and the total CBB area was estimated to 805 million m2 by MOHURD.




                                                  42
                                                                                           80°E                                    90°E                                       100°E                                        110°E                                     120°E                                   130°E


                                                                                                                                                 RUSSIAN FEDERATION




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         He
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            ilon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                gJ
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ia
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    ng
                                                                                    KAZAKHSTAN
                                                           CHINA                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             HEILONGJIANG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Qiqihar
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Harbin
                                                                                                                                                                                      MONGOLIA
                40°N                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Changchun
                                                       KYRGYZ REP.                                       Urumqi                                                                                                                                                                                          JILIN
                       TAJI
                            K   ISTA                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Shenyang
                                    N                         Kashi                                                                                                                                                                                                                    LIAONING                                           40°N
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Anshan
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       L                                                                                         D.P.R.              Sea of
                AFGHANISTAN                                                                                                                                                                                     ONGO                   Hohhot                             Chengde
                                                                                    XINJIANG                                                                                                          NEI M                 Baotou                       BEIJING                                                  OF                 Japan
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Hua
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ng H e                           BEIJING           Tangshan         Dalian                  KOREA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Datong
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Tianjin
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            TIANJIN
                                                                                                                                                                                                           Yinchuan                                    Shijiazhuang                                                        REP. OF
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Taiyuan
                                         This map was produced by                                                                                                                                          Wuzhong                                       HEBEI       Jinan                                                 KOREA
                                         the Map Design Unit of The
                                                                                                                                                                                  Xining                                                SHANXI                                          Qingdao




                                                                                                                                                                                                     NINGXIA
                                         World Bank. The boundaries,
                   PAKISTAN
                       GSDPM             colors, denominations and                                                                                                                         Lanzhou                                                                     SHANDONG
                       Map Design Unit   any other information shown
                                         on this map do not imply, on
                                                                                                                                          QINGHAI                                                                                                                                                 Yellow
                                         the part of The World Bank                                                                       To                                                                                                          Zhengzhou                                    Sea                                JAPAN
                30°N                                                                       XIZANG                                           ng
                                         Group, any judgment on the                                                                                                                        GANSU                  Xi'an                          Luoyang                       JIANGSU
                                         legal status of any territory,

                                                                                                                                             tia
                                                                                                                                                 n                     Huang He
                                         or any endorsement or                                                                                                                                                    SHAANXI                        HENAN
                                         acceptance of such
                                         boundaries.                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Hefei         Nanjing
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Shanghai                                30°N
                                                                                                                              Nu                                                                                                                                     ANHUI                        SHANGHAI
                       0                  300 Kilometers                                                                                                                                                                                      HUBEI
                                                                                                                    Lhasa
                                                                                                                                                                  Jinsha      SICHUAN                                         Chang Jiang                Wuhan                                                             East
                                                                                                                                                     La



                                                                                                                                                                                              Chengdu




                                                                                                                                                                                                                    ING
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Hangzhou
                                                                                                                                                       nc




                                                      INDIA                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               China




                                                                                                                                                                                                                  GQ
                                                                                                                                                         an




                                                                            NEPAL




                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ON
                       0         100        200       300 Miles                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ZHEJIANG
                                                                                                                                                           g




                                                                                                                                                                                                               CH
                                                         80°E                                                                                                                                                                                                          Nanchang                                            Sea
                                                                                                                                                                                                               Chongqing
                                                                                                           BHUTAN                                                                                                                       Changsha
                                                                             CHINA                                                                                                                                                      HUNAN                   JIANGXI
                                         HEAT REFORM AND BUILDING ENERGY                                                                                                                                   GUIZHOU
                                                                                                                                                                                                                Guiyang
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              FUJIAN      Fuzhou
                                              EFFICIENCY PROJECT, GEF                                                                                                        Kunming
                                                                                                     BANGLADESH                                                                                                                                                                                  TAIWAN
                           PROJECT CITIES WITH INVESTMENT SUBPROJECTS:
                                                                                                                                                                           YUNNAN                                          GUANGXI                       GUANGDONG
                                         Building Energy Efficiency                                       CITIES AND TOWNS                                                                                                                       Xun        Guangzhou
                                         Improvements and Internal
                                         Heating & Metering Systems                                       PROVINCE CAPITALS                                                                                                 Nanning                            HONG KONG SAR, CHINA
                                                                                                                                                       MYANMAR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          20°N
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           MACAO SAR, CHINA
                                         Internal Heating & Metering                20°N                  NATIONAL CAPITAL                                                                 VIETNAM
                                         Systems (only)
                                                                                                          PROVINCE BOUNDARIES                                                                                                               Haikou
                                         Building Level Substations (BLS)                                                                                                       LAO
                                                                                                          INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
FEBRUARY 2014




                                                                                                                                                                               P.D.R.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 IBRD 40730
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   HAINAN
                                                                                                                                                       THAILAND                                                                                                                                         PHILIPPINES
                                         Heat Consumption Monitoring Platforms
                                                                                                  90°E                                                           100°E                                                                110°E                                                          120°E
