 IEG
                                                                                                Report Number: ICRR14657

                   ICR Review
                   Independent Evaluation Group




       1. Project Data:                                        Date Posted: 06/29/2015

               Country: China
             Project ID: P072721                                                    Appraisal               Actual
          Project Name: Cn-gef-heat Reform &         Project Costs (US$M):                      52.60                50.05
                         Bldg Egy Eff.
  L/C Number:                                          Loan/Credit (US$M):                       18.0                 17.4
      Sector Board:        Energy and Mining           Cofinancing (US$M):                          0                    0

           Cofinanciers:                              Board Approval Date :                                03/17/2005
                                                             Closing Date:             12/31/2011          10/31/2013
          Sector(s):       Housing construction (40%); Energy efficiency in power sector (32%); Sub-national
                           government administration (17%); Central government administration (11%)
          Theme(s):        Climate change (67% - P); Municipal governance and institution building (33% - S)


Prepared by:               Reviewed by:      ICR Review                       Group:
                                             Coordinator:
Richard L. Berney          Ramachandra Jammi Christopher David                IEGPS1
                                             Nelson

2. Project Objectives and Components:

 a. Objectives:
  The objective of the Project is to assist the Recipient to achieve a substantial, sustained and growing increase in
energy efficiency in urban residential buildings and central heating systems in China’s cold climate regions. (Page 4,
GEF Grant Agreement) The objectives in PAD were identical.

b.Were the project objectives/key associated outcome targets revised during implementation?
No

 c. Components:
 (a) The Tianjin Municipality Component (Total Cost at Appraisal - US$21.20 million, Actual - US$21.20 million; of
which GEF Appraisal - US$6.00 million, Actual -US$5.95 million): This component was designed to demonstrate the
efficacy of a strategy of simultaneously improving the thermal integrity of buildings, the operational efficiency of heat
supply systems, the provision of means for heat control by consumers, and the introduction of heat metering,
cost-based heat pricing and consumption-based heat billing for achieving both energy efficiency gains and cost
savings. This strategy was called the "two-hand" approach.

The GEF financing subcomponent provided co-financing subsidies for energy efficiency investment in new residential
buildings and Heat Supply Systems (Appraisal US$5 million); and Technical and Institutional Capacity Building,
including technical studies and analytical work, and monitoring and evaluation of technical outcomes (Appraisal US$1
million). The actual expenditures for the individual sub-components were not reported.

(b) National Policy Support and Project Management Component (Appraisal Total Cost US $2.30 million, GEF
US$2.00 million; Actual: Total Cost US$3.25 million, GEF US$3.09 million): This component provided support to the
Ministry of Housing and Urban-Rural Development (MOHURD) for the project implementation and for the
development of a national policy to promulgate the two-hand approach. The Appraisal subdivided the GEF funding of
component into (i) Policy Advice, Technical and Institutional Support US$1.15 million; and (ii) Project Management,
Monitoring and Evaluation US$0.85 million. The actual expenditures for the individual subcomponents were not
reported.

(c) Other Northern Cities Component (Appraisal Total Cost US $29.10 million, GEF US$9.45 million; Actual: Total
Cost US$25.60 million, GEF US$8.37 million): This component supported the replication of the Tianjin project
approach (the “two-handed approach” which included the simultaneous development of both heating sector reforms
and building energy efficiency improvements) in 4-6 additional Northern Chinese municipalities. As with the Tianjin
component, GEF financing was divided at Appraisal between an investment support component of US$8.0 million,
and a TA component of US$2 million. The actual expenditures for the individual subcomponents were not reported.

 d. Comments on Project Cost, Financing, Borrower Contribution, and Dates:
   Project Cost: The total project cost was estimated at Appraisal to be US$52.6 million. Actual project cost was
US$50.5 million. Most of the reduction in project cost was associated with the reduction in investments in energy
efficiency investments in northern cities outside of Tianjin.

Finance: The GEF grant was for US$18 million, of which US$17.41 million was utilized and the remaining US$0.59
million returned.

Borrower Contribution : At appraisal the Borrower was expected to contribute US$34.6 million equivalent. The actual
contribution was US$32.64 million equivalent as a result of a lower level of building efficiency investments.

Dates: The original closing date was 12/31/2011. In December 2011, with disbursement at only 43%, the closing
date was extended by one year to December 31, 2012, in order to advance project activities, with the incentive of
possibly extending it again by one more year if specific time-bound conditions on the implementation progress were
met. The project met these conditions, and in December 2012, with disbursement at only 55%, the closing date was
again extended, to October 31, 2013. In July 2013, a four-month grace period (to February 28, 2014) was granted to
process final disbursements.

3. Relevance of Objectives & Design:

 a. Relevance of Objectives:
High: China is highly dependent on fossil fuels, and coal accounts for 69 percent of primary energy consumption, and
for most of its heating systems. The objective of reducing the use of coal for heating is fully consistent with the climate
change mitigation focus of the GEF Trust Fund. The 2003-2005 China country assistance strategy (CAS) strongly
supports the design of this project. It states (on Page 28) that "high levels of air pollutants, and declining natural
forests threaten the sustainability of long-term growth, and that they require coordinated solutions that cut across
domestic administrative boundaries, using state-of-the-art mitigation technologies and participatory policy
interventions. Consequently, sustainable development is a primary theme of both [China’s] Tenth Plan strategy and
[its] Western Region Development program. An intensive level of support is planned for the forthcoming CAS period
[2003-2005] to help shape environmental institutions, manage China's air, land and water resources. The planned
Bank Group program includes new investments in energy conservation, natural resource management, ... "
 The China Country Partnership Strategy (CPS, FY2013-2016) also includes greener growth as one of its three
strategic priorities. Shifting to a sustainable energy path is one of the supporting pillars in support of this priority. The
project’s objective was fully consistent with this priority, in that it supported energy conservation and pollution
reduction in urban areas.

 b. Relevance of Design:
Substantial: The project components contributed directly to the project objectives by supporting activities focused on
improving the efficient use of coal for household heating and on reinforcing building heating sector reforms (including
energy efficiency building codes).

4. Achievement of Objectives (Efficacy):
  Rated Substantial .

Outputs/Intermediate Outcomes :

(i) Improvement of the energy efficiency of residential buildings;
     The percent of current-year new housing completion in compliance with BEE (Building Energy Energy Efficiency)
      standard: Tianjin: Target 89%; Actual 100%; Other Project Cities: Target 75%, Actual 95%; National: target 80%,
      Actual 98.7%.
    The number of cities (nationally) that will have integrated building energy code compliance into regular
      construction supervision: Target 30, Actual 132.
(ii) Implementation of reform on heat pricing and billing;
      The project helped to pilot through Tianjin the integration of systematic building energy efficiency code inspection
      procedures with the existing construction quality inspection system. It also strengthening the supervision
      capacity for building energy efficiency code compliance in the other project cities. The target for the number of
      cities nationally that will have initiated implementation of consumption-based billing was 30 cities, and the actual
      was 33 cities.
    Tianjin’s unique body of knowledge and practical technical experience on the effective implementation of the 65%
      BEE standard and consumption-based billing was implemented in the other project cities and was fed directly
      into the Ministry of Housing and Urban Rural Development (MOHURD) policies and was disseminated to other
      cities by the project’s sponsored workshops and studies.
    (iii) Modernization of heat supply systems for residential buildings.
    The project piloted the use of Building Level Substations (BLS) technology, which enhances energy efficiency
      and reduces maintenance needs compared to a traditional group substation. BLS subprojects were implemented
      in Urumqi and in Chengde.
    The project had targets for the percent of current-year new housing completion compliant with Government’s
      BEE building standard and for the introduction of consumption based billing for both Tianjin and for the other
      cities in the project. The target was surpassed for BEE building standards, both for Tianjin, where the target was
      89%, and the outcome was 100%, and for the other cities where the target was 75% and the outcome was 95%.
    The project accelerated adoption of consumption based billing in the seven project cities. However, for Tianjin,
      where the target was 60% of the new housing stock, the actual achievement was only 31%. For other project
      cities the target was 50%, and the actual achievement was 51%.
    The project helped develop national and local methodologies and guidelines needed for implementing the
      domestic heating reform program.

Outcomes:

Increase in energy efficiency in urban residential buildings
   The target outcome was for coal savings was 660,000 ton coal equivalent (TCE)/year. The actual outcome was
     2.6 million TCE/year, almost four times higher than the target.

Growing increase in energy efficiency in urban residential buildings
  The percent of current-year new housing completion compliant with BEE standard was 98.7% against a target of
    80%
  The percent of new residential stock billed on heat consumption basis was 40% against a target of 50%.
  According to MOHURD, the results from heating reform programs to the project pilot cities have helped sustain
    the momentum of the heat reform in China. Some of the stronger cities (Chengde, Tangshan, and Tianjin) are
    often invited to national and provincial-level workshops to share their experience with other cities.

Sustained increase in energy efficiency in urban residential buildings
  While consumption based billing was only slowly taken up at the national level during most of the project
    implementation period, the objective is now firmly in official plans and heat pricing reform is accelerating.


 5. Efficiency:
   Efficiency of project implementation was Modest. Implementation was slow. By the time of initial project closing,
five years after project approval only 43% of the GEF funds had been utilized. Project closing was extended twice.
After the first one year extension disbursement had reached only 56%. At project closing 3% of the GEF grant was
still unutilized, as some of the project cities were unable to use fully their grant financing.

Efficiency of the actual investments in terms of an economic rate of return was not discussed in the ICR. Instead, the
ICR measured efficiency of the cost effectiveness of GEF investment in terms of the cost per million tons of CO2 not
produced. The ICR presents a detailed comparison with the PAD’s analysis of economic benefits in terms of the cost
of CO2 savings that the project generates. For the project cities, 2.6 million TCE annual coal-saving capacity was
achieved by closing (compared to the PAD estimated target of 660,000 TCE), which, when projected over a 20 year
time period would lead to over 51 million TCE coal-savings, with a corresponding savings in CO2 emissions of about
38 million tons. The undiscounted cost to GEF of this carbon emission reduction is about $0.4 per ton-carbon, 74%
less than estimated at appraisal.

The ICR and the PAD also carried out an estimate of the national impact of the project. The basis for this analysis
was the assumption that the implementation of the project’s large scale pilot efficiency programs was a critical
element in support of the Government’s National Household heating building efficiency policy reform efforts. The
economic analysis of the ICR did not claim that it could not separate the impacts of the GEF and national level
programs, but it did compare the PAD’s incremental CO2 savings cost analysis with the project’s actual outcomes.
The ICR compared the actual CO2 savings for Northern Chinese cities with the PAD’s estimates for a”
business-as-usual” scenario for the same cities. This comparison showed that the project produced a cumulative coal
savings of about 590 million TCE over the period 2004-2024, and avoided emissions of about 440 million tons of CO2.
Under this broad definition of project impact boundary, the undiscounted cost to the GEF of the reduced emissions is
about $0.04/ton carbon, about 60% less than the US$0.10 estimated at appraisal.

 a. If available, enter the Economic Rate of Return (ERR)/Financial Rate of Return (FRR) at appraisal and the
    re-estimated value at evaluation :

                                Rate Available?                           Point Value                        Coverage/Scope*

    Appraisal                        No
    ICR estimate                     No
                                        * Refers to percent of total project cost for which ERR/FRR was calculated.



 6. Outcome:
   The project objectives is rated as High, and that of design as Substantial. On Efficacy, all the outcome objectives
were met, except the objective related to the percentage of new buildings using consumption-based billing. This
target was met the for all the project cities except Tianjin. Overall efficacy was therefore judged as Substantial. The
efficiency of project implementation was modest in terms of the slow and extended implementation. The efficiency of
the GEF investment in terms of its objective of reducing CO2 emissions was high but did not supplant the
shortcomings which meant an overall modest efficiency rating. This means an overall outcome rating of Moderately
Satisfactory.
  a. Outcome Rating: Moderately Satisfactory


 7. Rationale for Risk to Development Outcome Rating:
   Sustaining physical assets . The project financed three types of investment subprojects. Building energy efficiency
improvements and internal heating systems are owned by tenants, and it is their responsibility to maintain them. City
district heating companies (DHC) are responsible for maintaining apartment-level heat meters. Building level
substations (BLS) and heat consumption monitoring platforms are owned by DHCs and they are in charge of
maintaining them. All have appropriate incentives to maintain their equipment.

Sustaining reforms . Ten years after the issuance of the Heat Reform Guidelines, the Heat Reform in Northern China
is still modest, However, the 65% building efficiency standard became mandatory for new construction in China’s cold
climate regions in August 2010. Progress is expected to accelerate a result of the State Council’s 2013 Air Pollution
Prevention and Control Action Plan, which establishes urban air quality as a top government priority. However,
consumption-based meter billing is still not mandatory for new buildings.

   a. Risk to Development Outcome Rating : Moderate

 8. Assessment of Bank Performance:

 a. Quality at entry:
    This was the first Bank project to focus exclusively on China’s residential heating sector. The project focused
on new construction, during a period when Northern China continued to experience a rapid pace of urbanization
and residential building construction. The design chose Tianjin, which was at the forefront of China’s heat reform
and building energy efficiency efforts, for establishing a model integrated BEE program that could be adapted by
other Northern cities. The flexible “learning by doing” approach, with simultaneous knowledge sharing and parallel
replication activities in multiple cities was facilitated by a national coordination and policy support project
component. The project complemented the building retrofit activities of other donor. However, inadequate
attention was given to the staffing of the project implementation unit(the National Project Management
Organization (NPMO), which resulted in the subsequent slow project implementation discussed in section 9b
(performance of the implementing agency ).

   Quality-at-Entry Rating:                         Moderately Satisfactory

 b. Quality of supervision:
   The Bank responded to the slow project start by increasing its supervision missions from two to three.
Nevertheless, project implementation and disbursement continued to be slow, and only accelerated in the fifth
year of implementation when the Bank team made it clear to the Government that the project would close on
schedule (with only 43% of the GEF grant utilized) unless an upgraded project management team was put in
place. Supervision reports were generally realistic, candid, internally consistent, and focused on the PDO.
However, project ratings too slow in reflecting the lack of implementation progress. As a result, the Bank’s overall
supervision performance is rated as marginally satisfactory.


   Quality of Supervision Rating :                Moderately Satisfactory

   Overall Bank Performance Rating :              Moderately Satisfactory


 9. Assessment of Borrower Performance:

 a. Government Performance:
     While the Government, as represented by the Ministry of Housing and Urban-Rural Development (MOHURD),
failed to recognize the need for strong NPMO leadership as a critical element to project success very late in the
implementation process and failed to provide appropriate senior management to the project implementation unit
during the early years, they did make an effort to turn things around. It became more proactive in the later stages
and the results showed significant improvement. The implementing agency, NPMO, was located under the
Department of Building Energy Efficiency, Science and Technology, and this caused some issues. But overall it
meant that the residential building energy efficiency elements of this project were more successful due to this
direct link to the line department responsible for building energy efficiency. Coordination across departments was
at times difficult, needing greater MOHURD support, which may have been a contributing factor to more moderate
success in the heating sector objectives.

   Government Performance Rating                               Moderately Satisfactory

 b. Implementing Agency Performance:
    The National Project Management Office (NPMO) was responsible for the national policy component and for
identifying and supporting the other cities component. In the beginning of the project, it was supported with
national technical experts on an as needed basis. Local project management units were staffed with temporary
staff and needed greater support from NPMO than originally envisioned. The depth of engagement required on
building energy efficiency and consumption-based billing overwhelmed NPMO’s capacity.

While there were limitations, the NPMO did manage to establish a good working mechanism with appropriate
organization guarantees, integrated work plans, and useful coordination between the central and local levels. In
addition, where there gaps in financial and procurement, the NPMO organized the required training and support.

The program is likely to have been more effective had they gathered and disseminated early lessons learned, to
effectively engage and dialogue with potential pilot cities/developers, and to put in place and manage effective
systems and procedures to appraise potential new subprojects and TA activities.


   Implementing Agency Performance Rating :                    Moderately Satisfactory

   Overall Borrower Performance Rating :                       Moderately Satisfactory



10. M&E Design, Implementation, & Utilization:

 a. M&E Design:
    The M&E program was adequately designed, with ten indicators output and outcome indicators. The indicators
were appropriate. The National Project Management Agency (NPMO) was responsible for implementing the M&E
system for the entire project, including collecting project performance information (with the support of project cities)
and reporting on the impact and results of the project. The outcome targets of cumulative coal savings was an
appropriate quantitative indicator for the project’s objective of a substantial improvement in the sector’s energy
efficiency. The targets for new residential building in compliance with the national Building Energy efficiency code and
units billed on the basis of heat consumption are appropriate target indicators for achieving a sustained increase in
energy efficiency. The national level indicators are also reasonable targets for achieving a growing increase in
energy efficiency.

 b. M&E Implementation:
   Implementation of the M&E system focused on regular reporting on the outcome and results indicators, as well as
feedback on issues and their resolution. After the completion of each subproject, an M&E report on its performance
had to be prepared by external consultants for NPMO’s review. Some variability was noted due to difficulties with
obtaining consistent data from the project cities. The ICR mission double-checked the final data from the project cities.

 c. M&E Utilization:
   Municipal pilot heat consumption monitoring platforms were established in five project cities to gather operation
data from heat sources, primary networks, substations, and in some cases also from apartment-level heat meters.
Selected data is accessible online and real-time by city heat management offices. Information from these systems
allows heating utilities to monitor their efficiency

M&E Quality Rating: Substantial




11. Other Issues

 a. Safeguards:
The project was placed in Category B under the Bank's environmental and social safeguards policies. Reporting was
required on environmental and social impacts from project heating and housing development company beneficiaries
as part of subproject proposals, in accordance with two separate environmental and social impact frameworks
developed by the Bank. Proposals were appraised by NPMO, and reviewed by the Bank, and provided evidence that
all national and local laws and regulations had been followed. No environmental and social safeguards were detected
by the Bank during the eight years of supervision, and no land acquisition and resettlement was required for the
implementation of the project’s energy-efficiency investments.

 b. Fiduciary Compliance:
Project financial management met acceptable standards. Project funds were used for their intended purposes. Annual
audited reports were submitted to the Bank on time, and no significant issues were identified. Financial management
supervision and selected post reviews of project accounts, documents, and internal control procedures confirmed that
management of project funds was sound. Procurement was compliant with Bank rules.

 c. Unintended Impacts (positive or negative):
The Tianjin pilot project adopted a 65% building efficiency standard in 2004. The experience with this new standard
made a significant contribution to the preparation of the national 65% residential building standard. Tianjin was also
the first Chinese city to include heat metering in the 65% BEE standard. This new standard was designed to reduce
heating energy consumption in new buildings by 30% (from the previous 50% BEE standard).The national 65%
residential BEE standard made mandatory for new construction in China’s cold climate regions in August 2010
includes heat metering as a mandatory requirement.

d. Other:



12. Ratings:                              ICR                 IEG Review                    Reason for
                                                                                     Disagreement/Comments
                     Outcome: Moderately                Moderately
                              Satisfactory              Satisfactory
          Risk to Development Moderate                  Moderate
                     Outcome:

           Bank Performance: Moderately                 Moderately
                              Satisfactory              Satisfactory
       Borrower Performance : Moderately                Moderately
                              Satisfactory              Satisfactory
                Quality of ICR:                             Satisfactory

NOTES:
- When insufficient information is provided by the Bank
  for IEG to arrive at a clear rating, IEG will downgrade
  the relevant ratings as warranted beginning July 1,
  2006.
- The "Reason for Disagreement/Comments" column
  could cross-reference other sections of the ICR
  Review, as appropriate.

 13. Lessons:
  Institutional arrangements are critical elements in multi -sector projects– Projects with Project Management
Organizations that are responsible for multi-sector projects, like buildings and heating, need to have in place very
strong coordination mechanisms between concerned departments and agencies.

Bringing loan and grant resources together to support of a common objective could improve outcomes. This g
rant-financed technical assistance project, was not allocated high priority by the Bank and the Borrower, except for
the Urumqi component, which include substantial physical investment..

Engaging real estate developers to promote more advanced building energy efficiency concepts requires more
incentives than partial grant support . Developers follow the local standards and entertain innovations only when
they perceive it to enhance their bottom line. In this project, the incremental cost coverage from the project’s grant
was not the primary incentive for participation in the project. However, designation as a national demonstration
project was seen to strengthen the development’s marketing.

14. Assessment Recommended?                  Yes      No

Why?    A Follow-up assessment could better assess the long term impact of this critical energy saving
demonstration project.




15. Comments on Quality of ICR:

The ICR was well focused on the project’s achievements in relation to its development objectives, clearly illustrating
the logical chain from project objectives to project activities and project outcomes. The project’s efficiency was well
documented in terms of the valuation of project carbon savings, although it was not clear why these benefits were left
undiscounted. It would also have been useful to include a more substantive discussion of the implementation of the
project’s physical investment components and incentives provided to private sector builders.
 a.Quality of ICR Rating : Satisfactory
