FILE COPY
DOCUMENT OF INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
Not For Public Use
Report No. P-1488a-EGT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE
SUEZ CANAL AUTHORITY
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF THE
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
FOR THE
SUEZ CANAL REHABILITATION PROJECT
November 19, 1974
This report was prepared for official use only by the Bank Group. It may not be published, quoted
or cited without Bank Group authorization. The Bank Group does not accept responsibility for the
accuracy or completeness of the report.



Currency Equivalents
1 Egyptian Pound      =   2.56 US Dollars -
1 US Dollar           =   LE 0.435
1 LE  - 100 Piasters =    1,000 Milliemes
Fiscal Year
Equivalent to Calendar Year
1/ An exchange rate of US $2.40 was used by the Suez Canal Authority
for the project cost estimates,and all cost data in the Appraisal
and President's Reports are based on this exchange rate.



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF TiE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE SUEZ CANAL AUTHORITY WITH THE
GUARANTEE OF THE ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT FOR
THE SUEZ CANAL REHABILITATION PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
loan to the Suez Canal Authority with the guarantee of the Arab Republic
of Egypt for the equivalent of US$50 million, to finance part of the foreign
exchange costs of a project for the rehabilitation of the Suez Canal. The
loan would have a term of 20 years including four years grace, with interest
at 8 percent per annum.
PART I - DIE ECONOMY
2.        An Economic report, "The Egyptian Economy in 1974:   Its Position
and Plrospects", dated September 25, 1974 has been distributed to the Executive
Directors. A country data sheet is attached as Annex 1.
Background
3.        The background to, and recent developments in, Egypt's economy have
been elaborated in the economic report. The following paragraphs contain a
summary of the prospects for the future and the position with respect to ex-
ternal assistance and creditwortlhiness.
Prospects for 1974/75
4.        Egypt appears to be on the threshhold of a new economic era.   Pros-
pects for peace have improved, offering the possibility that resources can
gradually be transferred from military to civilian uses0 The "October Paper",
presented by President Sadat to the people and the Parliament, and approved in
a national referendum, provides a new statement of general principles to guide
Egyptian development; it envisages consolidation of state-owned sectors,
liberalization of the private sector, incentives to private foreign invest-
ment and expanded economic cooperation with Arab countries. Egypt has recently
initiated a nuniber of significant steps in furtherance of these principles.
These would lead to a significant restructuring of the economy.   Meanwhile, a
whole new set of external relationships has evolved between Egypt, its oil-
producing Arab and otlier neighbors, Western countries, and Japan, resulting
in increased official and private capital inflows. These developments are
mutually interdependent and self-reinforcing. Thus, the increased availabil-
ity of capital will permit greater liberalization of the economy, which, in
turn, sliould improve the investment climate.



5.        Recently, the Government launched an Interim Program for development
ini the period July 1974 - December 1975, the purpose of which is to have a
meaningful development strategy consistent with available resources and, to
commence restructuring the economy on a peace-tim,le development-oriented basis.
It is to be followed by a development plan for 1976-80, work on which was
begun in November, 1974. A sum of iE 520 million ($1,331 million equivalent)
has been budgeted for public sector investment expenditures in 1974. This is
about 20 percent above the 1973 budget level of BE 430 million (actual public
expenditure was bE 380 million). In 1975 the Government foresees a further
20 percent increase (BE 100 million) over the 1974 target, based on greater
availabilities of foreign project aid, including expenditures on the Suez-
Mediterranean pipeline and Suez Canal. It excludes, however, investments in
joint ventures which are estimated to reach about bE 50 million annually begin-
ning in 1975. The share of private investment, which, in recent years, has
averaged about 10 percent of total investments, is expected to increase to
over 20 percent by 1980.
6.        In large part, Egypt's investment programs for 1974 and 1975 are
lirmLited to completing or continuing carry-over projects. They emphasize
fertilizers, cement, tourism (private sector) and petroleum and pipeline
development -- all high priority projects ainmed at increasing production or
saving or generating foreign exchange earnings. In agriculture the priority
given to poultry and development of existing land rathier than land reclamation
also seems appropriate to the country's needs. Programs to renovate or improve
the infrastructure (e.g. railways, telecommunications) are clearly urgent
because it had been run-down during years of under-investment. Thus, Egypt's
investment program for the years 1974 and 1975 appears to be in accordance
with economic priorities.
7.        The resunmption of `:C-l-capacity grcwth and the beginning of recon-
struction is expected to increase import requirements substantially in the
short-run, resulting in sizeable deficits in external trade and services (over
$1 billion each in 1974 and 1975). Althoughi part of these deficits can be ex-
pected to be financed through grEats from other Arab countries, large amounts
of additional assistance will be required on concessionary terms.
External Assistance
8.        Egypt obtained substantial amounts of external aid until the mid-
1960's.  Tihereafter, new commitments of Western assistance practically ceased.
The gross inflow of medium- and long-term  capital fell by nearly 50 percent
i.mmediately after the 1967i war. Although aid levels gradually rose again,
net inflows averaged only $9 ri.Ilion annually in medium- and lorng-term capital
over tile five-year period FY 1968-1972; atortization payments were $5 million
greater ttian disbursements in 1973. As indicated in the economic report, the
total capital lnflow required to cover the current account deficits for 1974
and 1975 is projected at $1,450 million,  Assuming net disbursements of $990
million on loans committed as of mid-1974, private capital inflows of $120
million, IMF financ±ng of $48 million and a reduction of $600 million in the



-3-
use of short-term foreign financing (cf. para 89 of Economic Report), the
financing gap for the two-year period was projected at $900 million. Also
given the hiigh absorptive capacity of the economy, and the low level of invest-
ments over the past decade, the need for external aid commitments in the suc-
ceeding years is expected to remain at a high level.
9.        Substantial Arab aid was received in 1973 and is continuing.    A
$300 million grant from Saudi Arabia was reported in August 1974, and large
aid offers have been made by Kuwait and other Gulf States. Commitments of
non-Arab forei&n aid have also been considerable. Five countries have either
firmly committed new loans to be used over periods varying from two to five
years (Iran $850 million, Germany $225 million, Denmark $9 million) or have
announced their intention to do so (United States $250 million, Japan $100
million). In addition, the Government has concluded two Euro-dollar loans
totalling $180 million and is currently negotiating a third ($100 million).
Also, in August 1974 the IMF extended a credit (first tranche) of $48 million.
A large share of new loans is for unidentified projects and will disburse only
gradually over the next few years. Of the agreements noted above, "program
aid" will be provided by Iran ($100 million), Japan ($50 million), Germany
($25 million) and the USA ($80 million proposed). However, some of this "pro-
gram aid" is intended for import of food items. At the same time, the need
for additional foreign exchange for recurrent imports necessary to increase
utilization of capacity in the industrial and agricultural sectors alone is
estimated at over $570 million for the next two years.
External Debt and Creditworthiness
10.       Egypt's medium- and long-term debt outstanding and disbursed at end
1973 stood at about $2.14 billion. In addition, the country owed close to
$500 million in short-term financial credits, and about $580 million in bila-
teral clearing balances. The USSR was Egypt's principal creditor, followed
in importance by the United States, Kuwait, Italy, Czechoslovakia and Germany.
IBRD/IDA debt comprised less than 1 percent of the total. Of the reported
outstanding medium- and long-term debt at end 1973, about 37 percent was due
to be repaid within two years, 46 percent within three years, and 53 percent
within four years. Service payments on these debts were estimated to reach
$530 million in 1974, equivalent to about 30 percent of the country's gross
foreign exchange earnings.
11.       The expected large current deficits in 1974 and 1975 together with
heavy debt service requirements, call for very substantial amounts of foreign
capital in the short-run. As the existing pipeline of projects suitable for
foreign financing is still relatively narrow, much of this assistance will
have to be made available in the form of program aid. The commitments already
made by foreign donors should go a long way to meet these short-term require-
ments, and to enable increased utilization of capacity in the economy.
12.       In the medium- and longer-run, the outlook for Egypt's balance of
payments is much more promising. Foreign exchange earnings are expected to
grow from a level of some $1.7 billion in 1974 to about $4.7 billion in 1980,



- 4 -
Lecause of thle reopening of the Suez Canal, operation of the Sumed pipeline,
rapidly rising exports of petroleum and petroleum products, a doubling of
manufactured exports, increased workers' remittances, and the development of
tourism. Imports of goods and services, on the other hand, can be expected
to grow at a slower pace after the drastic increase of import levels over the
r,ext 3 to 4 years. As a result, the deficit on external trade and services
is projected to progressively narrow in the latter part of the decade, signi-
f:icantly reducing the required net inflow of foreign capital. Following the
rapid increase in export earnings, and the slower growth and consolidation of
external debt, the debt service ratio could fall to some 15 percent by 1980.
13.       To attain these objectives, which would permit Egypt to establish
a sound financial position by the end of the decade with rapid growth, it is
necessary that Egypt not only mobilize substantial amounts of capital, prefer-
ably on concessionary terms from abroad, but also pursue appropriate debt man-
agement, fiscal and aid-utilization policies. In addition, domestic savings
will niave to be increased through restraint in public and private consumption.
The Government's determination to continue the liberalization of the economic
system slhould facilitate this process. In particular, steps will have to be
taken to: rationalize the price system (including the relation to world market
prices), stimulate the latent potential of Egypt's private sector, encourage
foreign investment, and improve the management of overall Government economic
operations, including the reduction of bureaucratic bottlenecks and decentrali-
zation of decisions to the firm or enterprise level. The Government has
already taken a number of measures in this direction during this year. Dis-
cussions are being conducted with the IMF towards achieving specific targets
with respect to debt management. Furthermore, active discussions are under
way between the Bank Group and Egypt on these and other matters relating to
economic policy. In the course of these discussions, the Government has
indicated that it expects to initiate effective additional measures on many
of the matters referred to above, and to seek assistance, where necessary,
from the Bank Group in formulating such measures. Such assistance has
already been initiated in the field of debt management, and an agricultural
sector review mission is planned for January 1975. The next economic mission,
scheduled for the Spring of 1975 will carry out a detailed review of the
measures taken by the Government.
14.       Assuming that (i) these policy initiatives continue and are imple-
mented, and (ii) the substantial aid offers committed or received can be ab-
sorbed rapidly, Egypt should, while facing a short-term liquidity problem,
experience little difficulty in meeting its external payments obligations in
the medium and long-term. While carrying a heavy short-term debt burden
(1974/76), Egypt can be considered creditworthy for a blend of Bank and IDA
lending in view of its promising medium- and long-term prospects.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN EGYPT
15.       The proposed loan would be the Bank Group's twelfth lending opera-
tion in Egypt. It would bring Bank and IDA commitments to $308.6 million.



-5-
Annex II contains a Sunmiary of Bank Loans and IDA Credits as of September 30,
1974, and notes on the execution of ongoing projects.
16.       In view of the overall demands upon IDA monies, and Egypt's substan-
tially increased need for external assistance to help finance an expanded
development program, its size and absorptive capacity, and the several economic
policy measures taken and contemplated by the Government to restore credit-
worthiness, it is proposed to increase significantly the scope of Bank Group
lending from this fiscal year. In this fiscal year available IDA funds will
be blended with Bank funds, and it is expected that projects for Bank Group
lending totalling up to about $200 million will be submitted to the Executive
Directors for consideration. In the context of the expanding economic activity
and the proposed 1976-80 development plan, the Government has requested advice
by the Bank Group in policy matters. It is therefore expected that technical
assistance, both project and non-project, will also increase significantly,
and will constitute as an essential ingredient of Bank Group participation
at this crucial juncture in Egypt's economic development. The dialogue begun
recently (see para. 13) will enable continuous monitoring of progress in
implementation of policies for the restoration of creditworthiness and realiza-
tion of the potential for rapid growth. The Bank Group lending program would
support the Government's economic programs and policies, which, as indicated
earlier (para. 6) are in accordance with economic criteria. Progress by Egypt
in pursuing sound economic policies will, it Js hoped, enable the Bank Group
to continue a blend of IDA/Bank lending in a program of the magnitude envisaged
in this fiscal year. At this level, Bank Group financing would represent a
small portion, less than 10 percent, of Egypt's overall capital inflow require-
ments (see para 8). It might be noted that the Government also attaches
particular importance to the catalytic role of Bank Group financing and is
actively exploring the interest of other donors in the complementary financing
of projects. The Bank Group's share of the total external debt outstanding
and disbursed was less than 1 percent at end 1973. For the future, the Bank/
IDA share of total external debt outstanding and disbursed is estimated to
reach about 10 percent in 1978; the Bank's share in 1978 would be about 7 per-
cent of external debt outstanding and disbursed. It is estimated that in 1978,
debt service payments due to the Bank Group, including that on Bank loans will
represent about 1 percent of service payments due on all of Egypt's external
debt.
17.       A project covering the second phase of the railway rehabilitation
program and one for the expansion of cement production have been appraised.
Both projects are likely to be ready for consideration by the Executive Direc-
tors later in FY75. A Credit and Loan for the Agriculture and Industrial
Imports Project will be presented for consideration at the same time as the
proposed loan. A telecommunications improvement project has just been ap-
praised and a second DFC project with the Bank of Alexandria is now being
appraised. One of these projects is expected to be ready for consideration
by the end of FY75 and the other in early FY76. Other projects under prepara-
tion for FY76, include textile rehabilitation, production and export marketing
of fruits and vegetables, and the Port of Alexandria improvement.



- 6 -
PART III - THE SUEZ CANAL
18.       A navigable waterway connecting the Mediterranean and Red Sea
was originally considered 40 centuries ago. The first canal was built in
2,000 B.C. and joined the Nile River and Bitter Lake, which then opened into
the Red Sea. The present Suez Canal, which is 160 km long, was built between
1859 and 1869; it shortens the sea voyage between Western Europe and AAsia by
about 5,000 nautical miles. It was one of the most important waterways for
international traffic until it was closed in 1967 following the outbreak of
hostilities in the Middle East. The Compagnie Maritime Universelle du Canal
de Suez which operated the Canal was nationalized in July 1956. In 1957 the
Suez Canal Authoritv (SCA) was established as an autonomous legal entity
in charge of canal operations.   Following the hostilities in 1956, the United
Nations provided assistance to SCA for clearance of sunken vessels, and costs
were recouped through a surcharge imposed on ships. In addition, the Bank
provided a US$56.5 million loan (243-UAR, December 1959) to widen and deenen
the Canal to its present 11.6 m. draft, improve Port Said operations, and
supply floating equipment to replace obsolete equipment and meet future re-
quirements. The project was carried out satisfactorily and the loan has been
fully repaid.
19.       Canal operations under SCA were efficient and uninterrupted from
1956 to closure in 1967. SCA became Egypt's second largest foreign exchange
earner after cotton. Proceeds from canal operations accrued to Egypt in the
form of royalties, taxes paid by SCA and transfers of profits. During the
last twelve month period of canal operations ending June 1967, foreign exchange
transfers to the Government amounted to US$195.5 million, compared with US$15.5
million in FY57.   In addition, the service activities generated in the Canal
Zone provided most of the inc;nme of the three cities of Ismailia, Port Said,
and Suez. The Canal became the principal route by which Middle East petroleum
was transported to markets in Europe and the Western Hemisphere. In 1966, 36
percent of petroleum loaded in the Middle East and 14 percent of world sea-
borne traffic passed through the Canal. Dry cargo traffic through the Canal
represented only 5 percent of the combined loadings and unloadings of European
and American ports, but 41 percent of loadings and unloadings of Persian Gulf
ports, 32 percent of Red Sea and African ports and 24 percent of South and
Southeast Asia ports.
Plast Traffic
20.       Until World War II, dry cargo accounted for about 75 percent of
canai traffic.  llowever, from 1935 to  9696, petroleuml traffic grew at 10 per-
(ent and dry cargo at 5.8 percent.   Petroleum products accounted for 63 per-
cent of total tonnage in 1955 and 69 percent in 1966. Most northbound traf-
fic consisted of petroleum and agricultural products and raw materials from
South and Southeast Asia, Australia, and the Middle East, while southbound
traffic consisted principally of cereals from North America and manufactured
goods from Europe transported by conventional liners on fixed routes. Passen-
ger traffic was important before, during, and immediately after World War II,
but had almost ceased by 1967 due to the competition of air travel.



- 7 -
21.       During 1966, 99 percent of the petroleum passing through the Canal
came from the Middle East, of which 93 percent went to Europe, 6 percent to
North America, and 1 percent to Africa. Although the average number of tankers
passing through the Canal from 1962 to 1966 did not vary by more than 5.5 per-
cent, the size distribution changed considerably. In 1962 tankers of over
50,000 dwt carried only some 10 percent of petroleum traffic; but by 1966
they carried more than 40 percent. These changes reflected the world trend
toward large tankers. The first tanker of over 100,000 dwt was built in 1965,
and the depth of the Canal became a limitation to future tanker traffic.   SCA,
aware of developments in tanker size, had prepared an expansion program which
would have deepened the Canal to permit slhips with a draft of t4.60 m in 1972,
to enable tankers of up to 200,000 dwt to pass in ballast and tankers of up to
125,000 dwt laden. Bids had been received on June 5, 1967, the day hostilities
broke out, and the Canal was closed.
Consequences of Closure
22.       Closure of the Canal lengthened important trade routes, creating an
excess demand for ships for petroleum as well as dry cargo. In the short-run,
this affected a number of countries; as deliveries of goods were delayed,
transport costs were increased and alternative routes had to be found. This
caused a temporary shortage of petroleum in Europe and substantial increases
in freight costs, reflecting the longer distances of the new routes. But for
dry cargo, the effect was more complex. Shipping lines and conferences imposed
a "special closure surcharge" applicable to all commodities, and equivalent
to an average, of 25 percent of prevailing tariffs, which is still applied.
Dry bulk shipping rates increased due to closure reflecting longer distances,
higher costs of bunkering, and the limited supply of ships. It has been es-
timated that for the period from 1967 to 1971 shipping cost increases resulting
from closure of the Canal were US$4,355 million, of which US$2,860 million
were for tanker shipping and US$1,495 million for dry cargo shlipping.
23.       Individual countries have experienced different effects from the
closure, some with a marked decline in port traffic and others with a marked
increase, necessitating improvement and expansion of port facilities to cope
with diverted traffic. Egypt lost the foreign exchiange earnings from Canal
dues and some countries have experienced a temporary decline in exports of
products which could not support higlher transport costs.
24.       The petroleum shipping industry quickly caused additional tanker
capacity to be built in expectation of sustainied highk freight rates, and the
number of very large crude carriers increased substantially. Whereas in 1966
tankers of over 125,000 tons accounted for less than 1.5 percent of total fleet
capacity, in 1973 they accounted for more than 45 percent. In addition, a num-
ber of projects were prepared for alternative oil transport, including the
Suez-Mediterranean (SUMED) Pipeline from Suez to Alexandria in Egypt, expected
to be completed by 1976-77 with an initial annual capacity of 80 million tons,
and the Eilat-Ashkalon Pipeline in Israel, with an annual capacity of 20 mil-
lion tons. Technological developments affecting dry cargo were less spectacu-
lar.  Larger ships were built (bulk ore carriers and container ships), but
most are able to use the Canal at its preclosure depth, in ballast or fully
laden.



D,na iz-e
25.       Between 1967 and 1973, the Canal was the demarcation line between
Egyptian and Israeli armed forces. Although the main structures of the Canal
were undamaged, the channel was mined, and many unexploded shells and bombs
were lodged in it. The Canal cities also suffered, with most damage in the
southern part of the Canal Zone. Suez was almost entirely destroyed. Most
SCA facilities there were heavily damaged and almost all floating equipment
was sunk.   Ismailia was less seriously damaged, although the water supply
plant was affected and most of SCA's buildings were shelled. Port Said was
I:lghtly damaged and Port Fouad's shipyard was seriously damaged. Although
most of SCA's equipment in Ismailia and Port Said was evacuated safely, it
is; now obsolete.
26.       Since the disengagement in the Middle East, Egypt has given first
priority to the reopening of the Canal. The Government has also decided to
construct the SUMED pipeline (para. 24). At present, the capacity of the Canal
to transport oil is limited. Even with the enlarged Canal, the potential oil
traffic through the Canal would be far in excess of the capacity of the pipe-
1Lne for the foreseeable future. Also, the Government has agreed that it will
take all necessary action to ensure that development plans of the Suez Canal
Auithority (for enlargement of the Canal) and of the Suez-Mediterranean Pipe-
line Company are coordinated (Section 3.03(a) draft Guarantee Agreement).
'27.      Since April 1974 the Egyptian, US, UK, French and USSR Navies have
been clearing mines and explosives from the Canal bed. This work is expected
to be completed during December 1974 or January 1975. Removal of sunken wrecks,
which was being carried out by the Navies, assisted by a US contractor, is also
nrogressing satisfactorily. Meanwhile, SCA has started to salvage minor wrecks
and to clear facilities at the Canal cities. In addition, to enable the Canal
to be reopened to traffic and to be operated at its 1967 efficiency, damaged
or destroyed floating and fixed equipment needs to be replaced.
The Suez Canal Authority
28.       SCA was set up as an autonomous legal entity, administered by a
Board of Directors, to manage, operate, maintain and improve the Canal. The
President of the Republic appoints the Board, the Chairman, and the Managing
Director. SCA is largely independent of Government rules and regulations
governing public and private enterprises, and follows efficient commercial
procedures. The Board of Directors consists of eight Directors and a Chairman,
who is also the Managing Director. The eight Directors are also the heads of
the main departments. As with all Gcvernment-owned agencies SCA's annual bud-
get is reviewed by the Ministers of Planning and Finance and approved by
Presidential decree. Within the limit of the approved budget SCA can draw
foreign exchange from the Central Bank without further approval. This pro-
cedure appears to have worked smoothly when the Canal was in operation. Since
closure, however, SCA's autonomy had been somewhat limited. The Government
has agreed that it will ensure that SCA will be allowed to operate with the
autonomy provided for by law (Section 3.02, draft Guarantee Agreement).



- 9 -
29.       Departments are autonomous, with their own accounting and personnel
sections. Responsibility for coordinating the tasks of various departments
rests with the Follow-Up Office which reports directly to the Chairman. SCA's
main workshop and repair facilities are at Port Fouad and auxiliary workshops
are at Port Said, Ismailia, and Port Tewfik where SCA's floating equipment is
maintained and repaired. SCA also operates water treatment plants and electri-
city generating plants in the three cities in the Canal Zone for its own and
for public use.
30.       In 1962 when private companies in Egypt were nationalized, new ones
were created to provide services to SCA, which previously had been provided
by private, local and foreign contractors. These companies deal with ship-
building and repair, civil works, manufacturing of maritime equipment, and
rental of equipment and ship services. They are financially autonomous,
with separate budgets and accounts, and independently audited. SCA's finan-
cial liability is limited to channeling Government loans to these companies.
SCA receives 10 percent of the companies' profits after deduction of reserves,
and the balance is divided between SCA and the companies' workers in the ratio
of 75:25. In 1967, SCA's income from affiliated companies amounted to
hE 183,000 (US$440,000). During closure, all companies except one shifted
to general contracting and remained profitable.
31.       SCA's staff lacks expertise in sophisticated financial and economic
evaluations of large projects. SCA is aware of its weakness in projecting
traffic and comparing possible alternatives. The proposed loan will finance
consultants to strengthen SCA's capabilities in financial and economic planning
and to assist SCA in modernization of workshops and operational procedures.
This technical assistance will be based on terms of reference prepared in
consultation with the Bank. (Section 3.02, draft Loan Agreement).
32.       As soon as the Canal is reopened, SCA intends to reintroduce its
former operating procedures. Now that SCA personnel are returning to the Canal
Zone, no shortage of skilled labor is expected. SCA is confident that, despite
heavy destruction in Port Said and Suez, it will be able to keep the Canal in
operation without interruption. It has retained most of its personnel and
has persuaded former pilots to return now that the Canal is expected to be
reopened. SCA will provide a training program for all staff required for
handling the forecast traffic of the reopened Canal. The program is expected
to begin as soon as suitable buildings are available in Ismailia (probably
January 1975). Recruits will be given training courses and existing staff
will be given refresher courses.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
33.       The project was prepared by the Suez Canal Authority and appraised
in April 1974. Negotiations on the proposed loan were held in Washington
on August 22 and 232 1974. Dr. Rafik Sowelem, Undersecretary, Agency for
Arab and International Economic Cooperation, represented the Guarantor and
Mr. Abdel Rahman Montasser, Director, Follow-up Office, Suez Canal Authority,
represented the Borrower. Further technical discussions on the proposed
project took place in Cairo on October 26 and 27, 1974.



- 10 -
34.       The project is to rehabilitate the Canal, to restore navigation in
the reopened Canal to the level that prevailed in 1967. It consists of: (J.)
clearing and reopening the channel, (ii) procuring materials and equipment,
(iii) reconstructing auxilliary facilities, and (iv) technical assistance and
Studies. The details of the project, and the items proposed for financing
uinder the loan are provided in the Loan and Project Summary in Annex III. An
appraisal report entitled "Appraisal of the Rehabilitation of the Suez Canal"
['No. 578 EGT, dated November 19, 1974) is being distributed separately to the
E.xecutive Directors.
35.       The major elements of the project are given below with total and
foreign exchange costs, excluding contingencies:
(a) Preparation of the Channel. Provision of light salvage equipment
to remove about 100 minor wrecks and a causeway. This equipment
will be used later for routine salvage and maintenance operations.
Provision of navigational aids (buoys, radar reflectors, beacons,
and marking lights) and telecommunications, radar, and radio
systems for monitoring and ensuring the safety of vessels in
transit (Total $26.9 million; f.e. $19.9 million).
(b) Repairs to the Channel. Provision of dredgers, earthmoving,
quarry and repair equipment to replace that destroyed. The
equipment will be used initially for repairs and subsequently
for routine maintenance (Total $50.2 million; f.e. $39.3 million).
(c)  Operation of the Channel.  Provision of tugboats, pilot vessels,
motorboats, ferrv boats, floating cranes, tankers, barges and
antipollution equipment (Total $65.4 million; f.e. $51.2 million).
(d) Workshop Rehabilitation. Reconstruction and reequipment of
workshops, thus permitting SCA to maintain and service floating
equipment and build small floating craft (Total $13.1 million;
f.e. $10.3 million).
(e) Services. Provision of land transport (vehicles, garages, and
and service stations), medical services, water purification
plants, and office equipment to replace damaged and obsolete
facilities (Total $17.1 million; f.e. $9.2 million).
(f) Stores. Replenishment of depleted stores, and provision of
materials and spare parts to maintain and service the Canal, as
well as structural steel, pipes, ropes, cables, timber, paint
and small tools required for the workshop and maintenance
activities (Total. $17.0 million; f.e. $14.6 million).
(g) Rehabilitation of Buildings, lHouses and Roads. (Total $27.6
million; f.e. $7.4 million).
(h) Other Rehabilitation. Relocation of evacuated workshops,
repairs to electric transmission lines, and resettlement of
SCA's staff (Total $24.2 million; f.e. $4.4 million).



- 11 -
(i) Technical Assistance and Studies:
(i) assistance in improving SCA's capabilities in economic
planning;
(ii) assistance in modernization of workshops, operational
procedures, and planning and installation of telecommunica-
tions systems;
(iii) provision of a study of traffic and the possible
levels of dues; and
(iv) provision of a long-term study of the optimum dimen-
sions and phasing of canal expansion (Total (i) - (iv)
$1.3 million; f.e. $1.0 million).
Cost Estimates
36.       Costs of civil works have been derived largely from prices of similar
works that were being undertaken in the Canal Zone during appraisal and SCA
has confirmed during negotiations that they are appropriate. They are based
on SCA using a high percentage of its labor force, which is competent, for
relatively minor works, with local contractors augmenting SCA's force account
as necessary. Costs of equipment are based on recent suppliers' prices. As
costs of most items required for the project are based on SCA's current esti-
mates and rapid disbursement is expected for the proposed Bank-financed items,
a total price contingency allowance of 18 percent on the foreign exchange com-
ponent and 25 percent on the local currency component is considered appropriate.
The 25 percent local currency contingency allowance over the project construc-
tion period is considered realistic and in keeping with the forecast of SCA.
Physical contingencies have not been included since the project will finance
only procurement of equipment. The project cost is estimated at US$288 million,
of which the foreign exchange component is US$181 million or 63 percent. The
cost excludes contributions to Canal preparation by the Egyptian, UK, US, French
and USSR Navies. It includes customs duties of up to 40 percent, which account
for some $40 million, costs of shipping and handling, and fees for local agents,
insurance companies, local fittings, and trials.
37.       Except for some spare parts, and items suitable for bilateral lending,
the foreign exchange cost of items suitable for international competitive bid-
dinlg is proposed for Bank financing. Agreement has been reached with SCA on a
list of items that could be financed and whose estimated foreign cost is some
$50 million. SCA is already procuring the most urgently needed items under
a loan extended by the Kuwait Fund. Procurement of some other urgently needed
items to be financed under the Bank loan has also begun, and retroactive fi-
nancing of up to US$3.5 million is recommended to cover expenditures incurred
after July 1, 1974 on these items.
Financing Plan
38.       The provisional financing plan is summarized below:



- 12 -
Source of Finance                        Local      Foreign    Total
--      US$ million-------
Kuwait Fund (Loan already obtained)                   0           33       33
IBRD (proposed)                                       0           50       50
SCA, expected from internally generated funds        74            0       74
Minimum Government contribution                      33            0       33
Other assumed foreign borrowing                       0           98       98
Total                                          107          181     288
The Kuwait Fund loan is for a 17-year term, including 2 years of grace, at
4.5 percent interest.   The Government has stated that additional borrowings
will not be difficult to secure. It has requested a further Kuwait Fund loan
of about US$33 million. USAID has indicated that it intends to contribute
$50 million (as part of a proposed $250 million aid package) towards the
project, subject to Congressional approval; USAID's contribution is expected
to be for a term of 40 years including ten years grace, with interest at 2
percent per annum during the grace period and 3 percent per annum thereafter.
Other sources have also been approached to ensure that the balance of the
foreign exchange financing is secured. There is a strong prospect of such
financing becoming available. Conclusion of satisfactory cofinancing agree-
ments to meet the foreign exchange costs of the project will be a condition
of effectiveness of the loan (Section 7.01, draft Loan Agreement). The Govern-
ment has agreed to permit SCA to retain a part of its earnings, if necessary,
to complete its investment program (Section 2.03, draft Guarantee Agreement)
and to finance, or make arrangements for the financing of, any cost overruns
oni the project. (Section 2.02, draft Guarantee Agreement).
39.       The Government will finance the local costs of the project until
SCA begins to generate its own funds from Canal operations in 1975. According
to the financial forecasts, the minimum Government contribution will be US$33
million (LE 13.8 million) in 1974 to cover local currency costs; in addition
the Government will provide SCA with some BE 10 million (US$24 million) as
working capital to cover operating deficits and debt service.
Implementation
40.       SCA will implement the project.    Its well-qualified and competent
engineering staff and experienced procurement department is capable of prepar-
ing specifications and contract documents suitable for international compet-
itive bidding for procurement of items proposed for Bank financing. The proj-
ect implementation period will be from the fall of 1974 to the end of 1977.
However, ships will be able to transit the Canal, though possibly at reduced
speed, as the Canal is gradually reopened and as ongoing demining operations
and removal of wrecks are progressively completed. Rehabilitation of facil-
ities essential to navigation will have priority, and some temporary facilities
will be used in the early months of operation.



- 13 -
Safety Measures
41.       SCA's safety record over the years has been excellent, and its ex-
perienced pilots and other operating staff are expected to perform adequate-
ly when the Canal is reopened. Facilities for removal of oil and dangerous
cargoes from crippled ships as well as collection and treatment of oil slicks
caused by transitting ships will be provided for under the project. The
channel is stable under normal working conditions, and the equipment to be
provided under the Bank loan will insure that all necessary services on land
and water are available for all SCA operations. Continuation of SCA's per-
formance in handling ships will result in maintaining minimum insurance pre-
miums for ships transitting the Canal.
Procurement
42.       Items to be financed under the loan will be procured in accordance
with the Bank Groups "Guidelines for Procurement." International Competitive
bidding will be followed for procurement of all items, except for spare parts
estimated to cost some $4.3 million which are urgently required for existing
equipment that can be salvaged and immediately put into service.    These spare
parts will be procured directly from the manufacturers, based on negotiated
prices.  All new equipment will be provided with spare parts as recommended
by the manufacturers' guidelines for running and maintenance. The items fi-
nanced under the Bank loan will be procured abroad. Local manufacturers are
not expected to bid for Bank-financed items. Hlowever, if local bids are
received, they will be given a preference of 15 percent of the CIF landed
price of imported goods or the actual customs duty, whiclhever is lower.
Disbursements
43.       Disbursements under the loan will be made against the CIF costs of
imported equipment or the ex-factory costs of locally manufactured equipment,
and the foreign exchange costs of consultancy services.    Disbursements under
the proposed Bank loan are scheduled to start in the first half of 1975 and
to be largely completed by early 1978. Disbursements under the Kuwait Fund
loan already approved, have started, and are expected to be completed by mid-
1975. The outstanding amount to be provided by other lenders (US$98 million)
is expected to be available in the first half of 1975, and should be fully
disbursed by mid-1978.
Balance Sheets
44.       No meaningful balance sheets are available for 1967-73 because:
(a) some records were destroyed and SCA has not been able to carry out a
complete inventory of damage to assets resulting from hostilities, and (b)
fixed assets assumed following nationalization are carried in the balance
sheets at a nominal value of BE 1, A detailed inventory and valuation of
existing assets is necessary, but would take over a year because of staff
assignments to priority reconstruction work. Therefore, it has been agreed
thiat SCA will, by not later than December 31, 1976: (i) carry out a complete
inventory and a valuation of fixed assets; and (ii) adopt realistic deprecia-
tion rates reflecting the economic life of these assets (Section 5.02, draft
Loan Agreement). In these circumstances, covenants on debt equity ratio and



- 14 -
return on net fixed assets are not proposed under the project. Some control
on operations and measure of SCA's efficiency is needed, however, and statis-
tical indicators of SCA's performance will be monitored during supervision.
SCA's accounts are audited by the Government's General Organization for Account-
ing and Auditing.   This audit is satisfactory and acceptable to the Bank.    SCA
has agreed to continue to have its financial statements for each fiscal year
audited by auditors acceptable to the Bank, and furnish such audited statements
by not later than six months after the end of each such year (Section 5.03,
di-aft Loan Agreement).
Canal Dues
4'5.      In 1957 Egypt submitted a Declaration to the United Nations on the
regime of the Canal with respect to Canal dues.    The Declaration stated that
any increases in the current rate of tolls would be limited to 1 percent
within any twelve months with any increase beyond that level to be the result
of negotiations. The Declaration also contained provisions for arbitration
in case of disagreement with users. Dues were increased by 1 percent three
times between 1957 and 1967.   Between 1957 and 1967, Canal dues were levied
onl ship tonnage expressed in Suez Canal Net Registered Tons (SCNRT), equiva-
lent to 2.83 m3 in volume; they were not based on Canal operating costs and
w,ere not charged on cargo.  Surcharges ("improvement dues") were also imposed
on ships with drafts exceeding 11.80 m and/or with dimensions exceeding stan-
dards established in the Rules of Navigation as a means of recovering costs
of: previous expansion programs and of additional maintenance requirements
created by large ships. A 55 percent discount was granted to promote ships
in ballast, mainly tankers. Dues were payable in advance in Egyptian pounds,
acquired by selling convertible foreign exchange to the Central Bank. In
1967, dues were hE 0.4373 per SCNRT.
46.       SCA Intends to revise dues before reopening the Canal, to reflect
changes in shipping patterns and costs, and in the values of major cur-rencies.
A special SCA group is now reviewing shipowners' savings achieved by using
the Canal instead of alternative routes, and SCA has employed consultants to
carry out a study of various possible levels of dues and their effect on traf--
flc and revenues under terms of reference prepared in consultation with the
Bank. The shipping community expects future dues to be considerably higher
than those prevailing in 1967 (most current shipping studies are based on
dues two or three times higher).   The Interim Report of the Consultants' study
slhould be available before the end of 1974, to enable SCA to decide on the
future level of tariffs. The Government has appointed a Committee to make
recommendations on the form of consultation that should take place before new
tariffs are levied. For the purposes of the financial evaluation of the
project, 1967 dues were increased by 37 percent to account for: (i) devalua-
tion of major currencies (29 percent); and (ii) annual increases in dues of
1 percent between 1967 and 1975 (8 percent). Costs have been projected at
1974 levels on the assumption that future dues will be adjusted to account for
inflation.



Operating Results
47.        In 1967 SCA's gross revenue reached bE 98 million.    Operating costs
are essentially fixed costs and remained almost constant from 1965 to 1967,
while revenues grew by 10 percent in real terms; net income, after payments
of royalty and income tax to the Government, was about BE 58 million. Up to
1967, SCA serviced its debt, contributed substantially to financing relatively
minor expansion programs, and accumulated substantial cash reserves (BE 37
million by 1967). During closure, SCA lost income from Canal dues and incurred
large operating losses because of continued salary payments to retained staff.
These losses ranged from bE 7.1 million in 1968 to bE 5.2 million in 1973.
The losses and SCA's debt service requirements were covered partly by loans
from the Central Bank (totalling bE 67.9 million by December 31, 1973, at 4.5
percent interest; repayment period not determined) and partly by SCA's reserves.
As of December 31, 1973, SCA had an accumulated a deficit of iE 27 million and
long-term debt of BE 76.7 million comprising loans from the Bank (BE 1.8 mil-
lion), Kuwait Fund (IE 7.0 million), and Government (bE 67.9 million). The
Government wishes to compensate the SCA for the losses it incurred as a result
of the closure of the Canal and the hostilities in the area. For this reason,
and in order to restore the sound financial position that SCA enjoyed before
closure, the Government expects to write off its loans to the SCA, and to
provide the local currency and working capital required for 1974 (para. 37)
on a grant basis.
48.       Forecast income statements show that on the assumption of a 37 per-
cent increase in tariffs, annual surpluses after payment of royalties, income
tax, and interest will grow from bE 13.4 million in 1975 to bE 60.7 million
in 1980; in 1967, the surplus was bE 58 million.    Forecast cash flow state-
ments also show that SCA will generate sufficient funds to service its debt,
to contribute bE 30.8 million to the project (about 25 percent of the total
project cost and 69 percent of the local cost), and to retain a substantial
cash balance of BE 208 million at the end of 1980.    However, even if tariffs
were only to be raised by 8 percent (i.e., 1 percent p.a. from the 1967
level to 1975) and no adjustment made for devaluation, SCA would still be fi-
nancially viable; there would be annual cash surpluses from 1975 onwards and
an accumulated surplus of LE 139 million at the end of 1980. This would
still be satisfactory. The financial forecasts make provision for an invest-
ment of LE 300 million to finance the first phase of the enlargement of the
Canal (See para 47). It has been assumed that SCA would borrow the entire
amount from external sources on relatively soft terms, i.e., 25 years including
five years of grace at 6 percent interest. Even if the borrowings for the
expansion were on harder terms, SCA's financial viability would not be impaired
by the enlargement of the Canal and SCA would be able to cover its costs and
meet its debt service obligations. SCA has agreed that it will obtain the
Bank's agreement before incurring any debt, if its net cash income for any
fiscal year after the incurrence is less than 1.5 times the maximum debt
service requirements on all SCA debt, including that to be incurred in each
year. (Section 5.05, draft Loan Agreement) Also, Government has agreed that,
if SCA is unable to finance its investment program from external borrowings,
it will permit SCA to retain that part of its net earnings necessary to com-
plete it (Section 2.03, draft Guarantee Agreement).



- 16 -
Expansion of the Canal
49.       The size and number of ships of the world's mercantile marine con-
tinues to increase. As early as 1967, SCA invited bids for expansion of the
Canal to accommodate large tankers (see para. 21). It is now clear that, to
attract and rretain a reasonable percentage of total traffic, the dimensions
of the Canal will have to be increased. While almost all tankers in service
could use the Canal in 1966, it is projected that only 57 percent and 40 per-
cent would do so in 1975 and 1978 respectively, if the Canal is not enlarged.
At 1967 dimensions, petroleum shipments would account for 47 percent and 30
percent of total traffic through the Canal in 1975 and 1980, respectively, com-
pared to 75 percent in 1966. The potential loss of revenues based on the 1967
tariffs increased by 37 percent would be about US$150 million annually and the
potential loss to the world shipping community would be of the order of US$250
mi:Llion annually. SCA has therefore decided to proceed with dredging for the
first stage of the enlargement as soon as the channel is reopened, and has
recently signed a Letter of Intent with Japanese contractors for dredging of
certain sections to start by mid-1975. The first stage of the enlargement,
as now envisaged, consists of increasing the permissible draft from 11.6 m to
16 m. This is expected to be completed in four years at a total cost presently
estimated at US$720 million, 1/ including additional works and facilities.
50.       The first stage of the enlargement will make it possible for tankers
of 150,000 dwt laden and of 250,000 dwt in ballast to use the Canal. It would
increase potential petroleum traffic in 1980 from about 100 million dwt to
about 300 million dwt. According to SCA's plans, further expansion would be
required after 1980, to accommodate tankers of 200,000 ton laden and of almost
any size in ballast. There is little doubt that the first phase of the enlarge-
ment is justified. A preliminary study shows that under conservative assump-
tions the project would yield a rate of return of about 15 percent, and there-
fore SCA's decision to proceed immediately with the initial dredging of sec-
tions of the Canal - in order to avoid further increases in prices, which have
already risen considerably since bids for the expansion were first invited in
1967 - is understandable. However, there is a need for further studies to
determine the optimum dimensions and phasing of the proposed expansion. To
this end, SCA has agreed to appoint consultants to carry out a study to be
financed under the proposed loan, of the technical, economic and financial
feasibilitv and optimum dimensions and phasing of the expansion of the Canal
(Section 3.02, draft Loan Agreement). Terms of reference for the study have
been reviewed and are satisfactory. It has also been agreed that the Govern-
ment and SCA will give the Bank an adequate opportunity to comment on the study,
before deciding on the optimum dimensions and phasing of the enlargement (Sec-
tion 4.04, draft Loan Agreement; Section 3.03(b), draft Guarantee Agreement).
The Interim Report of the Study is expected around mid-1975.
Benefits and Justification
51.       Closure of the Canal disrupted the shipping community and the
economies of a number of countries. Reopening will greatly reduce the sea
1/   Excluding interest during construction estimated at US$60 million.



- 17 -
distance on a number of major trade routes and reduce shipping costs accord-
ingly. It will also generate some activities in countries with export poten-
tial for products which cannot support high transport costs. These benefits
will not materialize rapidly, however, because of the time lag involved in
promoting new agricultural and industrial schemes. Also, they may be offset
by losses in countries which benefitted from closure. Therefore, only benefits
derived from savings in shipping costs were taken into account in the economic
evaluation.
52.       Savings in shipping costs are mainly in:    (i) fixed operating
costs (personnel, insurance, etc.) and capital costs per unit of cargo re-
sulting from faster ship turnaround time; and (ii) fuel. They were esti-
mated for different trade routes, cargoes (petroleum, bulk, general and
containerized), and ship sizes. To attract traffic, SCA will have to set
dues which make use of the Canal competitive with use of alternative routes.
SCA and Egypt will recoup part of the global savings in the form of revenues;
shippers and shipowners will recoup the balance. With Canal dues assumed at
37 percent higher than in 1967, net savings in shipping costs after deduction
of Canal dues would amount to US$315 million in 1975 and US$1,250 million in
1980. Gross revenues to SCA would amount to about US$80 million in 1975 and
to US$250 million in 1980 or about 15 to 20 percent of global savings. Sav-
ings achieved as a result of the project would be so large to the international
community and to Egypt that there can be no doubt about the projectts justifi-
cation or the ability of Egypt to capture a reasonable share of these savings
tihrough Canal dues. The economic evalulation shows that the project would
yield a rate of return well in excess of 50 percent, which is extremely
satisfactory.
PART V -- LEGAL INSTRUWENTS AND AUTHIORITY
53.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Suez Canal Authority and the
Bank, the draft Guarantee Agreement between the Arab Republic of Egypt and
the Bank, the Recommendation provided for in Article V, Section 1 (d), of
the Articles of Agreement, and the text of a draft Resolution approving the
proposed loan, are being distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
Completion of satisfactory co-financing agreements to meet the foreign exchange
costs of the Project is a condition of effectiveness of the loan.
54.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.



- 18 -
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
5C;.      I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
November 19, 1974



Vkl
Io            R21                                                                                           -2
1-9 "o
IKKI      K Ki
-2
N   T                                  t 8
z                            El
91.1   1.
p-9                91
'ZI
81 R 8                        0                                                                      x A
79
Al ;2
a
t            E
V  V                                 Zl I
2
&               a
15-                   A,                             I.E
45 i                P. RI                                                                    -Zi
Iz
z        E  t                                                                             t
V
&
-S t    -    .    .                      5   , -      .1 fl' %
uz



ANNEX I
Page 2 of 3 pages
ECONOMIC INDICATORS
GROSS NATLONAL PRODUCT IN 1973                                   ANNUAL RATE OF GROWTH (%, constant prices)
US$ Mln.       %                          1960-65          1965-70           1973-/
GNP at Market Prices         9,281      100.0                           6.3            2.3              3.9-/
Gross Domestic Investument    1,143      12.3                         -14.9           -3.9              6.7
Gross National Saving           5931      6. 4/                          -               -               -
Cuirrent Account Balance       -5491/    -5.91/                          -                 4/
Exports of Goods, NFS        1,329       14.3                           5.7             --             14.7
Imports of Goods, NFS        1,830       19.7                         11.2              -4/            10.2
OUTPUT, LABOR FORCE AND
PRODUCTIVITY IN 1973
Value Added                           Employment                     V.A. per Worker
US$ Mln.           %                   Mln.            %                 US°     /     ,
Agriculture                      2,607            31                  4.18           47                  624         67
industrv                        1,806            22                  1.16            13               1,557         167
Services                         2,335           28                  1.97            22               1,185         127
Unallocated                      1,617           19                  1.67            18                 968         104
Total/Average            8,365           100                  8.98           100                 932         100
GOVERNMENT FINANCE
Central Government
(US$ Mln.)                             % of GDP
1973(est.)                  1973                    1969-71
Current Receipts                           1,892                      20.3                    21.3
Current Expeniditure                       1,944                      20.8                    20.7
Current Surplus (excluding Emergency
Fund)                                     -52                     -0.5                      0.o
Emergency Fund                             1,027                      11.0                     9.2
Capital Expenditures                         979                      10.5                    11.7
External Assistance (net)                     76                        .1                    -0.4
MONEY, CREDIT AND PRICES
1968/69         1969/70          1971            1972           1973
(Million EE outstanding end period)
Money and Quasi Moniey                  1,005           1,106           1,166           1,345           1,637
Bank Credit to Public Sector            1,028           1,133           1,038           1,164           1,336
Bank Credit to Private Sector             435             456             549             553             560
(Percentages or Index Numbers)
Money and Quasi Money as % of GDP     5/ 37.3            37.2            ..              39.7            44.9
Consumer Price Index (1966/67 = 100)- 106.1             109.2           113.6           116.3           119.5
Annual percentage changes in:
Consumer Price Index                      4.0             2.9             4.0             2.4             2.8
Bank Credit to Public Sector              5.2            10.2            ..             12.1            14.8
Bank Credit to Private Sector             7.4             4.9            ..               0.7            1.3
NOTE: All conversions to dollars in this table are at the average exchange rate prevailing during the
period covered.
1/  Excluding unrequited transfer receipts.
2/  At 1972 prices except for GDP at 1972 factor cost.
3/  Figure refers to GDP at 1972 factor cost.
4/  Accurate constant price growth rate are not available due to insufficient information concerning trade
deflators. Moreover, the export growth rate for this period is biased by the drop in Suez revenues
after 1966/67. Between 1967/68-1970/71, exports (in current prices) rose on the average by 12.5
percent annually, imports by 10.6 percent annually.
5/ Due to non-availability of data on calendar year basis for 1971, 1972 and 1973, data refers to "fiscal"
Years 1970/71, 1971/72 and 1972/73.



ANNEX I
Page 3 of 3 pages
TRADE PAYMENTS AND CAPITAL FLOWS
bALANCE OF PAYMENT'S                                         MERCHANDISE EXPORTS (AVERAGE 1972-73)
1971     1972      1973
(Millions US $)                                   US $ Mln.          %
Exports of Goods                   850       813    1,014    Raw Cotton                    432            47.2
Imports of Goods                 1.244    1,286     1,593    Rice                           50             5.4
Trade Balance (deficit    -)      -394      -473     -579    Manufactured goods            343            37.5
All other commodities          90             9.9
Services (nct)                     -92         7        7         Total                    915           100.0
Net Transfers                      279       295      649
Balance on Current Account        -207      -171       77    EXTERNAL DEBT, DECEMBER 31. 1973
Net MLT Borrowing                                                                                        US $ Mln
Disbursements                  (297)     (358)    (328)
Amortization                   (150)     (213)    (333)   Public Debt Outstanding and Disbursed        2,139
Subtotal                        147      145        -5      Of which medium and long-term             (1,698)
Other Capital (niet)               -93        -5      -86
Overall Balance (deficit = -)     -153       -31      -14    DEBT SERVICE RATIO FOR 19731/
Gross Reserves (end year)          289       263      551
Net Reserves (end year)           -722      -697     -613    Public Debt Outstanding and Disbursed         28.7
HATE OF EXCHANGE                                             IBRD/IDA LENDING, SEPTEMBER 30, 1974 (Million US $):
Through - January 1973                                                                          IBRD      IDA
US $ 1.00 = LE 0.435
bE    1.00 = US $2.30                                      Outstanding and Disbursed            0.0       14.1
Undisbursed                           -       117.8
Since - February 1973                                      Outstanding including Undisbursed    0.0      131.9
US $ 1.00 = LE 0.390
LE    1.00 - US $2.56
1/ Ratio of Debt Service to Exports of Goods and Non-Factor Services.
Not available
November 11, 1974






ANNEX 1I
Page 1 of 4
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN EGYPT
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS
(As of September 30, 1974)
Loan or                                           Amount in million US Dollars
Credit                                                     Less cancellations
Numbers          Year      Borrower       Furpose   Bank    IDA Undisbursed
Ln 243-UAR       1959    Suez Canal     buez Canal 56.5               --
Authority      Expansion
Cr 181-UAR       1970    UAR            Nila Delta   --    26.0      16.4
Drainage
Cr 284-UAR       1972    ARE            Railways     --     30.0      8.3
Cr 8-13-UAR/     1972    ARE            Cotton Gin- --      0.2       --
nin g Engr.
Cr 393-UAR       1973    ARE            Upp3r Egypt --     36.0      36.0
Drainage
Cr 41 2-UAR      1973    ARE            BOA          -     15.0      14.0
Cr 423-UAR       1973    ARE            Cotton       --     18.5     t8.0
Girnning
Cr h37-UAR       1973    ARE            Population   --     5.0       4.9
Cr S-15-UARi./   1973    ARE            Talkha Engr. --      0.4      0.2
Cr 484-UAR       97194   ARE            Talkha       --     20.0     20.0
Fertilizarr
56.5   132.1     117.8
of which has been repaid                            56.5     0.2
Total now outstanding                                0.0   131.9
Amount sold                                 6.0
of which has been repaid                    6.0
Total now held by Bank and IDAy/                     0.0   131.9
Total undisbursed                 1                        117.8    117.8
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
(As of September 30, 1974)              Nil
/ Refinanced under Credit 4i23-UAR
2/~ Rafinanced under Credit 484-UAR
Excluding exchange adjustments



ANNEX II
Page 2 of 4
C.   PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/
IJr. No. 181-UAR - Nile Delta Drainage Project; US$26 million Credit of April
_17, 1970; Closing Date: December 31, 1976.
In 1973 a revised implementation program was prepared, extending
this project until 1978, and the government agreed to take a number of actions
recommended bv IDA to improve project performance and provide effective man-
agemnent. In February 1973, the National Drainage Development Authority (NDDA)
and the Egyptian General Authoritv for Drainage (EGAD) were merged in the
r.gyptian Public Authority for Drainage Projects (EPADP) established by Presi-
dential Decree.  A new Chairman and Vice Chairman for the Nile Delta and Upper
Egypt Drainage Projects were appointed and the staff reorganized and strengthened
lby the appointment of additional qualified personnel. A panel of experts was
nominated to undertake project evaluation, and action is being taken to replace
the consultants who advise and assist the Authority on the implementation of
both the Nile Delta and Upper Egypt projects.   The new Authority is actively
working on the arrangements for the maintenance of equipment and the storage
of spare Darts and has drafted the terms and conditions under which project
equipment will be transferred to local contractors for construction of drain-
age works and for the manufacture of drainage tiles. Earlier this year, super-
vision missions expressed concern that sufficient local currency funds has not
been budgeted to keep project implementation up to the pace agreed in the
revised schedule; this matter was discussed with the Government in May and
again in September 1974, and a small supplementary allocation has been made
to permit continued imnlementation for the rest of 1974.
Cr. lo. 284-UAR - Egyptian Railway Project; US$30 million Credit of February
197972, Clositng Date:   (i) December 31, 1973, for track materials, loco-
motives and spare parts; and (ii) September 30, 1976, for signalling and
telecommunications equipment and installation.
The project is being implemented satisfactorily. Most of the
procurement contracts have been awarded, and the credit is entirely committed.
Cr. No. S-13-UAR - Cotton Ginning Rehabilitation Engineering Project;
US$175,,000 Credit of November 17, 1972; Closing Date: November 30, 1973.
This Credit was approved on November 7, 1972, and was declared
effective on .June 15, 1973. It has been fully disbursed and subsequently
refinanced under Cr. 423 below.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any prob-
lems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to remedy
them. They should be read in this sense, and with the understanding
that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths
and weaknesses in project execution.



ANNEX II
Page 3 of 4
Cr. No. 393-CAR - Upper Egypt Drainage Project; US$36 million Credit of June
8, 1973; Closing Date: December 31, 1979.
Progress in implernenting the project has been slow.   A supervision
mission earlier this year reported insufficient budgeting of local currency
funds for the current fiscal year. The matter was taken uD with the Govern-
ment, in May and again in September 1974 and a small supplementary allocation
was made to enable project implementation to continue.    The schedule for work
in 1975 is satisfactory.
Cr. No. 412-UAR - Biank of Alexandria Project; US$15 million Credit of June 29,
1973; Closing Date: September 30, 1977.
This Credit became effective on November 29, 1973. Since then, BOA
has approved several subprojects. As of September 1974, about $1 million of
the credit had been committed. The balance is expected to be committed within
about a month. A second project is presently being appraised.
Cr. No. 423-CAR - Cotton Ginning Rehabilitation Project; US$18.5 million
Credit of July 30, 1973; Closing Date: June 30, 1978.
This Credit became effective on February 15, 1974. A program for
retraining of displaced workers, prepared by Egypt has been reviewed by IDA
and implementation will commence shortly.    Prices of bids received in May 1974
for major equipment packages were much higher than expected, and the total
estimated foreign exchange cost is presently estimated at $43 million. At
IDA's suggestion, the Government is seeking the additional funds required from
other sources since the returns of the project to the economy will still re-
main satisfactory as a result of the increase in cotton prices since appraisal.
So far no other funds have been secured and the Goverrment is considering
miaking budgetary provision for the additional foreign exchange needed until
other funds become available.
Cr. No. 437-UAP - Population Project; US$5.0 million Credit of November 6,
1973; Closing Date: December 31, 1977.
Ihis Credit was declared effective on March 25, 1974. The architects
have been appointed, and work is underway on other elements of the project.
Cr. No. S-15-UAR - Talkha Urea Fertilizer Engineering Project; US$400,000
Credit of November 20, 1973; Closing Date:    March 31, 1975.
This Credit was declared effective on April 24, 1974. Meanwhile, a
consulting fLir, appointed as the technical advisors, did some of tlle work
covered by this credit and was paid by Egypt. The credit will be refinanced
under Cr. 484 below, when the latter is declared effective.



ANNEX II
Page 4 of 4
-r. No. 484-UAR - Talkha II Fertilizer Project; US$20 million Credit of June
24, 1974; Closing Date:   April 1, 1979.
This Credit was approved by the Executive Directors on June 18,
1974, and signed on June 24, 1974. It has not yet been declared effective.
leanwhile, work has advanced the selection of the General Contractor.
Europe, Middle East and North Africa Region
NoveTnber 19, 1971h



ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
SUEZ CANAL REHABILITATION PROJECT
Loan and Pro.4oct Summ3ry
Borrower:                  Suez Canal Authority
Guarantor:                 Arab Republic of Egypt
Beneficiaries:             Suez Canal Authority, and international shippers
and ship-owners.
Amount:                    US $50,000,000
Terms:                     20 years including 4 years of grace with interest
at 8 percent per annum.
Project Description:       Financing a portion of the foreign exchange costs
of facilities needed to rehabilitate the Canal, to
restore navigation to the level that prevailed in
1967, through (i) clearing and reopening the
channel, (ii) procuring materials and equipment,
(iii) reconstructing auxiliary facilities, and
(iv) technical assistance and studies.
Project Costs:
Items Proposed for 1/
Froject Element                      Project Cost             Bank Financing
Foreign
Exchange
Local  Foreign  Total  ConT2onent  Local  Foreign  Total
-      $----1  $ lillion-----  -   ----US $ Million-
Preparation of C.hannel        7.05   19.87  26.92     74      1.56   1.68   3.21
Repairs to Channel             10.85  39-34   50.19    78      2.64   1.80   4.14
Services to Channel           14.20   51.24  65.44    78       3.34  13.68   17.02
Workshop Rehabilitation        2.90   10.25   13.15   78       2.69   8.40   1.07
Services                       7.90    9.22  17.12     54      5.93   3.12   9.05
Stores                          2.40  14.59   16.99    86      2.17  11.18   13.35
Buildings, Houses, and Roads   20.20   7.44   27.64    27      6.29   2.64    8.>,j
Local Work                     19.75   4.40   24.15    18      0      0      0
Technical Assistance and Studies  0.30  0.96  1.26     76      0.30   0.96
Subtotal                  85.55  157.31  242.86    65     24.91  43.46   68.'7
Contingencies
Foreign Exchange 15%          0      23.69  23.69   100      0      6.54    6.54
Local Currency 25%           21.45   0      21.45     0      6.23   0       6.23
Subtotal                  21.45  -23.69  45.14    52      6.23    6.54  12.77
TOTAL Project Cost        107.00  18;.00  288.00  63      31.14  50.00   81.14
1/  Within the limit of US $50 million, reallocation between project elements
may be required later, depending on the specific items selected for financing
by prospective donors.



ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
Financing Plan:                                   Foreign     Local     Total
-US$ million-
Bank Loan                       50.0        -        50.0
Kuwait Fund Loan               33.0         -        33.0
Other Borrowings               98.o         -        98.o
SCA Funds                       -          74.0      33.0
Government                       -         33.0      33.0
Total                    181.0      107.0     288.0
Estimated Disbursements:
(Bank Loan)   Calendar Year     1975    1976    1977    1978
US$ Million                     26.0    16.0     7.0     1.0
Project Execution:           The project will be executed by the Suez Canal
Authority.
Procurement Arrangements:     Items to be financed under the loan will be
procured on the basis of international compe-
titive bidding in accordance with the Bank's
"Guidelines for Procurement." Some spare parts,
whose total cost is estimated at $4.3 million,
will be procured directly from manufacturers.
For purposes of bid evaluation, local bids will
be given a preference of 15 percent or the import
duties, whichever is lower.
Consultancy Services:         Consultants have been appointed for the study of
possible levels of tariffs and traffic.   Consul-
tants will be appointed to assist SCA in strength-
ening its capabilities in economic and financial
planning and operational procedures, for the
proposed study of optimum dimensions and phasing of
Canal enlargement, and for the modernization of
workshops.
Europe, Middle East and North Africa
November 19, 1974



IUDA
<1~~~~~~~~~~~~A
N*                   -f-                    
Re    Se
- i                /                                                                            ; r  0 
i               Z                                                                    r p  w      ---                   >X>-<~~~~--------
ARAB REPUBLIC OF                                             (½ 
EGYPT                    * ,                            nr/
-                                                                                V BdfcCfab  -oeore r|5 (ZA  zss 
'        -Ho,d-adrfoGAd 00TM,, d-oo 'to 0 0J                                                              . 
5 / ----__ ~~-t1__de *o.oilso.  dOnts oru0r_ r -
\          / A         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~- bo,I,ay, omog l.c '00                         C                                      N
J~~~~ _0igU oooob        l a    =    0  NO      q          r+o r i   (  !
s~~~~~ I7oodO.d /mRan                                                       -t-S.  -,& E Y  .
1-                               c uo nhaldo                                  Sw.   i S
{~~~~~~~~*         - t , h , o   bo mo o   ,o,,,.o , ., .,.,... O.' ,   _. ~''--___I



