Docum_t of
The World Bank
FOR OMCLAL USE ONLY
Repwt No. 12146
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
THIRD CALCUTTA URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(CREDIT 1369-IN)
JUNE 30, 1993
MICROGRAPHICS
Report No: 12146
Type: PCR
Infrastructure Operations Division
Country Department II
South Asia Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by reipients only in th performance of
their offidal duties. Its contents may not othenvise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Rs 1.00 - USS 0.11 at appraisal (May 1983)
Rs 9.50 - US$ 1.00 at appraLial (Nay 1983)
Rs 1.00 = US$ 0.039 at project close (March, 1992)
Rs 25.5 * USS 1.00 at project close (March, 1992)
GOI/GOWB FISCAL YEAR
April 1 - March 31
MEASURES AND EQUIVALENTS
1 millimeter (mm)                u       0.0394 inches (in)
1 meter (a)                      a       3.2808 feet (ft)
1 kilometer (km)                         0.6214 mile (mi)
1 square meter (m2)              *       10.7639 square feet (sq ft)
1 square kilometer (km2)         -       0.3861 square mile (uq mi)
1 hectare (ha)-0.01km2                   2.47il acres (ac) or 10,000 sq m
1 liter (1)                      a       1.0567 quarts liquid or
0.2642 US gallon (gal) or
0.9081 Us quart dry (qt)
I cubic meter (m3)                       35.3147 cubic feet (cu ft)
1 liter per capita               -       0.2642 US gallons per day
per day (lcd)                          capita per day (gcpd)
1 cubic meter per second         -       264.1721 US gallons per
(aS/sec)                               second (gal/sec)
PRINCIPAL AbPRhVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AMEU            Appraisal, Monitoring and Evaluation Unit of CMDA
CHIP            Calcutta-Howrah Investmont Program
CIT             Calcutta Improvement. Trust
CZA             Calcutta Metropolitan Area
CMC             Calcutta Municipal Corporation
CMDA            Calcutta Metropolitan Development Authority
CMACP           CMA-wide Complementary Programs
CMWSA           Calcutta Metropolitan Water and Sewerage Authority
CUDP I          First Calcutta Urban Development Project (Cr 427-IN)
CUDP II         Second Calcutta Urban Development Project (Cr 756-IN)
EWS             Economically Weaker Section
GOWM            Governmeat of West Bengal
HIT             Howrah Improvement Trust
HMC             Howrah Municipal Corporation
HDFC            Housing Development Finance Corporation
HUDCO           Housing and Urban Development Corporation
LGUDD           Local Government and Urban Development Department -GOWB
MDP             Municipal Development Program
TRIP            Transamunicipal Infrastructure Program



FOR OFFICIL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Wasfgtn D.C. 20433
U.SA
Office of Dtzctorz4eeral
Operation* vwaluatio
June 30, 1993
MEMORANDM  TO MNE EXCUTIVE D,IRCTORS All TEE PRESIDT
SUBJECT:    Project Completion Report oa India
Third Calcutta Urban DevelouMent Prolect (Credit 1369-IN)
Attached is the "Project Completion Report on India - Third Calcutta
Urban Develo.ent Project (Credit 1369-IN),In prepared by the Infrastructure
Operations Division, Country Department 2, of the South Asia Rg4ional Office,
with Part II contributed by the Borrower.
This project was prepared as a follow-on to two previous urban
development projects in Calcutta but with a stronger than before emphasis on
institutional and financial reforms.  The project proved too complex with an
overly optimistic implementation schedule. Its components spread through four
sub-programs, involving five major metropolitan organixations, 37 municipalities
and a number of local level governments.                              -
After a delay of three years, only about two thirds of the project's
physical comporsnto were completed. Main reasons for the delay and less than
full-scale completion are project design problems, land acquisit.io, and
procurement complexities. Achievement of institutional and policy objectives
were very limited. There were no improvtments in cost recovery.
Overall, the project outcome is Tated as unsatiesfactory mostly on
account of its failure to make progress in institutional and financial aspects,
expected from a ropeater project. Its institutional achievements are rated as
negligible, and the sustainability of its benefits as unlikely.
The Project Completion Report is of good quality. It provides an
interesting discussion on the complexity of the project and related
implementation issues. The project may be audited.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only fn the performance of
thefr official duties. its contents my not otherwise be dfsclosed without old Sank authorization.



FOR OMCAL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
THIRD CALCUTTA URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(CREDIT 1369-IN)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Paase No.
Preface ...........................................................                              i
Evaluation Summary  .........            ...... .** ................                           ii
PART It   PROJECT REVIEW FROM BAUK'S PERSPECTIVE  ..........               ,,                    1
1. Project Identity .....  ......                                   ........                     1
2. sackground  ..................                                                                1
context             ..........****Q************.........,.........                       1
Previous IDA Assistance in the Sector ................                                   2
Sector Policy Objectives ..** ................   ..........                              2
3. Project Objectives and Description ............. -ooooo.                                      2
Primary Objectives  ... *........o ..................... * * *.                          2
Secondary Objectives  ................................                                   2
Project Description . ..................... .. ..... .. ..                               3
4. Project Design and organization .........................                                     3
5. Project Implementation ..*               ...............................                      4
Implementation .... ***.............. *..................                                4
Project Risks  *.......................................                                  6
6. Project Results  ...........             ........................... ...                      7
Physical Performance ......   ...  *.........               ......*..                    7
Health Program .....................  ..........                     .                   8
Economic Rate of Return (ERR) Comparisons ............                                   9
7. Project Sustainability  ........ . . . .  *....... . . . . .    .........                     9
Project Restructuring, Credit Extensions, and
Borrower Relations  ..........          .. . .. ........ ..  .....                    10
8. Bank Performance .....**..*..  *             ............................                   11
9. Borrower Performance .......... . ..                                                        11
10. Project Relationship  .................*.......*.........                                  12
11. Consulting Services  ...... . ....              ....... ......... .... .                   12
12. Project Documentation and Data .........................                                   12
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



PRTf XU,  U20a                     ItEVIEW PROH THE BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE  ...              13
1.  Project Design ......              ¢oo*¢ss*¢*v¢e*o1
2.  Implementation of the                                     Poet............................... 13
3.  Performance by the Borrower ............................                                 14
4.  The World Bank's Performance ...........................                                 15
S.  Relationship with the World Bank                    .......................              17
2ARL Ills  SATIfiTICAL INFORMATIQN .........................                                 18
Relat:ed Bank Loans and/or Credits ..........................                                19
Project Timetable             ..................... ........                                 20
Credit Disbursements  *** ***.........    999                      99999999.............     21
Project Implementation/Benefits ............................                                 22
Project Costs and Financing ....                 ...................... ...                  26
Project Costs                           99............                               26
Project Financing ..............,..*                  9..................            27
Project Results ......             ......................................                    28
Economic Impact .............               ....     .9999999999                     28
Status of Compliance with Covenants ........................                                 32
Mlssions  e...........99999*999999999099999999999999                                         36



(A)
PROJEOT COMPLETION EXPORT
INDIA
THIRD CALCUTTA URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROECT
(CREDIT 1369-IN)
1.          This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Third Calcutta
Urban Development Project (Credit 1369-IN) in the amount of SDR 136.3 million
fUS$ 147.0 million) which was approved on May 19, 1983. In December 19918 SDR
51.5 million saving due to exchange rate fluctuations was cancelled and trane-
ferred to the Social Safety Net Adjustment Program. The Credit was closed on
Ma,.ch 31. 1992. three years behind schedule.  The total amount disbursed under
the Credit was sDR 77.75 million, out of the remaining 8DR 84.8 million.
2.          The PCR was jointly prepared by the Infrastructure Operations
Division, Country Department 2, of the South Asia Regional Office (Preface,
Evaluation Summary, Parts I and III), and the Borrower (Part 11).
3.          Preparation of the PCR began during the Bank's final brief super-
vision mission of the Project in February 1992, and is based, inter alia, on
the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR), Credit and Project Agreements, supervision
reports, correspondence between the Bank and the Borrower, and internal Bank
memoranda.



(li)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
THIRD CALCUTTA URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(CREDIT 1369-IN)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
1.          Obiectives.  The objectives of the project were to:  (i) continue
the urban development efforts steming from the First and Second Calcutta Urban
Development Projects (CUDP I & II) and to improve urban management in the
Calcutta Metropolitan Area (CMA) through financial and institutional reform
conjunctively with physical improvements; and (ii) substantially increase the
number of beneficiaries, particularly in the Economically Weaker Sections
(EWS) of the community.
2.          Imolementation Exterience.  The project was appraised as part of
the Five-Year Sector investment Program of the Calcutta Metropolitan Develop-
ment Authority (czDA). It was organized in four multi-sector programs:
municipal Development Program (MDP); Transmunicipal Infrastructure Program
(TRIP); Calcutta-Howrah Investment Program (CHIP); and CMA-wide Complementary
Program (CMACP). some 6 million people, including about 4.2 million in EWS
groups, were expected to benefit directly from the investments in water
supply, sanitation, shelter, drainage, slum upgrading, solid waste management,
traffic management, and health and human resources development.
3.          The sector components were spread through the four sub-programs
and execution was set up through a matrix involving the CMDA, Calcutta
Municipal Corporation (CKC), Calcutta Metropolitan Water and Sewerage
Authority (CMWSA), Calcutta Improvement Trust (CIT), Howrah Improvement Trust
(HIT), 37 municipalities, and a number of panchayats. The MDP schemes were
prepared by the municipal agencies, cleared with CMDA and self-executed.
Funds for MDP were on-lent as a loan:grant mix in the ratio 70:30.
4.          Overall, the project schedule proved overly optimistic and project
extensions totalling three years were sanctioned. At closing (3/31/92), a
major TRIP water supply component is likely to continue for a further 2 to 3
years. Primary reasons for the time over-run are: land acqpisition diffi-
culties; delays in selecting consultants for major component design; procure-
ment delays; budget cost underestimation; and lack of experience in scheduling
multi-contract schemes (para 5, Part I).
5.          The difficulty of land acquisition, which was not highlighted as a
potential risk in the SAR, proved a major obstacle in the Shelter, Urban
Renewal and Area Development (SURAD) and transportation components. Twelve
out of thirteen SURAD schemes were dropped and some transportation schemes
were either dropped or much delayed.



(iii)
6.         TUtal project cost, in rupee termes was only slightly lower than
the original project cost ostimates, even thouglh only about 75% of the
original components were completed. Cost increases, due to delays, and to a
larger extent under-estimation,, coincidentally have kept the rupee cost
constant. in dollar equivalent terms, total project costs were only about
one-third of the original estimates. The large decline was mainly due to the
dramatic devaluation of the rupee during the life of the project (us$1 a Rs.
9.5 at appraisal vs. 28.5 at closing).
7.          in summary,, tJae project design was too complex for implementation
by relatively veak agencies and for the Bank to supervise. This complexity
presented too many issues and policies to address in a single project. Imple-
mentation was stalled by three years due to delays in preparation of detailed
engineering, land acquisition and procurement. By credit closing, the sub-
components had been reduced from 53 to 40 and a few components that remained
incomplete would require about two years more to complete, when the full
benefits would be realized.
8.      aReult.  Physical achievements of the subcomponents completed
were very commendable (details are given Tables 4 a 6, Part ill). The
Municipal Deve3 ~pment Program was a success in the devolut ion of powers of
planning and implementation of municipal infrastructureg, but was a failure in
financial i?erformance in that MDP had zero cost recovery for services and a
very marginal increase in property tax revenues. *The MDP fund was fully
disbursed, however. A major water supply transmission main is yet to be
completed and most land develolpment schemes were abandoned.
9.          over the p-.oject life, CMDA developed its capacity to monitor
project execution with a well-established Management information System (MIS),
although it was not used effectively for project management. CNDA has
functioned in a number of diverse roles such as financial intermediary for the
MDP,, planning and capital budgeting agency, design and implementing agency and
monitoring unit. While CZ4DA has competent staff, it remains lethargic and
mediocre in its performance in some areas. Similarly, CMWSA, responsible for
transmunicipal water and sewerage services, has been ineffective in management
due to fr'agmented institutional responsibilities. The financial health and
institutional capacity of the municipalities have not developed commensurate
with the physical achievements of lDP. The actual achievements and benefits
are compared with the appraisal estimates in Part III. major departures are:
latz ine conversions (72% of SAR figure) and new latrine construction has
lagged; Bowrah solid waste program was not implemented due to changed priori-
ties; sewerage house connections were reduced by 24%, affecting some 20,000
people; major water supply components are yet to be commissioned; and most
area development schemes were dropped due to land acquisition problems.
10.         The Health Program is a notable achievement in providing extended
health service at the community level. This success has resulted in a free-
standing project to be financed by the Bank and an ODA-funded integrated slum
improvement program. The improvement in water supply over the three projects
has helped to eliminate the frequent outbreaks of cholera that prevailed in
the 1970s.



(iv)
il.         84ustalnability. The longer-term sustainability of the physical
assets depends on the financial health and institutional capacity of the
agencies responsible for operation and maintenance of the facilities. No
discernible improvements have resulted from project intervention. In the case
of MDP (36% of project investment), all municipalities rely largely on the
Government of West Bengal (GOWB) subsidies, covering only about 35-40% of
operating expenses from revenues. The large gap is due tos dependence on the
under-exploited property tax; iraJequate tax revaluations; defaulting gover,-
ment and industrial agencies; reluctance to levy direct consumer charges; and
neglect of arrears collection. None of the municipalities has any capacity to
repay loan funds in the foreseeable future and longer term sustainability of
assets may be queried in the absence of GOWB comwitment on cost recovery for
utilities and introduction cf radical reforms to increase municipal revenues.
12- Findinas and Lessons Learned
(1)   The preventive health component has been- an outstanding success
which has paved the way for a free-standing health project by the
Bank and another by the U.4C overseas Development Agency.
(2) The physical achievements of the completed sub-components are
commendable, despite major constraints due to land acquisition.
However, some major items of water supply, area development and
traffic management were dropped or delayed due to land acquisition
or procurement delays. Only one out of seven area development
sch3mes was undertaken. All six urban renewal schemes were
deleted. For future projects, a new strategy for land acquisition
should include having a substantial portion of the required landt
with authority to enter prior to project start. It may be prudent
to delay appraisals/approvals until land, for at least two years
work is securely in the possession of agencies.
(3)   The project design (program type operation) involving many sectors
and agencies was too complsx for relatively weak agencies. CMD&
over the years has developed a very good MIS, yet it was not used
effectively for project management. The original five-year invest-
ment program, which was the basis for the project, took three
years longer to implement partly due to delayed detailed prepara-
tion. At project closing, only 75% of the original components
were completed. The five-year program changed over the years with
the addition of about 30% more investments, which raises serious
concerns about the investment prioriti:ation and planning frame-
work. The project had little chance of success because it was
required to address too many issues and had structural, institu-
tional, financial and management problems.
(4)   A follow-up projects if undertaken, should have clear under-
standings and agreements with the highest political level.
Furthermore, it should be confined to a well-defined standard
investment project. Such a project might include priority Lnvest-
ments in water supply, sewerage and solid waste management,
prepared on the basis of rAdated functional 9nvestment



(v)
plans/feasibility studies with limited, but clearly defined and
agreed targets for financial,, Lntitutional reform and planning.
Detailed project preparation and implementation plans adequate for
at least two years implementation (using local/foreign
consultants) should be required prior to loan approval. To ensure
a reasonable chance of success, cost recovery and institutional
arrangements in the water supply and sewerage sectors should be
the focus in the first instance. additional concern about the
present project outlined in the report ought to be taken into
account in the formulation of any possible new project in
Calcutta.
(5)  Devolution of planning and implementation responsibilities to
municipalities under the MDP component had a very positive impact.
Mowever, the financial, health and institutional capacity of
municipalities have not improved commensurate with physical
achievements.  Municipal revenues are woefully inadequate and no
municipality has repaid the loans provided under NDP. Bank
assessments of repayment capacities were unrealistic. Introduc-
tion of direct user charges and radical i'creases in property tax
are essential ingredients for successful municipal operations.
The efforts to increase property tax receipts through revaluation
under the existing basis have resulted in an insignificant
increase in revenues. Due to complex and inter-related issues
involved, property tax reform would be best addressed in a subse-
quent project.
(6)  Despite the heavy burdens on CNIDA in terms of planning, capital
budgeting and physical execution, CMDA demonstrated its skills in
coordinating the program, even though project management was weak.
Whether physical execution should continue to be a function of a
planning and regulatory body such as CMDA, should be subject to
review. similarly, responsibilities for water supply and sewerage
are shared by CMWSA and many municipalities. For future opera-
tions, a review of institutions providing urban services in
Calcutta should be undertaken.
(7)   Procurement procedures contributed significantly to delay in
project execution. Management of over a thousand small contracts
presented a daunting task to agencies, especially administration,
supervision and quality control. Unrealistic cost estimates
presented considerable difficulties and delays in bid evaluations.
Additionally, the lack of adequate powers of agency staff required
award decisions to be referred to higher levels of government.
Major reforms in contract packaging, cost estimation at market
rates and powers of agencies should be agreed as part of any
future operation.
(8)  The preparation and submission of accounts and audits suffered
serious delays. Timely action was not taken by the Dank to remedy
this non-compliance. The task was compounded by the existence of
close to 40 agencies implementing project components. Future



(vi)
projects should include funds for private auditors to prepare
accounts and audits for timely submission (in addition to the
statutory audit process). RLsks of non-compliance could be
mLnimized through preparation of consolidated accounts.
(9)   Private sector participation envLsaged in the urban renewal
schemes did not take place due to lack of commitment to this
objective. In the changing climate ln India, the shelter-related
activities are best left to the private sector.



- I -
PROJCT COMPLETXON REPORT
IBMh
THIRD CALCUTTA URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(CREDIT 1369-Xg)
PART I s PROJECT REVIEW FROM tHE BANR'8 PERSPECTIVE
1. Proiect Identity
Names              Third Calcutta Urban Development Project
Credit Number:     1369-IN
RVP Unit:          South Asia Regional Office, Country Department XI
Country:           India
Sector:            Infrastructure
Subsector:         Urban
2. Background
2.01        Context.  The CMA covers an area of 1.414 sq.km. with a population
of around 12.1 million (1991 census). Responsibility for metropolitan devel-
opment rests with the West Bengal State Government's Metropolitan Development
Department (MDD) which overviews infrastructure investment expenditures in CMA
and Urban Development Authorities statewide. The Local Government and the
Urban Development Department (LGUDD) is responsible for the needs of local
government. The CMA comprises 2 municipal corporations (Calcutta and Howrah),
37 municipalities and 165 panchayats (non-municipal areas), with about one-
third of the CMA population living in the CMC area.
2.02        By the 19609, the massive influx of refugees from Bangladesh
during its Independence in 1947, combined with continued urban growth and
deteriorating physical, social and economic conditions, had resulted in over-
loaded and inadequate urban services, including water supply, sanitation,
solid waste management, shelter, and road space.
2.03        In the early 1970s, CMDA was created by the GOWN with its invest-
ment program subsequently financed in part by IDA. CMDA provided an overall
institution and intersectoral perspective on Calcutta's problems, developed a
strategy to address priority needs, and served as an executing agency for
infrastructure investments. The creation of CMDA as the single planning and
development agency is of special significance since CMDA was also made the
agency for administering the capital budgeting process. CMDA has a staff
exceeding 4,000 and a capacity to execute an investment program of around
Rs.60-80 crores per year (US$24-32 million).



- 2 -
-~ ~ ~ ~~~~2
2.04        Previous IDA Assis_ance in the Rector.  IDA financed two urban
projects - the First Calcutta Urban Development Project (CUDP I) and the
Second Calcutta Urban Development Project (CUDP IY) -- which formed a part of
Calcutta's Five-Year Investment Program and an Urban Transport Project.  All
three projects are completed. CUDP I progressed slowly, but CUDP II achieved
impressive progress in a number of areas, particularly in slum improvement and
much improved availability of treated water supply. CMDA developed an ade-
quate capacity to execute physical works, but weaknesses remained in planning,
project management and financing of operation and maintenance. Also, infra-
structure sector agencies remained weak due to institutional fragmentation.
Concerns were raised regarding the weakening of other agencies as a result of
dominance by CMDA and its over-centralized management structure, and indeed,
whether CMDA should have been an implementing agency in addition to its
planning and regulatory functions.
2.05        Sector Policy Obiectives.  Whereas CUDP I and CUDP II concentrated
on physical achievements, CUDP III was designed to address the broader insti-
tutional, financial and policy planning issues in the sector, consistent with
GOWB's stated policy to strengthen local government with increased responsibi-
lities in the development process for agencies other than CMDA. The financial
health of municipalities and local bodies and the question of sustainability
of assets was recognized at that time. Measures were introduced to improve
local resource mobilization with the objective of enhancing the resource base,
introducing better financial management practices, emphasizing cost recovery,
and adequate operation and maintenance of urban services.
2.06        CUDP III was thus formulated to build on the achievements and
lessons 'aarned from the previous two projects within the framework of
institucional and financial reforms in CMA.
3. Proiect Obiectives and Descriotion
3.01        Primary Obiectives.  The primary objectives of CUDP III were tos
(i)   continue consolidating the efforts set in motion during the 1970s
and, in particular, to improve urban management in CMA through a
comprehensive approach in which institutional and financial
reforms go hand-in-hand with physical improvements; and
(ii) substantially increase the number of direct beneficiaries,
particularly in the economically weaker sections of the community.
3.02        Secondary Obiectives.  The secondary objectives were established
within these primary objectives to:
(i)   strengthen agencies responsible for urban planning, management and
finance;
(ii) encourage investments to complement earlier components for benefit
optimization;



(iii) rectify investment imbalances between metro-core areas and CMA as
a whole;
(iv)  prioritize operation and maintenance of new and existing assets;
(v)   encourage private sector participation; and
(vi)  mobilize other institutional finance through agencies such as
HUDCO and HDFC.
3.03        Proiect Descrigtion. The project, as appraised, was based on
CMDA's Rs. 330 crores Five-Year Investment Program (1983-88), with the
exception of about Rs. 42 crores which represented cost and time over-runs on
the previous Plan period. The project was organized into the following four
multi-sector sub-programs:
(i)   Municipal Development Program (MDP)
(Ui)  Transmunicipal Infrastructure Program (TRIP)
(iii) Calcutta-Howrah Investment Program (CHIP)
(iv) CMA-wide Complementary Program (CMACP)
3.04        About 6 million persons, including some 4.2 million in the EWS
group, were expected to benefit directly from the investments in water supply,
sanitation, shelter and area development, drainage, slum upgrading, solid
waste management, road and traffic management improvements, health infra-
structure facilities, small scale entrepreneur program, and human resource
development. These benefits were substantially achieved, with the major
exception of area development, and, to a lesser extent, water supply and
traffic management improvements, which are expected to be completed in a year
or two.
3.05        The sector components were spread through the four sub-programs
and execution was set up through a matrix involving CMDA, CMC, CXWSA, CIT, and
HIT, 37 municipalities, 2 notified areas, and a number of panchayats. The
CHIP and TRIP sub-programs together accounted for about half of the project's
total cost and originally comprised 53 components, primarily in water, drain-
age, sanitation, traffic and transportation and area development. The MDP,
which accounted for some 36% of the project's cost, was executed by CXC,
Howrah Municipal Corporation (HMC) and the municipalities with CMDA serving as
a financial intermediary and providing a supervising/ monitoring role. Funds
were lent in a ratio of loanagrant mix of 70s30 to the municipalities.
4. Project Desian and Oroanization
4.01        The project's overall objectives were appropriate in that they
provided for a continuing need for expanded urban services in the city while
attempting to address broader financial and institutional issues across the
CMA. Compared to the earlier urban projects, CUDP III evolved into a complex
matrix of multi-sector sub-programs and implementing agencies. The major MDP
component, for example, involved execution by 37 municipalities and 2
municipal corporations. This project design approach seriously misjudged the
capacity of individual agencies to implement and that of CMDA to coordinate



- 4 -
and manage the program. Despite the development of a good MIS, it was not
used effectively. CMDA had neither the powers nor the skills to move the
program implementation at an adequate pace. The project design was overly
ambitious in trying to address too many issues and structural, financial and
management problems. The commitment to financial reforms in individual
agencies was lacking as there was no political commitment sought or given.
despite the existence of legal agreements.
4.02        The project was prepared over a two-year period with close inter-
action between the Bank and the Borrower and comprised seven missions prior to
appraisal. This was consistent with other similar sector lending operations
at the time. The project was identified in reasonable detail prior to
appraisal. However, bearing in mind the programmatic nature of CUDP II1, the
multi-sector components, and the wide-spread of implementing agencies,
detailed project preparation for the components was not expected at commence-
ment. However, the level of preparation at project start was such that it
took a further two years to get the program rolling. In retrospect, the
project could have benefitted from a more rigorously detailed preparation of
major components under the TRIP aud CHIP programs. This might have maintained
the momentum of preparation and mitigated the extended delays in executing
these components. In areas where the preparation effort could have bene-
fitted, the need for engagement of consultants was questioned or, when agreed,
appointments were seriously delayed.
4.03        Overall, the original implementation program proved too ambitious
for CMDA and the executing agencies. This may be partially due to the sub-
stantial non-IDA sector program which CMDA had executed concurrently over the
past seven-eight years. This was in addition to the IDA project which was to
finarnce GOWB's five-year urban investment program. These ad hoc additions
raise serious concerns regarding investment prioritization.
5. Proiect ImDlementation
5.01        Implementation.  The original project implementation schedule
(1983-88) proved overly optimistic as indicated by the need for project exten-
sions totalling three years and a major TRIP component that is not likely to
be completed for a further 2 to 3 years. Primary reasons for the time over-
runs are: (i) delays in detailed project preparation and appointment of
consultants; (ii) land acquisition difficulties - only 1 out of 13 SURAD
components have been executed, and delays in traffic/transportation
activities; (iii) delays by CMDA/ CMC in selection and appointment of
consultants for the Tullah/Auckland water conveyance pipeline; (iv) poor
procurement efficiency caused delays for bidding and award decisions,
especially for ICB tenders; (v) under-estimation of budget costs of major
components, such as the Tullah/Auckland pipeline where budget cost was about
35% of the bid price; (vi) lack of experience in program management and
contract scheduling for major multi-contract schemes, such as the Baranagar-
Xamarthati treatment/primary grid scheme where the treatment facility, begun
in early 1986, still is not commissioned and awaits the completion of other
contracts to provide the source of water for the scheme; and (vii) multi-
plicity of very small contracts with the consequent administrative burden.



5.02        The Bank's agreement to the use of small and numerous contract
packages proved to be a deterrent to timely project completion. In total,
over 900 contracts were awarded, not counting the additional large number of
contracts under MDP. This method of procurement was not conducive to modern
construction practices. It caused delays, aggravated construction management
problems and compromised quality. The strict adherence to the GOW Schedule
of Rates for estimating and the inability of agencies to accept tenders
exceeding 5% above the estimated cost appears to be a major reason for
procurement delays. The Schedule of Rates, although regularly updated, does
not necessarily reflect market values, as has been amply demonstrated in other
Bank-funded sector projects in India. This issue should be addressed care-
fully in future project budgeting where estimates should be based on market
rates.
5.03        The most critical variations of project components as executed,
compared with the appraised project, relate primarily to the SURAD program
where 12 out of 13 schemes have been dropped mainly due to land acquisition
problems and under-budgeting. Apart from the NDP and CMA Complementary
Programs, the original project comprised 53 discrete sub-components in water
supply, sewerage and drainage, solid waste management, traffic and transporta-
tion and shelter. These have since been reduced to 40 sub-components by
deletion of some and addition of others.
5.04        A notable deletion was the provision of bulk meters for water
supply, apparently due to cost over-runs on the leak detection equipment
purchased for CMC. This unfortunate deletion thus prevents accurate quantifi-
cation of the volume of water supplied in the municipal systems which continue
to rely on outdated pump rating curve information.
5.05        Overall, the project cost, in rupee terms, was within 4% of the
appraisal estimate even though all components were not completed. The 40
implemented components costed as much as the original 53 planned, due largely
to underestimation of costs resulting from the use of the government's
schedule of rates, and cost increase on account of delayed procurement. In
dollar equivalent terms, total project cost was only about one-third of the
original estimates. The large decline was mainly due to the dramatic
devaluation of the rupee during the life of the project (US$1 - Rs. 9.5 at
appraisal vs. 28.5 at closing).
5.06        The fragmented implementation responsibilities, particularly for
the CHIP and TRIP components, sometimes resulted in more than one agency
executing different contracts at the same site. Implementation arrangements
would need to be streamlined in any future project.
5.07        Urban Renewal schemes were intended to generate income through the
sale of development rights for financing area development. It was intended
that executing agenciea would work with private developers, thus avoiding land
acquisition probletcs. Ulowever, the executing agencies became involved in
acquiring land directly with consequent public objection and litigation, which
resulted in the schemea being abandoned. There was also an issue arising from
existing legislation under the Land Acquisition Act which prevented CMDA from
selling acquired land for other than public purposes. Some modest urban



renewal schemes around metro stations are now being undertaken by private
developers outside the IDA project. This may be the way forward in the
future.
5.08        Project RLiks.  Major risks identified at appraisal were:  (i) the
program would prove too complex to administer and manager and (ii) the
weakening of political commitment to decentralization would make technical
implementation and financial control difficult to achieve. In order to
address these concerns. an Appraisal Monitoring and Uvaluation Unit (AMBU) was
set up in CMDA to review TRIP and CHIP components after inclusion in the
project. Consequently, major components were not appraised objectively by
AMEU.  Under the MDP, however, each agency was appraised using key demo-
graphic, municipal revenue and expenditure indicators. The AMBU is a good
beginning although its impact to date is limited since the TRIP and CHIP
components were already pre-selected. The CMDA MIS is now well-established
and has ensured a sound data base for project monitoring, although outputs
could be better disseminated to the operating divisions in CMDA for more
effective project management.
5.09        In the case of the Rs. 94 crores MDP, allocations were primarily
on the basis of population. Schemes were prepared by the municipalities and
sanctioned by CMDA, the funds were on-lent through CMDA once written loan
repayment agreements were obtained. The physical works seem to have been
executed generally satisfactorily and the MDP is virtually completed, although
CMDA had no role in ensuring quality control. However, the financial and
institutional positions of this component are far from satisfactory. None of
the municipalities have repaid any of the MDP loans, and staff positions
mandated at appraisal have not always been maintained upon incumbent retire-
ment. A review of the financial health of selected municipalities indicated
little likelihood that these agencies would be able to meet their financial
obligations in the foreseeable future since most are insolvent and survive on
GOWB subsidies. Recent property tax revaluations do not appear to impact
significantly on municipal revenues (enhancement of property tax values
average only around 15% over five years, compared with an inflation rate
exceeding 60% for the same period).
5.10        The issue relating to land acquisition difficulties does not
appear to have been identified in sufficient detail at appraisal. Tnis
subject is a well-known phenomenon in India and the problems in Calcutta are
at least as serious as those experienced in other Bank-funded urban and water
projectP nationwide. The lack of available land impacted substantially on the
shelter and transportation components of the project, indicating the need for
a new strategy for future urban and water projects. It may be prudent to
delay appraisal until the executing agencies have "authority to enter" or
"possession" which cannot be challenged, for a substantial proportion of the
required land. Otherwise, future projects will continue to suffer
unpredictable delays.
5.11        Based on the above, it is recommended that any follow-on project
should focus on trunk infrastructure, based on clearly identified and sustain-
able financial and institutional criteria addressing water and sewerage
tariffs, property taxes, consumer charges, infrastructure development and



-7-
investment plans, and institutional strengthening for long term sustain-
ability. Due to the complexity and inter-related Issues involved, property
tax reform should be addressed in a free-standing project, provided the
political will is there.
6. Proiect Results
6.01        Physical Performance.  The project, as appraised, was intended to
cover the Five-Year Sector Investment Program of cMDA. Over the years, this
concept changed somewhat with CMDA executing substantive "non-IDA" works in
parallel with the IDA project components. At project closings the "non-IDA"
works represented about 39% of the CMDA annual sector program (averaging some
30% over the past eight years). Physical achievements and benefits compared
with appraisal estimates are detailed Tables 4 and 6, Part III. Most of the
physical components and benefits perceived at appraisal have been realized.
Significant deviations and reasons are sutvAarized below:



- a -
Araisal           Actual      Coiments
sanitation/latrine      43,964       31,838      Virtually all latrines are
conversion                                       converted.  New toilet
constructions low.
Public facilities,          76           48      Consequent reduced benefit
markets                                          to public.
CHIP
Howrah Solid Waste                      nil      Program not implemented due to
1.5 km. road                                  changed priorities.
23 vehicles
250 garbage vats
Share disposal     one site             nil      Land acquisition problem.
Water Supply-mains   8.6 km.         0.51 km.    All pipes procured but
benefits not yet achieved due
to construction delay.
-meters                    nil      Abandoned
Sewerage
= House conn.     13,350      10,200       Potentially reduced benefits
- seWor llne      38,671      32,671       for 20,000 persons.
TRIP
water supply-main     27.3 km.       16.8 km.    Pipes procured but major bene-
fits not yet achieved due to
construction delay.
Transportation                                   All dropped due to land
Kona Truck Terminal                           acquisition problems.
Barrachpore-Dum
Expw. South Dum
3xpw.
CMACP
Urban Renewal     7 schemes          nil         Not practical involving
government and private sector
partnership.
Area Development  6 schemes          one         Rest dropped out to land acqui-
sition problems.
6.02        Health Prooram.  The Health Program has beer, particularly success-
ful in covering a slum population of 1.6 million, environmental improvements
(87% of SAR estimate), extended outpatient and modified creche facilities.
The Health Units provided under the project are popular, well-staffed by
qualified practitioners and provide important outreach facilities at the
community level. At present, the service is provided free of charge to low-
income groups; therefore, longer-term sustainability may be queried. Perhaps
the service should be Qxtended to middle- and higher-income groups at modest
service charges to cross subsidize the EWS. Based on these results, a free-



- 9 -
standing project is to be financed by the Bank and ODA is to finance an inte-
grated slum improvement program.
6.03        Economic Rat. of Return (ERR) Comnarisons.  The ERR estimates in
the SAR were limited to water supply, sewerage and drainage, traffic and
transportation, Bustee improvements, and area development which accounted for
some 54% of the original project cost. In the table below, these estimates
are compared with the actual achievements. Caution needs to be exercised in
the comparison of ERRs, which are of limited value becauses (a) original ERRs
for the sectors were based on few projects and a number of large projects were
omitted (i.e., 4 out of 7 transport projects, 2 out of 5 water pr jects, 2 out
of 13 sewerage and drainage projects and 4 out of 36 slum upgrading programs
in municipalities were considered); (b) assumptions of benefits were limited
to health, increased supply of water, reduced absenteeism (for water supply
and sanitation), vehicle operation costs, excluding the appreciation in l.and
values (for transport improvement); and (c) some projects with major benefits
(e.g. Tallah-Auckland water main which would supply the whole of South
Calcutta and the Durgapur bridge which would handle a large number of
vehicles) are not yet complete.
Sector                              ERR                 2 Comments
SAR Estimate      Actual
Water Supply components        17          13.5        Major components
excluded from SAR.
Sewerage & Drainage           18           11.3        Due to low population
coverage.
Traffic & Transport           24           26.6        Due to substitution of
more economic projects.
Bustee improvements           15            6.0        Due to high cost of
component.
Area Development               13           7.4        Due to land acquisition
problems and delayed
income.
Overall                    15           13.6        50% of actual project
cost, excluding un-
completed components.
6.04        The figures for water supply will improve upon completion of the
Tallah-Auckland trunk main in 1994 (final ERR is estimated at around 21.1%).
The Traffic and Transportation component was particularly successful, despite
land problems. The improved ERR may be attributed to the substitution of
projects with higher economic benefits. The low ERR for Area Development is
not surprising since most schemes were cancelled due to land difficulties, and
income from beneficiaries will only be derived after some years. Ultimate ERR
upon completion of outstanding works is estimated at about 17.8%. Further
details are presented in Table 6B, Part III.



- 10 -
7. Project Sustainabilitv
7.01        Sustainability of the project varies from component to component.
but is dependant to a large extent on the financial health of the agencies
responsible for operation and maintenance of the facilitLes   The MDP extended
through many agencies, was successfully Implemented and fully disbursed. This
program could provide a basis for further development. The toilet conversion
program, covering almost 100% of dry latrines, is a very creditable achieve-
ment. However, the sustainability of the MDP investments may be queried and
would need to be seriously addressed in future investments. Indications are
that, on average, municipalities coier about 35-40% of recurring expenditures
and only about 25% of total expenditures (capital and recurring) from
revenues, with reliance on state government grants for the balance. The large
gap between income and expenditure is due to: (i) the dependence of munici-
palities on consolidated property tax which, when increased in past years, has
not even matched inflation; (ii) default of payments by government agencies
and sick industries; (iii) implemented property tax increases which are very
marginal and require reform of the basis of valuations; (iv) reluctance to
levy direct user charges (CMc is an exception); and (v) poor collection
performance and neglect of arrears collection.
7.02        MDP funds were provided to municipalities as a 70:30 loan:grant
mix. However, it appears that none of the municipalities has the capacity to
begin repayment of loan funds. This situation is clearly unsatisfactory,
detracts from the commendable physical achievements, and requires policy
reforms.
Proiect Restructurinc. Credit gxtensions. and Borrower Relations
7.03        During 1988, CMDA proposed to expand the investment program under
the project to fully utilize the available Credit savings caused by the sharp
devaluation of the Rupee in relation to the SDR. Since the project was
programmatic in nature, Bank management was, in principle, sympathetic to an
expansion of the project scope.
7.04        Subsequent missions reported several problems and concerns which
made project expansion impractical: (a) as the initial Credit closing date
approached, only slightly more than half of the project, in physical or Rupee
cost terms, was completed; (b) it was unlikely that the project, as defined at
that time, could be completed even with a three-year extension to the closing
date; (c) the proposed schemes for new investments to be added to the project
were not fully engineered and were likely to suffer start-up delays as experi-
enced at the outset of the project under similar component preparation
conditions (para 4.02); (d) for the new schemes, CMDA proposed to use the same
small (and numerous) cono:ract packages that were proven implementation deter-
rents in the original project; and (e) some of the proposed major schemes,
particularly water supply network expansions, lacked a master plan framework
for overall development.
7.05        Beyond i.nplementation problems, there were failures to comply with
project agreemetnts. Throughout project implementation, the Borrower failed to
meet covenants and agreements relating to water supply tariffs, repayment of



- 11 -
municipal development fund loans made to municipalities and audits. At one
point, statements of expenditure disbursements were discontinued on the basis
of adverse audit reports.
7.06       The Bank did extend the Credit closing date a full three years in
hopes of permitting the Borrower extra time to rectify problems under the
existing project. However, the Bank decided not to allow an expansion to the
project investment program for the reasons given above.
8. Bank Performance
8.01        During project preparation, there was very close interaction
between Bank staff and government officials. This is well demonstrated by the
frequency and size of missions leading up to appraisal and by the specialist
representation. After effectiveness, 14 supervision missions were carried out
involving a total staff (including consultants) input of some 97 weeks in the
field out of about 196 weeks, comprising wide ranging disciplines (Table 8(b),
Part III). This input of about 22 staff weeks per year appears to have been
inadequate for a project of this complexity involving over 40 agencies.
8.02        Up to 1987, the project was supervised regularly at roughly six-
month intervals. However, from then onwards, the frequency of missions
decreased and many personnel changes took place due to staff rotations and
reassignments. In a number of instances, mission team members completely
changed from mission to mission. As a result, priority emphasis changed from
time to time with mixed signals being given by the Bank. This has resulted in
misunderstandings by the Borrower and lack of confidence in IDA's intentions
regarding the project.
8.03        Nonetheless, Bank staff interventions during supervision missions
appear to have generally been well received. For example, CNDA's management
and reporting system has dramatically improved through encouragement from
visiting mission members.
9   Borrower Performance
9.01        The responsible agencies performed generally satisfactorily in
physical execution of the project components, although with delays. CNDA
strengthened its capacity in project monitoring and reporting, but did not use
these tools effectively in project management. The project concept involving
execution of multi-sector NDP components through many municipal agencies was
highly successful in terms of physical achievements, although the agencies
clearly lack fiscal discipline and responsibility, in the absence of GOWB
policy guidance.
9 02        The Borrower was unable to comply with financial and institutional
covenants almost throughout the project life. In particular, the municipa-
lities failed to comply with covenants relating to water supply tariffs and
loan recovery, which were major financial objectives of the project. In
addition, the tardy audits, especially relating to bulk of the Credit dis-
bursements against statements of expenditure, caused concern over management
control over project finances. This resulted in discontinuance of disburse-



- 12 -
ments against statements of expenditure and adjustments of disbursements
already made. Attempts have been made to address the issues, but, to date,
the outcome is marginal. However, the preparation and submission of audit
statements does not seem to have been properly addressed. Audit statements
are due to be received by IDA within nine months after the close of each
fiscal year. The latest CHDA statement received by IDA covers the period
FY1986/87.
9.03        CMDA's lack of experience in program management and contract
aches .ing and packaging, and over-reliance on centralized operational control
may have contributed to project delay. The political decision to re-bid the
Tallah-Auckland pipeline in smaller packages took some 12 months following
long delays in selection of design consultants. As a result, this major
component will not be operational until 1994, with financing largely through
GOWM funds outside the IDA project. Appropriate and timely employment of
consultant expertise (local and/or foreign) could have enhanced the achieve-
ment of earlier project benefits and provided support for CHDA's management
effort.
9.04        Despite considerable discussion with Bank missions, opportunities
to undertake long needed infrastructure master planning and development of
future investment programs were not seized by GOWB during the later stages of
the project. GOWB has recently expressed keen interest in adopting such an
approach.
10. Proiect Relationship
10.01       The relationship between the Borrower agencies and Bank staff has
generally been good although the discussions described above on CMDA's
proposals to expand the project scope placed some strains on the relationship
with CMDA.
11. Consultina Services
11.01       consulting services were utilized to a very minimum extent (1.5%
of project cost estimated at appraisal, but only 0.6% actually used). The
appointed consultants performed satisfactorily. However, more effective use
of consulting services on major components could have minimized project
delays.
12. Proiect Documentation and Data
12.01       The legal agreements and the SAR were generally clear and compre-
hensive, although the role of CMDA in monitoring quality control of the MDP
should have been clearly defined. The Project Agreement specifies insurance
only of imported goods obtained under the proceeds of the IDA Credit. A
similar covenant should have been included to cover procurement of local
goods. There was no covenant requiring submission of statements of
expenditure audits.



- 13 -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
THIRD CALCUTTA URBAN DEVELOPMENT 'ROJECT
(Credit 1369-IN)
PAR!T 2S  PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BORROWER' S PERSPECTIVE
1. Proiect Desian
1.01        CUDP III was aimed at further consolidating the physical develop-
ment launched in previous CUDPs with a sharp focus on the economically weaker
sections, and strengthening the agencies responsible for urban planning and
management. For the purpose of planning development works in earlier CUDPs,
the metro core of CMA occupied the key area, thereby creating certain invest-
ment imbalances between the metro core areas and the areas outside the metro
core. A conscious effort to decentralize urban development activities in CMA
area by securing involvement of the local bodies situated in CMA was made in
the CUDP III project period. With a view to delegating higher responsibi-
lities to the local bodies for planning and implementation of the development
work, the Municipal Development Program and the Panchyat Development Program
were added to the project package. The non-IDA component in CUDP III
accounted for the spill-over projects from earlier CUDPs and amounted to about
30% of the new projects identified in CUDP III in te,.ms of investments.
1.02        Attempts were made to push certain institutional and financial
reforms through the covenants of the credit agreemants to support infra-
structural development work. It later transpired that some of the covenants
were somewhat at variance with the then prevailing socio-economic and
political scenario in CMA. While finalizing the project design, certain
assumptions were made regarding: (a) ready availability of adequate number of
detailed project reports for different subcomponents of CUDP III; and (b)
availability of land free from encumbrances for implementation of different
sub-components. Experience in implementing the project later indicated that
some of these assumptions were over ambitious and rather unrealistic.
2. Implementation of the Project
2.01        To start with, there were 53 sub-components in the four mu'ti-
sector subprograms, namely, Municipal Development Program, Transmunicipal
Infrastructure Program, Calcutt'a and Howrah Investment Program and CNA-wide
Complementary Program to be implemented over a five-year period from 1983/84
to 1987/88. Because of certain initial difficulties in land acquisition and
other field constraints, the project was later re-structured with 40 sub-
components and its launching was delayed by about two years. The factors
leading to delay in launching the project included: (i) delay in finalizing
project design; (li) delay in carrying out the technical appraisal; and (iii)
non-availability of ready land free from encumbrances.



- 14 -
2.02        The setting up of the AMEU in CMDA and evolving an effective
appraisal system were pre-conditions for launching CUDP III. There were some
inevitable delays in evolving the appraisal methodology and operationalizing
the AMEV. To facilitate technical appraisal, implementing agencies, were
required on some occasions, to repeat the technical exercises earlier done by
them leading to some delay. The Municipal Development Program required the
local bodies to play an active part in planning and design of development
schemes in their respective areas. In the initial years, the local bodies did
not have either required expertise or past experiences to attend to their
tasks. It was thought that nothing should be done to sap the initiative of
local bodies in planning MDP works and CMDA, therefore, chose not to directly
intervene. There were thus, initial delays in taking up projects of the MDP.
Difficulties in getting free land for execution of the projects also led to
some delays and restructuring of the project package. A number of projects in
the SURAD component, which involved acquisition of large tracts of land in
congested localities in the city, had to be shelved.
2.03        There is no denying the fact that the pace of implementation of
CUDP III schemes was affected adversely during the last three years, i.e. from
1989 onwards due to uncertainty regarding support of the schemes by the Bank.
It was evident by 1988 that a time extension by at least three years, would be
necessary to avail of the Credit. The Bank, however, insisted on granting
time extension on piecemeal basis. Because of these uncertainties CMDA had
problems in committing its funds to a particular project.
2.04        Other factors which contributed to delay weres  (i) protracted
tender negotiations; (ii) inadequate responses to tenders in some casesy (iii)
occasional scarcity of basic building materials; (iv) lack of documentation of
underground utilities and services; (v) unauthorized encroachment of project
sites; (vi) litigation; (vii) difficulties in project execution on or along
roadways; and (viii) cash flow problems.
3. Performance by the Borrower
3.01        The attempts made at decentralization of development activities in
CMA through the Municipal Development Program and Panchayat Development
Program yielded rich dividends. Unlike previous CUDPs the local bodies
situated in CMA were fully involved in the task of planning, implementation
and monitoring of MDP and PDP. The targets set under MDP and PDP were
generally met in the extended project period. The Health Program was also
completed and as many as 50 health Administrative Units, 8 Extended
Specialized Outpatient Departments and 6 Modified Creche facilities bene-
fitting about 1.5 million people belonging to the econoruically weaker sections
were set up. The Community Health Program launched in CUDP III with active
involvement of local bodies, played an important role in raising health status
of the target group and gmnerating health. hygiene and nutrition awareness.
3.02        Out of 40 sub-components outside the ambit of MDP, PDP and health,
as many as 23 subcomponents were completed and another 13 were largely
completed. As envisaged in the project document, a large cross-section of
economically weaker sections living in CMA benefitted from these schemes.
Viewed from this context it is felt that the performance measured in terms of



- 15 -
physical parameters, was quite satisfactory. About 88% of the originally
targeted rupee expenditures for IDA projects were actually incurred b3fore the
closing of the project.
3.03        The fact that implementation of MDP provided local bodies with the
opportunity to develop considerable expertise end knowledge in project plan-
ning and implementation should be considered as a major gain of CUDP III.
Through implementation of CUDP III, CNDA developed an official Management
Information System and a reliable database. The Appraisal Monitoring and
Evaluation Unit in CMDA set up during CUDP III, developed considerable in-
house expertise in conducting technical and socio-economic appraisal of
development projects and evaluation.
3.04        The performance of the Shelter and Area Development component was
not satisfactory. It has been mentioned earlier that because of land acquisi-
tion problems and litigation, as many as 12 out of 13 sub-components in this
component had to be excluded from the project package. There was admittedly
delay in launching of one sub-component in the water supply uector namely,
Tallah-Auckland main. The tender formalities could not be completed in time
and in later years the prevailing uncertainties about support of CUDP III by
the Bank beyond the originally fixed project completion date, also affected
processing and launching of this scheme. It is estimated that this scheme
would be completed in another 24 months time. The issue relating to recovery
of loans advanced to local bodies under the MDP could not be sorted out within
the extended Credit period in spite of all possible efforts made by CMDA.
This subject is being pursued in right earnest and it is expected that a
decision would be taken soon.
3.05        While most of the covenants in the agreement could be satis-
factorily complied with, a few covenants relating to recovery of water costs
and municipal finance could not be met fully during the project period. Based
on the experiences of CUDP III, it may be concluded that the covenants and
time frames had not been drawn up on realistic assumptions. It was perhaps
impractical to expect that these new concepts and ideas would find universal
acceptance overnight. It is pertinent to mention that introduction of ferrule
charges, increased rates of tax collection and instituting a study to decide
on the modalities for collection of water charges were positive steps in the
direction of fulfillment of these covenants.
4. The World Bank's Performance
4.01        CMDA values the guidance and support it received from the World
Bank professionals in identifying thrust areas in CUDP III and in designing
the project. The interactions with the Bank were useful in initiating
measures to strengthen the management capabilities of local bodies and various
agencies handling urban development in CMA and identifying institutional
reforms needed. These exercises undertaken by CMDA in collaboration with the
Bank were reflected in the set of primary and secondary objectives of CUDP-II
as spelt out in the Staff Appraisal Report for
CUDP III.



- 16 -
4.02        It has now  become evident that while designing the project CMDA
and the Bank adopted quite a few over-ambitious targets and timeframes without
keeping in mind the realities in the field. Possible difficulties in
acquiring bulk land free from encumbrances in different parts of CMA, particu-
larly in the Central Business District in the metro core, were lost sight of.
This resulted in the fact that many of the schemes in the SURAD component
never saw the light of day and launching of a number of schemes in other
sectors were delayed. While framing covenants in the agreement relating to
recovery of water costs and recovery of loans to be advanced in MDP, the
existing social and political scenario were not properly kept in mind. CMDA
and Bank professionals who were fully involved with designing of the project
should share the failure and the lesson.
4.03        The agreed procedure relating to forwarding all ICB contracts to
the Bank for review was bound to involve delays. Apart from communication
delays the Bank also took unusually long time to settle tender matters in a
few cases. The loss of time could have been avoided if the Bank missions
reviewed these documents during their periodic visits to the project (as was
done in a few cases). This could have easily been achieved if the missions
had agreed to visit the project more frequently.
4.04        CMDA and World Bank professionals underestimated the time needed
for making detailed project reports ready. It is pertinent to remember here
that lack of preparedness with detailed project reports contributed to the
delay in launching CUDP III by about two years.
4.05        In spite of delayed launching of the project, at one stage it
seemed highly probable that CMDA would be able to avail of the credit in full
with a three-year extension with a modified package. A revised project
package and a modified implementation schedule were prepared and submitted to
the Bank for approval. The Bank, however, refused one time extension of the
project and approval of the modified project package. The Bank insisted on
granting approval on piece-meal basis. This resulted in some kind of
confusion and doubts as to availability of Bank's support during the extended
period and affected the pace of work.
4.06        It is felt that the insistence of the Bank on clubbing small
contracts on grounds of economies of scale was not based on real appreciation
of ground realities. To cite an examples the tenders for the Tallah-Auckland
Main were invited in one package on Bank's insistence. For certain procedural
and administrative reasons a second set of tenders were floated after another
18 months and the rate obtained in the second tender were significantly les
than the rates earlier obtained despite the cost over-run and inflation during
the said i8 months. The disadvantages in clubbing a number of works in
different specialized disciplines were evidently not properly appreciated.
4.07        There are reasons to feel that frequent changes in composition of
Bank missions visiting the project posed some difficulties in monitoring. The
new mission members needed time to acquaint themselves with the project objec-
tives, past histories and field constraints and some of them had individual
perceptions and prioritiee different from these of the previous missions. It



- 17 -
is also felt that the missions should have visited the project more frequently
to facilitate more effective interactions with CMDA.
5. Relationship with the World Bank
5.01        The relationciip of CMDA with the World Bank dates back to the
early 1970s. CMDA values the support it received from the Bank in identifying
thrust areas in urban development in CMA, designing projects, monitoring and
evaluation of ongoing activities and in effecting institutional reforms and
augmenting management capabilities. CMDA received extremely useful support
from the Bank in evolving an effective Management Information System and
developing in-house expertise in technical and socio-economic appraisal of
schemes and projects.
5.02        It is regretted that some amount of misunderstanding cropped since
late 1988.  The instances quoted below would suggest failure on the part of
the Bank to appreciate the field constraints and compulsions of CMDA:
(a)   It became evident by November 1988 that a time extension by about
three years would be required to avail of CUDP III credit fully.
While appreciating the situation, the Bank insisted on piecemeal
approval and that also on conditional basis. As a result, some
amount of confusion was created regarding continuing support of
the Bank in CUDP III programs leading to delays and uncertainties.
(b)   Following changes in exchange rates between Indian Rupee and US
Dollar and SDR, it became evident that there would be substantial
shortfall in disbursements. With a view to compensating for this
shortfall in Rupee terms, an additional project package for Re. 80
crores was submitted with State Government's assurances for making
available extra funds. The additional project package was
discussed in detail with the Bank mission which visited Calcutta
in November, 1988 and CMDA undertook a number of time-bound
exercises on the suggestions of the Bank. It is still a mystery
why the Bank finally refused to include the additional project
package in CUDP III. This action not only made the time and
resources spent by CMDA in preparing the project reports and
taking up studies infractious but also created disillusionment
among the intended beneficiaries.
(c)   With a view to offsetting the shortfall in disbursemAnts, the Jank
was also moved for raising disbursement percentageu on different
catogories of expenditures. This proposal was agreed to at a very
late stage when very little advantage could be drawn before the
expiry of the project period.
(d)   Over the years a procedure for preferring reimbursement claims on
the basis of expenditure vouchers evolved in CNDA. Whenever it
transpired later that certain expenditures were inadmissible ones
these were adjusted against the future claims. In allowing dis-
bursement of reimbursable expenditures in CUDP III, the Bank uni-



- 18 -
laterally withheld disbursements on the basis of preliminary audit
observations.
5.03        While regretting the fact that there were certain misunder-
standings and communication gaps between CMDA and the World Bank in the later
stages of CUDP III, CMDA would like to place on record its appreciation of
professional interactions with the Bank. CMDA would look forward to further
collaboration with the World Bank in identification of priority areas in
development activities in CM1A evolving appropriate strategies and in taking
up development schemes.



- 19 -
PROJECT CO PUETION REPORT
INDIA
THRD CALCUTTA RUMAZ DEVELOFtET PROJECT
(CREDIT 1369-IN)
PART III   STATISTICAL INFOPMATION
Table 1. Related lak Loans and Credits
Title                               Purpose               Year of          status          Comments
Approval
First Calcutta Urban                     Financing of Flve        1974        Completed 1979
Developmt Project                        Year Invesroent
(Cr. 427-IN)                             Program
Second Calcutta Urban                    Ditto                    1978        Closed August 1984
Developmnt Project
(CC. 756-IN)
Calcutta Urban Transport                 Mass Transport           1980        Completed
Proj<et (Cr. 1033-IN)                    upgrading



- 20 -
Table 2. Project timetable
DATES
ITEM                         PLANNED                       REVISED                       ACTUAL
Identification (EPS)              March 12, 1980                                     March 12, 1980
Preparation                       September 19, 1980        through
August 1982
Appraisal Mission                                                                    October 1982
Credit Negotiations                                                                  April 19, 1982
Board Approval                                                                       May 19, 1983
Credit Signature                                                                     June 8, 1983
Credit Effectiveness              September 9, 1983        October 7, 1983           October 7, 1983
Credit Closing                    March 31, 1989           various                   March 31, 1992
Credit Completion
COMMENTSt
Preparation included seven missions described as reconnaissance, pre-identification, preparation, review and
pre-appraisal (two missions).



- 21 -
Table 3. Credit Disbursements
CUMULATIVE ESTMATED AND ACTUAL DISBURSEMENTS (AS 8'000)
WORLD BANK FINANCIAL YEARS ENDING JUNE 30
1983     1984    1983    1986    1987    1988    1989    1990    1991    1992   im
Appraisal Estimate        ---      12,800  39,100  72,800  106,300 135,000 147,000
Revised (Maroh 31, 1989) ---                                                  75,210  95,520 115,830 131,070
Actual (historical
dollars)          ---      2,359   6,685  29,658   41,952  62,154  70,886  83,553  95,798  97,007
Actual as X of orti.
est.                    ---       18.4    17.1    40.7    39.5    46.0    48.2
Actual as X of rev.
est.                    ---                                                 94.3    87.5    82.7*   74.0*
CSOMNTS:
* SDR 51.5 million vas cancelled ln December, 1991.
Actual disbursement as of March 31, 1992 SDR 77 8 million as per Bank dLsbursement statement
Actual utilization during 1991 and 1992 on the basis of value of credit, net of cancellation, amounted to
1152 and 102X respectively of the targets, prorated to correspond to the reduced value of credit.



22 -
Tables 4 and 6A.. Proiect Implementation / Benefits
PROGRAM I COMPONENT                    INDICATOR                  APPRAISAL              ACTUAL
ESTIMATE
MUNICIPAL DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM (MDP)
WATER SUPPLY                          Water mains(km)                   699                 868
Street taps(nr)                2,934                1.749
House connection(nr)             N.P.               107t4
Hand tubevells(nr)             1,182                1,243
Deep tubewells(nr)               195                  270
Municipalities served(nr)         36                   36
Total household served(nr)       N.A.                 N.A.
DRAINAGE                              Surface drains(km)               926.45               557.16
Underground drains(km)            43.35                41.37
Municipalities served(nr)         36                   36
SANITATION / LATRINE CONVERSION       Latrines I Septic tanks(nr)                        10,379
Sewer connection(nr)          43,964                  196     31.838
Pit privies(nr)            _                       21,263
Municipalities served(nr)         36                   36
Total household served(nr)       N.A.              31,838
BUSTEE IMPROVEMENT                    Underground drains(km)         A                       61.75
Surface drains(km)                                    140.76
Water mains(km)                                        50.45
Deep tubevells(nr)                                     16
Hand tubevells(nr)                                    293
Water points(nr)                 N.P.               2,256
Latrines I Septic tanks(nr)                         3,767
Sever connections(nr)                               2,040
Pit privies(nr)                                     3,971
Paved roads and paths(km)                     170.39(paved)+76.21(BI. Top)
Street lights(nr)                                     927
Municipalities(nr)                36                   36
Bustee improved(nr)              N.P.                 350
Total household served(nr)         2 lacs               1.89 lacs
PUBLIC FACILITIES                     Markets(nr)                       76                   48
Parks and playgrounds(ar)        288                  116
Burning ghats(nr)                 24                   33
Community halls(nr)                4                    4
Municipalities served(nr)         36                   36



- 23 -
Tables 4 and 6A. Pro1ect Imule.auntation I Benefits (continued)
PROGRUM I COMPONENT                    INDICATOR                 APPRAISAL              ACTUAL
ESTIMATE
TRANSPORTATION INFRASTRUCTURE         Paved roads(km)                371.15               278.79
+ 296.38(B.T.)      + 717.96(S.Top)
Street lights(nr)            4,288               3,223
Roadside drains(km)            N.P.                  61.96 1m
MuniiLpalities served(nr)       36                   36
SOLID WASTE MANAGEMENT                Motorised vehLcles(nr)         126                   99
Other vehicles(mr)           1,829                  834
Street buns(nr)
House bins(nr)               3,591               5,563
MunicipalLties served(nr)       36                   36
OVERALL BENEFITS                      MunicipalitLes served(nr)
Household served(nr)
Population served(nr)
or:
Beneficiaries(nr)
CMC                              3.3 million      to complete
BMC                              0.74 million     ditto
Other 37 municipalities          4.2 million       dltto
TRANSMUNICIPAL INFRASTRUCTURE PROGRAM (TRIP)
WATER SUPPLY                          Mains(km)                       56.32                44.15
Treatment plant                  2                    2
Areas served(nr)                12 municipalities   12
DRAINACE                              Channels & nullahs(km)          20.3                 20.3
Pumping stations(nr)             1                 nil
Road drainage(km)                2.0                  2.0
TRANSPORTATION INFRASTRUCTURE          Kona Truck Termlnal                                dropped
Barrackpore-DumDum Expvy                          dropped
South DumDum Expvy                                dropped



- 24 -
Tables 4 and 6A. Proiegt Iamlementation I Benefits (continued)
PRORAMN   COMPONENT                    INDICATOR                APPRISAL               ACTUAL
ESTIMATE
CALCUt BOWRAB INVESTMENT PROGRM (CHIP)
WATER SUPPLY                          Water mains an)            8,600                   0.51     All plpea procured
Leak detection(km)                                          Equipmant purcased
Bulk metering                N.A.                   NIL
Pumplng station                1                     1
DRAINAGE                              Channels 6 nullahs(km)        93.91                 93.91
Pumping stations(nr)           4                     4
SEWERAGE                              Pumping stations(nr)           1                    nil
House connections(nr)     13,350                10,200
Sewer line(M)             38,980                32,920
Sewer cleaning(CUM)      104,000                92,000
SOLID WASTE MANAGEMENT
CALCUTTA                          Road to dumpiag ground(km)    12 km                  12 km
Vehicles(No.)                 31                    31
Hand carts(No.)              700                   700
Radio control unLts(No.)      25                    25
NOWRAB                             Ward Department(No.)          16                     7
Road(km)                       1.5                   1.5
Vehioles(No.)                 23                    23
Garbage vats(No.)            250                   2S0
SEARED DISPOSAL                                                                      stalled due to land problem
TRAFFIC & TRANSPORTATION              Bridges built I Improved(nr)   2                     2
Road links(km)                11.05                 10.42
Bus terminals(nr)              2                     2
Traffic management
Civil vorks                 5                    S
LightLng                   23                    16
Signals                    33                   22
URBAN RENEWAL                         Number of areas                7                     0



- 25 -
Tables 4 and 6A. Protect ImolemgnAtio-n   Beneflts (continued)
PROGRAM I COMPONENT                   INDICATOR                APPRAISAL             ACTUAL
ESTIMATS
1.Coverage of slum pop.                20 lacs              15.9 laos
2.Eealth Administration Units(No)      60                   50
3.Zxtended specialteed outpatient      17                    8
Dept. (No)
4.Modified creche(No)                  10                    6
5.Environmental improvement             8                    I
progrem(loeatLon)
6.Supplementary nutrLtlon              60                   27
program(No)
7.Supply of ambulance(No)              40                   40
8.Vector control progrmm(units)        60                    4
TRAINI
ILCUS                       Direct Program                      2,500                2,559
cMC                         Training Program                   10,000               10,706
CMDA                        Training Program(direct)            2,000                2,510
Training Program(Cndireot)            NIL                  744
SHELTER AND ARIA DEVELOPHENT
Number of areas                         6                    1
Area(acres)                           N.A.                  72.22
ResidentLal plots(No)                 LA                 1,842
Commercial I Industrial plots         N.A.                  21.40
(acres)
Households(tmits)                     N.A.               2,542
C*enTS
1.      A total of 7 urban renewal schemes in DumDum, Bhowanipore, Tollygunje, Shyambamar and Eourah were dropped from
the project.
2.      Of the 6 area development schemes originally identified (West Nowreh, Dakshinesswar, Dankuan, R.KR.xtension,
North DumDum and East Calcutta Extension), only the latter was implemented.



- 26 -
Table SA. Pronect Cost
PROGRAM I SECTOR            APPRAISAL EST.MATE                 REVISED ESTIMATE                        ACTUAL
LOCAL  FOREIGN  TOTAL  US S    LOCAL  FOREIGN  TOTAL  US        LOCAL  FOREIGN  TOTAL   US 8
-   Rs. or. ----- million  -----  Rs. or.i -----   llion -----   Re. ore. ----- mllion
A. MunicLpal Development Program (M.D.P.)
1. Water supply        16.58   2.28   18.86  19.84   22.13   1.79    23.92  1S.95    22.84                22.84   8.96
2. Drainage            16.46   2.18   18.64  19.61   19.41   1.02    20.43  13.62    19.39                19.39   7.60
3. Sanitation          12.70   1.78   14.48  15.23   11.99            11.99   7.99    10.45               10.45   4.10
4. Bustee Improvement  7.32   0.97    8.29   8.72   10.81             10.81   7.21    14.53               14.53   5.70
S. Parks* playground   2.02       0    2.02   2.13    1.30             1.30   0.87      1.00               1.00   0.39
6. Crematoria           0.74   0.05    0.79   0.83    0.43             0.43   0.29      0.31               0.31   0.12
7. Transportation lna 18.48   3.87   22.35  23.52   21.90             21.90  14.60    20.41               20.41   8.00
8. Markets & Comm. Ha  7.68   0.89    8.57   9.02    3.22              3.22   2.15      2.45               2.45   0.96
Subtotal           81.98  12.02   94.00  98.90   91.19   2.81    94.00  62.67    91.38                 91.38  35.84
S. Trans Municipal Infrastructure Program (TRIP)
1. Water Supply       19.67   3.95   23.62  24.86   47.18   5.82    51.00  34.00    46.07                 46.07  18.07
2. Drainage             4.3S   0.59    4.97   5.23    4.33   0.23      4.56   3.04      4.20               4.20   1.65
3. Sanitation           7.16   1.21    8.37   8.81    1.01             1.01   0.67      0.32               0.32   0.13
4. Transportation Inf  0.48   0.02    0.50   0.53    0.22              0.22   0.15      0.22               0.22   0.09
5. Area Development    2.76   0.24    3.00   3.15
Subtotal           34.45   6.01   40.46  42.58   52.74   4.05    56.79  37.86    50.81                 50.81  19.93
C. Calcutta-Bowrah Improvement Program (CHIP)
1. Water Supply        13.96   2.47   16.43  17.30   11.86   0.96    12.82   8.55       8.40      0.16     8.56   3.36
2. Drainage             4.77   0.65    5.42   5.71   20.99   1.11    22.10  14.73    20.79        0.22    21.01   8.24
3. Sanitation          30.43   4.66   35.09  36.95    6.56             6.56   4.37      4.90               4.90   1.92
4. Bustee Improvement  8.65   1.29    9.94  10.47
S. Transportation lnf 13.21   1.57   14.78  15.56   17.31             17.31  11.54    14.19               14.19   5.56
6. Urban Renewal & Bu  5.25   0.75    6.00   6.31    1.48              1.48   0.99      1.36               1.36   0.53
Subtotal            76.27  11.39   87.66  92.30   58.20   2.07    60.27  40.18    49.64       0.38    50.02  19.62
D. CMA - Wide Complemntary Programs (CMACP)
1. Shelter and Area D  9.00   0.00    9.00   9.48    9.14              9.14   6.09      4.39               4.39   1.72
2. Health               8.31   0.35    8.66   9.12   10.00            10.00   6.67      7.35               7.35   2.88
3. Small Scale Entrap  2.50   0.00    2.50   2.63                                 0.00
4. Panchayat Developm 10.34   1.17   11.51  12.13   10.00             10.00   6.67      9.87               9.87   3.87
S. Technical Assistan  3.40   0.81    4.21   4.44    4.22              4.22   2.81      1.07      0.71     1.78   0.70
Subtotal            33.55   2.33   35.88  37.80   33.36            33.36  22.24    22.68      0.71    23.39   9.17
Total Baseline Cost  226.25  31.75  258.00 271.58  235.49   8.93   244.42 162.95   214.51         1.09   215.60  84.55
Design, Sup., Manage  15.00  15.00   30.00  31.50   45.50  19.50    65.00  43.33    61.00                 61.00  23.92
Total Project Cost   241.25   46.75 288.00 303.08  280.99  28.43   309.42 206.28   275.51         1.09   276.60 108.47



- 27 -
Table 5B. Proiect FTinanala
Plannnd in
CredIt A8reemnt                 Revised                   Final
Rs        USS             Rs          US$            Rs          US$
Craves    MIllions         Crores      Millions       Crates      Millions
FUNS REOUIRE
Proposed Project
a) New  aveastments                258.00      271.58          244.42      162.95        215.60        64.S5
b) Deslgn Supervisloan Management   30.00       31.58           65.00       43.33         61.00        23.92
Total Project Costs                288.00      303.16          309.42        206.28      276.60       108.47
Spillover from previous plans       42.00       44.21          111.58       74.39       l11.00         43.53
TOTAL INVESIET?W  PLAN COSTS       330.00      347.37          421.00      280.67        387.60       132.00
SOURCES OF FINDS
State Plan Funds (includes
prooeds of IDA credit)             170.40      179.37          171.00       114.00       140.98        55.29
MInimum n eds program               23.30       24.53           $0.00       20.00         43.50        17.06
CMDA Market BorrowLngs             100.90      106.21          175.00      116.67        150.07       5S.85
Octrol Receipts (net) to CQDA       35.40       37.26           45.00       30.00         53.05        20.80
Total GCNB/IHDA funding            330.00      347.37          421.00      280.67        387.60       152.00
Estimate of institutional
finance required by CMDA for
shelter and area development        32.00       33.68           32.00       21.33
Commercial bank financing
towards Ss  Program                10.00-20.00   10.50-21.00



- 28
Tables 63 and 6C. Feonemic Smnact & Finaneial Imoagttwheoe relvanet
PROJECT I CODE                                           APPRAISAL                 ACTUAL
ESSTIMATE          (at final devolopmont)
OVERALL RETURN ON CUDP III CRED1T (Cr. 1369 - ZN)
Ebonomic Rate of Return                                        15.0 S                  13.6 X
on 542 of total            on 502 of total
project cost               project cost
Underivina assummtions
1. Smproved health.
2. Better earning
3. Reduced operatioal eoast of vehicles.
6. TiSe saving.
5. mproved agricultural production.
,Fnanclal Imoact                                          Without Project             Future with project
Additional surplus                                            Nil                        R. 12. 1 or.
Notes   1.      The above covers 50S of total project cost including expenditure spill over beyond March 1992.
2.      The better ERR over SAR estimate Is mainly due to inclus ion of new projeets where ERR was not
calculated earlier, particularly in Water Supply and Traffic & Transport sectors.
3.      Upon completion of Tallah-Auckland maln the overall ERR Is estLmated to be 17.82.



- 29 -
Tables 6B and 6C. Economic IImnagt & Pinancial Impact (oontiniu.dl
PROJECT I CODE                                           APPRAISAL                 ACTUAL
ESSTIMATE          (at flnal development)
WATER SECTOR
EconoicM  Rate of Return                                       17.0 X                   13. S2
Underlvine assugntions
1. Nev consumer (wavimn ln purehase of vater).
2. Reduction ia water borne diseases (212 of population served).
3. aving in energy cost.
4. Benefits to SCI oansumers.
Financial Impact        NA.
Notes   1.      The actual ERR is better than SAR estLmate entirely due to inclusion of nev projects listed below
for which ERR was not calculated at SAR stage :-
(i) Low Pressure P.S.
(it) Tallah- Palta System
(ILL) Tallah- Auckland Main
2. The ERR without the Tallah-Auckland main is estimated at 21.12.
TRAFFIC & TRANSPORT SECTOR
oenomic Rate of Return                                        24.0 S                  26.6 S
Underlvin assumptions
1. Savings ln operational cost by avoLding detour.
2. Tie saving.
3. Economy of high speed of vehicles.
Financial Innact                   NA.
Notes   1.      Improved ERR over SAR estimate is mainly due to subsequent Inclusion of three projects with high
benefits.



- 30
Tables 6B and 6C. Economic Imoact A Finan¢'al Impact (continued)
PROJECT I CODE                                             APPRAISAL                  ACTUAL
ESTIMATE            (at final development)
SEWERAGE & DRAINAGE SECTOR
Economio Rate of Return                                          18.0 S                   11.3 2
lUnderlvlna asstmptlons
1. Reduction in the lneidence of vater borne and gastro-intestinal diseases.
2. Better earning due to lower absenteeism.
3. Improved agricultural production.
Financial _Imact         N.A.
Note:   1.       Lover ERR compared with SAR estlmate is due to lnclusion of a number of projects vlth ERR below 1O0
and also two projects where ERR is negative. Low population denslty ls a contrLbuting factor in
these cases.
BUSTSE IMPROVEMENT
Econgmic Rate of Return                                          15.0 S                   6.0 S
Un _rlwin  a ssummtign
1. Reduction ln water borne dLseases.
2. Better earning due to lower absenteelsm.
Financial Imoact         N.A.
Notes   1.       There L no separate project on B.I. and the above ERR Is based on Bustee Improvement under MDP.
2.      AtpproxLmately 190,000 families will benefit under this program In 37 munLeLpalities.
3-.     The low ERR of this component ls due to the high cost of schemes compared with the appraisal
estimates.



- 31 -
Tables 6B and 6C. Economic imoaet & Financial Imoaet (contlnued)
PROJECT I CODE                                             APPRAISAL                  ACTUAL
ESTIMATE           (at final development)
SHELTER & AREA DEVELOPMENT
Economic Rate of Return                                          13.0 X                    7.4 2
Underlvin* assuumtLons
1. Profit out of sale of plots In East Caloutta Extension.
Financial Imoact                                Wlthout Project                Future With Project
Additional surplus                                  Nil                              Rs. 12.1 or.
Notes   1.       There is only one project under Area Development i.e. East Calcutta Extenslon  on which the above
calculation has been based.
2.      Total receipts through sale of land vould be around Rs. 12 cr. However, out of 1,842 residential
plots. 1,650 (90X) is allocated for loaer income group and economically weaker section at 30S and
6OX of the market price. Allotment of land to mlddle and higher lncome groups could have Improved
the financial viability.
3.      Buyers of residential plots would be allowed to pay in installments (401 down pay mt and balance
in 10 yearly Installments vLth 8X Interest). As a result, creation of seed money, which was one of
the objectives of the project, vould not be achieved.
4.      The sale of plots has not yet been advertised. As such, cash inflow would only start in 1994/95 at
the earliest.



- 32 -
Table 7. Status of Comoliane wlth Covenants
Section   Status      DoseriptLn of Covenant                     Dates                      Cbmmate
Orlsgnal      Revlsed
Project Agreement
2.02     0O           CMDAIIipleenains Ageneles to
eMploy Consultants
2.04      OK          CHDA to insure Liported goods
finanead out of eredlt
2.05      OK          CMA to make avaLlable to IDA
all details of work deo and
assets aequLred under the
eredlt
4.01      0t          CHDA to maintain adequate
ascounting records
4.02      NOX         Report on audlt of CMDA                                                Last accounts
accounts and financial                                                 sent 1986187
statements due to IDA not
later than 9 months after
end of each FY.
4.03      OK          CMDA shall consult with
IDA on any major changes
proposed In its Investment
vrogram
She~dule 2
para      DLES        CMDA to onlend at prevaling
comercial rate for urban
renewal and at not less than
8.252/yr for other investments
pra, 2    DLME        CMDA to revlew annually                                                Component eliminated
interest rebate feature on                                            frem DA credit
SSE component
pars 3     OK         CMDA to submLt for IDA review      9130183    11/11/83
& approval draft administrative
operational and financLal guide-
ones for shelter and area
development schemes.
pars 4 i  DLET        CMDA to submit for IDA review                                           Component dropped
and approval draft administrative
operational & financial gulde-
lines for urban renewal sches.
pars 4 iL  DLES       CMDA to submit for prior review                                            - do -
by IDA appraLsal of each urban
renewal *chemes.
para 4 lll DLET       CHDA to submit for prior review                                            - do -
and approval by IDA a priolng and
cost recovery analysisfor each
urban renewal scheme.



- 33 -
Table 7. Status of Comoliance vith Covenants (oontinued)
Section   Status      Description of Covenant                   Dates                           Coments
Original        Revised
Project A8reement cont.
par& 5    OR           CMDA to update every 6 months
lidividual sub-project *sple-
mentation schedules to be included
in quarterly progress reports
pare 6     OR          CMDA to allocate capital
resourceS as per annual review
of revenue S capital grant
requirements(WB A8mt 3.09).
para 7    OR           CMA to furnish IDA vithin 60
days quarterly progress reports.
pam  8     Oa          CMA to arrange at IDA request
for inspections of key
Lnstallations & forward copies
of such reports to IDA
pars 9 L    OK         CMDA to furnish IDA at 6 monthly
intervals, progress suAmarles of
appraisals, field surveys, other
activlties of ANEU.
para 9 Li  POR         CMDA to furnish IDA with copy                                           Compltid up to U6/89
of AMEU's annual reports and                                           but reports prepared
recommendations.                                               for all the years.
para 10     OK         CMDA to establish & maintain an
area development account.
para 11     POX        CMDA to transfer completed                                              Same assets are In
"ssets to appropriate operating                                         the process of
agencies.                                             being transferred.
West Bonsal Aireement
3.01        POK        Departments, agencies,                                                  Most of the agenaLes
authorities responsible for                                            are to 1989/90.
carrying out project to maintain
adequate accountiLg records.
3.02        N0K        Reports on audlt of accounts and                                        Audlt reports only up
financlal statements for muncli-                                       to 1986817.
palities, CMWSA, CIT. HIT due to
IDA not later than 9 months after
end of each fLscal year.
3.03        OK         GMOW  to employ accounting flrms                                        Accounts for 1986189
acceptable to IDA to asslst                                            and 1989190 updated.
municLpalities in maintaining
and closing their accounts.



- 34 -
Table 7. Status of Conuijance vith Covenants (continued)
Section   status      Description of Covenant                   Dates                             Comnts
OrgliaMl        Revised
Project Agreement cent.
W.Uansal Areemnt ceont.
3.04      OK           GO0B to review property tax
assessfent base of munioc-
palLties end if necessary
cause CUB to carry out general
re-evaluatLon.
3.05      NOR         COWSA to set charges for water
to meet specified interLm
targets and to recover all costs
for operation, maintenance and
debt service by JY85186.
3.06      P00 GOWB to ensure prompt payment                                                    C0B deducting payments
of outstanding CMWSA vater                                             due to ChWSA efro  CffC
bills to municipalities.                                               subventLens and other
dues.
3.07 i    0           0O0B to deposit Rs 5 Cr lato
area development account.
3.07 Li    OK          GO01 to deposit Rs 4 Cr lnto
ares development *ccount.
3.08 a     NOM        C0MW  to meet specified Laterim
arnual targets towards cost
recovery of its water supply
operatLons.
3.08 b     P0K         cm"S8 to prepare forecasts of                                           Forecasts prepared
its water supply operatlons to                                         targets aot met.
meet requirements of sectoan
3.08 a.
3.09 1     OK         G001 to annually update                                                  Performance tagnets
T-rformance targets etc. for                                           prepared, achieve-
each municipality                                                      meats below tar&at.
3.09 Li      OK       C0M  to make appropriate                                                       - do -
provisions to FAX based on
rolling yearly estimates.
Schedulg
pars I       NOK M     CM to reduce lts reliance oan
00M  subventios from about
20S ln FY 83.4 to about 101
in FY 87I88.
para 2       mmK       CKC to achieve cash collections
of speeLfLed interim percentages
of current property tax demand 6
not less thean 852 in 87188.



- 35 -
Table 7. Status of Comolianne with Covenants (continued)
Section   Status      Description of Covenant                   Dates                            Cemamte
Origin"l       Revised
para 9       0        CMC to achieve cash collectlons
of at least 501 of arrears
property tax demand.
pars 415 a   POX       0(C to take measures to met         11190                              Due varled types Of
specified interLm targets for                                         reportn from
its water supply operations and                                       consultants following
to recover all expenditures for                                       different methodologies.
operatiens, maintenane, purcbase                                      the survey has been
bulk water & charges equivalent                                       delayed and is stlll
to depreciation by FY 87/88.                                           ontiaula8
para 5 b     POM       CKC to prepare forecasts of its
water supply operations to meet
requlrements of pars 5 a.
Para 6       OK        CMC to introduce graduated                                             Ferrule charges
water rates for unmetered                                              Introduced.
domestic consumers.
para 7       OK        CMC to revise its rates for
metered non-domestic consumers.
pars S       OK        CMC to introduce licensing fee
of all new private tubewells.
pars 9       POX       CMC to adhere to agreed time-    1131/90                               Program ef survey
table and targets for meter'nS                                        survey prepared and
and consumer survey programs.                                         some progress made
programs.                                                             wLth Installations.
pars 10      OX        CHO to install and maintain a
meter reading, billing and
censumer service departmnt.
OX   D Covenant complied with.
8    . Compliance expected in reasonably short tLme.
a    KYD - Not yet due.
DLMS - Proposed for deletion as no longer relevant.
REVS = Needs revision Li agreement vlth borrower to reflect changed circumstances.
ACT - Peeds use of foumal remedLes to bring about compliance.
UNR - Status of covenant unknown.
POK - Partially complied wlth.
lOK  - Not in compliance.
notes   1.       Project agreement specifies insurance of only Lmported goods obtained under IDA credit. Similar
oevenant should have been there covering local goods obtained under IDA eredit.
2.      Section 4 02 covers submlssion of audited accounts vithln nine months of end of each FY. Similar
covenant should have been there for audited SOE's.



- 36
Table 8B. Ml"alons
Stage of           Mouthl   Number     Days ln  Speciallsasiton    Performance   Types of
Project Cycle      Year     of Person  Fleld    Represented        Rating        problems
Status
Through Appralsal Jan/80          4        10
Septso         2       14
DOeoSO         I        5
Feb/81         2       11
Nov/81         2       1s
Mar/82         4       18
Jun/182        4       14
Sep/82         9       21
Appraisal through
Board Approval        _        _        _
Board Approval
thuh                           _ 
Effectiveness
Supervis ion
1           Nov/83         7       12 a,b,c,d,-,f,s             2    o
2           May/84         6       12 a.c,e,f,8,h               2    b,d
3           Dec/84         6       15 s,b,c,e,f,g               1    o
4           Jun/85         4        9  a,c,f,h                  3    b,d
5           DeC/85         5       12 a,¢,d,f,g                 2    a,b
6           May/86         1        3     a                     3    *,b
7           Nov/86         7       13 a.c,d,e,f,8,h             3    a,b,c
8           May/87         5       10 a,b,e,f,g                 2    a,e
9           Feb/88         5       11 a,b,e,f,g                 2    a,o
10           Nov/88         8        9 a,b,b,e,d,g,h,i           2    a,b
11           Mar/89         2        4    b,d                    2    a,b
12           Aug/89         3        5    a,a,d                  3    a.b
13           Nov/90         3        8   ¢,e,f                   2    a,e,d
14           Feb/92         3        7   b,d,f                   2    a,b
Specialisatione   a-Finance Analyst baSanitary Engr. c-Economist  d-Urban Planner
c-Traffic/Transport En8r   f-Municipal Engr  &-Solid Waste Spec.
h-Health Spec.    l-Procurement Spec.
Status            1-Problem free or miner pro2-Moderate problemS-Major problems
Type of Problemsa a-Financial       b-Zmstitutional   c-Procurement   4-TechhnLca



