Document of                    l
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No.P-3544-IN
.EPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
IN AN AMOUNT OF SDR 136.3 MILLION
,TO INDIA
FpR THE
THIRD CALCUTTA URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
April 28, 1983
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(As of April 21, 1983)
US$1.00         = RslO.075812
Rs 1           =  US$0.09925
Rs 1 million   =  US$99,250
The US Dollar/Rupee exchange rate is subject to change.
Conversions in the Staff Appraisal Report were made at
US$1.00 = Rs 9.5, which represents the average exchange
rate projected over the disbursement period.
FISCAL YEAR
April 1 - March 31
Abbreviations and Acronyms used in this Report
CIT      -     Calcutta Improvement Trust
CMA      -     Calcutta Metropolitan Area
CMC      -      Calcutta Municipal Corporation
CMDA     -     Calcutta Metropolitan Development Authority
CMWSA    -      Calcutta Metropolitan Water and Sanitation Authority
CVB      -     Central Valuation Board
GOI      -     Government of India
GOWB     -     Government of West Bengal
HIT      -     Howrah Improvement Trust
HMC      -     Howrah Municipal Corporation
ILGUS    -     Institute of Local Government and Urban Studies



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
INDIA
THIRD CALCUTTA URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:                          India, acting by its President.
Beneficiary:                       The Calcutta Metropolitan Development
Authority (CMDA).
Amount:                            SDR 136.6 million (US$147 million equivalent).
Terms:                             Standard.
Re-Lending Terms:                  (a) The Government of India (GOI) to the
Government of West Bengal (GOWB): as part of
Central assistance to State development
projects on terms and conditions applicable at
the time. GOI to bear the foreign exchange
risks.
(b) GOWB to CMDA: (i) for non-revenue
producing investments, such as drainage and
transportation infrastructure, funds would
be provided on a grant basis; and (ii) for
revenue-producing investments, GOWB would lend
at 7% per annum for 15 years including a
5-year grace period.
(c) CMDA to operating agencies and local
bodies: (i) for urban renewal schemes (see
para 56), at commercial bank rate (presently,
12.5% per annum) for 15 years including a
5-year grace period; (ii) for transmunicipal
water supply projects, for 20 years including
a 5-year grace period at interest not less
than 8.25% per annum, (including 0.5% service
charge); (iii) for other revenue-producing
schemes, for 15 years including 5 years grace
at interest not less than 8.25% per annum
(including 0.5% service charge); (iv) for non
revenue-producing municipal projects like
parks and playgrounds, one-third grant and
two-third loan on terms as in (iii); and
(v) for transmunicipal drainage and
transportation, 100% grant.
Project Description:               The purpose of the project is to improve urban
management in the Calcutta Metropolitan Area
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



-ii-
(CMA) through a comprehensive approach in
which institutional and financial reforms go
hand-in-hand with physical improvements. The
project would build upon significant
institutional, financial and legislative
reforms already underway to strengthen
metropolitan agencies and municipal
governments and other institutions responsible
for urban planning, management and operation.
At the same time, the project would
substantially increase the availability of             0
urban services, focusing on investments to
provide minimum basic needs at affordable
prices. Emphasis would be given to alleviate
sectoral and spatial investment imbalances
between the "metrocore" (Calcutta and Howrah)
and the remainder of the CMA, to complete and
complement earlier investments so that maximum
benefits can be derived, and to improve cost
recovery and financial management policies.
The project investments would directly benefit
over six million people, two-thirds of whom
belong to the economically weaker section
(with a monthly household income of up to
US$37). The main project risk is that the
program will prove too complex to administer
and manage. However, the positive experience
from the on-going implementation of the Second
Calcutta Urban Development Project and the
preparation of the proposed project as well as
the establishment of special units under CMDA,
for program management and for appraisal,
monitoring and evaluation, indicate that risk
is within acceptable limits (para 75).



-iii-
Estimated Cost:
(US$ Millions)
Item                                     Local           Foreign           Total
Water Supply                              39.2              6.9              46.1
Drainage and Sanitation                   60.1             8.8               68.9
Slum Improvement                          13.2             1.8               15.0
Transportation Infrastructure             25.1             4.3               29.4
Shelter and Area Development              11.3             0.2               11.5
Panchayat 1/ Development                   8.2             0.9                9.1
Health                                     7.1              0.3               7.4
Small-scale Enterprise Development         2.2              -                 2.2
Technical Assistance and Training          2.9             0.6                3.5
Design, Supervision and Management        15.8            15.7               31.5
Other Urban Services                      12.7             1.4               14.1
Base Cost                             197.8            40.9             238.7
Physical Contingencies                    15.7             2.3               18.0
Price Contingencies                       40.4             6.0               46.4
Total Project Cost                    253.9            49.2             303.1
Less:  Taxes and Duties              7.7             _                 7.7
Total Net Project Cost                246.2            49.2             295.4
(US$ Millions)
Financing Plan:                          Local           Foreign            Total
IDA                                    97.8            49.2             147.0
G0I & GOWB Loans and Grants            64.1              -               64.1
Open Market Borrowings                 92.0              -               92.0
Total                             253.9             49.2             303.1
Estimated Disbursements:
(US$ Millions)
FY84    FY85  FY86   FY87   FY88   FY89
Annual           12.8    26.3  33.7   33.5   28.7   12.0
Cumulative       12.8    39.1  72.8  106.3  135.0  147.0
Rate of Return:           15%, based on evaluation of components accounting
for 54% of project costs.
Appraisal Report:         No. 4310-IN, dated May 2, 1983.
1/ Panchayats are the non-municipal urban areas within the Calcutta
Metropolitan Area.



It~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED CREDIT TO INDIA
FOR THE THIRD CALCUTTA URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
1.      I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed develop-
ment credit to India of SDR 136.3 million (US$147 million equivalent) on stand-
ard IDA terms, to help finance a project designed to improve urban management
in the Calcutta Metropolitan Area and expand and upgrade essential urban serv-
ices in the metropolitan area. The proceeds of the credit would be channelled
to the Government of West Bengal in accordance with the Government of India's
standard terms and arrangements for the financing of State development
projects.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.      An economic report, "Economic Situation of India and Resource Mobi-
lization Issues" (4395-IN, dated April 11, 1983), was distributed to the Execu-
tive Directors on April 19, 1983. Country data sheets are attached as Annex I.
Background
3.      India is a large and diverse country with a population of about 700 mil-
lion (in mid-1982) and an annual per capita income of US$250. The economy is
dominated by agriculture which employs more than two-thirds of the labor force.
However, the land base is not sufficient to provide an adequate livelihood to
everyone engaged in agricultural activities, especially those with little or no
land. Growth of value-added in agriculture -- 2.2% since 1950/51 -- has been
slower than growth of industrial value-added (5.0% per annum). As a result,
there has been a gradual decline in the share of agriculture in GDP (at factor
cost) from 60% to just under 40%, while the share of industry rose from 15% to
around 25%. But industrialization has not been rapid enough to absorb the
growing labor force, or to bring about a rapid economic transformation, with
significantly higher productivity and income levels. As a result economic
growth has been slow over the past three decades, averaging about 3.6% per
annum since 1950/51.
4.      Nevertheless, there has been steady progress with per capita income
rising by about 1.4% per year in the period 1950 to 1980. Despite the large
population base and its relatively rapid growth, India has been able to
eliminate persistent dependence on foodgrain imports through significant
improvements in agricultural production. Savings and investment have increased
markedly since 1950/51: gross national savings more than doubled from 10.8% of
GDP (at factor cost) to 22.8% in 1982/83, while gross domestic investment rose
from 12.5% of GDP to 24.9% in 1982/83. Foreign savings (balance of payments
deficit on current account) have never financed a major portion of domestic
investment: a peak of about 20% was reached during the early 1960s. Surpluses



-2-
arose for a few years in the late 1970s, and at the present time, foreign
savings are about 8% of investment. External assistance has been low both as a
percentage of GDP and in per capita terms. Net foreign savings has never risen
above 3% of GDP, and presently stands at 2.1%.
5.      Before the 1970s, India placed relatively less emphasis on export
promction and more on import substitution. The volume growth of exports
between 1950/51 aind 1969/70 averaged only 2.2% per annum, while the volume
growth of imports over the same period was 4.3%. In the early to mid-1970s,
however, India's terms of trade, which had remained roughly constant during the
1960s, deteriorated sharply. In response, the Government introduced various
policy measures designed to stimulate exports. As a result, the volume of
India's exports grew on average about 7.3% per annum for the 1970s as a whole,
a performance which demonstrates that sustained rapid growth is possible.
While expanding world markets, particularly in the nearby Middle East, con-
tributed to this growth, liberalized access to imported inputs and more effec-
tive export incentives played a major role.
6.      Moving into the second half of the 1970s, the Indian economy was buoyed
by higher levels of investment and an expanding level of foodgrain output. As
a result, growth in real GDP and in agricultural and industrial value-added,
substantially exceeded the historical 30-year trends (paragraph 3) averaging
4.9%, 3.9% and 5.6%, respectively. In 1979/80, however, this momentum was
broken when the worst drought in recent years, combined with a doubling of
international oil prices and domestic supply shortages, led to a sharp fall in
foodgrain production, a decline in GDP, and the opening up of a large trade
deficit. Severe inflationary pressures also emerged after several years of
virtual price stability. These setbacks in 1979/80 coincided with the prepara-
tion of the Sixth Five-Year Plan which laid down a program of adjustment that
aimed at improving the trade deficit, infrastructural bottlenecks and price
stability with an overall growth of the economy at 1.6 percentage points above
the tre nd growth of 3.6%.
Recent Trends
7.      In 1980/81 and 1981/82, the economy substantially recovered with real
GDP growing by 7.9% and 5.2%, respectively. While industrial output expanded
by 4% in 1980/81 and 8.6% in 1981/82, recovery was particularly robust in
agriculture where normal weather helped output to rise by more than 15% and
5.5%, respectively. The availability of power, coal, and rail transport,
already improved in 1980/81, was even better in 1981/82, recording growth rates
of about 10%, 9.6% and 12.9%, respectively. The easing of constraints on the
supply of infrastructure and basic commodities was a determining factor in the
improved performance of the industrial sector. This overall improvement in the
Indian economy, combined with a more restrictive monet:ary policy contributed to
a sharp decline in the rate of inflation. Wholesale prices rose by about 9% on
an average annual basis in 1981/82 and by only 2.5% inI 1982/83, reflecting a
strong deceleration from a peak increase of 18% in 1980/81.
8.      After two years of fairly solid performance, the Indian economy faced a
difficult year in 1982/83 due to the drought in mid-1982 which brought down
the GDP growth rate to around 2% and put further strains on the already dif-
ficult balance of payments and domestic resource situation. Besides a sig-
nificant decline in the range of 4.5%-6.5% in agricultural production, GDP



-3-
growth was also constrained by a slowdown in industrial growth from 8.6% in
1981/82 to about 4% in 1982/83. This resulted from a combination of several
factors, notably the decline in agriculture income, persistent (though les-
sened) power shortages, a textile strike in Bombay, as well as depressed export
markets and increased competition from imports. The Government was able,
however, to protect the level of savings to a large extent and keep the momen-
tum of the investment program through largely successful public sector resource
mobilization efforts. Foreign savings played a crucial role in support of this
effort. Similarly, the timely implementation of various economic policies
mitigated the otherwise very distressing effects of a poor monsoon. Continued
improvements of the infrastructure sectors, although at a slower pace than in
the previous two years, also reduced the negative effects of the drought.
9.      Agricultural production in 1982/83 received a serious setback from the
drought. Foodgrain production, which had reached a record 133 million tons in
1981/82, declined to 124-127 million tons. Most other major crops also
experienced negative growth in 1982/83. Corrected for weather variations, this
still represents a creditable performance. In 1979/80, with a broadly com-
parable monsoon, foodgrain production reached only 109 million tons. The
Government was able to mitigate the effects of the 1982 drought through effi-
cient management of foodgrain procurement and distribution, careful timing of
foodgrairn imports, and appropriate allocation of power to irrigation pumps.
These policies helped to avoid disruptions in basic food supplies and con-
tributed to price stability during the year. While the management of the
foodgrain economy after the drought was a significant achievement, the effect
of the drought on production re-emphasized the continued importance of the
monsoon in India-s agriculture. The performance of the recent past and prob-
able future trends suggest that on average foodgrain supplies will meet demand.
The balance remains delicate, and the need for foodgrain imports to maintain
consumer supplies or adequate buffer stocks could arise from time to time.
Thus, programs to expand irrigation, strengthen extension and encourage the
efficient use of other agricultural inputs continue to receive high priority.
10.     Basic infrastructure services performed generally well in 1982/83,
although growth of coal, power and rail transport failed to maintain the momen-
tum of the marked recovery of 1981/82. Despite lower hydro generation due to
the failure of the monsoon, overall power generation recorded an increase of
about 7%. This was due largely to an increase in capacity utilization in
thermal plants resulting from improved overall management, stabilization of
most of the new large units and better availability of coal due to the combina-
tion of increased coal production and improved railway performance. Neverthe-
less, power shortages remain the major bottleneck in the economy. Railway
*        traffic grew by only 3.7% in 1982/83 reflecting a slowdown from 1981/82.  The
lower growth was due not to a decline in the operational efficiency of the
railways but rather to slack demand from core sectors like steel, iron ore,
coal washeries and fertilizers. Coal production growth (4% in 1982/83), after
10% growth in the two preceding years was creditable. There were no major
shortages and there were improvements in the quality of coal. Recent easing
of shortages and bottlenecks in infrastructure has come primarily from better
utilization of existing capacity, but in the future most improvement must
result from added capacity. It is therefore critically important that India
maintain the pace of investment in these key sectors and mobilize sufficient
resources to do so.



-4-
11.     The Indian economy has reverted from a situation of resource surplus,
which had been a temporary phenomenon of the late 1970s, to one of resource
scarcity. Investment has again grown quicker than national savings, and the
scope for further increases in the lattex appears limited. India's gross
national savings rate, which averaged 22.4% of GDP in the last three years, is
high by any standard, particularly considering India's low income and the large
proportion of its population living below the poverty line. Future increases
in savings will depend heavily upon the enhanced profitability of public sector
enterprises which would require better utilization of capacity, more efficient
operations and adequate pricing policies. In 1981/82 there was a significant
increase in public savings due to improved profitability of various public
sector enterprises. This trend which was maintained, in 1982/83 needs to be
accelerated. The gap between gross investment and national savings which rose
from 0.4% of GDP in 1979/80 to 1.8%, 2.3% and 2.1%, respectively in the first
three years of the 1980s, has been financed by foreign savings.
12.     India's ability to generate resources to meet its development objec-
tives has become increasingly linked to the balance of payments. The current
account balance which recorded surpluses between 1976/77 and 1978/79, sharply
deteriorated to deficits of nearly US$2.9 billion in 1980/81 and US$3.8 billion
in 1981/82 (1.8% and 2.3% of GDP, respectively). This was partly due to a
sharp rise in the oil import bill as a result of both the disruption of oil
production in northeast India in 1980 and significani: oil price increases, and
to a more liberal import policy aimed at providing producers with access to
inputs for higher capacity utilization, greater efficiency, improved technology
and capacity expansion. The current account deficit in 1982/83 declined to
US$3.3 billion or 2.1% of GDP.  The improvement would have been greater had not
the drought resulted in the need to rebuild food stocks through imports and at
the same time led to a lower level of GDP growth. This improvement in the
balance of payments is to a significant degree the result of India's develop-
ment and adjustment efforts over the past three years. It also reflects a
reduct:ion in the trade deficit as compared to the levels reached In 1980/81 and
1981/82. The trade deficit declined from US$7.6 billion in 1980/81 to US$6.0
billioni in 1982/83 due to continued export volume growth (following the sub-
stantial resumption in 1981/82) despite poor world market conditions, coupled
with the containment in import growth due to import substitution of petroleum
products, metals and fertilizers while allowing substantial growth in "other"
imports through more liberal import policies. Nevertheless, it is expected
that the balance of payments will be under strain for the next several years,
for India's adjustment program will continue to require high levels of imports.
13.     The high investment rate, about 25% of GDP, envisaged in the Sixth Plan
coupled with the limtited possibilities of raising dometstic savings beyond the
present high levels, necessarily implies a need for external resources. Faced
with a reduction in the availability of bilateral and multilateral concessional
assistance, India has begun to borrow significant amounts on commercial terms
from the Euro-dollar market in addition to much greater utilization of sup-
pliers- and export credits. India's favorable debt service profile has enabled
India to tap commercial capital markets at favorable spreads (over, relatively
high underlying rateis). In the period 1980-82 India contracted commercial
loans totalling over US$2,000 million and suppliers' credits of about
US$520 million. The bulk of the loans are linked to specific development
projects in the public sector while the credits are linked, by and large, to
development projects in the private sector. India also reached an agreement



-5-
with the International Mionetary Fund for the use of the Extended Fund Facility
for SDR 5 billion over three years (1981/82 to 1983/84), SDR 2.5 billion of
which have already been drawn. The transfer of funds under the EFF has stemmed
the use of foreign exchange reserves which had fallen to less than four months
of import coverage in 1981/82. In 1982/83, in addition to continued use of the
EFF, financing requirements were met by increased non-concessional borrowing
(about US$2,000 million) and a 10% increase in net aid disbursement.
Development Prospects
14.     The experience of recent years illustrates that India has the capacity
to grow and develop at a more rapid pace. Although the industrial sector is
small compared to the size of the economy, it nevertheless is large in absolute
terms and has a highly diversified structure, capable of maniufacturing a wide
variety of consumer and capital goods. Basic infrastructure -- irrigation,
railways, telecommunicat,ons, power, roads and potts -- is ext,.nsive compared
to many countries, although there is considerable need for additional capacity
as well as improvement in the utilization of existing capacity. India is also
well-endowed with human resources and with institutional infrastructure for
development.  Finally, India has an extensive natural resource base in terms of
land, water, and minerals (primarily coal and ferrous ores, but also gas and
oil). With good economic policies and reasonable access to foreign savings,
Indi a has the capability for managing these considerable resources to
accelerate its long-term growth.
15.     The medium-term framework for advancing India's development objectives
is the Sixth Five-Year Plan (1980/81-1984/85), which is now in its fourth year.
The Plan assigns priority to agriculture, energy development, the growth of
exports and domestic import substitutes where appropriate, and the removal of
infrastructural bottlenecks. Overall performance has so far been encouraging,
although bottlenecks In key sectors such as power and transport are likely to
persist- Moreover, fulfillment of the Plan targets will require additional
resource mobilization. The ef'forts of the Central Government to raise resour-
ces have so far been impressive and are likely to be broadly sufficient to meet
the financing requirements of the Central Government-s share in plan invest-
ment, even if some increase in inflation is experienced above current low
levels. However, a shortfall in public savings is likely to occur in some
States unless further measures are introduced. There will be a need also for
continuous efforts to maintain the current level of private savings. Recent
Increases in interest rates and tax concessions on time deposits and the con-
tinued dampening of inflationary expectations should stimulate such savings.
16.     The higher capital formation rates of the past few years augur well
for future income growth.  However, returns to investment have so far been
relatively low.  Much of this phenomenon relates to India's stage of develop-
ment, in which a large and growing proportion of investment has been needed
to build up basic infrastructure. These services, such as power, transport and
irrigation, have inherently high capital-output ratios.  However, there is
scope to improve the sectoral capital-output ratios through greater efficiency
and better management. Bottlenecks in basic infrastructural sectors clearly
can prejudice growth in other sectors where large investments have been made.
As demonstrated in the last three years, performance in the basic service
sectors can be improved through better planning and management, thus leading to
higher productivity and capacity utilization throughout the economy. At the



-6-
same time, programs to expand domestic capacity arE. vital. In the case of
tradeable commodities like coal, steel and cement, this is justified on the
grounds of comparative advantage. For sectors such as irrigation, power and
transportation, expansion of planned capacity in accordance with the require-
ments of the rest of the economy will be vital to overall medium- and long-term
development prospects. In the short term, however, achieving an adequate
balance between supply and demand in these sectors will remain a difficult
objective.
17.     Under the Sixth Plan, India has an ambitious oil production program
backed by substantial financial commitment. While the gap between domestic
consumption of petroleum and production remains large, the prospects for
progressive substitution of domestic petroleum for imports are quite bright.
In 1981, and again in early 1983, resources for exploration and development
were raised by successive price increases for domestic crude and products.
India's dependence on oil imports dropped from 63% in 1979/80 to about 45% now
and a scheduled expansion in production is expected to decrease oil imports (in
crude equivalent terms) to about 33% of consumption by 1984/85. The rapidly
expanding level of exploration activity, combined with the possibilities for
accelerated offtake from known fields, offers much encouragement for India-s
longer-term energy prospects.
18.     Despite an expected continued decline in its current account deficits
from the current 2.1% to about 1.7% of GDP by the late 1980s, India will
require growing accMess to world financial markets to complement concessional
assistance. These commercial sources of funds will be important in the future
since India's current account deficits, though not large relative to the size
of the economy, will nevertheless be large in absolute terms and will neces-
sitate external borrowing beyond levels expected to be available from normal
concessional sources. Given the favorable structure of India's external debt,
which reflects the past reliance on concessional sources, India should remain
creditworthy for a substantial growth in external borrowing.
19.     India's development prospects over the next few years will hinge on the
extent to which the economy can be brought into both internal and external
balance, while at the same time achieving more rapid growth than in the past.
In the longer term, income growth represents the best strategy for achieving
these needed adjustments, both by generating higher savings for further invest-
ment, and by fostering the development of export and import-substituting
industry to improve the balance of payments. In the short term, a relatively
large external borrowing, including an increased emphasis on commercial borrow-
ing, will be necessary to cope with the balance of payments consequences of
such a growth strategy. However, an important element in providing India with
the capacity to adjust flexibly will be adequate flows of concessional assis-
tance. Although India is currently in a position to increase borrowing on
commercial terms from the very low levels of the past, there are, of course,
limits beyond which India will choose to sacrifice growth objectives rather
than accept debt on unfavorable or unmanageable terms. The Government's
efforts to maintain an adequate rate of growth while adjusting the structure of
the Indian economy to a more open and efficient environment requires foreign
resources in addition to the level of commercial borrowing available to India.
Indeed, along with increasing exports, higher efficiency of investment to
support an adequate rate of growth is a key element in maintaining India's
recently improved creditworthiness. India is still a very poor country with a



-7-
large rural sector and enormous investment requirements for human development
and basic infrastructure. The fact that India has been able over the past
seven years to maintain a rate of growth above the long term trend, despite the
poor monsoons of 1979/80 and 1982/83, lends substance to the hope that a more
open trade policy and concerted efforts to remove constraints on the growth of
productive capacity, supported by adequate mobilization of savings both foreign
and domestic, can sustain a rate of growth closer to 5.0% per annum than the
long-run trend of 3.6% per annum. Combined with a reduction in the rate of
population increase to below 2.0% per annum, a 5.0% growth rate would mean a
doubling of the trend rate of growth of per capita income of less than 1.4% per
annum.  Success in these efforts would make a significant difference to the
prospects of easing poverty in India.
20.     A large and growing population and severe poverty underline the need to
accelerate India-s development efforts. The 1981 Census placed india's popula-
tion at 683.8 million, or about 12 million higher than official projections.
The fact that there was no decline in inter-census rates of population growth,
equivalent to about 2.2% per annum, is a cause for concern. While further
analysis of the Census may suggest this rate of growth to be slightly overes-
timated, the expectation of a measurable decline in the population growth rate
has not materialized. Until the results of the Census are fully analyzed, firm
judgements about the reasons for this outcome are not possible. However, the
results re-emphasize the need for continuing efforts to strengthen the health
and family planning program in a broad range of activities and services. These
efforts are given high priority in the Sixth Plan, which aims at a rise in the
proportion of protected couples in the reproductive age group from its
estimated 1979/80 level of about 23% to over 35% by 1984/85.
21.     Reduction of poverty remains the central goal of Indian economic
growth.  More than one-third of the world's poor live in India, and more than
80% of the Indian poor belong to the rural households of landless laborers and
small farmers.  About 51% of the rural population and 40% of the urban popula-
tion subsist below the poverty line.  Improvements in the living standards of
the poor will depend to a large extent on the overall growth of the economy,
particularly on increases in agricultural production and employment, and in
non-farm rural employment. These developments will have to stem in large part
from market forces which can be encouraged and reinforced by appropriate
Government policies and the strengthening of basic services and infrastructure.
The declining trend in real foodgrain prices between 1970 and 1981, resulting
from India's sustained effort to raise agricultural production, reflects such
developments. There is also a role for direct Government action in faster
implementation of land reform (though the scope for significant reduction in
poverty through land redistribution is quite limited in India), in increasing
the supply of credit available to small farmers and rural artisans, and finally
in broadening the provision of those services which enhance the human capital
of the poor and Improve living standards. Many of the 'Latter are elements of
the Minimum Needs Program, which has been an integral part of Indian planning
for the past decade. Progress has been slow but steady in the expansion of
primary education, the extension of rural health facilities and the provision
of secure village water supplies. Operations such as the community health
volunteer program and the national adult literacy campaign provide encouraging
evidence that well-targetted, relatively low-cost programs can lead to enhanced
prospects for India's poor.



-8-
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN INDIA
22.     Since 1949, the Bank Group has made 71 loans and 156 development
credits to India totalling US$4,783 million and US$11,447 million (both net
of cancellation), respectively. Of these amounts, US',1,332 million has been
repaid, and US$5,907 million was still undisbursed as of March 31, 1983. Bank
Group disbursements to India in the current fiscal year through March 31, 1983
totalled US$1,008 million, representing an increase oif about 17 percent over
the same period last: year. Annex II contains a summary statement of disburse-
ments as of March 31, 1983, and notes on the execution of ongoing projects.
23.     Since 1959, IFC has made 28 commitments in India totalling US$220.4
million, of which US$28.3 million has been repaid, US$56.2 million sold and
US$17.3 million cancelled. Of the balance of US$118.6 million, US$111.1 mil-
lion represents loans and US$7.5 million equity.  A summary statement of IFC
operations as of March 31, 1983, is also included in Annex II (page 5).
24.        The thrust of Bank Group assistance to India has been consistent with
the country's development objectives in its support of agriculture, energy and
infrastructure.  Of particular importance have been investments in irrigation,
extension and on-farm development designed to increase agricultural produc-
tivity, and efforts to improve the availability of basic agricultural inputs to
farmers through credit, fertilizer, marketing, storage, and seed projects.
Major elements of the lending program have also been directedat helping to
meet the energy needs of the economy while curbing the growth of oil imports,
and to ease the infrastructure bottlenecks which have hampered economic growth
in India, particularly through power generation and distribution, and railways
and telecommunications projects. The Bank Group has also provided financing
for a broad range of medium- and small-scale industrial enterprises, primarily
in the private sector, through its support of development finance institutions.
Recognizing the importance of improving the ability to satisfy the essential
needs of urban and rural populations, the Bank Group has supported nutrition
and family planning programs, a rural roads project, as well as water supply
and sewerage and other urban infrastructure projects.
25.        This pattern of assistance remains highly relevant, and consonant
with Government priorities, as reflected in the Sixth Plan. The continued
active involvement of the Bank Group in agriculture, energy and infrastructure
development will appropriately contribute to India's adjustment and growth
prospects. Irrigation will need continuing support, with emphasis on improved
efficiency in water conveyance systems to ensure reliable delivery to farmers
fields. In addition, major investments to develop the large Narmada River
basin will be vital to India's efforts to increase agricultural production.
Important complements to these efforts, such as fertilizier production and
distribution, agricultural credit and extension, will continue to receive
support. A continued program of investments aimed at rapidly increasing the
domestic supply of energy will clearly be necessary if India is to curb the
cost of oil imports and alleviate the critical power shortages which constrain
output in both the agricultural and industrial sectors. Exploitation of oil
and gas resources is a central element of this program, which should be supple-
mented by investments in hydro and thermal power generation, and in the expan-
sion of the transmission and distribution networks. Industrial projects to
increase the domestic production of basic commodities, which have been in short



- 9--
supply and which In.dia has a comparative advantage in producing, should also
receive high priority. Finally, raising the efficiency and levels of transpor-
tation infrastructure would mitigate a key constraint to achieving higher
levels of economic growth so that further support of the railways and for ports
development will be particularly appropriate.
26.       The need for a substantial net transfer of external resources in
support of the development of Tndia-s economy has been a recurrent theme of
Bank economic reports and of the discussions within the India Consortium.
Thanks in part to the response of the aid community, India successfully
adjusted to the changed world price situation of the mid-1970s.  However, there
is now a need for increased foreign assistance to India, not only to help the
economy adjust to the more recent oil price increases and the overall
*      deterioration in the world trade environment btut also to maintain the rela-
tively higher growth rates achieved during the first two years of the Sixth
Plan. As in the past, Bank Group assistance for projects in India should aim
to include the financi'ng of local expenditures. India imports relatively few
capital goods because of the capacity and competitiveness of the domestic
capital goods industry. Consequiently, the foreign exchange component tends to
be small in most projects. This is particularly the case in such high-priority
sectors as agriculture, irrigation, and water supply.
27.        India's Doverty and needs are such that whenever possible, external
capital requirements should be provided on concessionary terms. Accordingly,
the bulk of the Bank Group assistance to India has been, and should continue to
be, provided froms IDA. However, the amount of IDA funds that can reasonably be
allocated to India remains small in relation to India's needs for external
support.  This requirement for additional assistance can be met, in part,
through Bank lending. Given its development prospects and policies, India is
judged credit-worthy for Bank lending to supplement IDA assistance. A corr-
tinuation of efforts already underway to achieve growth in productive capacity,
trade expansion, higher levels of savings, foodgrains self-sufficiency and a
reduction in the rate of population growth should result in continued economic
growth and improvement in the balance of payments.  Despite recent setbacks,
India's external payments position is still manageable. The ratio of India's
debt service to the level of exports was about 11% in 1982/83 and is projected
to remain below 20% through 1995/96. As of March 31, 1983, outstanding loans
to India held by the Bank totalled US$3,571 million, of which US$1,854 million
remain to be disbursed, leaving a net amount outstanding of US$1,717 million.
28.       Of the external assistance received by India, the proportion con-
tributed by the Bank Group has grown significantly.  In 1969/70, the Bank Group
accounted for 34% of total commitments, 13% of gross disbursements, and 12% of
net disbursements as compared with 50%, 43% and 53%, respectively, in 1981/82.
On March 31, 1982, India's outstanding and disbursed external public debt was
about US$17.9 billion, of which the Bank Group's share was US$7.1 billion or
38% (IDA-s US$5.9 billion and IBRD-s US$1.2 billion). In 1981/82, about 16.0%
of India-s total debt service payments were to the Bank Group.



-10-
PART III - THE CALCUTTA SETTING
Physical Characteristics
29.     The Calcutta Metropolitan Area (CMA) is the most populous urban
agglomerate in India and the dominant urban and cultural center of eastern
India--a nine-State region comprising nearly one-quarter of the country's
populati n.  With a population of 10 million (1981) in an area of about
1,400 km , the CMA contains nearly half of the urban population of eastern
India and about 70% of the urban population of the State of West Bengal,
of which it is the capital.
30.     The CMA stretches north and south for nearly 70 km along both
sides of the Hooghly River. For most of this distance it forms a narrow
corridor along the limited area of elevated land close to the river.
Competition for the high land on the banks of the river is keen, as much
of the remaining land in the Hooghly's basin is low-lying, waterlogged,
and unsuitable for settlement. The central core of the metropolitan area
is on the east bank of the river, within the jurisdiction of the Calcutta
Municipal Corporation (CMC), which has a population of 3.3 million.
Howrah, Calcutta's twin city, lies on the west bank of the river, opposite
the CMC area. Both Calcutta and Howrah are encircled by numerous
municipalities, small towns, and semi-urban areas which extend north and
south along the river and combine with Calcutta and Howrah to make up the
CMA.
31.     Within the CMA, three bridges link the east and west banks of the
Hooghly River. Only two of these bridges serve mot'orized vehicles, trams,
and pedestrians; the third is a rail bridge. Crosslng facilities for
pedestrian traffic and public transport, the dominant modes of travel, are
particularly poor.  As a result, travel between the east and west banks
of the river is severely constrained, although two new bridges are
currently under construction and new river-crossing ferry services have
recently been introduced.
32.     The CMA is the slowest growing metropolis in India.  Its annual
population growth rate is 2.2%, compared to 3.3% for the nine largest
Indian cities and 3.9% urban growth for the whole country. Yet, it adds
about 220,000 people annually in absolute numbers. The annual growth
combines with the limited availability of suitable land to produce
extremely high population density in the CMA   Popul'ation density in
Calcutta city averages 32,000 persons per km v  This is significantly
higher than density statistics for metr?politan centers such a5 Manhattan
Island (26,000/ kj. ), Paris (25,000/ km ), Bangkok (21,000/ km ), and
Tokyo (15,000/ km ), whose infrastructure and facilities greatly exceed



-11-
Calcutta's and whose high-rise pattern of development acts to ease
crowding, in contrast with Calcutta's low-rise structures,
33.     Calcutta-s high population density and inadequate past investments
in infrastructure have resulted in serious deficiencies in the provision
of all municipal services in the CMA despite significant advances made
during the last decade (para 40). Some 60 percent of the area's
population, or six million people, still live in conditions characterized
by a lack of sewerage and drainage facilities and inadequate water supply
and garbage collection. Of these, three million live in temporary or
make-shift structures in refugee colonies or bustee areas.l/ Heal]th and
environmental conditions have historically been regarded as among the
worst in the maior cities of India. Existing health programs in the CMA
are fragmented, with only weak links between preventive and curative
services. Primary school facilities are equally inadequate, and reach
less than 70% of eligible children in the area as a whole, less than 40%
in the bustee areas.
The Urban Economy
34.     Calcutta-s economy suffered a major setback from the partition
of India and Pakistan in 1947.  It lost a major part of the hinterland
that had provided raw materials and markets to its prominant manufacturing
industries and, at the same, it began to receive an influx of refugees
from East Pakistan (now Bangladesh) whose presence strained public service
systems and increased unemployment. In addition, Calcutta has seen a
significant decline in world demand for jute, one of its principal
manufacturing outputs. Moreover, the progressive silting of the Hooghly
River has undermined the capacity of Calcuttas port and contributed to
its decline relative to other Indian ports. Finally, deteriorating public
services in Calcutta have combined with political instability during
1960s, civil unrest and labor disruptions to discourage private investment
in the CMA.  The result of these developments is that, while the CMA is
still a very important element in the Indian economy, its per capita
income is much lower than that of its industrial rival, Bombay; CMA's
value-added per industrial worker is considerably lower than the all-India
average; and its the average annual rate of growth in employment between
1971 and 1981 was a modest 0.7%.
35.     Structural adjustments in the economy of the CMA are underway.
The Government of West Bengal, which considers the rapid economic
development of Calcutta-s rural hinterland a prerequisite for economic
growth in the CMA, is implementing a variety of programs to bring modern
1/ "Buistee areas" are areas of land occupied by compact groups of small,
single-story structures of temporary construction. Residents
generally rent accommodation In these structures from a resident owner
or "thika tenant". The thika tenant, in turn, rents the land from a
non-resident landowner.



-12-
agricultural technology to West Bengal and to improve agricultural
marketing and storage. Substantial investment has also been made in the
coal and iron deposits of West Bengal, which prov:ide raw materials for
Calcutta's basic metals, metal products and machinery industries.  The
manufacturing sector of the CMA, which provides 40% of the area's
employment, has undergone a major shift from dominance by the jute
industry to dominance by the engineering industry, and a new port is being
constructed at Haldia, 45 miles downstream from Calcutta city. The
shortage of power (22% as against 11% for the whole of India), however,
still remains acute.
36.     The success of the efforts to spur the economy of the CMA depends
not only on the wisdom of the individual investment decisions made, but
also on the ability of local authorities to build and sustain a physical
environment in which individual and industrial efficiency are possible.
With this in mind, the Government of West Bengal has embarked upon a
substantial program for the rehabilitation and expansion of urban
infrastructure in the CMA.  It is the Government-s intention that these
infrastructure investments combine with on-going development efforts to
halt the economic decline of the Calcutta metropolitan area.
Metropolitan Institutions
37.     The Calcutta Municipal Area has been designated as a unified
planning region by the Government of West Bengal. It is not, however, a
single administrative unit. Local administration in the CMA is the
responsibility of the Calcutta and Howrah Municipal Corporations,
37 mtnicipalities and 165 panchayats (non-municipal urban areas).
38.     In effect, the Government of India and the Government of West
Bengal exert a dominant influence on the CMA.  GOI sponsors major
industrial projects and has responsibility for the national highways, the
railway system, airports and seaports. GOWB agencies execute projects
within the CMA in the areas of education, public health, road construction
and maintenance, housing, small-scale industry promotion, power, and
public transport. Deficiencies in the organization and management of the
local authorities reduce their ability to deal with their own development
problems. Moreover, as self-generated revenues are inadequate to their
needs, most of the local bodies in the CMA rely heavily on financial
support from GOWB. Borrowings and grants from GOWB are tightly regulated.
To qualify for financial assistance, development projects must be
sanctioned and integrated into GOWB's overall development plan. The
activities of loca:L authorities are largely confined to the provision of
primary education and preventive health services, liraited commercial
activities (e.g., market administration), and the operation and
maintenance of infrastructure put in place by State and national
authorities. Even in this last function, local bodiejs are given financial
and technical assistance by GOWB.
39.     In 1970, GOWB established the Calcutta Metropolitan Development
Authority (CMDA), which was reconstituted under the West Bengal Town and



Country (Planning and Development) Act of 1979.  O)MDA is responsible for
econoomic and physical Dlanning as well as for design and construction of
public works within CMA.  Its Board includes two elected Corporation
Counselors and three elected Municipal Commissioners representing the
municipalities and other local bodies in CMA.  CMDA has now evolved into
an organization with over 4,000 staff, capable of executing an investment
program of over US$50 million annually. To finance its development
schemes, CMDA obtains financial resources through State Plan allocations,
50% of the metroDol^tan entry tax (octroi), and its own market borrowing.
Recent Improvements in Service Delivery
40.     Sinee the early l-970s, during which it was supported by two IDA
Credits (see paras 43 to 46), CMDA has provided an overall institutional
and intersectoral approach to Calcutta's problems, developed a strategy to
address urgent high priority needs, and served as an executing agency to
carry out investments to reduce the most serious service deficits.  During
this period, major efforts have been made to improve and strengthen the
legal framework and managerial systems of the CMDA and the Calcutta
Municipal Corporation (CMC), in whose jurisdiction the bulk of investments
were located and which would be responsible for the operation and
maintenance of completed works.  With the completed investments, nearly
two-thirds of the CMA's population living in registered slums (or about
two million people' have benefitted fromn the "bustee" improveement program;
CMA's water supply has tripled (from 100 million gallons a day in 1973 to
300 million in early 1983) with greater coverage under a much enhanced
distribution network; and significant improvements have been made in other
sectors, such as drainage, solid waste management and health.
41.     There are a number of areas where improvements are lagging,
however, For example, improvements in urban transport and delivery of
serviced urban land have been less significant. Investments in the
high-density areas are sometimes not well-coordinated and there are delays
iti complementary works (e.g. secondary and tertiary water distribution and
sewerage collection systems). The disparity in service levels between
the metrocore (Calcutta and Howrah) and the rest of the CMA has become
more acute, as the former has received a concentration of investment while
the latter is absorbing nearly all the recent population growth. Finally,
there have been inadequate increases in self-generated local revenues and
the financial gap in CMC and other local governments has become
unacceptably large. This has resulted in delays in transferring new
infrastructure facilities to local bodies, and poor maintenance of
existing aged systems.
42.     Building on the efforts of the 1970s, significant institutional
intervention is continuing.  CGiDA is being further strengthened as a
financial and policyl intermediary with a strong Appraisal, Monitoring and
Evaluation Unit, and a number of executing functions are being transferred
to other agencies. The municipalities have been given an expanded role in
capital budgeting and in setting the priority of local schemes within
broad guidelines set by CMDA.  CMC-s internal organization, management and



-1 4-
financial systems are being further strengthened through appointment of a
task force to address principally its water supply sector and property tax
assessments and collection.  Several pieces of legislation have been
introduced tco increase the financial resources of municipalities, to
improve planning and control of land use, and to strengthen local
governments. Finally, a number of changes are underway to improve the
r,esource base of local bodies, to introduce better financial management
practices, and to emphasize the importance of cost recovery and operations
and maintenance in the delivery of urban services.
Bank Group Involvement
43.     The first Calcutta Urban Development Project (Cr. 427-IN of
September 1973) comprised a broad program of urban works, with emphasis
on infrastructure to meet the urgent service needs of the population.  The
IDA credit of US$35 million equivalent was directed mainly to investments
in water supply, sewerage, drainage and traffic engineering.  The credit
was fully disbursed in November 1979, some two years behind the appraisal
target. The slow progress under the first project reflected the lack of
experience on the part of CMDA, the principal imiplementing agency.
44.     The Operations Evaluation Department has audited the first
Calcutta Urban project. It has stated in its report (No. 4023) that the
"CMDA expanded quickly ....  It became the dominant public works agency in
t]he CMA. Developing the expanded organization to effectively deal with
its expanded responsibilities proved more difficult and took longer than
expected. Execution of the projects also took longer than expected and
was hindered by inadequate preparation and CMDA's reorganization problems.
With the development of a second project, the institutional goals for CMDA
were substantially achieved and specific measures to strengthen operation
and maintenance were identified". Regarding the execution of the
investment schemes, the report states that progress was made "in expanding
tthe supply and distribution of potable water, improving drainage,
sanitation and general environment especially in Bustee (slum) areas and
in improving facilities for traffic at critical points. Benefits were
delayed in some cases by the inefficient sequence of project construction
and the loose coordination of complementary investments." The report sees
the institutionr-building attempts as a process oif change--moving through
stages--and, it further states, "the nature of the needed changes has
become more clear with time and so has the pressure to make them. Present
focus is on the need to strengthen the finance, operation and maintenance
of the system". The proposed Third Calcutta Urban Development Project
addresses the problems highlighted by the Operations Evaluation
Department's report.
45.     The Second Calcutta Urban Development Project (Cr. 756-IN of
January 1978) continued IDA assistance with a credit of US$87 million. In
addition to the provision of shelter, municipal infrastructure
improvements, solid waste management and technical assistance, the project
includes other components such as school construction and health care,
credit for small businesses, traffic engineering and management. The



-1 5-
major focus has, however, been on a series of organizational,
administrative and fiscal reforms and on the operation and maintenance of
the completed schemes. Although about a year behind appraisal target,
progress under the second project 'nas been considerably better than under
the first, and it is now virtually complete.
46.     IDA has also made a US$56 million credit for the Calcutta Urban
Transport Project (Cr. 1033-IN of October 1980) to support financial and
operational rehabilitation of the public bus and tram operations in
Calcutta. Although physical performance (acquisition of buses and trams,
progress of civil works) has been satisfactory, the operational and
financial performance of project agencies has been poor. To help improve
the situation, GOWB has (i) appointed a task force of senior COWB
officials in the Calcutta State Transport Corporation, (ii) increased bus
and tram fares effective March 1983, and (iii) concentrated the
transportation planning responsibilities in CMDA.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Background
47.     The proposed project was prepared by the Calcutta Metropolitan
Development Authority (CMDA). It was appraised in October 1982.
Negotiations were held in Washington D.C. in April 1983, with an Indian
delegation coordinated by Mr. S.P. Bajpai, Deputy Secretary of the
Department of Economic Affairs, GOI. The Staff Appraisal Report
(No. 4310-IN), dated May 2, 1983, is being circulated to the Executive
Directors separately. A Supplementary Project Data Sheet is attached as
Annex III.
Project Objectives
48.     The project would continue IDA support to improve urban management
in the Calcutta Metropolitan Area through a comprehensive approach in
which institutional and financial reforms go hand-in-hand with physical
improvements. The project would further strengthen metropolitan and
municipal governments and other institutions responsible for urban
planning, management and operation. At the same time, it would
substantially increase the number of direct beneficiaries of urban
services, focusing on investments to provide minimum basic needs at
affordable costs. Emphasis would be given to rectifying sectoral and
spatial investment imbalances between the "metrocore" (Calcutta and
Howrah) and the remainder of CMA, completing and complementing earlier
investments so that maximum benefits can be derived, and improving
operation and maintenance of assets through improved cost recovery and
financial management policies. The private sector would be encouraged to
participate more actively in development (e.g., in financing and
developing urban renewal schemes), and greater use would be made of
institutional financing. The project investments would directly benefit



-16-
over six million people, 70% of whom belong to the economically weaker
sector (EWS).l/
Project Description
49.     The project would pursue these objectives in three ways.  First,
it would build upon the institutional reforms already achieved and would
strengthen the institutions further. Second, it would continue technical
assistance and training to the agencies concerned. Finally, the project
would expand urban services and employment in the CMA. For example, it
would double the availability of water supply in the CMA for about
3 million people to an average of ten gallons per person per day, over
2 million people would also benefit from an improved drainage systems;
25,000 serviced housing sites would be provided, over 3 million people
would benefit from improved transportation; and nearly 60,000 households
would benefit from the small-scale entrepreneur program. The following
paragraphs describe these elements in further detail.
50,.    Institutional Development.  A number of institutional reforms have
already been set in motion to improve the working of CMDA, the Calcutta
and Howrah Muricipal Corporations, the municipalities, and other agencies.
Under the proposed project, emphasis has been directed to consolidate
those steps and, at the same time, incorporating new ones to further
strengthten the institutional development program.  Among the reforms
already implemented or planned are the following:
(a)  GOWB would complete its review of the current property tax
assessment base of all CMA municipalities, by December 31,
1983; and if any tax base is found inadequate, the Central
Valuation Board would carry out a general revaluation of that
tax base (Section 3.04 of the West Bengal Agreement).
(b) CMDA has been reorganized to reflect its future role. For
example, an Appraisal, Monitoring and Evaluation Unit (AMEU)
and a Shelter, Urban Renewal and Area Development Directorate
(STJRAD) have been added. All key management positions in
these units have been filled. The AMEU was instrumental in
the preparation of this project, and has developed a
comprehensive monitoring framework for the project. AMEU and
SURAD would remain part of CMDA beyond the project period.
(c) CMDA is retaining the services of the Housing Development
Finance Corporation (an IFC-assisted Corporation) for two
years advisory and training services to develop SURAD's
1/ About 45% of CMA population (about 4.5 million people) belong to
households in EWS, with a monthly income of Rs 350 (about US$37) or
less per household.



-17-
marketing, loan administration and financial management
capabilities.
(d) The Calcutta Metropolitan Water and Sanitation Authority
(CMWSA) has been strengthened by provision of additional
staff. A new accounting system has been implemented
effective April 1983.
(e) The Calcutta Municipal Corporation is strengthening its
financial management, particularly in the areas of water
metering, property assessment, customer billing, and
inventory control. Effective April 1983, CMC has established
a new department responsible for meter reading, billing and
customer service, and appointing three staff members to
improve property assessment, a Special Officer and supporting
staff to manage water metering, and two staff members for
stores inventory and control.
(f) GOWB, CMDA, CMC, HMC and other local bodies are taking a
number of measures to improve public finance in the CMA,
including revision of GOWB's financial grant system to local
bodies and increase in cost recovery (see paragraphs 67 to
73).
51.     Technical Assistance and Training.  The project would provide
advisory and consultancy services amounting to about 330 man-months and
involving a cost of about US$1.0 million, including US$763,000 in foreign
exchange. The services would include about 35 man-months of
internationally recruited consultants for the Institute of Local
Government and Urban Studies and for overseas training and teaching
materials (US$429,000). In addition, the following would be implemented
by CMDA: (i) about 20 man-months of advisory services by international
consultants to improve the water supply, drainage and sanitation
facilities (US$217,000); (ii) a CMA-wide transport study involving about
110 man-months of local consultants (US$117,000) and 10 man-months of
international consultants (US$117,000); (iii) annual inspections of major
infrastructure projects using 14 man-months of local consultants
(US$15,000); and (iv) technical assistance in accounting, organization,
management and finance studies for smaller municipalities, and in finance
studies for Howrah Municipal Corporation (HMC) and larger municipalities
for a total of 142 man-months (US$149,000).
52.     In the past, both CMDA and CMC have run training courses for their
staffs in their respective training centers. COWB has recognized the need
for systematic training of local government personnel in the whole of West
Bengal and in May 1982 set up an Institute of Local Government and Urban
Studies which is designed to meet this need. An ambitious training
program has been set up to train 10,000 persons at the Institute, while
the CMC Training Center would cater for another 10,000 persons and the
CMDA Training Center for about 2,000, making a total of 22,000 persons to
be trained during the project period.



-18-
53.     Urban Services.  On the basis of both technical characteristics
and institutional responsibilities for planning and implementation, the
five-year (April 1, 1983 to March 31, 1988) investment program to be
financed under the project has been divided into four areas. They are the
municipal deve:lopment program, the transmunicipa:L infrastructure program,
the metrocore (Calcutta/Howrah) investment program, and the CMA-wide
complementary program.
54.     The municipal development program, to be executed by the
municipalities, seeks to deliver basic municipal services to the most
deprived areas in each of 37 municipalities (4.2 million population),
Calcutta Municipal Corporation (CMC) (3.3 million) and Howrah Municipal
Corporation (HMC) (740,000) within a range of affordable service delivery
no rms recommended by CMDA. Services would include water supply, drainage,
solid waste management, privy conversions, local road improvements, and
improvement and expansion of markets. As part of area-based improvements,
bustees (slums) in each municipality would be provided with basic
ut'ilities.
55.     The transmunicipal infrastructure program, which would be planned
anc executed by CMDA and CMWSA, would improve and expand critical
infrastructure, including construction and renovation of two water
treatment plants and primary grids, renovation of four sewerage pumping
stations, estab:Lishment of land-fill sites for so'Lid waste disposal,
implementation of area development and transportat:ion schemes, the
benefits of which are to be shared by two or more municipalities.
56.     CMDA would also plan and execute programs of investment under the
metrocore investment program in Calcutta and Howrah. Such programs would
focus on the maximization of benefits from the existing infrastructure
including that newly created under the first and second IDA credits. For
example, it would include improvements to and expansion of the water
supply and sewerage system, including bulk metering and leak detection,
drainage, solid waste management, traffic management, and construction of
key road links to enhance efficiency of existing inner-city road networks.
Funds are included for seed capital for urban renewal schemes in both
Calcutta and Howrah, to encourage the private sector to participate in
redevelopment works in urban areas, thus attractin,g private commercial
financing in such schemes which would also increase municipal revenues.
57.     The CMA-lwide complementary program would itclude the following:
(a) She:lter and Area Development. Sites and services programs
initiated under previous projects have faced serious delays
due to management and land acquisition problems. Under the
proposed project, CMDA's role as the primary planning and
implementing agency would be strengthened, and it would make
25,000 serviced plots available to a range of income groups.
The project would include "seed capital" to be placed in an
Area Development Fund by GOWB by March 31, 1984.  The purpose



- 9-
of the Fund is to initiate and sustain a construction
program, through bridging finance, while long-tern fu-nds from
Indian financial institutions (estimated at U'S$33.6 million)
are being secured.  The seed capital would amount to about
US$9.5 million, ard IA would reirburse 50% of the amount
(US$4.75 million) after GOWB makes the deposits in the Fund.
IDA wc'il& subsequently receive full documentation of
expeniditures as the funds are actually used.
(b)  Health.  A pilot health care program started under the secona
project would be expanded by provision of additional 60 ward
health centers (one for every 30,000 population), and
8 polyclinics, expanding 15 maternity facilities, and by
establishing a drug distribution system and one Urban Health
Training Center.
(c)  Small-scale Enterprise. Building on the experience gained
under the second project, about 43,000 families, resident in
slums, would be provided wiith access to commercial credit to
undertake small-scaie enterprises.  CMDA has identified a
target group of about 170,000 families of self-employed and
self-employable persons in the CMA, and they have been
divided into three income levels (monthly family income of
up to Rs 350, Rs 350-600 and above Rs 600). The project
would cover about 25% in each income level. At present, the
lowest-income families in the group are benefiting from
low-interest (4% per annum) loans provided by commercial
banks under a Reserve Bank of India directive which requires
each bank to lend up to 1% of its deposits to such
beneficiaries at an interest rate of 4%. Under the proposed
project, the next income group (monthly family income of
between Rs 350 to 600) would also benefit from a lower rate
in the form of a rebate of 4.25% annual interest, for prompt
re-payment of a first loan of up to Rs 10,000, which would
reduce the effective rate from the prevailing market rate of
12.5% to 8.25% per annum. The rebate, amounting to a total
of about US$632,000 during the project period, would be
provided by GOWB and forms part of the project cost. CMDA
would review annually the interest rebate feature to
determine its effectiveness (Paragraph 2 of Schedule 2 to the
Project Agreement).
(d)  Panchayat DevelopmentPrgram.  This program was also started
under the second project to provide a minimum standard of
all-weather roads, water supply and sanitation for the
165 panchayats (non-munlcipal urban areas) within the CMA.
Under the proposed project, about 650 km of roads would be
paved, about 2,000 hand-operated tubewells would be sunk and
about 15,000 of the existing 65,000 privies would be replaced
with sanitary latrines.



-20-
Project Implementation
58.     The project would be implemented by existing institutions and
agencies of GOWEB and the local bodies, with assistance from the national
institutions like the Housing and Urban Development Corporation, the
Housing Development Finance Corporation and commercial banks. While CMDA
would be responsible for overall coordination of project implementation,
the principal implementing agencies include CMDA, CMC, HMC, 37 municipal
authorities, the Calcutta Metropolitan Water and Sanitation Authority
(CMWSA), the Calcutta Improvement Trust (CIT), the Howrah Improvement
Trust (HIT) and GOWB departments responsible for Local Government and
Urban Development, Metropolitan Development, Irrigation and Waterways, and
Hea:Lth. Implementation responsibility for major components would be as
fol:Lows:
Components                            Agencies Responsible
Municipal development program                CMC, IMC, municipalities
Transmunicipal Infrastructure
-W4ater supply, sanitation
drainage, solid waste                    CMDA, CMWSA
-Transportation, area development         CMDA
Calcutta/Howrah Investment
-Water supply, sewerage,
drainage, solid waste                    CMDA, CMC, HMC, CMSWA
-Transport infrastructure                 CMDA, CIT, HIT
-Traffic management                       CMDA
-Urban renewal                            (MDA, CIT, HIT
CMA-wide program
-Shelter                                  CMDA, CIT, HIT
-Small-scale entrepreneur program         CMDA
-Training                                 CMDA, CMC, ILGUS
-Health                                   Department of Health, GOWB
-Panchayat Development                    CMDA, Panchayats
59.     CMDA has been restructured to meet its future role.  An Appraisal,
Monitoring and Evaluation Unit and a Shelter, Urban Renewal and Area
Deve:Lopment Directorate have been added. A Program Management Unit has
also been established specifically to coordinate and monitor physical and
financial progress of this project. The CMDA Board has approved the
staffing structure for these units and all key management positions have
been filled. Recruitment is currently underway to fill positions of
economists, physical planners, financial analysts, data processing
operators and programmers. Similarly, CMC has completed staffing for
management of its water metering, financial management, and stores and
inventory control programs.  Finally, additional staffing is underway to



-21-
strengthen CMWSA in the areas of revenue administration, accounting,
finance and maintenance.
Project Costs and Financing
60.     The total estimated cost of the project is US$303.1 million,
including US$49.2 million (16%) in foreign exchange costs and
US$7.7 million in taxes and duties. The project cost components are water
supply (US$46.1 million), drainage and sanitation (US$68.9 million), slum
improvement (US$15.0 million), transportation infrastructure
(US$29.4 million), shelter and area development (US$11.5 million), design,
supervision and management (US$31.5 million) and others (US$36.3 million).
In addition, physical contingencies (US$18.0 million), at 10% for civil
works with detailed engineering and 15% for works with preliminary
engineering, and price contingencies (US$46.4 million), at 8.0%, 7.5%, 7%,
6% and 6% for fiscal years 1984 through 1988, respectively, have been
added for local as well as foreign exchange costs.
61.     The proposed IDA credit of US$147 million equivalent would finance
about 50% of total costs, net of taxes and duties. The balance would come
from GOI grants (under its Minimum Needs Program), GOWB grants and loans,
octroi receipts to CMDA, and CMDA-s market borrowings. Retroactive
financing of up to US$500,000 is provided in the proposed credit, to cover
expenditures incurred after March 1, 1983, for civil works, equipment
purchases and consultants services for engineering design.
62.     GOI would pass the proceeds of the credit to GOWB on its standard
terms and arrangements for financing of State development projects. In
turn, GOWB would channel the funds to CMDA as grants and loans. For
revenue-producing schemes, such as urban renewal, water supply, shelter
and area development, GOWB would lend to CMDA at 7% per annum for 15 years
including 5 years  grace, and for non-revenue-producing schemes, such as
roads and drainage, funds would be provided on grant basis. The projected
weighted average cost of CMDA borrowings is 7.75% per annum. CMDA would
on-lend for urban renewal schemes at the prevailing commercial bank rate
(presently 12.5%), and for other investments at not less than 8.25%
per annum (Paragraph 1 of Schedule 2 to the Project Agreement).
Procurement and Disbursement
63.     The total cost of civil works, including contingencies, is
estimated at US$215 million. Within this amount, about US$36 million of
works would be procured through international competitive bidding (ICB),
in accordance with IDA Guidelines. ICB procurement would be required
for (i) construction of the Baranager-Kamarhati Water Treatment Plan,
(ii) renovation of the Serampore Water Treatment Plant (iii) construction
of the new water main from Tallah to central Calcutta, and
(iv) reconstruction of the Durgapur Bridge. Bidders for the above works
would be prequalified in accordance with criteria agreed with IDA.
Eligible domestic bidders would be accorded a preference of 7 1/2% under
ICB procurement. The balance of civil works, totalling US$179 million,



-22-
are not likely to interest foreign bidders as they are widely dispersed
over area and time requiring several thousand small contracts. CMDA
would, however, where practicable, group these works into contract
packages of not: less than US$2.6 million, to be let on a 'slice and
package" basis under competitive bidding advertised on an all-India basis
in accordance with procedures acceptable to IDA. Civil works which cannot
be grouped as indicated above, would be awarded under contracts following
competitive bidding advertised locally, which are satisfactory to IDA.
64.     Procurement of plant, equipment, and vehicles under the project
totals about US$25 million equivalent, including contingencies.  Contracts
for about US$9.5 million, for bulk meters, leak dletection equipment,
gu:lly-pit emptiers, jetting machines, tipping trucks, tanker lorries,
tractors, payloaders and bulldozers, would be awarded by CMDA (and other
executing agencies) on the basis of ICB in accordance with IDA's
Gu:delines. Qualifying domestic manufacturers would receive a preference
in bld evaluation of 15% or the import duty, whichever is the lower.
Pipes (US$8 million) and pumps (US$2 million) would be awarded by CMDA and
other executing agencies under local competitive bidding procedures which
are satisfactory to IDA. These involve a variety of sizes procured by
several agencies over the whole project period. Cars and jeeps
(US$0.2 million) and miscellaneous solid waste equipment including
handcarts, tricycle trailers, containers and small tools (US$3.8 million),
which are readiLy available locally and have well-established repair and
spare-part outlets, would also be procured similarly. Small items of
plant, equipmenl:, and materials in packages of less than about Rs 100,000
and totalling approximately Rs 15 million, would be let after obtaining
quotations from at least three suppliers.
65.     All bidding packages for civil works estimated to cost US$500,000
equivalent or more, and all bidding packages for plant, equipment, and
vehicles estimated to cost US$200,000 equivalent or more, would be subject
to IDA-s prior review of procurement documentation, resulting in a
coverage of about 20% of the total estimated value of works contracts,
and about 66% of goods contracts. This would involve a review of about
59 contracts (21 equipment, 38 civil works).
66.     The proceeds of the proposed credit would be disbursed as follows:
(a) 70% of total expenditures for civil works procured through
ICB and 50% of total expenditures for other civil works;
(b) 100% of foreign expenditures for directly imported plant,
equipment, and vehicles, or 100% of local expenditures (ex
factory) for locally manufactured goods procured through ICB,
and 50% for other locally manufactured goods;
(c) 100% of total expenditures on consulting services, technical
assistance and training.



-2 3-
Disbursements would be fully documented except for: (a) payments made
under civil works contracts for one or more progress payments not
exceeding R. 300,000; and (b) payments for locally procured items of
equipment costing Rs 150,000 or less. Such disbursements would be made
against statement of expenditures (SOEs), the documentation for which
would not be submitted to IDA but retained and made available for
inspection during the course of project review missions.  Independent
auditors acceptable to IDA would be retained to carry out an annual audit
of all SOEs submitted in a fiscal year, and CMDA would be required to
furnish the audit reports to IDA within nine months of the end of each
fiscal year.
Cost Recovery
67.     Performance on cost recovery under the first and second projects
(Cr. 427-IN and Cr. 756-IN) has been poor. CMC has not been able to
recover the costs of providing water as expected, on account of its poor
financial management. In view of the large investments already made and
those included under the proposed project, it is vital that the local
bodies be able to generate adequate funds for proper operations and
maintenance. The local bodies will continue to sell their services at
below cost and the deficits, albeit smaller than before, will continue to
be met by transfer of resources from GOWB. Nevertheless, GOWB is
undertaking a number of measures to enhance cost recovery, through
enhanced property tax revenues and increased user charges.
68.     Property Taxes.  Property taxes continue to be the largest source
of revenue of the local bodies. In recent years, property taxes have
accounted for about 70% of internal revenue (about 45% of total revenues
including State Government transfers). This significant source of revenue
suffers from a low assessment base, an inefficient rate structure and poor
collection performance. Under the proposed project, CMC would:
(i) reduce its reliance on GOWB revenue subventions from 24% of its
revenue expenditures in fiscal year 1982/83 to 10% by 1987/88; (ii) take
steps to achieve cash collection of not less than 85% of the current
demand of its consolidated property taxes by fiscal years 1987/88; and
(iii) take steps to achieve cash collections of its arrears demand of
property taxes of at least 50% annually. (Paragraphs 1, 2 and 3 of
Schedule to the West Bengal Agreement). In addition, the Central
Valuation Board of GOWB would assist all CMA municipalities in updating
their property tax roll to improve their collection performance.
69.     In the proposed project, direct cost recovery measures through
user charges are included for water supply, area development and urban
renewal. In the water supply program, CMC would aim at recovering, by
1987/1988, all expenditures for operations, maintenance, purchase of bulk
water, and a charge in lieu of depreciation. To achieve this, CMC would,
as a condition of Credit effectiveness, revise the rates for metered
non-domestic users as agreed with the Association (Section 5.01 of the
Development Credit Agreement). It would also introduce graduated water
rates in consultation with the Association for all unmetered domestic



-24-
consumers, by November 1, 1983 (paragraph 6 of the Schedule to the West
Bengal Agreement). In addition, CMC intends to introduce annual licencing
for all new private tubewells by about October 1983. Finally, CMC would
carry out installation of water meters in accordance with a schedule
acceptable to IDA (Paragraphs 8 and 9 of the Schedule to the West Bengal
Agreement).
70.     The Calcutta Metropolitan Water and Sanitation Authority (CMWSA)
operates primarily as a bulk supplier of water to municipalities and to
CMC. However, a number of industrial, commercial and institutional users
remain CMWSA's retail customers for reasons of locational convenience.
CMWSA is expected to achieve full cost recovery by 1985/86. To realize
this, CMSWA would introduce, as a condition of Credit effectiveness, such
charges for water supply which would be agreed wi th the Association
(Section 5.01 of the Development Credit Agreement:). These charges would
be revised periodically to enable CMWSA to cover all expenditures for
operation, maintenance and debt service requirements by its financial year
1985/86 (Section 3.05 of the West Bengal Agreement).
71.     The area development program would achieve full cost recovery and
wouald actually generate a net surplus of 6-8% of capital investments.
Under this program, the economically weaker section and the low-income
group would get affordable plots at actual or slightly below costs,
whereas premiums of 10% to 75% would be added to the costs for
middle-income, higher income and commercial plots. By September 30, 1983,
CMDA would submit for the Association-s review and aproval its
administrative, operational and financial guidelines for implementing the
shelter and area development program under the project, including costing
and pricing formula, maintenance charges, the criteria for beneficiary
selection, conditions of lease and terms and conditions of loans for the
sites and services beneficiaries (Paragraph 3 of Schedule 2 to the Project
Agreement).
72.     Under the urban renewal schemes, the concerned agencies (for
example, Calcutta Improvement Trust and Howrah Improvement Trust) would
auction the rights for further development to private developers based on
a minimum price set to cover all costs.  Of the net surplus, 50% would be
retained by the agencies themselves for further urban renewal schemes and
the other 50% would go to CMDA toward investments in its shelter and area
devel opment program.
73.     As stated earlier, the improvements in cost recovery measures
alone are unlikely to meet the needs of the local bodies in the near
future and GOWB would have to continue to transfer resources in the form
of grants and shared taxes. At present, GOWB's annual grants to local
bodies are based on the organizational structure and staffing of the
respective bodies. This project would initiate a fundamental change in
the municipal finance system. To ensure the most effective utilization
of limited State Government resources, and to introduce a structural shift
in municipal finance toward greater reliance on self-generated resources,
GOWB has announced implementation of a revised grant structure, beginning



-25-
April 1, 1983. Under this system, the level of GOWB grants to be paid out
of a "Fund Assigned to Municipalities" would be based on absolute levels
of performance of the local bodies, linked with both a penalty and an
incentive mechanism. Initially, the revised grant structure would be
implemented in CMC, HMC and the CMA municipalities. It would be spread to
other parts of the State in the future based on the lessons and experience
of this initial application. A set of minimum performance targets have
been worked out for individual municipalities, which includes performance
on revenue collection (primarily property tax) as well as on expenditures
needs (for investments, operations and maintenance, debt service, etc).
Benefits and Risks
74.     The most direct benefit from the project is the improvement in
service delivery, which is estimated to benefit over six million people
(or 60% of CMD's population).  The execution of the project activities
would directly result in generation of 30,000 construction jobs over the
5-year implementation period, and 20,000 full-time jobs for operation and
maintenance over the schemes' operational life. In addition, the
small-scale enterprise program would directly benefit about 43,000 persons
and would generate 16,000 net additional jobs. Perhaps the most important
project benefits would accrue from the institutional and fiscal, reforms
which are crucial for sustaining an expanded program of public investments
and for developing the organizational and management capabilities
necessary to plan, execute and operate such an investment program.
Economic rates of return from the investments range from 13% for area
development to about 24% for some local road improvements. Based on the
54% of the project costs for which benefits have been quantified, the
weighted average economic rate of return is estimated at 15%.
75.     The major project risk is that the program will prove too complex
to administer and manage, particularly in the light of recent adjustments
in CMDA's responsibilities, under which its role for planning and
coordination has been increased while its implementation responsibilities
have been somewhat decentralized to other local bodies (para 42). This
risk would grow if the caliber of key personnel of CMDA is reduced from
the present high quality. However, experience during project preparation
indicates that CMDA is fully capable of handling the complexities
involved. Furthermore, the establishment of the Program Management Unit
and the recent strengthening of appraisal, monitoring and evaluation
capabilities of CMDA (para 59) should reduce the implementation risks by
means of improved and structured monitoring of project progress which
should allow timely actions to correct any problems as they emerge.
Another risk could be the lack of political will to implement the cost
recovery measures built into the project. Although this risk can not be
completely eliminated, the commitments shown by GOWB and the local bodies
and the implementation of the revised financial grant system, based on,
inter alia, cost recovery performance, should minimize this risk.



-26-
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
76.     The draft Development Credit Agreement between India and the
Association, the draft West Bengal Agreement between the Association and
the State of West Bengal, the draft Project Agreement between the
Association and CMDA and the Recommendation of the Committee provided for
in Article V, Section l(d) of the Articles of Agreement are being
distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
77.     Special conditions of the Project are listed in Section III of
Annex III. The following are additional conditions of effectiveness:
(a) CMC has revised the agreed rates for metered non-domestic users
(Section 5.01(b) of the Development Credit Agreement); and (b) CMWSA has
introduced the agreed bulk water supply rates (Section 3.05 of the West
Bengal Agreement (Section 5.01(a) of the Development Credit Agreement).
78.     I am satisf:ted that the proposed credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
79.     I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
credit.
A.W. Clausen
President
April 28, 1983



ANNEX I
_____ _____ ____ _____ ____Page                         1    of    5
INDIA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
INDIA                      REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AV_jRAGES
AREA (THOUSAND SQ. KM.)                                                            MOST RECENT ESTIMATE-
TOTAL           3287.6                                 MOST RECENT        LOW INCOME            MIDDLE INCOME
AGRICULTURAL    1818.2               1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b   ASIA & PACIFIC           ASIA & PACIFIC
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                   70.0       110.0     240.0              261.4                    890.1
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)     111.2        152.5     194.4              448.7                   701.7
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, MID-YEAR (THOUS.)  434850.0    547569.0  673207.0
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 17.9         19.7      22.3               17.3                    32.4
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                      994.1
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                       1694.4
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                  2115
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. KM.                       132.3       166.6     200.6              158.1                   255.9
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND    247.0        307.8     362.8              355.9                  1748.0
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                         40.9         42.7      40.2               36.8                    39.9
15-64 YRS.                         54.5         54.2      56.8              59.7                     56.8
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                   4.6          3.1       3.0                3.5                     3.3
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                               1.8         2.3       2.1                2.0                     2.3
URBAN                              2.5          3.3       3.3                3.3                     3.9
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)     43.7         40.0      35.6               29.3                    31.8
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)    21.8          16.7      13.6               11.0                     9.8
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE               2.9         2.7       2.4                2.0                     2.0
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)     64.0       3782.0   5619.0
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)   ..          12.0      22.6               19.3                    36.3
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)          98.0        102.0      99.0             108.1                    115.6
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                   95.6         90.4      88.8/c            97.3                    106.4
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)          53.6         49.7      48.4/c            56.9                     54.4
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE       17.2         14.8      13.1/i            20.0                     13.9
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE     26.2         20.7      17.4               10.9                     6.7
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)    43.2         48.1      51.8              57.8                     59.8
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                          165.0        139.0     123.4              89.1                     63.7
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                                *-        17.0      33.0              32.9                     32.0
URBAN                               ..         60.0      83.0              70.7                     51.9
RURAL                               ..          6.0      20.0              22.2                     20.5
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                *-        18.0      20.0              18.1                     37.7
URBAN                                *         85.0      87.0              72.7                     65.7
RURAL                               *-          1.0       2.0               4.7                     24.0
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN          4850.4       4889.0    3630.6            3297.8                   8540.4
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON    10975.3/d    8296.5    5696.1             4929.3                   4829.4
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                           2178.7       1612.9    1311.0/e          1100.4                   1047.5
URBAN                               ..           ..    362.3/i;           301.3                    651.6
RURAL                                ..          ..  10432.8/e           5815.7                   2597.6
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED            ..          ..        ..                 ..                    27.0
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                              5.2          5.6       5.2
URBAN                              5.2          5.6       4.8
RURAL                              5.2          5.6       5.3
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                              2.6          2.8
URBAN                              2.6          2.8        ..
RURAL                              2.6          2.8        ..
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                               ..           ..        ..
URBAN                               ..           ..
RURAL                                ..          ..        ..



ANNEX I
Page 2 of 5
INDIA   CIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
INDIA                      REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVE9*OES
- MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)-
MOST RECENT        LOW INCO>!             MIDDLE INCOME
1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b   ASIA & PACIFIC             ASIA   PACIFIC
EDUCASTION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                  61.0         73.0      78.0/c             97.4                      96.2
MALE                  80.0         90.0       92.0/             101.0                     99.8
FEMALE                40.0         56.0      63.0/;              87.8                     92.1
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                  20.0         26.0      27.0/c             53.0                      37.6
MALE                  30.0         36.0      36.0/!              63.8                     41.1
FEMALE                10.0         15.0      17.0/!              41.3                     34.1
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (X OF SECONDARY)   8.0            1.0       0.7/f               1.7                     20.8
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                             46.1         41.5      51.8/c             37.7                      35.5
SECONDARY                           16.0        20.9         ..               20.2                      25.0
ADlLT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)         28.0         33.4      36.0                52.1                     73.1
CONS'MPTION
PASENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           0.6          1.1       1.3/c              1.5                       9.8
RALIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           4.9        21.5       33.6               35.4                     116.5
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           0.0         0.0        1.0                3.2                      37.6
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THCUSAND POPULATION                   10.6         16.0      19.8               16.4                      53.7
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA  4.1            4.1       3.7                 3.6                      2.8
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)   185951.1    219194.2  264204.4
FEMALE (PERCENT)                    30.7        32.5       31.8               29.5                      33.6
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)               74.0         74.0      69.3               70.0                      52.2
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                  11.0        11.0       13.2               15.0                      17.9
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                 42.8         40.0      39.2               40.0                      38.5
MALE                                  57.0         52.4      51.8               51.8                      50.5
FEMALE                                27.3         26.9      25.9                23.8                     26.6
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                1.1          1.1       1.1                 1.0                      1.1
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOM3
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   26.7           26.3/g    22.2/f
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS  51.7          48.97j    49.4/i-
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    4,1            6.7lji    7.0/.
LSWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   13.6          17.2       16.2/..
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEV3L (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 ..           ..     132.0              133.8                     194.7
RURAL                                 '            '      114.0              111.1                     155.1
ESTDiATED RELATIVE POVER'TY INCOME
LEVIEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 ..           ..        ..                  ..                    178.2
RURAL                                 * -          * -                                                 164.9
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PEIICENT)
URBAN                                 ..          ..       40.3               43.8                      24.4
RTURAL                                ..           ..      50.7               51.7                      41.1
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a   The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted aritbmetic means   Coverage of countries
aimong the indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b  Ulnless otherwise notedc, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
atnd 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1978 and 1980.
/c   1977; /d 1962;  /e 1976;  /f 1975; /j 1964-65.
May, 1982



ANNX I
Page 3 of 5
DEFttatltft  OF SOCIAL INDICATORS
etes    1lubachalthe iata toe dta   fro  souce.          gnealy.udedth E.t acthtrttneJ-e eAb  re:ltei. tr shoot  lso be notd that they  ay  -t  be tote-
-atjtz1ttpcop-rnle betaneo-           helc ofeed-nle d   eitttoa  en   ocpsd                        bydifeerttoureje  to  -o11eriog  the d-z.  The date are  roe
Theeteoegoy   r   1   t   esturygopo   h  sub len oNcohy                                         -sd  0  aoutY gt-P  iOt  -oahat higher tonag   jcoe than cte cc...r  g-
at the  tttjeccooccny   eecept  ro  Oset  Cocoon Out tuortets'groapehre "FIdle anto   Northdttire  oo fitdI  e ' atn  to otttet bucute tt  trotgI
sooto-ultctt  eftjorlet)     ft th  teteooca gyay  Sae titeeoetaaa are  nralatoo uAeghcec  tutfoejir nsos to  each  odtcaoraod  soat ony abe
Toal-Toa  sr ace  are  to -alt, trduease  bln    tes17  dt.                                u       hr   n   otle  tie   otei   ern sosero.uptlhd
Tton  Tetn.psn1     r         -artc  sd  iuir  eardtoe- or tneb   -- tils  1979 Auo                hbtcalocoo.                 esuauteralactot oett  teefd.
-d                                                        le~~~~~~~~~~~~aro   o   pettd  ud ljtdrange  or- sedta prit- je. Fo h ute
odrot.altoe Mob htihl. trAdt-lIdflIl
Total           GP  Prltl  td a  loboodl.  - is of  ol  1          -kt. 1,  ui-   -jbO            Iolula
tado co,   to   1961, 197. sd  198 -ltd                                                          thek boostho78ld bfor);anthhsttcal purhpionra -- b
rOpyar ot.      yja.dd  1u9e80ocetotpticdoo   r  htd  0IOP                                          a  o   rdri- yI           eI oi--,ortar.I to-) toa cI ure hooertot
tota  poulatlouhp ae rd ta  at  rber rtrtlutytoo  ttolldyrato.           er      -doae -oeeectonl -i1  d1 Teti fuo  lcdnt-1   zrultorntFrrn-trsso
E   rNE    to    aaarr   onnraic    ah.cnoteo                     brelol  tnr                      couradfre
tog  lfa  oynceoronoIlrtb" jorsed    sIy .....    y0tpar  apit  boone-h-"realt llh-otrtc  It Ioecaoofdelutt -                               toth.ill.dl   rhar.l atdrua-
hftoor  yplcco-o   atothotyppua.o..reItn  golhtoatdnr   tho  -tta,oteto-osi-Ioo                                                                          1oa, nab-uo  feetta
j0teor i.  i  au 2000 t- oe at p.rrlli-r- of8                                             b failtrfaoelo-peo rethooe     toal  stI  -n-  -toa   --loaue   atabe.teooad
ttl2  urea;. iOtf. told uod t;2=1009        liAros.     7ooloTha  teobrlcal lihodonithal-.oroteryrjazahhopat    deo-
Oar-co  to- afcucta   ad-lrtda  ohoon.h.             . fo.t.t..        al-n                      tcy0  as",er.. tsec         - attorartotoroe
latro  lO,h. 11, otd lO   data.e                                                                Adoic alneoury 1   ...    rota treroot a   tt erco   dula  til -c- rendro A rtt
Popuetle botat  hac  Iproai_d aa  -aoa  graseb otir  of-ota  rid-.                          tuuete      -ag   ofttlIocpplftrt                      1oaaad- oedar
teopocula,        c  tOht  fail-ft         t   ol-So.           --h  .e l                                   -             .          -
_apleluo ttor  hteI-rtnl-rho--o.l   racbrttafcorapdc lti-yPfo
Yacooutao10fftO   199-71 hto   lt-tI                                                            yuune  hr   rrOono                   1tto  - -aaheorrdtort--I...o  ..otot"
Crd   ur  tt   te  tout)- oullo   ilybo  ro  ho-rho  ofet_ota                                     ra      lyrttr   lte   ort  ou7 t ...  or t -ol-de-eaho-oror  berenro
-opulan960. 191.970. tod  1990 d     tIe.                                                      ntLl--t-ary-eb-totto.
lruanoetoratolrncbouutal-An     hldctaci    1  yertouad aot-ao                           oc pri cttryt. )oe-yoloonlodoo-u.dtbyo-alty   ufl t-oatopro Otrh                 d
ro-liloo;19, 19610 17.ad 1987 dat.                                                                hrurtnouoer   o                       -. erOoeor  at1 oooultuoo-et -bAt, l
Or  tor-orzrl Anjne  od r  ut-1r  ofi,  iratohu  tandy       d ynoo   ordaa-             t...a ..ccll  oe   huedpycutt   cuda   .n ehn   oh re.. ro...
1960 yflao    19a70er    (proo  ttaaidaarl    rteoar  tartd-aouotsaol   yar ,artltuooofh ea  a
GO,t-        ht-eutgae1544fla    b   n  o--bcorlduon  o                                           OayprCraaeuoIetoto    auAtlol - honteattg   cr-li
puplltoarru 1d 60ee1t70a eauerro0o.                                                               caocro    al    rea   oanc   eaatf                      eln    tyrtsu
- I.....  .eb    f d..b,.,. l  -. -11 brobI ra- tto  danotad yrnajl  toi -erdi  yl-g jerlheas       tc     ltatdioe
tea are et bAsIl              - Ageae   rdctr  facd   oatoI  hna  00~                       aSIa PlOIfe.
nactolutofcpooocr  rIe  etata  jtciu. 10y-rd  tt  data-..                               ra  bcn  ao  Ithoor,totoI     dorolait ho                      h. tnoo  .......dt-
Oa   ult oooadclresloontodaurretf- opod  rtato    oct  n   oeloa                                                                                        d -rcototbutor,Ooros   t.
roary aoinieotul  cr  oad   cypietnoulabl  trcauror  ar  apIt-baort.ai   ...ooto  a) al p,                eei . - rf-ootoo   to -00000c        rrrr .. -ae
yOOD    da    olel   ooltonrerAnti   rdnur   no    lean                                             not b c`eornhy` if)1  lol  tod-  lt ..I data,              -k
topars.1  andtatrInsoh               titpiaer  ibAr otfa  aed,  sed.-eaa  rretl                                          bent l__-o  toroaeuuooool-ad  of tota  labo  fora
quartlelt used  o food   racest:o. aod ieses todj,hnl-elr-o.   - h   dale           Aglckltora lrornehrib     - Icbc  foror Ia,, fdton,i   fotoi..    hooinger
oroacprlyf  foodyr   fop.  oeoopaipafroauooetoedutoPc        t. an_oioi.yor -en i trecIryatod  o cclel. cfestoltarotat
urtld  rod h-rocy   tOlil-ft.    I - atdl  .107  aa                                               nodythe total lato-r footr-.          I   ..         -  ..ti,-f -
Ptfopliupro ab  a     -ply Irnelal.  cood y11te - Prtt   on10     at f   toad                   -Idt- -g                                                  -     11-f
otoa  tro  rotals  od 1plet  to rouse yela,                                                                la16,17   rd17   tr  010flOOtTP
fggrylttrc.1 _brcil-d-otto hlrgy USroy -fdrnt-de...-a-l.g...o-                                                       ..Itt,jbsl00ct.   ort f- 1 peco     co   oooo  tyarr
derc.oad  .    foo A  jte  t blat  It- O. tp-   ta d2     -     f-11-dlOtO  ttu.of 7boneboda.                    B   ..    h           bebe       L'
OhAIFO                                                                                      tOO t 7Ot__) _TadIf - -0  100f   1 __2_1  _
-lr -roctta.           -o.airtilrhtao -ddrpua         p-debyottrol   oerolttuloThug               TEfo1,lloDpgr-toutuortar              ,fyrrc1ocaa-tr-d-l1 roodt 65         orIt
anlirtI;d 1061,;  9107 6td5Ot A1f7 .                                                              and tiould -  Is  oornra   ch    ro-aror  uol
Acoasia lae dacp frecyob   Qpapoatbo  A -.t.a.  urb- o. atd  or- -  Oat                 -unrarlpodias  Irpl0datutl  o-oo    totco                                  it op
gar at ye ylr -ana  . aht  andM iaal hinh ogeauoal -p            ssI  sa,lep,                   rporeblr    ibt                    p-          0p         .d...-4     -
-ttasord-)t-cld r-ttoactrtcncroctetrctccarca                                                 alaa tbl;f-hldtos     otc.oonlo               l)trcto    ooorrrl
naso ailycca R 0uS tporl  that, t-  Idutu-     t  trlh   oree   off.   tOe bou.. l            sod rofale  ,- Perao  ofe- topla-o   fuoba 'Sl eroal   h  ar -b-ar-oc
prrcrn.....o. f ate~ nopzledaoa   lt.fcr aoptlna   old
Ic  ciuctocro   outel.stb  0  otoO   oacert  aP Ior  ec-t
fol tI'l-l,tbrey -ano-borta                                                                                                        h-ca-nato  chaniat picortolt
lao los--tallealort.-:   1,----e
Paaoluojoo  .a Oitcc-o.lto0-odAb   otro1-ztao    oto                                                                                     oraoto   a  a   oalono
tunsuult.lp-Ionoeula  aco                  - a  cttor    tra.7                                                                 ouooeofr-co00iPyir  10tharno
Ptrleotua pr-  -aazd raoOanatododd  yrebropacitjO;ll
sal  ad fnae oddonOurae  ret.ttotara   -rtfot  narb et red h
turlolaatt-le



ANNEX I
Page 4 of 5
ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT DATA
GNP PER CAPITA  IN 1981 US$250
GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT IN 1981182                                                         ANNUAL RATE CF GROWTH (%, constant prices) -
US$ Bln .    %                  1955/56-1959/60  1960/61-1964/65  1965/66-1969/70  1970/71-1974/75
GNP at Market Prices           165.38    100.0                         3.7              3.6              3.6               2.9
Gross Domestic Investment       41.74      25.2
Gross National Saving           37.66      22.8
Current Account Balance         -4.08     -2.4
OUTPUT, LABOR FORCE AND PRODUCTIVITY IN 1978
Value Added (at factor cost)            Labor Force i/          'J.A. Per Worker
US$ Bln..        _                Nil.        %                 1USS     % of National Average
Agriculture                     39.8              39.6            180.6     70.7                220            56
Industry                        25.2              25.1            32.2      12.6                783           199
Services                        35,5              35.3            42.6      16.7                833           211
Total/Average                  1005              100.0           255.4    100.0                 394           100
GOVERNMENT FINANCE
General Government            e/                          Central Government
Rs.Bln.         %  of  GDP                                   Rs. Bl._.        %  of  GDP
1981/82     1981/82  1977/78-1981/82                        -1981/82    1981/82 1977/78-1981/82
Current Receipts                   285.77        19.4         19.1                               149.2E      10.1        10.4
Current Expenditures               280.34        19.0         18.2                               155.03      10.5        10.6
Current Surplus/Deficit              5.43         0.4          0.9                                -5.75      -0.4       -0.2
Capital Expenditures f/            116.91         7.9          7.8                                83.66       5.7         5.5
External Assistance (net) d/        16.45         1.1          1.0
MONEY, CREDIT AND PRICES           1970/71  1975/76  1976/77  1977/78  1978/79  1979/80  1980/81  1981/82    February 1982               February 1983
(Rs Billion outstanding at end of period)
Money and Quasi Money              110.2      224.8    277.8    329.1    401.1    472.3    554.5    625.5    615.5                           711.7
Bank Credit to Government(net)    54.6         69.2      77.6      76.4     94.2    124.1    164.4    204.4    292.2               .         353.5
Bank Credit to Commercial Sector  65.2        156.2    188.5    212.2    255.3    310.1    362.8    430.4    422.2                           487.7
(percentage or Index Numbers)                             April-Feb 1981/82    April-Feb 1982/83
Money and Qasi Money
as % of GDP                      27.4       30.3     34.6      36.5      41.2      44.1     43.3      42.5
Wholesale Price Index
(1970/71 = 100)                 100.0     173.0    176.6    185.8    185.8    217.6    257.3    281.3                281.7            . 287.3
Annual percentage changes in:
Wholesale Price Index                7.7       -1.1       2.1       5.2      -        17.1      16.2      9.3             10.0               9  2.0
Bank Credit to Government (net)   15.0          6.3      11.1      16.3     16.0      25.6      25.6     19.1             22.7 g/               21.0
Bank Credit to Conmercial Sector  20.5         22.7      20.7      12.6     20.3      21.5      17.0      18.7            20.9 g/               15.5 h/
a/  The per capita GNP estimate is at market nrices, using World Barik Atlas  methodology, base period 1979-1981.
All other conversions to dollars in this table are at the average exchange rate prevailing during the period covered.
b/  Quick Estimates, Central Statistical Organization.
c/  Computed from trend line of GNP at factor cost series, including one observation before first year and one observation after last
year of listed period.
d/ World Bank estimates of net disbursement; not necessarily consistent with official figures.
e/  Transfers between Centre and States have been netted out.
f/  All loans and advances to third parties have been netted out.
g/ Percentage change from end-March 1981 to end-February 1982.
h/ Percentage change from end-March 1982 to end-February 1983.
i/  Total Labor Force and percentage breakdown from Sixth Five Year Plan, Table 2.6 and Annexure Table 13.8.



ANNEX I
Page 5 of 5
i/         if                                                             q/
BALANCE OF PAYTNITS               1979/80  1980/81  1981/82  1982/83                   MERCHANDISE EXPORTS (AVERAGE 1978/79-1981/82)
(US$ Ml.)                                                                                                           0s8  MEn.    A
Exports of Goods q/                7,948    8,504    8,511       8,800                 Engineering Goods                901       11
Imports of Goods q/              -11,383  -16,119  -15,253  -14,801                   Tea                               457        6
Trade balance                     -3,435   -7,615   -6,742   -6,001                    Gems                             759       10
NFS (nct)                           1,042     1,365     1,120     1,088                Clothing                         556        7
Leather & Leather Products    470           6
Resource Balance                  -2,393   -6,250   -5,622   -4,913                    Jute Manufactures                279        4
Iron Ore                         352        4
Interest Intome (net) kf             287       600        212     -128                 Cotton textiles                  319        4
Net Transfers  1!                   1,852    2,771    1,577    1,668                   Sugar                            104         1
Others                         3,789       47
Baln-ce on Current Account           -254   -2,879   -3,833   -3,373
Official Aid                                                                           Total                          7,986      100
Gross Disbursements                 1,218    1,629      1,821     1,933                EXTERNAL D:BT, MAR18 31, 6982
Amortization                        1,894    2,338    2,475    2,569
US' billion
Transactions with IPF                 -       1,035       690    1,980                 Outstanding and Disbursed                   18.3
All Other Itres  u/                 -740      -130   -1.075        -358                Undisbur-ed                                 8.5
Outstanding, including                     26.8
Encrease in Reserves (-)            -224        345    2,397      -182                   bndisbursed
Gross Reserves (end year) p/    7,204    6,859    4,462    4,644
Net Reserves (end year) o/         7,204    6,532    3,498        1,703                DEBT SERVICE RATIO FOR 1981/82 jf  n/  8.9 per cent
Fuel and Related Materials                                                             IBRD/IDA LENDING, us of Pebrusry 28, 1983
Imports (Petroleum) qf             4,046    6,657    5,570    4.686                                                             USS million
IBRD          IDA
Outstanding and Disbursed            1,357          6,688
Undisborsed                          1,896          4,270
Outstanding including
Undisbursed                        3,253        10,958
RATE OF EXCHANGE
June 1966 to mid-December 1971               USSI.00 = Rn 7.50                         Spot Rate end-March 1983:  US$1.00 = Rs 10.03
Rs 1.00 =  :S$0.13333                                                 Rs 1.00 = US$0.0997
Mid-December 1971 to end-June 1972:          US51.00 = Rs 7.27927
Rs 1.00 = us$0. 137376
After end-June 1972                   :      Floating Rate
Spot Rate end-December 1981           :      USS1.00 = Rs 9.099
Rs 1.00 = US$0.110
Spot Rate end-December 1982           :      US91.00 = Rs 9.634
Rs 1.00 = USS0.104
Estimated.
k/  Figures given cover all investment income (net).  Major payments are interest on foreign loans and charges paid to
I)1Y, and major receipts is interest earned on foreign assets.
1/  Figures given include workers' remittances but exclude official grant assistance which is included within
official aid disbursements.
m/  Excludes net use of IMF credit.
0/  Amortization and interest payments on foreign loans as a percentage of exports of goods and services.and current transfers.
0/  Includes commercial borrowing.
p/  Excluding gold.
q/  Net of crude petroleum exports.



ANNEX II
Page 1 of- 26
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN INDIA
A.  STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS
(As of March 31, 1983)
US$ million
Loan or  Fiscal                                                   (Net of Cancellations)
Credit   Year of
No.      Approval         Purpose                         Bank         IDA I1      Undisbursed 2/
46 Loans/                                               1,568.0          -
76 Credits fully disbursed                                  -        4,364.4
482-IN    1974      Karnataka Dairy                        -           30.0          11.87
502-IN    1975      Rajasthan Canal CAD                    -           83.0          13.99
521-IN    1975      Rajasthan Dairy                        -           27.7           6.84
522-IN    1975      Madhya Pradesh Dairy                   -           16.4           0.31
585-IN    1976      Uttar Pradesh Water Supply             -           40.0           8.55
598-IN    1976      Fertilizer Industry                    -          105.0           3.59
604-IN    1976      Power Transmission IV                  -          150.0          10.17
609-IN    1976      Madhya Pradesh Forestry T.A.           -            4.0           0.98
610-IN    1976      Integrated Cotton Development          -           18.0           5.02
1251-IN    1976      Andhr.a Pradesh Irrigation           145.0          -            52.44
1260-IN    1976      IDBI II                               40.0          -             1.31
1273-IN    1976      National Seeds I                      25.0          -            17.08
1313-IN    19,77     Telecommunications VI                 80.0          -             3.68
1335-IN     1977     Bombay Urban Transport                25.0          -             5.69
680-IN    1977      Kerala Agric. Development              -           30.0          14.82
682-IN    1977      Orissa Agric. Development              -           20.0           4.01
685-IN    1977      Singrauli Thermal Power                -          150.0           9.62
690-IN    1977      West Bengal Agricultural
Extension & Research                -           12.0          11.60
1394-IN    1977      Gujarat Fisheries                     14.0          -             4.68
712-IN    1977      M.P. Agric. Development                -           10.0           1.57
720-IN    1977      Periya.r Vaigai Irrigation             -           23.0          10.40
728-IN    1977      Assam Agricultural Development         -            8.0           4.81
736-IN    1978      Maharashtra Irrigation                 -           70.0           6.34
737-IN    1978      Rajasthan Agric. Extension             -           13.0           1.37
740-IN    1978      Orissa Irrigation                      -           58.0           0.24
1475-IN    1978      Industry DFC XII                      78.5          -             3.86
747-IN    1978      Second Foodgrain Storage               -          107.0          64.61
756-IN    19,78     Calcutta Urban Development II          -           87.0           8.30
761-IN    1978      Bihar Agric. Extension &
Research                                        8.0            6.19



ANNEX II
Page 2 of 26
US$ million
Loan or  Fiscal                                                   (Net of Cancellations)
Credit   Year of
No.      Approval         Purpose                         Bank         IDA 1/      Undisbursed 2/
1511-IN    1978      IDBI Joint/Public Sector              25.0          -             4.66
1549-IN    1978      Third Trombay Thermal Power          105.0          -            16.68
788-IN    1978      Karnataka Irrigation                   -          117.6          57.00
793-IN    1978      Korba Thermal Power                    -          200.0          49.63
806-IN    1978      Jammu-Kashmir Horticulture    -        -           14.0          11.56
808-IN    1978      Gujarat Irrigation                     -           85.0          29.91
815-IN    1978      Andhra Pradesh Fisheries               -           17.5          10.53
816-IN    1978      National Seeds II                      -           16.0          10.55
1592-IN    1978      Telecommunications VII               120.0          -            28.48
824-IN    1978      National Dairy                         -          150.0          87.61
842-IN    1979      Bombay Water Supply II                 -          196.0         170.17
843-IN     1979     Haryana Irrigation                     -          111.0            0.10
844-IN    1979      Railway Modernization
& Maintenance                       -          190.0           63.60
848-IN    1979      Punjab Water Supply & Sewerage         -           38.0           9.88
855-IN    1979      National Agricultural Research         -           27.0          20.30
862-IN    1979      Composite Agricultural Extension    -              25.0            9.45
871-IN    1979      National Cooperative Development
Corporation                         -           30.0            6.07
1648-IN    1979      Ramagundam Thermal Power              50.0          -            50.00
874-IN    1979      Ramagundam Thermal Power               -          200.0          52.90
889-IN    1979      Punjab Irrigation                      -          129.0          68.92
899-IN    1979      Maharashtra Water Supply               -           48.0          17.49
911-IN    1979      Rural Electrification Corp. II         -          175.0          26.76
925-IN    1979      Uttar Pradesh Social Forestry          -           23.0            9.77
954-IN    1980      Maharashtra Irrigation II              -          210.0          99.51
961-IN    1980      Gujarat Community Forestry             -           37.0           18.45
963-IN    1980      Inland Fisheries                       -           20.0          18.29
981-IN    1980      Population II                          -           46.0          39.48
1003-IN    1980      Tamil Nadu Nutrition                   -           32.0          25.95
1004-IN    1980      U.P. Tubewells                          -          18.0           3.75
1011-IN    1980      Gujarat Irrigation II                  -          175.0         132.77
1012-IN    1980      Cashewnut                              -           22.0          18.95
1027-IN    1980      Singrauli Thermal II                   -          300.0         221.29
1028-IN    1980      Kerala Agricultural Extension          -           10.0            8.99
1033-IN    1980      Calcutta Urban Transport               -           56.0          30.35
1034-IN    1980      Karnataka Sericulture                  -           54.0          44.68
1046-IN    1980      Rajasthan Water Supply
and Sewerage                        -           80.0           64.42
1843-IN    1980      Industry DFC XIII                    100.0          -            15.29



ANNEX II
Page 3 of 26
US$ million
Loan or  Fiscal                                                   (Net of Cancellations)
Credit   Year of
No.      Approval         Purpose                         Bank         IDA 1/      Undisbursed 2/
1887-IN    1980      Farakka Thermal Power                 25.0          _            25.00
1053-IN    1980      Farakka Thermal Power                  -          225.0         179.32
1897-IN    1981      Kandi Watershed and
Area Development                    30.0          -            25.30
1925-IN    19381     Bombay High Offshore
Development                      400. C          -            42.02
1072-IN    1981      Bihar Rural Roads                      -           35.0          28.17
1078-IN    1981      Mahanadi Barrages                      -           83.0          77.59
1082-IN    1981      Madras Urban Development II            -           42.0          29.88
1108-IN    1981      M.P. Medium Irrigation                 -          140.0         132.36
1112-IN    1981      Telecommunications VIII                -          314.0         210.79
1116-IN    1981      Karnataka Tank Irrigation              -           54.0          53.85
1125-IN    1981      Hazira Fertilizer Project              -          400.0         344.72
1135-IN    1981      Maharashtra Agricultural Ext.          -           23.0          21.75
1137-IN    1981      Tamil Nadu Agricultural Ext.           -           28.0          25.25
1138-IN    1981      M.P. Agricultural Ext. II              -           37.0          36.27
1146-IN    1981      Nationial Cooperative
Development Corp. II                 -          125.0         109.46
1172-IN    1982      Korba Thermal Power Project II         -          400.0         366.87
1177-IN    1982      Madhya Pradesh Major Irrigation        -          220.0         206.58
2050-IN    1982      Tamil Nadu Newsprint                 100.0          -            81.29
1178-IN    1982      West Bengal Social Forestry            -           29.0          26.86
1185-IN    1982      Kanpur Urban Development               -           25.0          23.37
2051-IN    1982      ICICI XIV                            150.0          -           124.82
2076-IN    1982      Ramaguindam Thermal Power II         300.0          -           300.00
2095-IN    1982      ARDC IV                              190.0          -           190.00
1209-IN    1982      ARDC IV                                -          160.0          23.34
1219-IN    1982      AndhraL Pradesh Agricultural
Extension                           -             6.0           5.80
2123-IN    1982      Refineries Rationalization           200.0          -           181.91
2165-IN    1982      Rural Electrification III            304.5          -           300.00
2186-IN    1982      Kalladla Irrigation                   20.3          -            20.00
1269-IN    1932      Kallada Irrigation                     -           60.0          48.41
1280-IN    1983      Gujarat Water Supply                   -           72.0           71.45
1286-IN    1983      Jammu/Kashmir and                                   -
Haryana Social Forestry             -            33.0          31.70
1288-IN    1983      Chambal Madhya Pradesh                 -            -
Irrigation II                       -           31.0           31.00
1289-IN    1983      Subernarekha Irrigation                -          127.0         123.26
2205-IN    1983      Krisbna-Godavari Exploration         165.5          -           163.05
2210-IN    1983      Railways Modernization &
Maintenance II                    200.0           -           197.04
1299-IN    1983      Railways Modernization &
Maintenance II                       -          200.0         200.00



ANNEX II
Page 4 of 26
US$ million
Loan or  Fiscal                                                  (Net of Cancellations)
Credit   Year of
No.      Approval        Purpose                         Bank         IDA 1/     Undisbursed 2/
2241-IN    1983      South Bassein Gas Development*    222.3            -          222.30
1319-IN    1983      Haryana Irrigation IT*                -          150.0        150.00
1332-IN    1983      U.P. Public Tubewells II*             -          101.0        101.00
Total                                    4,783.1    11,446.6
of which has been repaid               1,211.8        120.4
Total now outstanding                    3,571.3    11,326.2
Amount Sold                    133.8
of which has been repaid    133.8          -
Total now held by Bank and IDA 3/        3,571.3    11,326.2
Total undisbursed (excluding *)          1,854.3      4,052.3
1/  IDA Credit amounts for SDR-denominated Credits are expressed in terms of their US dollar
equivalents, as established at the time of Credit negotiations and as subsequently
presented to the Board.
2/  Undisbursed amounts for SDR-denominated IDA Credits are derived from cumulative dis-
bursements converted to their US dollar equivalents on the basis of the SDR/US dollar
exchange rate (1 SDR = US$1.07867) in effect on March 31, 1983.
3/  Prior to exchange adjustment.
*   Not yet effective.



ANNEX II
Page 5 of 26
B. STATEMENT_OF_IFC INVESTMENTS
(As of March 31, 1983)
Amount (US$ million)
Year                     Company                       Loan      Equity    Total
1959             Republic Forge Company Ltd.             15          -        1.5
1959             Kirloskar Oil Engines Ltd.              0.9         -        0.9
1960             Assam Sillimanite Ltd.                  1.4         -        1.4
1961             K.S.B. Pumps Ltd.                       0.2         -        0.2
1963-66          Precision Bearings India Ltd.           0.6        0.4       1.0
1964             Fort Gloster Industries Ltd.            0.8        0.4       1.2
1964-75-79       Mahindra Ugine Steel Co. Ltd.          11.8        1.3      13.1
1964             Lakshmi Machine Works Ltd.              1.0        0.3       1.3
1967             Jayshree Chemicals Ltd.                 1.1        0.1       1.2
1967             Indian Explosives Ltd.                  8.6        2.9     11.5
1969-70          Zuari Agro-Chemicals Ltd.              15.1        3.8     18.9
1976             Escorts Limited                         6.6         -       6.6
1978             Housing Development Finance
Corporation                             4.0        1.2      5.2
1980             Deepak Fertilizer and
Petrochemicals Corporation Ltd.         7.5        1.2      8.7
1981             Coromandel Fertilizers Limited         15.9                 15.9
1981             Tata Iron and Steel Company Ltd.    38.0            -       38.0
1981             Mahindra, Mahindra Limited             15.0         -       15.0
1981             Nagarjuna Coated Tubes Ltd.             2.9        0.3       3.2
1981             Nagarjuna Signode Limited               2.3         -       2.3
1981             Nagarjuna Steels Limited                1.5        0.2       1.7
1982             Ashok Leyland Limited                  28.0         -       28.0
1982             The Bombay Dyeing and
Manufacturing Co. Ltd.              18.8        -       18.8
1982             Bharat Forge Company Ltd.              16.3         -       16.3
1982             The Indian Rayon Corp. Ltd.             8.5         _        8.5
TOTAL GROSS COMMITMENTS         208.3       12.1    220.4
Less:   Sold                           53.0        3.2     56.2
Repaid                        28.3         -       28.3
Cancelled                     15.9        1.4      17.3
Now Held                     111.1        7.5    118.6
Undisbursed                   93.1        0.2      93.3



ANNEX II
Page 6 of 26
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION l/
(As of March 31, 1983)
Generally, the implementation of projects has been proceeding
reasonably well. Brief notes on the execution of individual projects are
below. The level of disbursements was US$1,245 million in FY82, compared to
US$962 million in the previous year. Disbursements in the current fiscal
year through March 31, 1983 total US$1,008 million, representing an increase
of about 17% over the same period last year. The undisbursed pipeline as of
March 31, 1983, is US$5,907 million.
Ln. No. 1475 Twelfth Industrial Credit and Investment Corporation of India
Project; US$80 million loan of July 22, 1977; Effective
Date: October 4, 1977; Closing Date: September 30, 1983
Ln. No. 1843 Thirteenth Industrial Credit and Investment Corporation of
India Project; US$100 million loan of May 16, 1980; Effective
Date: June 27, 1980; Closing Date: December 31, 1985
Ln. No. 2051 Fourteenth Industrial Credit and Investment Corporation of
India Project; US$150 million loan of October 8, 1981;
Effective Date: December 3, 1981; Closing Date: March 31, 1988
These loans are supporting industrial development in India through
a well-established development finance company and are designed to finance
the foreign exchange cost of industrial projects. ICICI continues to be a
well-managed and efficient development bank financing medium- and large-scale
industries, often in the high technology fields and are also mostly
export-oriented. Disbursements are on schedule for the twelfth loan and
ahead of schedule for the thirteenth and fourteenth loans.
Ln. No. 1260   Second Industrial Development Bank of India Project;
US$40 million loan of June 10, 1976; Effective Date:
August 10, 1976; Closing Date: March 31, 1983
1/ These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any
problems which are being encountered and the action being taken to remedy
them. They should be read in this sense and with the understanding that
they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths and
weaknesses in project execution.



ANNEX II
Page 7 of 26
Ln. No. 1511   IDBI Joint/Public Sector Project; US$25 million loan of
March 1, 1978; Effective Date: May 31, 1978; Closing Date:
March 31, 1983
Loan 1260 has been completed and was closed oni March 31, 1983. Dis-
bursements are expected to be completed by the end of April 1983.
Loan 1511 is nearly complete and was also scheduled to close on
March 31, 1983. Although project implementation has been satisfactory, a
small number of sub-projects remain unfinished. Following a detailed review
of the project by a Bank mission in April, a short ext:ension of the closing
date will be made to allow completion of these sub-projects and full disbur-
sement of the loan proceeds.
Ln. No. 2050 Tamil Nadu Newsprint Project; US$100 million loan of
September 23, 1981; Effective Date: March 22, 1982; Closing
Date: August 31, 1985
Project progress is good. Land acquisition has been completed and
construction began in July 1982. Basic engineering work was completed on
schedule at the end of August. Procurement is proceeding as planned.
Cr. No. 598   Fertilizer Industry Project; US$105 million credit of
December 31, 1975; Effective Date: March 1, 1976; Closing
Date: December 31, 1982
Cr. No. 1125 Hazira Fertilizer Project; US$400 million credit of
October 28, 1981; Effective Date: January 21, 1982; Closing
Date: June 30, 1986
Following completion of 37 fertilizer sub-projects, Credit 598 was
closed on December 31, 1982.  Disbursements are expected to be completed by
the end of April 1983. About US$3 million in the credit account are expected
to be cancelled.
Credit 1125 is proceeding generally satisfactorily. Procurement of
all critical items is on schedule. The need to undertake unexpected piling
and foundation work Identified by detailed soil surveys delayed somewhat the
start of major civil works. This has now been completed, and erection of the
ammonia and urea plants is scheduled to begin in April--May 1983.
Ln. No. 2123 Refineries Rationalization Project; US$200 million loan of
May 5, 1982; Effective Date: June 29, 1982; Closing Date:
September 30, 1986
Project implementation is satisfactory. The conversion component
is making very good progress, with construction about to commence. Prepara-
tion work and investment approvals for the energy efficiency and pollution
control components are underway.
Ln. No. 1925 Second Bombay High Offshore Development Project; US$400 million
loan of December 11, 1980; Effective Date: February 24, 1981;
Closing Date: March 31, 1984



ANNEX II
Page 8 of 26
Ln. No. 2205  Krishna-Godavari Exploration Project; US$165.5 million loan of
November 9, 1982; Effective Date: February 28, 1983; Closing
Date: March 31, 1986
Ln. No. 2241  South Bassein Offshore Gas Development Project; US$222.3 million
loan of March 31, 1983; Effective Date:  Expected June 1983;
Closing Date: December 31, 1985.
The Bombay High Project is progressing well. All platforms and
subsea pipelines have been installed essentially on schedule. ONGC reached
its targetted production level of 240,000 Bbl/day in May 1982, and is
presently producing 250,000 Bbl/day, 44% of which comes from project wells.
Initial activities under the Krishna-Godavari Project are about four
months behind schedule due to longer than anticipated testing and completion
time for on-shore wells, lack of adequate number of geophysicists for
processing the seismic data, and delay in initiating procurement actions.
These problems have been discussed in depth with ONGC, and they are in the
process of undertaking steps to correct the situation.
The South Bassein Gas Project is designed to assist India to increase
her gas production capability through the installation of offshore platforms
for drilling, processing, and gas flaring, and the laying of a subsea
pipeline to Gujarat State and the fertilizer plant at Hazira. Initial
procurement activities are underway.
Cr. No. 604   Power Transmission IV Project; US$150 million credit of
January 22, 1976; Effective Date: October 22, 1976; Closing
Date: June 30, 1983
Cr. No. 685   Singrauli Thermal Power Project; US$150 million credit of
April 1, 1977; Effective Date: June 28, 1977; Closing Date:
December 31, 1983
Cr. No. 793   Korba Thermal Power Project; US$200 million credit of May 12,
1978; Effective Date: August 14, 1978; Closing Date: March 31,
185
Ln. No. 1549  Third Trombay Thermal Power Project; US$105 million loan of
June 19, 1978; Effective Date: February 8, 1979; Closing Date:
March 31, 1984
Ln. No. 1648  Ramagundam Thermal Power Project; US$50 million loan and
Cr. No. 874   US$200 million credit of February 2, 1979; Effective Date:
May 22, 1979; Closing Date: December 31, 1985
Cr. No. 1027  Second Singrauli Thermal Power Project; US$300 million credit
of June 5, 1980; Effective Date: July 30, 1980; Closing Date:
March 31, 1988



ANNEX II
Page 9 of 26
Ln. No. 1887  Farakka Thermal Power Project; US$25 million loan and
Cr. No. 1053  US$225 million credit of July 11, 1980; Effective Date:
December 10, 1980; Closing Date: March 31, 1987
Ln. No. 2076  Second Ramagundam Thermal Power Project; US$300 million loan of
January 6, 1982; Effective Date: March 16, 1982; Closing
Date: June 30, 1988
Cr. No. 1172  Second Korba Thermal Power Project; US$400 million credit of
February 4, 1982; Effective Date: March 16, 1982; Closing
Date: December 31, 1989
Credits 685 and 1027 assist in financing the 2,000 MW Singrauli
deve:Lopment, which is the first of four power stations In the Government's
program for the development of large central thermal power stations feeding
power into an interconnected grid. Credit 793, together with Credit 1172,
which became effective March 16, 1982, support the construction of the
2100 MW development, consisting of three 200 MW and three 500 MW generating
units, at the second such station, at Korba, together with related facilities
and associated transmission. Loan 1648/Credit 874, together with Loan 2076,
which also became effective March 16, 1982, support similar investments at
Ramagundam. Loan 1887/Credit 1053 assists in financing the first three
200 MW generating units at the Farakka station. The National Thermal Power
Corporation (NTPC) has been carrying out construction and operation of these
power stations. Loan 1549 supports the construction of a 500 MW extension of
the Tata Electric Company-s station at Trombay, designed to help meet the
forecast load growth in the Bombay area.
All these large-scale thermal power projects are progressing satis-
factorily.  Construction works for the Singrauli, Korba, and Farakka stations
are on or ahead of schedule, although some slippage has occurred in the
implementation schedule for the Ramagundam project. The first unit at the
Singrauli station was commissioned on schedule in February 1982, the second
unit in October 1982, and the third in March 1983. The first unit at the
Korba station was also commissioned in March 1983. In the Third Trombay
project, procureme!nt is complete and the generator Is expected to be commis-
sioned in April/May 1983. Tata Electric Company's financial performance in
1982, and projections through 1985, are satisfactory. Cost overruns, caused
by design modifications, price increases in materials, and increases in
customns duties, will be met by the Government of India.
Cr. No. 911   Second Rural Electrification Corporation Project; US$175 million
credit of June 21, 1979; Effective Date: October 17, 1979;
Closing Date: March 31, 1984
Ln. No. 2165  Third Rural Electrification Corporation Project; US$304.5 million
loan of June 22, 1982; Effective Date:  October 21, 1982;
Closing Date: June 30, 1986
These projects are progressing satisfactorily with no major problems.
Procurement of materials and equipment is on schedule, and disbursements are
keeping pace with appraisal estimates. Detailed plans for the new Rural
Electrification Corporation (REC) training institute to be established in



ANNEX II
Page 10 of 26
Hyderabad are well advanced. REC's financial performance continues to be
satisfactory. In the near future, REC's major thrust under both projects
will be on improving consumer connection performance, which is lagging con-
siderably behind projections. REC is in the process of reassessing the
annual work programs of the State Electricity Boards, including an analysis
of the reasons for the poor connection performance, the setting of realistic
new goals, and the introduction of measures to improve the situation.
Ln. No. 1313 Telecommunications VI Project; US$80 million loan of
July 22, 1976; Effective Date: September 14, 1976
Closing Date: March 31, 1983
Ln. No. 1592 Telecommunications VII Project; US$120 million loan of
June 19, 1978; Effective Date: October 30, 1978; Closing
Date: December 31, 1983
Cr. No. 1112 Telecommunications VIII Project; US$314 million credit of
March 26, 1981; Effective Date: June 24, 1981;
Closing Date: December 31, 1984
Loan 1313 has been successfully concluded and was closed on March 31,
1983. Disbursements are expected to be completed by May 31, 1983.
Loan 1592 and Credit 1112 are both progressing satisfactorily and
there are no major problems. Initial delays in Loan 1592 as a result of late
procurement caused by a strike have been offset by accelerated implementation
during 1982. All bidding under Credit 1112 is now complete and civil works
are underway. Institutional improvements under all projects have been
achieved and the financial position of the Posts & Telegraph Department
remains sound.
Cr. No. 844   Railway Modernization and Maintenance Project; US$190 million
credit of November 13, 1978; Effective Date: January 10, 1979;
Closing Date: December 31, 1984
Ln. No. 2210 Second Railway Modernization and Maintenance Project;
Cr. No. 1299 US$200 million loan and US$200 million credit of December 23,
1982; Effective Date: February 23, 1983; Closing Date:
September 30, 1987
These projects are designed to help the Indian Railways reduce
re-manufacturing and maintenance costs of locomotives and rolling stock and
to improve their performance and availability. The physical execution of
Credit 844 continues to make good progress. Procurement of all critical
equipment is complete and civil works are well advanced. Commitments under
the project total nearly 97% of the Credit amount. Initial activities for
the second project are underway. The Indian Railways financial and traffic
performance continued its significant improvement in FY1982/83, and this is
expected to be sustained in FY1983/84.



ANNEX II
Page 11 of 26
Cr. No. 1072  Bihar Rural Roads Project; US$35 million credit of December 5,
1980; Effective Date: January 15, 1981; Closing Date:
June 30, 1986
The project aims to construct or rehabilitate 700 km of rural roads
and to improve maintenance of the rural road network in Bihar. It is
proceeding on schedule. The majority of the equipment required for the
project has been delivered. Contracts have been awarded for civil works
totalling to about US$13 million and work began last March.
Ln. No. 1335  Bombay Urban Transport Project; US$25 million loan of
December 20, 1976; Effective Date: Marc'h 10, 1977;
Closing Date: June 30, 1983
Cr. No. 1033 Calcutta Urban Transport Project; US$56 million credit of
October 27, 1980; Effective Date: Decem'ber 18, 1980;
Closing Date: December 31, 1984
Implementation of the Bombay project is satisfactory, with about 75%
of the loan disbursed. Construction of new workshop facilities began In
January 1982, but to allow for completion the loan closing date may have to
be extended one year. A bus fare revision on April 1, 1982 increased
revenues by 20% and will enable the project authority to achieve its targeted
operating ratio.
There has be en considerable recent improvement in the Calcutta
project, including definite progress at the policy level in response to IDA's
15-point action program to improve project implementation, which was
presented to the project authorities in October 1982. All 75 new tramcars
financed under the project have been delivered, an additional 60 should be
renovated and in service by December 1983, and the ope!rating performance of
the tram company has improved substantially over the last six months.
Although the operating performance of the bus corporation remains unsatisfac-
tory, the recent appointment of three new senior staff members to the cor-
poration-s management and a new Chairman of the Board is expected to improve
operations, and there are now over 500 new buses in service.
Cr. No. 756   Second Calcutta Urban Development Project; US$87 million
credit of January 6, 1978; Effective Date: April 7, 1978;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983
Cr. No. 1082  Second Madras Urban Development Project; US$42 credit of
January 14, 1981; Effective Date: March 2, 1981;
Closing Date: March 31, 1986
Cr. No. 1185 Kanpur Urban Development Project; US$25 mnillion credit of
February 4, 1982; Effective Date: April 22, 1982;
Closing Date: June 30, 1986
Physical performance in the Calcutta project is generally good. All
sub-projects presently under implementation are schedu:led to be completed by
March 31, 1983. Following a review of the overall program for Calcutta-s
further development, the Government of West Bengal shifted its investment



ANNEX II
Page 12 of 26
priorities somewhat and consequently requested a revision of some components
of this project. IDA agreed to the suggested changes, and the closing date
has been extended by nine months to allow for completion of the redefined
project.
Credit 1082, is proceeding satisfactorily, with the exception of the
sites and services component, where legal challenges are causing delays in
land acquisition. The Government of Tamil Nadu (GOTN) is actively pursuing
the resolution of these court cases and has identified alternative sites to
be used so that the sites and services works can be finished by the project
closing date. The financial performance of the Pallavan Transport Corpora-
tion (PTC), the project implementing agency, is unsatisfactory.  It is not
generating funds sufficient to meet its financial targets. An action plan to
cut operating costs, reduce new investment, and raise revenues has recently
been formulated and, subject to the agreement of GOTN, will enable PTC to
achieve the required targets by 1983/84 and maintain them thereafter.
Progress under Credit 1185 is mixed. Procedures to improve cost
recovery have not been introduced as agreed, studies on institutional
strengthening of the project agencies have not begun, and the project
authority suffers from a serious lack of staff with proper management exper-
tise. However, there has been considerable improvement recently in land
acquisition for slum upgrading, where completed works have benefitted nearly
6,700 households. Procurement is proceeding well and all physical works are
expected to be completed on schedule.
Cr. No. 585   Uttar Pradesh Water Supply and Sewerage Project; US$40 million
credit of September 25, 1975; Effective Date: February 6, 1976;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
Following the completion of physical works, the project was closed
on December 31, 1982. Institutional and financial performance under the
project were unsatisfactory, and several of the implementing agencies were
unable to achieve the financial performance targets which had been agreed
with IDA.
Cr. No. 842   Second Bombay Water Supply and Sewerage Project; US$196
million credit of November 13, 1978; Effective Date: June 12,
1979; Closing Date: March 31, 1985
Cr. No. 848   Punjab Water Supply and Sewerage Project; US$38 million credit
of October 27, 1978; Effective Date: January 25, 1979;
Closing Date: March 31, 1984
Cr. No. 899   Maharashtra Water Supply and Sewerage Project; US$48 million
credit of June 21, 1979; Effective Date: November 9, 1979;
Closing Date: June 30, 1984
Cr. No. 1046 Rajasthan Water Supply and Sewerage Project; US$80 million
credit of June 25, 1980; Effective Date: August 5, 1980;
Closing Date: December 31, 1985



ANNEX II
Page 13 of 26
Cr. No. 1280 Gujarat Water Supply and Sewerage Project; US$72 million credit
of tNovember 9, 1982; Effective Date: February 8, 1983;
Closing Date: September 30, 1987
Recent progress under Credit 842 has been encouraging. Preparation
of contract documents and drawings for the water supply component is well
advanced. For the 137 sewerage sub-projects, all tender documents have been
completed and construction is well underway, although there have been serious
delays on the two major sewerage treatment plants due to land acquisition
difficulties. Cost overruns are expected and IDA has requested the project
authorities to prepare detailed estimates and proposals for dealing with
these.  The financial performance of the Bombay Water Supply and Sewerage
Department continues to be satisfactory, and all financial conditions under
the project are being met.
The closing date of Credit 848 has been extended one year as a result
of initial procurement delays.  Physical implementation of the project is now
proceeding satisfactorily, and all works are expected to be finished by the
extended completion date of December 1983. The quality of construction work
Is excellent, and the Punjab Water Supply and Sewerage Board is proving to be
an effective imp:Lementing agency. However, there continue to be significant
problems with financial and operational performance, which must be improved
considerably if agreed targets under the project are to be met. IDA has
brought this to the attention of the project authorities repeatedly, and
plans to concentrate its supervision efforts for the duration of the project
on improving the financial and operational aspects of implementation.
Credit 899 is proceeding reasonably well. It has now entered the
full construction stage, and work is satisfactory.  Disbursements are in line
with t:he appraisal estimates. The level of tariffs is adequate to achieve
the financial performance targets under the project. The Government of
Maharashtra is preparing detailed estimates and proposals for dealing with
the anticipated cost increases which have occurred as a result of delayed
start of construction and retendering on one major water supply facility.
Attention now needs to be devoted to the resolution of the staffing difficul-
ties in the Maharashtra Water Supply and Sewerage Board, particularly the
lack of financial staff to properly administer their financial operations.
Under the Rajasthan project, Credit 1046, the rural water supply
schemes are well advanced and engineering designs for the urban schemes have
been nearly finalized. Progress in the project has been hampered by the
Government of Rajasthan (GOR) fund allocations running at between 50%-60%
of annual requirements. A recent Cabinet decision has deferred the construc-
tion of the planned Hemawas/Kuri Pipeline to provide water to the city of
Jodhpur, in order to consider the possibility of accessing water from the
Rajast'han Canal instead. A feasibility report has been completed. GOR has
decided on the alternative Rajasthan Canal source, which will be funded
without Bank assistance.
Initial work under Credit 1280 is proceeding well. The design team
has been established and detailed design of all sub-projects is on schedule.
The bidi documents for civil works in Ahmedabad, one of the project cities,
have been approved and will be issued shortly. Work is now concentrating on
preparation of bicls for materials procurement.



ANNEX II
Page 14 of 26
Cr. No. 502   Rajasthan Canal Command Area Development Project; US$83
million credit of July 31, 1974; Effective Date: December 12,
1974; Closing Date: June 30, 1983
Ln. No. 1251  Andhra Pradesh Irrigation and Command Area Development
(TW)       Composite Project; US$145 million loan (Third Window) of
June 10, 1976; Effective Date: September 7, 1976; Closing
Date: December 31, 1982
Cr. No. 720   Periyar Vaigai Irrigation Project; US$23 million credit of
June 30, 1977; Effective Date: September 30, 1977; Closing
Date: March 31, 1984
Cr. No. 736   Maharashtra Irrigation Project; US$70 million credit of
October 11, 1977; Effective Date: January 13, 1978; Closing
Date: March 31, 1983
Cr. No. 740   Orissa Irrigation Project; US$58 million of October 11, 1977;
Effective Date: January 16, 1978; Closing Date: October 31, 1983
Cr. No. 788   Karnataka Irrigation Project; US$126 million credit of
May 12, 1978; Effective Date: August 10, 1978; Closing
Date: March 31, 1984
Cr. No. 808   Gujarat Medium Irrigation Project; US$85 million credit of
July 17, 1978; Effective Date: October 31, 1978; Closing Date:
June 30, 1984
Cr. No. 843   Haryana Irrigation Project; US$111 million credit of
jAugust 16, 1978; Effective Date: December 14, 1978; Closing
Date: August 31, 1983
Cr. No. 889   Punjab Irrigation Project; US$129 million credit of March 30,
1979; Effective Date: June 20, 1979; Closing Date: June 30, 1985
Cr. No. 954   Second Maharashtra Irrigation Project; US$210 million credit of
April 14, 1980; Effective Date: June 6, 1980; Closing
Date: December 31, 1985
Cr. No. 1011  Second Gujarat Irrigation Project; US$175 million -redit of
May 12, 1980; Effective Date: June 27, 1980; Closi.1g Date:
April 30, 1986
Cr. No. 1078  Mahanadi Barrages Project; US$83 million credit of December 5,
1980; Effective Date: February 11, 1981; Closing Date: March 31,
1987
Cr. No. 1108  Madhya Pradesh Medium Irrigation Project; US$140 million credit
of Mar-ch --T6, 198 ; Effective Date: May 13, 1981; Closing Date:
March 31, 1987



ANNEX II
Page 15 of 26
Cr. No. 1177  Madhya Pradesh Major Irrigation Project; US$220 million credit
of February 24, 1982; Effective Date:  April 16_, 1982;
Closing Date: June 30, 1987
Ln. No. 2186  Kallada Irrigation Project; US$20.3 million loan and US$60 million
Cr. No. 1269  crediLt of July 6, 1982; Effective Date:  September 21, 1982;
Closing Date: March 31, 1987
Cr. No. 1288  Second Chambal Madhya Pradesh Irrigation Project; US$31 million
credit of September 7, 1982; Effective Date:  December 1, 1982
Closing Date: March 31, 1987
Cr. No. 1289  Subernarekha Irrigation Project; US$127 million credit of
November 9, 1982; Effective Date: January 10, 1983; Closing
Date: April 30, 1987.
Cr. No. 1319  Haryana II Irrigation Project; US$150 million credit of
February 23, 1983;  Effective Date:  Expected May 1983;
Closing Date: March 31, 1988.
These projects, based on existing large irrigation systems, are
designed to improve the efficiency of water utilization and, where possible,
to use water savings for bringing additional areas under irrigation. Canal
lining and other irrigation infrastructure, drainage, and land shaping are
prominent components of these projects. In addition, provisions have been
made to increase agricultural production and marketing by reforming and
upgrading agricultural extension services and by providing processing and
storage facilities and village access roads.
Following unsatisfactory early project progress, Loan 1251 was refor-
mulated in May 1980, at which time project completion was planned for Decem-
ber 1984. On the basis of improved implementation performance under the
reformulated program, a one-year extension of the closing date is now under
consideration.
Implementation of Maharashtra I has been unbalanced, with emphasis on
major works. As of March 31, 1983, the original closing date, the large
construction components were about 80% complete, but t'here were major short-
falls in the minor irrigation and CAD works.  Over recent months there has
been some improvement in implementation, with the provision of adequate
budget resources and staff, and the preparation of detailed work programs for
completion of the works. Therefore, a one-year extenslon of the closing date
is being considered to allow completion of all project components and hence
full development of the irrigation potential of the area.
As a result of cost overruns, the Periyar Vaigai Project was reformu-
lated in 1981, at which time completion was planned for March 1984.  Accord-
ingly, the closing date has been extended by one year to March 31, 1984.
Recent implementation progress has been encouraging, particularly in the
construction of field channels. The project could profit still further,
however, from improved coordination among the various Government of Tamil
Nadu agencies responsible for project execution.



ANNEX II
Page 16 of 26
The Karnataka Project is experiencing serious delays in command area
development and completion of construction of the distribution system, due
mainly to lack of proper support from the State Government and inadequate
staffing of the project entity. The urgent attention of the State Government
must be devoted to the early resolution of these implementation problems.
Although the Gujarat Medium Project is 30% behind schedule on
average, there has been considerable recent improvement. There is no longer
a shortage of field staff, construction standards have improved, and there
has been substantial progress in finalizing the designs of the distribution
systems. Disbursements, at 50% of the SAR target, are expected to improve
following the Introduction of steps designed to reduce ineligible expendi-
tures. The GOG is currently preparing detailed implementation schedules to
ensure completion of the 23 sub-projects by June 1984.
The Gujarat II Project has also demonstrated recent signs of improve-
ment. Staffing problems, which had been a cause of serious delays, have now
been resolved. The quality of construction work has improved, design
problems have been corrected, and the Water and Land Management Institute is
contributing significantly to the training of Irrigation Department staff.
Although the project remains considerably behind schedule and will face cost
overruns, all components continue to be economically and financially viable.
The GOG is now preparing detailed implementation schedules for the completion
of project works which will form the basis for future monitoring.
Shortages of cement and inadequate provision of budgetary resources
continue to delay implementation of the Punjab Project. In addition, there
are cost overruns in the canal and watercourse lining components of about 15%
and 40%, respectively; and the study of water charges, due in August 1981,
remains incomplete. The Government of Punjab has repeatedly been requested
by Bank supervision missions to address these issues urgently.
The Madhya Pradesh Medium Irrigation Project is considerably behind
schedule. The sub-project appraisal process has been overly slow. While
there are 12 sub-projects now under implementation, approximately 20-25 are
needed to assure expected project benefits and full disbursement of the
credit proceeds. Moreover, the works are unbalanced in favor of construction
of dams rather than conveyance systems. Several significant procurement
contracts are scheduled to be awarded in April 1983, which is expected to
bring about accelerated project implementation.
There has been significant recent progrss in the MP Major Project.
Procurement procedures have been streamlined, several major ICB and LCB
contracts are expected to be awarded in March-April 1983, and design work for
the canal structures Is progressing well. The GOMP's planned intensification
of project activities during the current December 1982-June 1983, and the
1983/84 construction seasons, should be adequate to offset initial start-up
delays. Attention can now be devoted to completion of the resettlement plan
for persons to be displaced by project reservoirs, and to initiation of the
minor project components, such as roads, research stations, and the estab-
lishment of drainage and hydrometeorological networks.



ANNEX II
Page 17 of 26
Credit 1289 supports an irrigation and industrial/water supply
program on 255,000 ha in the States of Bihar, Orissa and West Bengal.
Credit 1319 continues the Government of Haryana's modernization program
through the lining of irrigation channels and the provision of supplementary
water from augmental:ion tubewells. Early project activities are proceeding
as scheduled.
Progress of the remaining projects is generally satisfactory.
Cr. No. 1116 Karnataka Tank Irrigation Project; US$54 million credit of
March 26, 1981; Effective Date: May 5, 1981; Closing Date:
March 31, 1986
Th project is designed to finance the construction of 120-160 tank
irrigation schemes throughout the State of Karnataka. The Government of
Karnataka has proposed a reduction to 87 in the number of schemes to be
completd.  Project preparation has been slow due to serious staffing vacan-
cies and the overloading of senior project staff with non-project respon-
sibilities. Design work is seriously behind schedule and construction has
not yet begun at the dam sites. The Government of Karnataka has been asked
to prepare a program to complete the scheduled works within the agreed
project period, together with a staffing and budget plan, by the end of
October 1982.
Credit No. 1004  Uttar Pradesh Public Tubewells Project; US$18 million
credit of May 12, 1980; Effective Date: June 27, 1980;
Closing Date: March 31, 1983.
Credit tNo. 1332  Uttar Pradesh Public Tubewells II Project; US$101 credit
of March 31, 1983; Effective Date: Expected June 1983;
Closing Date: March 31, 1988.
The first project has been successfully completed within the original
closing date. In fact an additional 70 tubewells above the 500 originally
plannned at appraisal were constructed. Disbursements are expected to be
completed by June 30, 1983.
Initial activities are underway for Credit 1332, which provides for
the installation of 2200 new tubewell systems, and the upgrading of 750
existing tubewell systems, based on the modernized design which was success-
fully proven in the first project.
Cr. No. 1582   Orissa Agricultural Development Project; US$20 million credit
of April 1, 1977; Effective Date: June 28, 1977; Closing Date:
December 31, 1983
Cr. No. (690   West Bengal Agricultural Extension and Research Project;
US$12 million credit of June 1, 1977; Effective Date:
August 30, 1977; Closing Date: September 30, 1983
Cr. No. 712   Madhya Pradesh Agricultural Extension andsearch Proect;
US$10 million credit of June 1, 1977; Effective Date:
September 2, 1977; Closing Date: September 30, 1983



ANNEX II
Page 18 of 26
Cr. No. 728   Assam Agricultural Development Project; US$8 million credit
of June 30, 1977; Effective Date: September 30, 1977; Closing
Date: March 31, 1984
Cr. No. 737   Rajasthan Agricultural Extension and Research Project;
US$13 million credit of November 14, 1977; Effective Date:
February 6, 1978; Closing Date: June 30, 1983
Cr. No. 761   Bihar Agricultural Extension and Research Project; US$8 million
credit of January 6, 1978; Effective Date: May 2, 1978;
Closing Date: October 31, 1983-
Cr. No. 862   Composite Agricultural Extension Project, US$25 million credit
of February 16, 1979; Effective Date: December 14, 1979; Closing
Date: December 31, 1984
Cr. No. 1028  Kerala Agricultural Extension Project; US$10 million credit of
June 25, 1980, Effective Date: August 18, 1980; Closing Date:
June 30, 1986
Cr. No. 1137  Tamil Nadu Agricultural Extension Project; US$28 million credit
of May 7, 1981; Effective Date: July_22,_1981; Closing Date:
June 30, 1987
Cr. No. 1135  Maharashtra Agricultural Extension Project; US$23 million credit
of May 7, 1981; Effective_Date: July_22, 1981; Closing Date:
June 30, 1987
Cr. No. 1138  Second Madhya Pradesh Agricultural Extension Project; US$37 million
credit of May 7, 1981; Effective Date: July 22, 1981; Closing
Date: June 30, 1987
Cr. No. 1219  Andhra Pradesh Agricultural Extension and Research Project;
US$6 million credit of_May 5, 1982; Effective Date: July 27,
1982; Closing Date: March 31, 1988
These twelve credits finance the reorganization and strengthening of
agricultural extension services and the development of adaptive research
capabilities in thirteen States in India.  In areas where the reformed exten-
sion system is in operation, field results have been most encouraging, both
in terms of adoption of new agricultural techniques and of increased crop
yields.
In Madhya Pradesh I and Orissa, significant gains have been made
under the projects.
There has been considerable improvement in the West Bengal Project
over the past year. Staffing problems have been resolved, and civil works
have started. Attention now needs to be devoted to improvement in fieldwork,
which is weak due to insufficient supervision of extension workers and poor
generation of agricultural recommendations.



ANNEX II
Page 19 of 26
In Rajasthan, too, significant early gains were achieved following
the establishment of a well organized and stable extension service. Although
the quality of field work is somewhat uneven, the basic extension system is
well established.
Implementation of the Assam Project is slow due in part to unsettled
conditions in the State. Insufficient supervision contributes, inter alia,
to lack of coordination among various implementing agencies, staff vacancies,
and poor understanding of the AEOs appropriate role in the extension sys-
tem--all of which result in ineffective field work.
Implementation of the Bihar Project is unsatisfactory. Despite the
decision of the Government of Bihar (GOB) one year ago to commit adequate
budget funds and appoint key staff, there has been no progress to date.
Staff vacancies remain, field extension continues to be weak, and civil works
have nct yet started.
In Gujarat, Haryana and Karnataka, all covered under the Composite
Agricultural Extens:Lon Project, the basic extension svstem has been estab-
lished and attention now needs to focus on the quality of extension recommenr-
dations and the filling of remaining staff vacancies. The Directorate of
Extension in the Central Government's Department of Agriculture needs
strengthening.
In Kerala, following the successful introduction of the T&V system
in three Districts, the project was extended to the entire State in December
1982.  The recruitment of the additional staff should be completed by April
1983, after which project implementation is expected to accelerate conr-
siderably.
In Maharashtra, project implementation is ahead of schedule. The
basic infrastructure of the revised extension service is well established.
Field workers are visiting farmers regularly and their recommendations are
being widely accepted.
The Madhya Pradesh II Project remains behind schedule due to delayed
sanctioning of budget resources during the first two project years. There
has recently been considerable improvement in implementation which is
expected to continue.
Implementation of the Andhra Pradesh Project has been hampered during
its first year by vacancies in senior staff positions caused by the decision
of the newly elected State Government to retire all staff over 55 years of
age. Promotion boards are now meeting to choose staff for the vacant posi-
tions. Field activities have been ongoing for about six months and are
generally satisfactory, although an improved orientation program would be of
benefit to staff at all levels. Civil works and procurement activities are
on schedule.



ANNEX II
Page 20 of 26
Cr. No. 680   Kerala Agricultural Development Project; US$30 million credit
of April 1, 1977; Effective Date: June 29, 1977; Closing Date:
March 31, 1985
Project progress continues satisfactorily.  Implementation of the
smallholder component, the project-s largest, continues to gain momentum with
a 36% increase in plantings in 1982/83. One crumb rubber factory of the nine
included in the project is in operation and a further two should be commis-
sioned in late 1983. The cashewnut component is completed.
Ln. No. 2095 Agricultural Refinance and Development Corporation IV Project;
Cr. No. 1209 US$190 million loan and US$160 million credit of February 24,
1982; Effective Date: May 25, 1982; Closing Date:
June 30, 1984
The project, which is a continuation of ARDC III, consists of a
two-year time slice of ARDC's lending program to farmers. The project is
proceeding well, with disbursements ahead of schedule. In July 1982, ARDC
and ACD/RBI were successfully merged into the National Bank for Agriculture
and Rural Development (NABARD). The merger was carried out efficiently,
permitting operations to continue uninterrupted.  The loan recovery perfor-
mance of the State Land Development Banks during 1981/82 was weak. NABARD
has introduced rehabilitation programs and management studies designed to
improve loan recovery and the overall performance of the participating banks.
Cr. No. 855   National Agriculture Research Project; US$27 million credit
of December 7, 1978; Effective Date: January 22, 1979; Closing
Date: September 30, 1983
The project has made significant progress over the last six months.
Contact has improved with the State agricultural universities, where there is
considerable enthusiasm for NARP objectives. Implementation of sub-projects
in Haryana, Kerala and Tamil Nadu is proceeding on schedule. The basic
research projects, although satisfactory thus far, need to focus their atten-
tion on local needs and problem-oriented multi-disciplinary research.
Cr. No. 747   Second Foodgrain Storage Project; US$107 million credit of
January 6, 1978; Effective Date: May 17, 1978; Closing Date:
June 30, 1983
The project was revised in May 1982 to provide additional bag storage
capacity in lieu of the bulk storage component. A one-year extension of the
closing date was granted, with the possibility of further extension if
project implementation improved. The project continues to be considerably
behind schedule. However, implementation has gained some momentum since
September 1982, when specific targets were established for accomplishment of
certain project works by June 1983. Land acquisition, construction, and
procurement are, overall, in line with these targets, but there remain
deficiencies in staffing, and in the monitoring, training and research
programs which have to be overcome to ensure satisfactory project progress.



ANNEX II
Page 21 of 26
Cr. No. 871   National Cooperative Development Corporation (NCDC) Project;
US$30 million credit of February 2, 1979; Effective Date:
May 3, 1979; Closing date: December 31, 1984
Cr. Nlo. 1146  Second National Cooperative Development Corporation (NCDC)
Project; US$125 million credit of July 21, 1981; Effective
Date: November 11, 1981; Closing Date: June 30, 1987
These credits provide funds to rural cooperatives in various States
for the construction and operation of godowns (warehouses) and cold storage
and marketing fac:ilities. Major emphasis is placed on institution building
in order to make NCDC grow into a more effective development institution to
serve India's rural cooperative sector.  Disbursements under Credit 871 are
on schedule.  However, the construction of godowns has been slower than
anticipated because cement supplies have been erratic and the response by
contractors to tender offers has been poor in remote! areas. Although the
project is expected to be completed on time, increases in construction costs
are likely to require a revision of the project scope to keep expenditures
within the project financing provisions.
Project iLmplementation in most of the nine participating States under
Credit 1146 is also behind schedule, principally because of organizational
delays. The participating agencies have taken steps to speed up implemena-
tion, but progress continues to be hampered by lack of adequate number of
properly trained staff, supply shortages and cost escalations.  NCDC and the
State agencies concerned have resolved to do what is required to speed up
implementation of these projects.
Cr. No. 482   Karnataka Dairy Development Project; US$30 million credit
of June 19, 1974; Effective Date: December 23, 1974; Closing
Date: September 30, 1983
Cr. Nc. 521   Rajasthan Dairy Development Project; US$27.7 million credit of
December 18, 1974; Effective Date: August 8, 1975; Closing
Date: December 31, 1982
Cr. No. 522   Madhya Pradesh Dairy Development Project; US$16.4 million credit
of December 18, 1974; Effective Date: July 23, 1975; Closing
Date: March 31, 1983
Cr. No. 824   National Dairy Project; US$150 million credit of June 19,
1978; Effective Date: December 20, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1985
These four credits, totalling US$224.1 million, support dairy
development projects organized along the lines of the successful AMUL dairy
cooperative scheme in Gujarat. Farmer response has been excellent. About
18,000 dairy cooperative societies (DCS) have been established, with over two
million members. Profitability of most DCSs is good and construction of
dairy and feed plants is proceeding well.



ANNEX II
Page 22 of 26
In Credit 482, construction of the mother dairy at Bangalore, the key
processing facility, was delayed by litigation. Construction by an
experienced civil works contractor has now begun. To allow for near comple-
tion of this dairy, and for the Government of Karnataka to implement improve-
ments in their management support of the dairy producers unions as required
under the project, the closing date has been extended by one year.
Under Credit 521, nearly 1,500 dairy cooperative societies (DCSs)
have been formed, benefitting over 78,000 families. During 1981/82, these
DCSs collected over 30 million liters of milk, for which the producers were
paid Rs 67 million. The project was scheduled to close on December 31, 1982.
However, as several project-financed facilities are not yet complete, includ-
ing two processing plants, one powder plant, four training centers, and
living quarters for staff, the GOI has requested an extension of the closing
date, which is now under consideration.
Credit 522 has been successfully completed and was closed on
March 31, 1983.  Over 800 dairy cooperative societies were formed, serving
a membership of approximately 35,000 families. Disbursements are expected
to be completed by May 31, 1983.
Physical execution under Credit 824 is excellent, with the estab-
lishment of new rural and urban dairies, cattle feed plants, and the acquisi-
tion of rail and road milk tankers. The cooperative processing industry is
served by 18,000 cooperatives with membership of over two million households.
In addition, substantial institution building is taking place through the
formation of federations, unions and cooperatives in 59 milksheds covered
under the Operation Flood II Agreements designed to ensure autonomy in pric-
ing and a three-tiered cooperative structure.
Ln. No. 1273  National Seed Project; US$25 million loan of June 10, 1976;
Effective Date: October 8, 1976; Closing Date: June 30, 1984
Cr. No. 816   Second National Seed Project; US$16 million credit of July 17,
1978; Effective Date: December 20, 19 - Closing Date:
December 31, 1984
These projects are designed to increase the availability of high
quality agricultural seed, and cover nine States. Although they are two to
three years behind schedule because of initial problems in coordination and
monitoring, mainly at the national level, there has been significant progress
over the last year. The construction of transit and bulk storehouses has
been delayed by land acquisition problems. However, there has been good
progress in civil works and equipment procurement for the seed processing
plants.  It is expected that all works except seed farm development under
both projects will be completed by December 1984.
Cr. No. 1012  Cashewnut Project; US$22 million credit of June 10, 1980;
Effective Date: September 3, 1980; Closing Date: September 30,
This project helps to finance cashew planting and plantation improve-
ment programs in the States of Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka, Kerala and Orissa.



ANNEX II
Page 23 of 26
The planting and improvement programs initially made very good progress
although this has been dampened in 1982/83 by decreased cashewnut prices and
Corporation land acquisition problems resulting from the Forest Conservation
Act (1980). There is still every expectation that the project will fulfill
its objective of siLgnificantly increasing cashew production and improving the
incomes of the farmers.
Cr. No. 610   InteRrated Cotton Development Project; US$18 million credit of
February 26, 1976; Effective Date: November 30, 197;, Closing
Date: December 31, 1983
Project implementation continues to improve. The area to be covered
by the project (183,000 ha) has been attained, and yields are increasing.
Major processing facilities in Maharashtra and Haryana are under contract and
work is progressing satisfactorily. The link between university research
and project activity is excellent. However, because of poor performance in
the early stages, the project closing date has been extended by two years to
December 31, 1983, to allow for completion of the project works and full
utilization of the credit proceeds.
Cr. No  1034  Karnataka Sericulture Project; US$54 million credit of
October 27, 1980; Effective Date: December 18, 1980
Closing Date: December 31, 1985
The recent significant improvement in the staffing situation of the
Department of Sericulture should bolster the previously curtailed extension
program and should lead to increased bivoltine silk production which is a
major project objective hitherto not being achieved. All other project
components are progressing satisfactorily, especially the industrial conr-
ponent where spun silk mill and silk filature are expected to be operational
within 9-12 months.
Cr. No. 806   Jammu-Kashmir Horticulture Project; US$14 million credit of
July 17, 1978; Effective Date: January ]6, 1979;
Closing Date: June 30, 1984
The recent change in management of Jammu and Kashmir Horticultural
Produce Marketing and Processing Corporation is expected to recoup implemen-
tation progress lost in the last 12 months, and about 60% of project
facilities could be operational for the 1983 harvest. Training programs and
research activities are now well behind schedule.
Cr. No. 925   Uttar Pradesh Social Forestry Project; US$23 million credit
of June 21, 1979; Effective Date: January 3, 1980; Closing
Date: December 31, 1984
Cr. No. 961   Gujarat Community Forestry Project; US$37 million credit of
April 14, 1980; Effective Date: June 24, 1980; Closing Date:
December 31, 1985
Cr. No. 1178 West Bengal Social Forestry Project; US$29 million credit of
February 24, 1982; Effective Date: April 9, 1982; Closing
Date: December 31, 1987



ANNEX II
Page 24 of 26
Cr. No. 1286  Jammu-Kashmir and Haryana Social Forestry Project; US$33
million credit of September 7, 1982; Effective Date:
December 7, 1982; Closing Date: March 31, 1988
Physical progress under Credit 925 is satisfactory, except in the
Eastern Region of the State, where greater population density, lower per
capita income and fragmented farm size have been disincentives to the plant-
ing programs. Remedial measures designed to address these problems, includ-
ing free distribution of seedlings and a planned land consolidation program,
are under consideration by the project authorities.
Credit 961 is proceeding well. In response to rising prices for
poles and pulpwood, the project has been adopted enthusiastically by the
local residents. The current rate of planting is more than five times that
which existed before the project. Project management is good, with cost
control, audit, disbursement and procurement activities in line with
appraisal report schedules. If the present momentum is maintained, it may be
possible to resolve the rural fuelwood crisis in Gujarat within a decade.
Implementation of the West Bengal Project is satisfactory. The
overall physical targets of the project have been exceeded. The building
program is progressing well and ahead of schedule. Attention now needs to
focus on the recruitment and training of forestry extension workers, who are
becoming urgently needed as tree plantings increase and project activities
accelerate.
Credit 1286, which became effective in December 1982, is designed to
increase suppies of fuelwood and secondary products through the establishment
of 94,000 ha of a new tree plantations, the rehabilitation of 17,000 ha of
degraded forests, and the strengthening of research, training and forestry
extension services in Haryana and Jammu and Kashmir. Both States have made a
good start in implementing the first season s plantation program, and
procurement of vehicles and equipment is underway.
Ln. No. 1897 Kandi Watershed and Area Development Project; US$30 million
loan of September 12, 1980; Effective Date: November 18, 1980;
Closing Date: March 31, 1986
The recent improvement in project execution continues, and project
activities are well coordinated. Progress on the main Dholbaha Dam is satis-
factory, and the afforestation and soil conservation components are on
schedule. Feasibility reports for ten watersheds have been competed, five
of which have been reviewed and approved by the Bank. There are expected to
be cost savings from the irrigation and flood control components of the
project, as a result of which the Bank is now reviewing the overall project
design and concept and the possibility of expanding the project scope.
Ln. No. 1394 Gujarat Fisheries Project; US$14 million loan and US$4
(TW)          million credit of April 22, 1977; Effective date: July 19, 1977;
Cr. No. 695   Closing Date: June 30, 1984



ANNEX II
Page 25 of 26
Cr. No. 815   Andhra Pradesh Fisheries Project; US$17.5 million credit of
June 19, 1978; Effective Date: October 31, 1978; Closing Date:
September 30, 1984
In Gujarat, the harbor works are now proceeding well following the
finalization of a contractual dispute in September 1982. These harbor works
and shore facilities are expected to be completed within the next year. The
village roads and water supply components have been largely completed.
However, the credit component is considerably behind schedule as a result of
the weak financial position of the Gujarat Fisheries Central Cooperative
Association (GFCCA) and loan recovery problems of the participating banks.
Recommendations for improvement of GFCCA are currently under review by the
Governaent of Gujarat.
In Andhra Pradesh, one of three fishing harbors being constructed
under the project has been operation for nearly one y,ear, and the remaining
two are scheduled to be completed by mid-1983 and early 1984. The financing
of mechanized fishing vessels remains at a standstill due to loan recovery
problems of the pariticipating banks. NABARD is in the process of discussing
with the banks ways to rectify this situation.  Due to an expansion of
private sector investment in seafood processing plants, the Government has
decided to delete one of the two processing plants from the project and
reduce the scope of the second one.
Cr. No. 963   Inland Fisheries Project; US$20 million credit of January 18,
1980; Effective Date: May 5, 1980; Closing Date: September 30,
1985
Project implementation is generally satisfactory.  Construction of
the fislh hatcheries in all five project States has commenced, and the first
hatcheries are expected to begin limited operations by June 1983. All 58
Fish Farmer Development Agencies are fully functional and, as project
activities accelerate, are placing necessary extension agents in the field.
Progress of the pond improvement schemes has slowed considerably due to
difficulties with loan sanctioning by the participating banks. Through a
more active involvement in the loan approval process, NABARD is taking steps
to correct this situation.
Cr. No. 981   Second Population Project; US$46 million credit of April 14,
1980; Effective Date: June 26, 1980; Closing Date: December 31,
1985
Implementation of the project is proceeding well. Marked improvement
has occurred in several components especially construction, now that cement
is being allocated to the project on a priority basis. As a consequence,
disbursements are accelerating. The Directot of the Population Centre in
Uttar Pradesh has been appointed and the training program is well underway.



ANNEX II
Page 26 of 26
Cr. No. 1003 Tamil Nadu Nutrition Project; US$32 million credit of May 12,
1980; Effective Date: August 5, 1980; Closing Date: March 31,
1987
The project is fully operational in Madurai District, with all nutri-
tion and health workers in place. Evaluation data show a significant decline
in malnourishment in the project area and the participation rate for those
people eligible for project benefits is over 90%. Civil works are a few
months behind schedule, but the Government of Tamil Nadu has intensified its
supervision work which is expected to speed up completion of the health
subcenters and training facilities. Preparations are well advanced for the
planned expansion of the project into two more Districts in the State in
1983.



ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
INDIA
THIRD CALCUTTA URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA_SHEET
Section I:        Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken by the country to prepare the project
One year and 8 months.
(b) The agency which has prepared the project
Calcutta Metropolitan Development Authority (CMDA)
assisted by State and local government agencies.
(c) Date of first presentation to the Bank and date of
first mission to consider the project
May 1979, February 1981.
(d) Date of departure of appraisal mission
October 1982.
(e) Date of completion of negotiations
April 13, 1983.
(f)  Planned date of effectiveness
July 1983.
Section II:       Special IDA Implementation Actions
None.
Section III:    Special Conditions
(a) GOWB to complete its review of the adequacy of the
property tax assessment base oir all local bodies by
December 31, 1983 and cause CVB to undertake a



ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
general revaluation wherever inadequacies are found
(para 50(a)).
(b) CMDA to review annually the interest rebate provided
to small-scale entrepreneurs (para 56(c));
(c)  CMDA to on-lend for urban renewal schemes at prevail-
ing commercial bank rate and for other investments at
not less than 8.25% per annum (para 62);
(d) CMC to (i) reduce its reliance on GOWB revenue sub-
ventions; (ii) achieve collection of current demand
of 85% by 1987/88; and (iii) collect at least 50% of
arrears of property tax demand each year (para 68);
(e) CMC to revise the water rates as a condition of
Credit effectiveness (para 69);
(f) CMWSA to introduce agreed water supply rates as a
condition of Credit effectiveness (para 70);
(g) CMDA to submit for IDA's review and approval a pric-
ing and cost recovery analysis for each area develop-
ment project site (para 71).



I



IN  D IA
THIRD CALCUTTA URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT                                     '\   -
MAJOR WATER SUPPLY, DRAINAGE,                                            A    7    t                        N5
AND SANITATION INVESTMENTS                                                        -
Prouecr Boundary                                            _.                                     <r
SEWERAGE WORKS                                             '    '
Drainage                                                    7
1     Pumping Stations                                               /                                              /
WATER SUPPLYp:k*                                                         /
Water Treatment Plant                                                      - I i             -
i    Existing Water Treatment Plants                                        4- /'
EXISTING                                              Ct
Built-up Areas/l                                                                      
Open Spaces                                         t  /                      Zj
National Highways                                   J4''-
_    Ma1or Roads                                        -p'      ,                                        r
Minor Roads                                      'i
Railroads
Bridges
.......... Ferry Seruices |
_   Canals                                            K                                         /
(D Lakes
Ft  a  Marshes
Corporation and Municipahty      A                  -   -/
Kclyani - Bansberia Boundary              %r-   - -                   R
Calcutra Metropalitan Boundory               -    -               -
Internationcl Boundaries
N5                                             1
C5        2         4                                                      -ur 
AA LES~~~~~~~~
I /~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IA
'-4~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
0 '   <'
i             ~~~              ~~\j- N!,1                                                    t .>J  
K      .                                                                              t!mA2-
N   e       <  ~~~C H I N A                                                                               R . 
<dV D.Ihird   < <    a- K             t,                                                                     e
17~~~~~~~~~~~0
; _)           3AtGLaCESm ~~~~~~,iiiioii.Th, ocrd nssl6 burne,ici 
.        .  '   t          {  .h cDnveS M.uC70 ori thai00ci7                            yl
7            -~~~~~S'u-      r  ciairni'iseo, n  W'ii siv s<                                                ra,
z-   >    >o |    Crpotim ~~~~~~denomlatlar                                    9 /    t %  X'is                              5
70~~~~~~~                                                                                                       0n eo  u d t
70,   / 3>hl LhNs A  oc                                                                       o                       _~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0  CJ0'



~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I  



I N DI A
THIRD CALCUTTA URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
MAJOR TRANSPORTATION, SHELTER, AND                                                                  ', 
URBAN RENEWAL INVESTMENTS                                           "3',. z
PROJECT COMPONENTS                                                r%V
Proposed Major Roods                                                                     "<           /
Proposed Connector Roads
Proposed Bridges ."                                                             '          /
Koan  Truck Ter-nal                      ~        ~
Shelter and Area Development                                / /
Urban Renewal                                               ' /
Project Boundary                                            5                      -
UNDER CONSTRUCTION  (nan-proiec                           /                                      //
Roads                                                     /
Bridges                                                                    .(.          X = /
Subway and Stations/..
Coal / Gas Plant                                     1_.
EXISTING
Bu;t-up Areas                                                         f             ";
Open Spaces 
National Hlghways
-    Major Roads                                  J
M,nor Roads ,
tRRalroads| ...                                                t t  -   g   
Bridges                                       '.r
Ferry Services
Lakes                                                                i
Marshes                                 %."*"-' .           z     ;   
Corporation and Municipaity Boundaries        , '      /
Kalyani-Bansberia Boundary
-  -   Calcutta Metropolitan Boundary
-   International Boundaries
2 KILC,MET C [ - KI2 LCMETcs 
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I
L' j-'                                                          -,
2~~~~~
Z,'
C,   H   N .
53ic33        ll 3,r xc nc.J33  01,3r5 ,r.=                                                     r
I-
IN. 0. ffi S           r21ers ara 5 a::Ess>ar lor t-                                   r    / 
.3e3.33333 333333 i                                                                      Nrisavrl                         la
|'33       .  ,                 3'                                                                                                                       > 3fA   0vl -___  



