Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 4310-IN
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
INDIA
THIRD CALCUTTA URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
May  2, 1983
South Asia Projects Department
IJrban and Water Supply Division
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Rs 1.00            =  US$0.11
Rs 9.50            =  US$1.00
Rs 1 lakh (105)   =  US$10,526
Rs 1 crore (107)  =  US$1.05 million
GOI/GOWB FISCAL YEAR
April I - March 31
MEASURES AND EQUIVALENTS
1 millimeter (mm)           =    0.0394 inches (in)
1 meter (m)                 =    3.2808 feet (ft)
1 kilometer (km)                 0.6214 mile (mi)
1 square meter (mi2)        =    10.7639 square feet (sq ft)
1 square kilometer (km2)   =    0.3861 square mile (sq mi)
1-hectare (ha)=0.01km2      =    2.4711 acres (ac) or 10,000 sq m
I liter (1)                 =    1.0567 quarts liquid or
0.2642 US gallon (gal) or
3)              0.9081 US quart dry (qt)
I cubic meter (m)           =    35.3147 cubic feet (cu ft)
1 liter per capita          =    0.2642 US gallons per capita per day
per day (lcd)       =    (gpcd)
1 cubic meter per second (m3/sec)  =    264.1721 US gallons per second (gal/sec)
PRINCIPAL ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AMEU     Appraisal, Monitoring, and Evaluation Unit of CMDA
CHIP     Calcutta-Howrah Investment Program
CIT      Calcutta Improvement Trust
CMA      Calcutta Metropolitan Area
CMC      Calcutta Municipal Corporation
CMDA     Calcutta Metropolitan Development Authority
CMACP    CMA-wide Complementary Programs
CMWSA    Calcutta Metropolitan Water and Sanitation Authority
CUDP I   First Calcutta Urban Development Project (Cr 427-IN)
CUDP II  Second Calcutta Urban Development Project (Cr 756-IN)
CUTP     Calcutta Urban Transport Project (Cr 1033-IN)
GOI      Government of India
GOWB     Government of West Bengal
HIT      Howrah Improvement Trust
HMC      Howrah Municipal Corporation
HDFC     Housing Development Finance Corporation
HUDCO    Housing and Urban Development Corporation
ILGUS    Institute of Local Government and Urban Studies
IWD      Irrigation and Waterways Directorate - GOWB
LGUDD    Local Government and Urban Development Department - GOWB
MDP      Municipal Development Program
MFC      Municipal Finance Commission
RGS      Revised Grant Structure
SURAD    Shelter, Urban Renewal, and Area Development
TRIP     Transmunicipal Infrastructure Program



INDIA                    FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
THIRD CALCUTTA URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
Is  CONTEXT .................................................... ......   I
A. Impacts and Lessons of the Two Previous Investment
Programs (1973-1983) ......................... .. .           3
B.  The Emerging Framework for Urban Management and
Finance                                 ......                5
II.  THE PROJE  ...................... ....................
A.T  Objectives ..........................................           9
B.  Project Description ...............................   10
C.  Other Infrastructure Investments ..... ................   17
III.  PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING PLAN .......................   19
A.  Cost Estimates .. ...........  ....... ............. ..   19
B.  Financing Plan .....0  .........O.*..6    19
C.  Flow of Funds and On-lending Terms . ........ ...   19
D.  Additional Resource Mobilization .......... .....see    24
IV.  PROJECT ORGANIZATION, MANAGEMENT, AND IMPLEMENTATION ...   24
A.  Key Executing Agencies .......................                  24
B.  Institutional Responsibilities                                  26
C.  Implementation Schedule                                         26
D.  Land Acquisition ...........                                    26
E.  Procurement ......... . .. .  ................ .                28
F. Disbursement . ............................  29
G.  Accounts, Audits, and Reporting Requirements ....               32
H. Operations and Maintenance ..                                    33
I. Monitoring and Evaluation ..                                     34
J.  Supervision and CMDA as Intermediary              ....          35
This report is based on findings of preappraisal and appraisal missions
which visited Calcutta in June 1982, and in October 1982, respectively and
on the contributions by CMDA's Appraisal, Monitoriag, and Evaluation Unit.
Both missions consisted of Messrs. Menezes, IlcCarthv, Pettigrew, Sengupta
(ASPUW) and Turner, Consultant, assisted by Messrs. Mencklhoff (ASPUJW),
Cohen (URBOR), D'Souaza, Dillenberg, Jackson (Consultants) at appraisal.
Ms. McReynolds and Ms. Reivuo-Yen, Secretaries, assisted in Washington, D.C.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Page No.
V.  FINANCIAL ASPECTS . ............. .... .  .................. .  35
A.  Calcutta Metropolitan Development Authority    ........  35
B.  Calcutta Municipal Corporation .....O-*................  36
C.  Cost Recovery Measures ..* .......     ................  40
D.  Structural Adjustment of Municipal Finance .........  46
E.  Affordability and Replicability ....... ...............   49
VI.  PROJECT JUSTIFICATION . ........                     .......  50
A.  Summary    ..................... .......................  50
B.  Distribution of Benefits....**..**..................   51
C.  Project Risks ...................... ....................   52
D. Approach to Ongoing Appraisal and Evaluation ........   53
VII.  AGREEMENTS, ASSURANCES AND RECOMMENDATIONS .............  54
ANNEXES
1.  BACKGROUND
A. Urban Growth at the National, State, and Metropolitan
Level ......e...    .*..    .     ..e.     ..   ....    59
B. Bank Group Role and Experience in Calcutta ...........  60
C.  Physical Achievements ..............  - ............ . 62
D.  Highlights from Project Performance Audit (CUDP I) ...  63
2. KEY EXECUTING AGENCIES, RESP?ONSIBILITIES, REORGANIZATION
A.  Outline:  CMDA, CMWSA, CMC, Municipalities ...........  65
B.  List of Subcomponents by Key Executing Agencies ......  65
CHART 1 - Reorganization of CMDA... ..................  70
CHART 2 - Organization of the SURAD Directorate, CMDA  71
3.  MUNICIPAL DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
A. Allocation of Funds                  ..                  72
B.  Sector Service Delivery Norms            ..             73
C.  Physical Desig       n St andard s . ........................... 74
D. Summary Appraisal of Typical Municipality (Barasat).. 75
4.  LIST OF SELECTED DOCUMENTS AVAILABLE IN PROJECT FILE         81
5.  TABLES (listed on next page)
6.  MAPS
IBRD 16864   -  Water Supply, Drainage and Sanitation Investments
IBRD 16865   -  Transportation, Shelter, Urban Renewal, and Area
Development Investments



-iii-
Table  1  CMDA   -  Balance Sheet as of 3/31/80 through 1988
Table  2  CMDA   -  Forecast Sources and Applications of Funds
1983/84 through 1987/88
Table  3  CMC    -  Balance Sheet as at 3/31/80 through 1988
Table  4  CMC    -  Income and Expenditure Statement as at 3/31/80
through 1988
Table  5  CMC    -  Water Supply Operations:  Sources and Uses of Funds
Table  6  CMC    -  Consumer Survey and Metering Program
Table  7  CMWSA  -  Sources and Uses of Funds (Operations)
Table  8  RGS    -  Estimates of Potential Property Tax and Expected
Collection Percentage
Table  9  RGS    -  Annual O&M and Other Recurring Expenditure
Table 10  RGS    -  Revised Grant Structure
Table 11  MDP    -  Summary of Sector Investments over Project Period
Table 12  MDP    -  Summary of Investments by Sector
Table 13  TRIP   -  Summary of Sector Investments over Project Period
Table 14  TRIP   -  Summary of Investments by Sector
Table 15  CHIP   -  Summary of Sector Investments over Project Period
Table 16  CHIP   -  Summary of Investments by Sector
Table 17  CMDCP  -  Summary of Sector Investments over Project Period
Table 18  CMDCP  -  Summary of Investments by Sector
Table 19  TRIP   -  Cost Table 201 - Construction - Baranagar-Kamarhati
Water Treatment Plant
Table 20  TRIP   -  Cost Table 202 - Renovation - Serampore Water
Treatment Plant
Table 21  CHIP   -  Cost Table 302 - Remodelling - Transmissions Mains
Table 22  CHIP   -  Cost Table 321 - Reconstruction - Durgapur Bridge



r
I                                                 I
I .



INDIA
THIRD CALCUTTA URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
I. CONTEXT
1.01    The Calcutta Metropolitan Area (CMA) with a 1981 census population of
10 million, covers an area of 1,414 sq.km. It is the economic capital of the
Eastern Region of India with a hinterland that includes states adjacent to
West Bengal.   Responsibility for  metropolitan development  rests  with  the
State Government's Metropolitan Development Department and Local Government
and Urban Development Department (LGUDD). Both departments are headed by the
same  Minister.   LGUDD  administers   to  the  needs   of  Local  Government
state-wide, with day-to-day administration carried out through a Directorate
of  Local  Bodies,  and  for  non-CMA   areas,  a  Directorate  of  Municipal
Engineering. The Metropolitan Development Department overviews expenditure
on development infrastructure investments in the CMA and the performance of
all Urban Development Authorities in the State. Local Government in the CMAk
includes 2 Municipal Corporations (Calcutta and Howrah), 37 municipalities,
and 165 panchayats (non-municipal urban areas). About one-third of the CMA
population live in the Calcutta Municipal Corporation area.
1.02    At the time of Independence and partition (1947), there was a massive
inflow of refugees from East Pakistan (now Bangladesh), mainly into the CMA.
The city, after two earlier decades of neglect, regressed in its ability to
deliver even basic municipal services. A much publicized cholera epidemic in
1958  confirmed  its  world-wide  reputation   for  having  the  worst  urban
conditions of any city of comparable size. The foundation of the Calcutta
Metropolitan Planning Organization in 1960 led to extensive studies and
recommendations embodied in the 'Basic Development Plan' (1966) that were not
implemented at the time owing to a lack of funds and the absence oF a
cohesive institutional infrastructure.
1.03     During  the  1960's,  physical,   social,  and  economic  conditions
continued to deteriorate. The number of 'bustees' 1/ increased, and the
existing housing  stock deteriorated  due to  the  massive  overcrowding  and
inadequate services. Only about 100 million gallons per day (mgd) of treated
water was available to a small section of the population in the metrocore, on
an intermittent basis. All sanitation, with the exception of a sewered area
covering Calcutta  City, was  in the  form  of  service  privies.   This  was
dependent upon , at best, an irregular collection for disposal. Solid waste
management was  very inadequate.   During the  monsoon,  extensive  areas  of
low-lying land that had by now become unplanned high density settlements,
were continuously waterlogged due to an inadequate drainage system. Pavement
dwellers and solid waste heaps forced pedestrians onto the streets further
aggravating already difficult traffic conditions, resulting initially from
1/ 'Bustee' - local name for slum in which a 'thika tenant' (middle man) owns
structures on long-term leased private land.



-2-
insufficient road space. During this period, a major economic recession,
coupled with social and political instability led to GOI's active assistance
and to moves by the State Government to institute changes.
1.04    Since the early 1970's,  the major instrument of  change has been the
Calcutta Metropolitan Development Authority (CMDA), created by the Government
of West Bengal (GOWB) in 1970 and, subsequently, financially supported in
part by IDA. CMDA has:
(a) provided an overall institutional and intersectoral
perspective on Calcutta's problems;
(b) developed a strategy to address urgent high priority needs;
and
(c) provided an executing agency to carry out investments to
reduce the most serious service deficits.
1.05     The  creation  of  CMDA  as   a  single  metropolitan  planning  and
development authority was a modification of the recommendations made earlier
in the Basic Development Plan which favored a Metropolitan Planning Authority
and several  functional Authorities.   Of special  significance  was  that  a
metropolitan capital budgeting process was incorporated in the State planning
process, and the CMDA was made the agency for administering the capital
budgeting process. CMDA has now evolved into an organization of over 4,000
staff capable of executing an investment program of around Rs 60/80 crores
annually.
1.06    To date,  IDA has financed  two urban  projects, CUDP  I 1/  and CUDP
II 2/ forming part of CMDA's Five-Year Investment Programs, and an Urban
Tra7nsport Project. 3/ Progress on  CUDP I was slow.   Under CUDP II, however,
there was impressive progress on all fronts as outlined below. A background
note on urbanization trends in India, West Bengal, and the CMA, and on the
performance of previous  IDA-financed projects is  in Annex 1.   On the Urban
Transport Project, operational and financial performance has been poor in
contrast  to  physical   performance.   A  review   mission  in   the  field,
simultaneously at the time of appraisal agreed with GOWB a specific program
and management actions  to be  implemented forthwith.   IDA has  been advised
that the appointment of a task force of GOWB officers to move into key
positions in Calcutta State Transport Corporation, the implementation of bus
and tram fare increases, and the specific assignment of transportation
planning responsibilities to CMDA, which were specified prerequisites for
negotiations have been completed by March 31, 1983. A Project Performance
1/ The First Calcutta Urban Development Project (Cr 427-IN, 73/74-79/80),
with an IDA Credit of US$35 million equivalent.
2/  The Second Calcutta Urban Development Project (Cr 756-IN, 77/78-82/83),
with an IDA Credit of US$87 million equivalent.
3/  The Calcutta Urban Transport Project (Cr 1033-IN, 80/81-83/84), with an
IDA Credit of US$56 million equivalent.



-3-
Audit Memorandum (PPAM) on CUDP I was completed in June 1982 (Report No.
4023). The highlights of this PPAM are reproduced in Part D of Annex 1.
1.07    The proposed Third Calcutta Urban Development Project (CUJDP III) will
continue IDA's assistance to GOWB with urban development in the CMA,
particularly in the further evolution of the institutional and financial
strengthening programs aimed at expanded service delivery, as described
further in this report.
A. Impacts and Lessons of The Two Previous Investment Programs (1973-83)
1.08     A  retrospective   view  of  earlier   investments  illustrates  the
institutional, physical, and financial changes that have taken place and also
points out some lessons which have been learned.
Institutional
1.09    When CUDP I  was initiated in the  early 1970's, there was  a lack of
planning and implementing capacity in the CMA, in spite of the existence of
more than 50 agencies, few of which had experience in the execution of large
engineering projects.   Neither were  there clearly  defined responsibilities
for these agencies.   The institutional response  was for  CMDA to  take over
many resDonsibilities from the other agencies, or at best, to use them as
sub-contractors.   The   first  five   years  were   therefore   focused   on
consolidation of CMDA's authority, the development of its own capacity for
execution of large-scale engineering projects, and the restoration of a
measure of confidence after a period of crisis. The investments reflected
the remedial nature and priorities set out in the Basic Development Plan.
1.10    By 1977, CMDA had emerged as  a viable and visible institution around
which a meaningful development program could be designed. Under CUDP II,
development still focussed on construction schemes, although the project was
expanded into other previously neglected sectors, such as health and
employment. A major effort was also made to improve and strengthen the legal
framework and the managerial systems of both CMDA and the Calcutta Municipal
Corporation (CMC), in whose jurisdiction the bulk of investments were located
and which would be responsible for the operation and maintenance of completed
works.
1.11    By the  beginning of the  1980's, CMDA was  increasingly subjected to
public evaluation and review. For example it was felt that (i) CMDA had
become too autonomous and powerful, and it was perceived as superimposed on
the existing structure of local Government; (ii) because of its apparent
preoccupation with the construction of physical infrastructure, too little
attention was given to its planning, monitoring, and evaluating functions, as
well  as  to  fiscal  discipline  in   the  CMA;  (iii)  other  agencies  and
institutions remained underutilized and consequently became weaker; and (iv).
too much centralization made it less responsive to the needs of the
community. Such criticism was an indication of the strength of CMDA and the
powerful position it had established, but it also indicated the need for CMDA
to take a broader view of the CMA's institutional framework and its own role
vis-a-vis that of other agencies and local governments.



-4-
1.12    The CMC too  was cited as:  (i) being unresponsive  to public demands
for better operation and maintenance of civic facilities; and (ii) not
exercising financial discipline and consequently for being chronically
dependent on increasing amounts of GOlB subsidies. Successful implementation
of improved organizational and managerial systems over the past two years has
helped clarify  the true  state  of  the  CMC's  finances  and  its  internal
institutional constraints.   Further attention  muust now  focus on:  (a) more
disciplined  administration  and   training  of  personnel;   and  (b)  CMC's
comnitment and adherence to  action plans that would  improve performance and
ensure that new facilities are properly operated and maintained.
Physical
1.13    CUDP I and  CUDP II were primarily  oriented to physical investments.
CMDA's achievements in this regard are significant as described in Annex I,
part C. For example, (i) nearly 35% or (2 million persons) of the estimated
CMA population who are living in slums have benefitted from the Bustee
Improvement Program; (ii) with improvements at Palta Water Treatment Plant
and the inauguration of the new treatment works in 1983/4, the CMA's water
supply will have increased from about 100 mgd in 1973 to 300 mgd, with
greater coverage under a much enhanced distribution network. Worthwhile
progress has also been made in several other sectors, such as drainage, solid
waste management, and health. Improvements in urban transport and in the
delivery of serviced urban land have been less significant, reflecting both
the severity of physical constraints, and the institutional fragmentation in
these two subsectors.
1.14    Although CMDA has developed an  adequate capacity to execute physical
works, there  are still  planning  weaknesses.   The  consequences  of  these
weaknesses include the following two examples:
(i) Investments made in the high density areas of the metrocore,
particularly CMC, are sometimes not well coordinated and
full benefits may not be derived from certain facilities
until complementary works are carried out. For instance,
development of secondary and tertiary water distzibution
and sewage collection systems lag behind the development
of treatment facilities.
(ii) The geographic disparity in service levels between the
metrocore (Calcutta and Howrah) and the rest of the CMA
has become more acute in all sectors. The CMA outside
the metrocore has been absorbing nearly all the population
growth in recent times while infrastructure investments
have mainly been concentrated in the metrocore.
Financial
1.15    Population growth and the  operation, maintenance, and debt servicing
for infrastructure facilities completed during the 1970's have placed
significant additional financial burdens on local revenues. However, there
have been inadequate increases of self-generated local revenues during the
1970's, particularly in the CMC, and local government financial gaps have
become excessively large. During this period, the necessary steps were



-5-
nevertheless taken to establish the legal and administrative basis required
to improve local resource mobilization in the 1980's (see para 1.21).
1.16     The  estimated  resource   gap  1/  in  1981/82   for  the  CMA  was
approximately Rs 33 crores, or 53% of total CMA revenue expenditures, of
which Rs 16 crores was on account of CMC. When all assets under CUDP II are
completed and handed over (see para 5.02), the gap would increase by a
further Rs 10 crores. Included in this gap is an operation and maintenance
(O&M) cost of Rs 12 crores for CUDP I and II investments, of which Rs 9
crores faLls on CMC (see para 5.07). Because of the financial situation, new
infrastructure facilities have not heen transferred from CMDA to local bodies
at the rate originally planned. Resource gaps are covered by grants from
CoWTB. Although O&M had been identified as an issue during CUDP I and a
program of reform initiated under CUDP II, CMDA is still left with the
responsibilities of maintenance of plant and other completed infrastructure
as other agencies and locaL bodies have lagged in developiig their financial
and technical capacity to take over these responsibilities. A program for
the transfer of assets, including all improved bustees in the CMC, has now
been established  by GOWB,  CMDA, and  local bodies  (see para  5.02).   This
program  is  related  to   the  targets  set  for   improved  local  resource
mobilization.
B. The Emerging Framework for Urban Management and Finance
1.17    Drawing on the lessons of the  1970's, GOWB has reviewed and adjusted
the major thrust of the CMA development program in three principal areas: (a)
institutional, (b) legislative, and (c) financial. This section outlines the
emerging framework and provides a setting against which to view the proposed
project.
1.18    Institutional Strategy.  The State  Government and CMDA have adopted,
as part of a vigorous policy for strengthening local government, a two-tier
(i.e., metropolitan and local) approach to the development of the CMA.
CMDA's predominantly executing role will be suitably restructured while its
coordinating, policy planning, monitoring and evaluating functions will be
reinforced. At the same time, GOWB intends to strengthen other institutions
and agencies participating in the development process within the CMA, and
CMDA will become a major instrument for achieving such metropolitan-wide
institutional strengthening.
1.19    Actions in institutional strengthening  are oriented primarily to (a)
redefine the responsibilities of CMDA, the municipalities in the CMA, and the
various sectoral agencies, with the aim of rationalizing their relationships
and functions, and (b) reorient and strengthen the internal organizational
structure and resource base of each of these agencies as appropriate. The
principal actions taken thus far include the following:
(a) CMDA's role has been adjusted in several ways: (i) CMDA has
been strengthened as a financial and policy intermediary with
1/ Defined as the difference between internally generated revenue receipts
and revenue expenditures.



-6-
a strong Appraisal, Monitoring and Evaluation Unit (AMEU),
(ii) its metropolitan planning function has been reorganized and
is being strengthened; (iii) certain responsibilities such as for
water supply and sewerage are being transferred to other agencies
in order gradually to decrease CMDA's predominant role as an
executive agency; and (iv) a time schedule has been prepared to
transfer completed facilities to local bodies for operation and
maintenance (see para 5.02). CMDA's internal orgaaisation,
management, and finance systems have been strengthened over the
past four years (for instance, new accounting, budgeting, and
management information systems have been introduced).
(b) The municipalities have been given an expanded role in capital
budgeting and in selecting their priority schemes within broad
guidelines (technical and financial) set out by CMDA. The
municipalities are carrying out detailed planning of selected
schemes and will subsequently have full responsibility for
implementation, operation and maintenance of investments in
their respective areas.
(c) The Calcutta Municipal Corporation's (CMC) internal organization,
management and finance systems have been, and will continue to be
further strengthened. Already introduced are new accounting,
stores control, and management information systems. Consultants
studies on CMC maintenance organisation and procedures will have
started by April 1983. The CMC strengthening program will be
replicated in other local bodies under CUDP III, starting with
the Howrah Municipal Corporation.
(d) A clear definition of the expanded and well-defined role and
responsibilities in the CMA institutional structure of various
sectoral agencies (such as the Calcutta Metropolitan Water and
Sanitation Authority (CMWSA), Calcutta Improvement Trust (CIT),
Howrah Improvement Trust (HIT), and Irrigation and Waterways
Directorate (IWD)) has been developed by GOWB (see para 4.08).
Action for further strengthening of these agencies will be taken
under CUDP III, following the pattern of previous improvements
within CMDA and CMC.
(e) An integrated CMA-wide training program with special elements
targeted to specific agency/institutional requirements has been
formulated for inclusion in CUDP III (see para 2.22).
1.20    Legislation.  New legislation, and amendments to existing legislation
have  been   introduced  to:   (i)  increase   the  financial   resources  of
s*nicipalities and agencies; (ii)  improve planning and control  of land use;
abd (iii)  strengthen  local  government.   The  following  summarizes  major
changes in progress.
(a) The West Bengal Central Valuation Board Act, 1978 provides for
a Central Valuation Board (CVB) for improved valuation of lands
and buildings in West Bengal for the purpose of increasing
property tax revenues.  The CVB was established in 1979.



-7-
(b) The West Bengal Town and Country (Planning and Development) Act,
1979, notified on January 16, 1982 for the CMA, provides for
comprehensive land use planning and control in the CMA, and among
other tlhings, specifies explicitly that the CMDA is the Planning
and Development Authority for the CMA. CMDA's planning directorate
has been reorganized and strengthened.
(c) The Bengal Municipal (Amendment) Act, 1980, already in force,
provides for strengthening local government state-wide outside
the jurilsdictions of Calcutta and H1owrah Municipal Corporations
through the appointment of state-level cadres, 1/ improved
property taxation, and other means for increasing municipal
revenues; for example: a surcharge on commercial buildings,
a 'professional tax', etc.
(d) The Calcutta Municipal Corporation Act, 1980 and the Howrah
Municipal Corporation Act, 1980 are both expected to come into
force during 1983, and provide tools to the local bodies for
improving their financial management and operations (see para
1.21(a) and (b) below) while opening up opportunities for new
revenue sources (taxes on professional services, surcharge on
the property tax, etc.).
(e) The Calcutta 'Thika' Tenancy (Acquisition and Regulation) Act,
1981, notified on January 18, 1982, provides for the acquisition
of 'Bustee' or 'khatal' 2/ lands held in lease by 'thika tenants'
in Calcutta and Howrah, for the purpose of regulating such
tenancies, and for planned development and distribution of such
lands. Under the act, GOWB, having acquired the land, is
empowered to recover from the "Thika Tenant" adequate monies for
maintenance of civic services. Access to public areas by the
civic authorities for maintenance can now be legalized.
Preparation of an inventory of land and structures, is underway
and is expected to be completed by about May 31, 1983.
1.21    Financial.  Institutional and legislative changes which are either in
effect or underway, have been partly aimed at the ultimate objectives of:
(i) improving  resource  bases  of   local  bodies;  (ii) introducing  better
financial management practices; and (iii) emphasizing the importance of cost
recovery and operations and maintenance in the delivery of urban services.
Following are certain major implications of these initiatives.
1/  Each municipality is being provided with four officers covering
Administration, Finance, Engineering, and Public Health, and funded by
the State Government. Recruitment has been slow but has accelerated in
recent months. It has however not been possible thus far to recruit
engineers; interim support services in this field to the municipalities
will be provided by CMDA.
2/ 'Khatal' - local name for milk-producing buffalo holding on leased land.



-8-
(a) The CMC Act provides for the creation of a Municipal Fund
comprising several accounts which will permit better accounting
control for sources and uses of funds for certain categories of
civic services, e.g., water and sewerage, roads, and bustee
maintenance. The act also enhances the ability of the CMC to:
(i) augment revenues from property taxes through increases in
the assessment rates; (ii) raise other taxes; (iii) price water
to cover the cost of production, distribution, operation,
maintenance, depreciation, interest, and other related costs;
(iv) increase metered water connections; (v) secure all rights
over sub-soil water resources within the Corporation area; and
(vi) license private tubewells.
(b) The IIMC Act is modelled generally on the lines of the CMC Act
except that there is no water pricing clause, as bulk supply and
pricing thereof will be the responsibility of CMWSA for areas
outside the CMC. However, HMC is empowered to install block
meters, or meters to premises for recording the consumption
of filtered water. It may then impose fees for consumption
beyond any limits which may be set by regulations.  HMC will
also provide unfiltered water supplies for street washing
and fire fighting.
(c) The Central Valuation Board (CVB) has begun to have an impact
by assisting the CMA municipalities in: (i) the selection and
retention of assessors; (ii) the issuance of guidelines for
valuation of properties; (iii) evaluation of property tax
valuations to take effect from April 1, 1983 in accordance with
the provisions of the Bengal Municipal (Amendment) Act 1980, and
(iv) collection of current and arrears demand. GOWB now intends
to significantly reinforce the CVB through adequate staffing
and appropriate powers to improve its effectiveness.
(d) Sectoral analysis of capital, operations, and maintenance costs
in order to establish tariffs and prices were completed in October
1982 for sectors which allow for direct cost recovery (see
Chapter V, paras 5.27-5.36).  CMC and the CMWSA have recently
completed an analysis of required tariffs and charges for the
provision of water, sewerage, and drainage services within their
respective jurisdictions. Revised pricing for land developed
under the first two projects at Bhaishnabagata Patuli (BP) and
East Calcutta (EC) reflects a commitment to full cost recovery and
affordability in the shelter sector.  Public transport is being
addressed through the First Calcutta Urban Transport Project which
seeks to improve the financial and operational performance of the
Bus and Tram companies (see Annex 1, para 8).
(e) A West Bengal Municipal Finance Commission (MFC) (See Chapter V,
para 5.37) issued its report in March 1982. The MFC reviewed
the organization, management, and financing of all municipal



-9-
bodies in the State and made broad recommendations 1/ for
necessary improvements, partly drawing on the experience under
CUDP I and II. Proposals were made to augment municipal revenues,
improve the operating efficiencies of local bodies, and also
accounting, collection, organizational and management improvements
to municipalities. The principal recommendations have been
implemented and the State Government is addressing itself to the
remaining recommendations. The MFC's recommendation for a
Revised Grant Structure has already been adopted and designed in
detail. (See Chapter V, para 5.37-5.45).
Summary
1.22    Given the  size of the  CMA and  particularly the  growth of  some 37
municipalities outside the CMC and HMC, the process of institutional and
financial reform must necessarily be gradual. Many institutional, technical,
and political constraints inhibit dramatic, immediate change in performance
and service provision. Nevertheless, the 10-year perspective of CUDP I and
II  suggests  that  considerable   changes  have  in   fact  occurred.   Past
performance has set the stage for a concerted effort to build on the reforms
of the 1970's and to improve the financing and delivery of urban services to
growing numbers of residents of the CMA.
II. THE PROJECT
A. Objectives
2.01    The primary objectives of CUDP III are:
(a) to continue and to consolidate the efforts set in motion during
the 1970's and in particular to improve urban management in the
Calcutta Metropolitan Area through a comprehensive approach
in which institutional and financial reforms go hand in hand
with physical improvements; and
(b) to substantially increase the number of direct beneficiaries,
particularly in the economically weaker sections of the
community.
2.02    Secondary  objectives have  been estahlished  within the  two primary
objectives. These are:
I/  These actions were designed to put into place an essential part of a
viable framework for urban development. They provide an opportunity to
GOWB to place local authorities, including the CMC, on a much sounder
financial basis and would thus reduce the financial drain on the state
budget.



-10-
(a) to strengthen metropolitan and municipal government and other
institutions responsible for urban planning, management, and
finance;
(b) to emphasize investments that complete or complement earlier
investments so that optimum benefits are derived;
(c) to rectify sectoral and spatial investment imbalances between
the Metrocore (Calcutta/Howrah), and the remainder of the CMA;
(d) to give high priority to the operation and maintenance of
existing assets and new assets to be created, and to identify
and implement ways for doing so, particularly through improved
cost recovery and financial management policies;
(e) to continue to emphasize investmernts aimed at satisfying the
minimum basic needs for urban services at affordable standards;
(f) to encourage the private sector to participate in development
(for example, in prime locations where infrastructure and other
urban services have been or are being improved, with CMDA assisting
in land assembly, rezoning land use at strategic locations, etc.);
and
(g) to make greater use of institutional finance (such as that
provided by the Housing and Urban Development Corporation (HUDCO),
Housing Development Finance Corporation (HDFC)), and other agencies
in order to make a significant impact on critical subsectors such
as "shelter".
B0 Project Description
2.03    The  project comprises  CMDA'S Rs  330.00 crore  (US$347.30  million)
five-year investment program (April 1, 1983-March 31, 1988), with the
exception of Rs 42.00 crores (US$44.20 million) which represent cost and time
overruns on the previous five-year investment program. On the basis of both
technical characteristics and institutional responsibilities for planning and
implementation, the project has been organized into four subprograms (see
Table 2.1).
(a) Municipal Development Program (MDP)
(b) Transmunicipal Infrastructure Program (TRIP)
(c) Calcutta-Howrah Investment Programs (CHIP)
(d) CMA-wide Complementary Programs (CMACP)



-1 1-
2.04    Just over six  million persons are expected  to benefit directly from
these investments, of whom about 70% are in the EWS group. 1/ Financially,
the project represents only an 8% increase in nominal terms over CMDA's
78/79-82/83 actual  investment expenditure.   In  real  terms,  the  proposed
investment program represents a 12% reduction over the 78/79-82/83 actual
expenditures, reflecting a greater emphasis on institutional and financing
strengthening in the CMA and a recognition of the need to allow for
increasing cost of operation and maintenance.
2.05    Municipal  Development  Program  (MDP).   (US$98.90  million).   This
program, to be executed by the municipalities, seeks to deliver basic
municipal services to the most deprived areas in each of 37 municipalities
(4.2 million population) and the CMC (3.3 million) and HMC (740,000) within a
range of service delivery norms and physical design standards, recommended by
CMDA and which are affordable, and acceptable to IDA (see Annexes 3B and 3C).
The program comprises investments at the 'ward' level. Improvements in water
supply, drainage, solid waste management, and service privy conversion will
alleviate the most acute deficiencies.   Local road improvements will improve
accessi'bility particularly during the monsoon. Improvements and expansion of
markets will ease the acute shortage of available space; increase economic
activity; and provide local authorities with increased resources through
rents and taxes. As part of these area-based improvements, slum areas
(bustees) in each municipality will be upgraded with basic utilities: water
supply,   drainage,    sanitary   latrines,    brick-paved   pathways,    and
streetlighting.
2.06    Transmunicipal  Infrastructure Program  (TRIP).  (US$42.60  million).
This program provides for the planning and execution by CMDA of critical
infrastructure in the water supply, drainage, sanitation, and transportation
sectors, from which benefits will be shared by two or more municipalities.
Examples of subprojects include a new 30 mgd water treatment plant and
primary grid at Barranagar Kamarhati, the renovation and expansion of an
existing water treatment plant and primary grid at Serampore; improvements to
a major drainage canal and pumping station (Beliaghata-Krishnapur-Bajola
Khal) and the first phase of a Truck Terminal (and eventual wholesale market)
at Kona.
l/  About 45% of the CMA population, or about 4.5 million people, belong to
households in the Economically Weaker Section (EWS), with a monthly
income of Rs 350 (approximately US$37 equivalent) or less per household.
At current prices households with a rionthly income of Rs 350 or less are
conventionally defined as EWS, based on information from the early
1970's. However, CMDA now make the working assumption that households
having a monthly income of Rs 475 or less (approximately US$52 and the
mean-income of the conventionally defined LIC) are EWS. On this basis
about 60% of the CMA population or 6 million people wo Id fall in the
economically weaker section.



-12-
Table 2.1:   FIVE YEAR INVESTMENT PROGRAM 1983/84-1987/88
(Rs Crores and US$ millions) /1
% of
Rs. Crs.    US$m  Total
I.     Municipal Development Program (MDP)            94.00    98.90    33
Water Supply                          18.86
Drainage                              18.64
Sanitation                            14.48
Bustee Improvement                     8.29
Parks, Playgrounds                     2.02
Crematoria                               .79
Transportation Infrastructure         22.35
Markets and Community Halls            8.57
II.    Transmunicipal Infrastructure Program (TRIP)
40.46    42.60    14
Water Supply                          23.62
Drainage                               4.97
Sanitation                             8.37
Transportation Infrastructure            .50
Area Dev. - Kona Truck Terminal        3.00
III.   Calcutta-Howrah Investment Programs (CHIP)
87.66    92.30    30
Water Supply                          16.43
Drainage                               5.42
Sanitation                            35.09
Bustee Improvement                     9.94
Traffic and Transportation            14.78
Urban Renewal and Bus Terminal          6.00 /2
IV.    CMA-wide Complementary Programs (CMACP)        35.88    37.80    13
Shelter and Area Development           9.00 /2
Health                                 8.66
Small Scale Entrepreneur (SSE)         2.50 /3
Anchal Development                    11.51
Technical Assistance and Training    4.21  _                       _
Subtotal                                      258.00   271.60    90
Design, Supervision & Management               30.00    31.50    10
TOTAL PROJECT COST                            288.00   303.10   100
Spillover (Cost and time overruns
on previous program)               42.00    44.20
TOTAL INVESTMENT PROGRAM                   Rs 330.00   347.30
/1 Includes contingencies.
Th Seed capital only.
/3  Establishment costs and interest rebate only.  Loan funds to be
provided by commercial banks.



-13-
2.07    Calcutta/Howrah  (Metrocore) Investment  Programs (CHIP).   (US$92.30
million).  Two levels of investments will be made within the jurisdictions of
the CMC and the HMC.  In addition to the MDP (para 2.05) to be implemented by
CMC and HMC at the ward level, CMDA will plan and execute (assisted as
necessary by the CIT/HIT) a broader program of investments, focused on the
optimization of existing infrastructure and recent new investments funded
under CUDP I and II. In Calcutta, these will include, for instance (a) in
the water supply sector, further improvements to the Tallah-Palta System,
improvement and extension of a secondary grid in Calcutta, bulk metering and
leak detection; (b) in sanitation, improvements to four existing sewage
pumping stations and provision of an alternate power supply as well as
improvements to three major drainage outfall systems; further attempts to
renovate  the  existing   sewerage  and  drainage   system  (including  sewer
cleaning), and an expansion of the ongoing Solid Waste Management Program;
(c) in the Traffic and Transportation Sector, construction of key road links
to enhance the efficiency of the existing inner-city road network and
continuation of the Calcutta Traffic Engineering Project (CTEP), started
under CUDP II to improve traffic management. CHIP investments in Howrah are
also focused on optimizing existing infrastructure. For example, Rs 8 crores
or nearly 50 percent of the funds for Howrah are allocated for the provision
of house connections to the sewerage network and Howrah sewage treatment
plant funded under CUDP I and CUDP II.   Funds (Rs 6 crores) are included for
'seed capital' for Urban Renewal Schemes in both Calcutta and Howrah.
Selective intervention by CMDA (or agencies on its behalf) will be made at
strategic areas, already subject to speculative pressures, for example
adjacent to the Metropolitan Transport Project (underground rapid transit)
stations (see para 2.25) to facilitate the further development of these areas
by the  private sector.   For example,  under CUDP  II, IDA  partly  financed
reconstruction of the Howrah Fish and Pan Market (to a podium level), which
included the acquisition and replanning of a significantly larger area (4.12
ha) to integrate public facilities (tram and bus terminal, pedestrian subway)
with Howrah Railway Station, etc., all of which have been successfully
implemented to date.   High-rise commercial buildings  are to  be constructed
above the podium by the private sector. The sale by auction of development
rights for the first superstructure is expected to be completed during the
period ending June 30, 1983 (see Chapter V, para 5.35). GOWB has agreed that
50% of net surplusses earned on the sale of development rights of urban
renewal will be placed in a fund for implementing a shelter program in the
CMA (see para 2.09).
2.08    CMA-wide Complementary Programs  (CMACP).  (US$37.80 million).  These
programs will be centrally initiated and coordinated by CMDA, but will
involve the active participation of other agencies and state government
departments for their implementation. All five complementary programs were
initiated under CUDP II.   These are to be  selectively expanded and modified
in the  light of  experience gained  to date.   They  include  the  following
programs.
(i) Shelter and Area Development
2.09    Implementation  of sites  and services  programs has  previously been
excessively slow and troublesome because of organizational, administrative,
and management constraints in addition to land acquisition problems. This
program therefore has a two-fold objective: (a) to reorganize and strengthen



-14-
the shelter and area development sector, with CMDA as the primary agency
which will also assist and train other participating agencies in addressing
the massive shelter deficiencies in the CMA, and (b) to directly assist in
accelerating the availability of serviced urban land through the provision of
approximately 25,000 serviced lots (one-sixth of the estimated incremental
demand during the project period) affordable to a range of income groups.
Land requirements over the project period have been identified (see para
4.10). The project will include 'seed' capital amounting to US$9.45 million
with  the  balance  (estimated  at  US$33.60   million)  to  be  raised  from
institutional sources (see para 3.08).   The seed capital and  50% of the net
surpluses of Urban Renewal schemes will be placed in an "Area Development
Fund" in CMDA. The purpose of this fund is to initiate and sustain the
construction program, and as and when adequate institutional finance is
obtained annually, the  fund would  be replenished.   The seed  capital would
then be recycled to meet the investment needs for the following year (see
para 4.18).
(ii) Health Program
2.10     The  proposed  Health  Program   will  expand  the  existing  health
infrastructure within the CMA, using the experience gained from the CUDP II
Pilot  Health  Program.   The  objectives  include:   (a)  expansion  of  the
preventive-oriented  activities  developed   so  far  to   include  a  target
population of about 2,000,000 bustee/slum dwellers throughout the CMA area;
(b) use of local part-time Honorary Health Workers (HHWs) working at the
bustee level to promote and teach proper health and hygiene techniques; (c)
maximum cost efficiency by utilizing existing resources, e.g., buildings,
equipment, and personnel, and (d) community participation by utilizing local
people in the planning, implementation and monitoring of the Health Program
through the establishment of popular committees at each level of the Health
Care System.
2.11    The program will establish (i) 60  Ward Health Centers (one for every
30,000 population) to provide curative, preventive services (HHWs, preventive
clinics, and family folders); (ii) 8 Polyclinics for small consultative,
diagnostic, ambulatory, and curative services; (these will be financially
self-supporting even with nominal fees as described in para 5.36); (iii) 15
renovated Maternity Clinics with facilities to provide supervised deliveries
and Family Welfare/Planning Clinics; (iv) one Central Drug Center with 3
Satellite Centers and (v) one Urban Health Training Center for all levels of
personnel.
(iii)   Small-Scale Entrepreneur Program (SSE)
2.12    The  GOWB place  the  highest  priority  on,  and  have  consistently
stressed efforts towards increasing incomes and employment through the SSE
program. This component aims to introduce into the formal banking system, a
section of the community which hitherto has not had access to credit on
reasonable terms, and to increase the involvement of the commercial banks
with the small-scale enterprise sector. This builds upon the successful
experience of a similar scheme under CUDP II, where the repayment experience
for loans is exceptionally favorable, and the impact on incomes and



-15-
employment in the borrowing enterprises has been substantial. The CMA target
group 1/ selected on income criteria have been estimated as follows:
Group    Monthly Income/Family *  No.of Families         %
A        up to Rs 350               46,000           27
B        up to Rs 600               80,000           47
C        above Rs 601               44,400           26
T7U,40           OUu
* The 'family' concept has been adopted to help 'secure' loans more
effectively through reliance on community pressure for repayment.
The project will address about 25% of each group or 42,600 families during
the project period.
2.13    CUDP II experience is based mainly  on Group A where commercial banks
have been granting 'differential rate of interest' (DRI) loans at 4%
interest, and  covered by  a 90%  guarantee  against  default  by  GOI.   The
repayment record to date has been excellent, with only about 5% being
classified as bad and doubtful, compared to some 15% experienced by the West
Bengal  State   Financial   Corporation   with   its   'established'   medium
entrepreneurs. Banks are required to make such loans in accordance with a
Reserve Bank of India directive requiring banks to make DRI loans up to 1% of
their total deposits. CUDP II did not address Groups B and C.
2.14     Under CUDP III, CMDA estimate that 25%, or 11,500 families, in Group
A will be eligible for DRI loans averaging Rs 2000 each, and aggregating Rs
2.30 crores (US$2.40 million).
2.15     The main thrust  of CUDP III however  will be towards  Group B where
CMDA estimate about 20,000 families, will have access to commercial credit
for the first time. The projected aggregate loans total is Rs 10.00 crores
(US$10.50 million). A 'ceiling' of Rs 10,000 has been placed for each loan
for this target group. Provision is also made for a 'bonus' in the form of a
one time interest rebate to be paid to borrowers who repay their loans on
schedule.  This facility would be available only for the first operation with
any given borrower.  To  obtain a second loan,  a borrower would  have to pay
the normal rates charged by the Bank.  Thus, borrowers will repay their loans
at 12.5% per annum.   If they qualify  for the bonus,  the effective interest
rate will be adjusted ex post to 8.25%.   The bonus funds will be released by
CMDA to  the commercial  banks  after  satisfactory  documentation  has  been
furnished that the loans are duly repaid. The commercial banks would then
credit the borrower's account with the bonus at 6-month intervals. The total
interest rebate over five years on loans aggregating Rs 10.00 crores will be
approximately Rs 0.60 crores (US$630,000).
1/ These have been specifically identified by CMDA and include primarily:
(i) already self-employed persons operating on 'kerbside' credit
(ii) self-employed persons relying on hire of tools, implements
(iii) self-employable skilled and semi-skilled persons, needing
access to credit.



-16-
2.16    GOWB  has discussed  this program  will  selected  commercial  banks.
Based on these discussions and experience under CUDP II, GOWB confidently
expect to secure not less than Rs 10.00 crores to implement this program.
Agreement was reached at negotiations that the interest rebate feature will
be reviewed annually by CMDA to determine its effectiveness; if it is found
unnecessary or ineffective, it would be discontinued.
2.17     As  banks gain  experience, it  is expected  they will  increasingly
address all borrowers including those in Group C, who will receive loans at
12.5% per annum.   The average loan  size will  be about  Rs 8,000  and loans
aggregating Rs 9.00 crores (US$9.45 million) are expected to be made to
11,000 families, or 25% of that target group.
2.18    To bring banks and  borrowers together, CMDA will  need to expand the
CMA-wide network of teams working closely with the local banks, and community
leaders, and groups, to publicize the program and seek help in identifying
potential borrowers. This type of help was stressed by the commercial banks
as the most important assistance that they could receive. CMDA has already
furnished IDA with a final staffing structure and organization chart for
implementing the program.
2.19    The project cost  of this component includes:  (i) the administrative
cost of the SSE cell (Rs 1.90 crores), and (ii) the interest rebate cost of
Rs 0.60 crores.
(iv) The Panchayat Development Program.
2.20    This an extension of the program  started under CUDP II.  The primary
objective is the provision of minimum standard all weather road access, water
supply, and sanitation for the 165 non-municipal urban areas within CMA.
Under this project, about 650 km of roads will be paved, about 2,000
hand-operated tubewells sunk, and about 15,000 of the existing approximately
65,000 service privies  will be replaced  with sanitary latrines.   CMDA will
implement the program with the exception of the tubewells which will be the
responsibility of the panchayats. The aggregate cost of this component is Rs
11.51 crores (US$12.08 million).
(v) Training and Technical Assistance Program.
2.21    The  investments in  Calcutta's infrastructure  over the  past decade
have imposed a heavy burden on the organizations involved and their
personnel. Both CMDA and the CMC have for some time run training courses
through their respective training centers assisted with advice and guidance
from the Indian Institute of Management in Calcutta (IIMC). The concept and
design of CUDP III, with its increased emphasis on the'local bodies, will
impose even greater pressures on the GOWB for the development of personnel
with adequate supervisory, managerial, and other essential skills.
2.22    GOWB  has recognized  the  need  for  systematic  training  of  local
government personnel in the  whole of West Bengal  and in May 1982  set up an
Institute of Local Government and Urban  Studies (ILGUS) which will help meet
this need. Metropolitan authorities like the CMDA, CMWSA, CIT, and HIT will



-17-
also make use of ILGUS for training of their higher level personnel and for
certain other kinds of training. Recruitment of ILGUS staff is underway.
2.23    The total cost,  including contingencies of  the Technical Assistance
and Training component is estimated at Rs 4.31 crores (US$4.53 million). The
foreign exchange component is estimated at Rs 0.72 crores (US$756,000), which
will go towards overseas training, foreign consultancy for ILGUS, requisition
of a portion of the library collection for ILGUS from abroad, and advisory
and consultancy services for CMDA. A significant portion of costs of the
CUDP III training program are devoted to the establishment and training
program of ILGUS which, in summary, has as its objectives: "(i) to create an
awareness of the role of training as an intervention measure for improving
the managerial competence of municipal bodies; (ii) to provide the training
facilities primarily for the municipal bodies but also for other urban
authorities of the State; (iii) to provide consultancy services to its client
organizations; and (iv) to build up a data bank and conduct research studies
in order to aid with the training and consultancy activities, and also to
help the policy making authorities of Local Government and Urban Development
Department of the State Government and municipal bodies in the urban
authorities." 1/ The overall training program is ambitious: ILGUS will
attempt to directly train about 10,000 persons while the CMC Training Center
will cater for another 10,000, and the CMDA Training Center for approximately
2,000, making a total of about 22,000 personnel to be trained during the
project period.
2.24    CMDA would seek advisory and  consultancy services for the following:
(i) in the Water Supply, Drainage, and Sanitation sectors of about 20 person
months of foreign experts; (ii) a CMA-wide Transport Study of about 120
person months of which about 10 person months would be of foreign content;
(iii) annual inspections of major infrastructure projects costing about
US$15,000 over the life of the project; (iv) technical assistance for the
municipalities in accounting and (v) organization, management, and finance
studies for  HMC and  the  larger  municipalities.   IDA  has  discussed  and
reviewed draft terms of reference for all the above studies.
C. Other Infrastructure Investments
2.25    The  project will  be implemented  in the  context of  several  other
significant  macro-infrastructure   investments  listed   below,  which   are
currently under construction and scheduled for completion at various dates
within the  project period.   (See  Map  IBRD  16865).   The  major  schemes,
implementing agencies, estimated costs in 1982 prices and anticipated
completion dates are as follows:
1/ Quote from LGUDD's Terms of Reference for ILGUS.



-18-
Project            Responsibility                 Cost         Due Date
(Rs crores)
a)  Metropolitan      Metro Railway, Calcutta        680         Phase I 1984
Transport        (a subsidiary of Indian                     Phase II 1985
Project          Railways)                                   remainder 1987
b)  Second Hooghly   Second Hooghly Bridge
Bridge           Authority with CIT/HIT          170         1986
(Princep Ghat)
c)  Kalyani/Bansberia  GOWB/PWD                         8        1984
Bridge
d)  Belgharia           GOWB/PWD                       19        1984
Expressway
e)  Dum-Dum-Barasat    Eastern Railways               5.5        1983
Suburban Railway
Extension
f)  Coal Gas Plant      CMDA                            30       1987/88
and Distribution
Network
g)  Telecommunications
Rehabilitation      Indian Ports & Telegraphs    N/A         1987
2.26    Others such as  the construction of a  new Railway passenger terminal
on the Howrah side of the Second Hooghly Bridge, are at an advanced stage of
planning. All will lhave a significant impact on land use and values, and
consequently on local government financial resources, and will ultimately
contribute to the overall  efficiency of the CMA.   Only limited efforts have
been made to quantify the long-term implications of these major investments
on GOWB's future urban development resources. CMDA is actively involved as
the designated Development Authority under the Act (see para 1.20(b)) in the
coordination of strategic actions in relation to these investments, through
various traffic and other coordinating and liaison committees.
2.27    Funding  for these  investments is  external to  the CMDA  Plan,  and
includes  various  sources  including   direct  GOI  grants.   Implementation
responsibility for all, except the gas  distribution system, is with agencies
other than the  CMDA.  In defining  and appraising CUDP  III, close attention
has  been   given   to   these   external   investments   and   institutional
responsibilties, particularly in assessing the degree of institutional
reorganization required and the implementing capacity of CMDA and other
agencies.
2.28    During negotiations, it was agreed that CMDA will consult with IDA on
any major changes proposed in its investment program for the period April 1,
1983 through March 31, 1988 (as set out in Table 2.1).



-19-
III. PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING PLAN
A. Cost Estimates
3.01    Out of  an investment program  totalling Rs 330.00  crores (US$347.30
million), the total project cost, including contingencies, is estimated at
Rs 288.00 crores  (US$303.10 million).   The foreign  exchange  component  is
Rs 46.75 crores (US$49.18 million) or about 16% of project costs, with
Rs 7.36 crores  (US$7.73  million)  estimated  as  taxes  and  duties.   Land
acquisition costs are estimated at Rs 6.12 crores (US$6.43 million). Summary
cost estimates are given in Table 3.1. Detailed cost estimates for each
subprogram, by time and component are given in Annex 5.
3.02    Base cost estimates  are in January 1983  prices.  Cost estimates for
about 15% of project investments in civil works in the TRIP and CHIP
components are based  on final  engineering design.   Cost estimates  for the
remaining civil works in the above components are based on outline designs
and the  cost of  similar works  carried out  recently  in  the  area.   Cost
estimates for MDP and CMACP schemes are based on final engineering design for
a representative range of investments representing municipalities of varying
densities, locations,  and physical  conditions.   Estimates  for  equipment,
vehicles, and  materials are  based  on  recent  quotations  from  suppliers.
Average person-month costs for consultants services and technical assistance
are  estimated  at  Rs   10,000  for  locally   procured  services.   Foreign
consultancy services will be required for advising CMDA in the water,
sewerage, and transportation sectors, and are estimated at US$11,000 per
person-month, including  contingencies.   Physical  contingencies  have  been
estimated at 10% for civil works with detailed engineering, and 15% for civil
works with  preliminary engineering.   No physical  contingencies  have  been
applied to land, hand-operated tubewells, equipment, vehicles, and consulting
services and technical assistance. Price contingencies have been estimated
at 8.0%, 7.5%, 7%, 6% and 6% for FY84 through FY88 for both foreign and local
costs, including land costs.
B. Financing Plan
3.03    The proposed IDA credit of US$147  million would finance about 50% of
total project costs net of taxes and duties. The credit would cover 100% of
the estimated foreign exchange costs (US$49.18 million) and 39% of local
costs. The Financing Plan is set out in Table 3.2.
C. Flow of Funds and On-lending Terms
3.04    Retroactive  financing not  exceeding US$500,000  is recommended  for
expenditures incurred after March 1, 1983 for civil works, equipment
purchases, and consultants' services for engineering design.
3.05    The credit would be made available to  GOI, which would pass it on to
GOWB on its standard terms and conditions as part of the Central Government
assistance to the state.



INDIA
THIRD CALCUTTA URBAN. DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Table 3.1:  PROJECT COST SUMMAY
Program/Sector                               Local  Foreign  Total      Local Foreign  Total         % Foreign    Z of TOTAL
------ Rs crores  -          ---US6 millions---          EKchange    BASE COST
A. MUNICIPAL DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM (NDP) 1/
1)  Water Supply                        11.89    1.71   13.60       12.52    1.80   14.32          13
2)  Drainage                             12.10    1.64   13.74      12.74    1.72   14.46          12
3)  Sanitation                            9.60    1.34   10.94      10.10    1.41   11.51          12
4)  Bustee Improvement                    5.38     .73    6.11       5.66      .77    6.43         12
5)  Parks, Playgrounds                    1.64     -       1.64      1.72     -       1.72
6)  Crematoria                             .60     .04      .64       .63      .04     .67          6
7)  Transportation Infrastructure       13.58    2.91   16.49       14.30    3.07   17.37          18
8)  Markets & Community Halls             5.72     .66    6.38       6.02      .70    6.72         10
SUBTOTAL                                 60.51    9.03   69.54      63.69    9.51   73.20          13               36
B. TRANSMUNICIPAL INFRASTRUCTURE PROGRAMS (TRIP)
1)  Water Supply                         14.49    2.97   17.46      15.26    3.12   18.38          17
2)  Drainage                              3.24     .44    3.68       3.40      .47    3.87         12
3)  Sanitation                            5.32     .91    6.23       5.60      .96    6.56         15
4)  Transportation Infrastructure          .39     .02      .41       .41      .02     .43          4
5)  Area Development                      2.10     .18    2.28       2.21      .19    2.40          8
SUBTOTAL                                25.54    4.52   30.06       26.88    4.76   31.64          15               15
C. CALCUTTA-HOWRAH IMPROVEMENT PROGRAMS (CHIP)
1)  Water Supply                         10.88    1.86   12.74      11.45    1.96   13.41          15                                 0
2)  Drainage                              3.70     .49    4.19       3.90      .51    4.41         12                                  1
3)  Sanitation                          23.16    3.50   26.66       24.38    3.69   28.07          13
4)  Bustee Improvement                    7.14     .97    8.11       7.51    1.03    8.54          12
5)  Transportation Infrastructure         9.92    1.18   11.10      10.45    1.23   11.68          11
6)  Urban Renewal & Bus Terminal          4.23     .56    4.79       4.45      .59    5.04         12
SUBTOTAL                                 59.03    8.56   67.59      62.14    9.01   71.15          13               34
D. CMA-WIDE COMPLEMENTARY PROGRAMS (CMACP)
1)  Shelter & Area Development           8.65      -      8.65       9.11     -       9.11
2)  Health                                6.73     .26    6.99       7.09      .27    7.36          4
3) Small-Scale Entrepreneur (SSE)
Program                              2.07      -      2.07       2.18     -       2.18          -
4)  Panchayat Development                 7.76     .88    8.64       8.16      .93    9.09         10
5)  Technical Assistance & Training      2.71      .61    3.32       2.85      .64    3.49         18
SUBTOTAL                                27.92    1.75   29.67       29.39    1.84   31.23           6               15
TOTAL BASE LINE COSTS                       173.00   23.86  196.86    182.10   25.12  207.22           12              100
DESIGN, SUPERVISION, MANAGEMENT              15.00   15.00   30.00      15.75   15.75   31.50          50               15
PHYSICAL CONTINGENCIES                       14.84    2.15   16.99      15.62    2.27   17.80          13                9
PRICE CONTINGENCIES                          38.41    5.74   44.15      40.43    6.04   46.47          13               22
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS                         241.25   46.75  288.00    253.90   49.18  303.08           .16             .146
1/  Intersectoral allocations are subject to change on completion of appraisal of all municipalities,
expected to be completed by April 30, 1983.



-21-
Table 3.2:  FINANCING PLAN 1983/84-1987/88
Rs          US$
FUNDS REQUIRED                                Crores       millions        x
Proposed Project
a)  New Investments                         258.00        271.60        78
b)  Design Supervision Management            30.00         31.50         9
Total Project Costs                           288.00        303.10        87
Spillover from previous plans                  42.00         44.20        13
TOTAL INVESTMENT PLAN COSTS                   330.00        347.30       100
SOURCES OF FUNDS
State Plan Funds (includes proceeds of
IDA credit)                                   171.40        180.40        52
Minimum needs program                          23.30 /a      23.40         7
CMDA Market Borrowings                        100.90        106.20        31
Octroi Receipts (net) to CMDA                  35.40 /b      37.30        10
Total GOWB/CMDA funding                       330.00        347.30       100
Estimate of institutional finance required
by CMDA for shelter and area development    32.00            33.60
Commercial bank financing towards
small-scale entrepreneur (SSE) program         10.00-20.00  10.50-21.00
/a GOI Grant through GOWB.
/b  Represents Rs 186.60 crores of gross octroi receipts less Rs 151.20
crores for debt service and sinking fund.
3.06    GOWB  has designated  CMDA as  the agency  through which  all project
funds would flow. Using the several sources of funds described in Table 3.2,
CMDA would pass them on to implementing agencies and local bodies, or itself
construct  assets  which  it  would  turn   over  to  operating  agencies  on
completion. CMDA's onlending rate to executing agencies would be based on
the cost of its borrowings over the project period currently expected to be
7.75% a year, plus a half percent service charge, except in the case of urban
renewal schemes where its rate would be the prevailing commercial bank rate
(presently 12.5%).   Agreement was  reached at  negotiations that  CMDA  will
onlend at the prevailing commercial rate for urban renewal schemes, and at
its projected weighted average cost of borrowing, plus a half percent service
charge for other investments, but in no case less than 8.25% a year.



-22-
Table 3.3(a):   TERMS AND CONDITIONS OF ONLENDING
SECTOR               GOWB TO                                  CMDA TO
CMDA          LOAN TERMS               AGENCIES       LOAN TERMS
Urban Renewal         100% Loan      15 yrs. at 7% incl.    100% Loan        15 yrs. at market rate
5 yrs. grace                            (presently 12.5%) incl.
period.  Interest                       5 yrs. grace period.
payable annually.                       Interest payable annually.
Repayment of loan                       Repayment of loan in
in equal periodic                       equal periodic payments
payments combining                      combining principal and
principal and                           interest (i.e., ordinary
interest, (i.e.,                        annuity).
ordinary annuity).
Transmunicipal        100% Loan              "                100% Loan      20 yrs. at 8.25% (incl.
IWater Supply                                                                 1/2% service charge)
Projects                                                                     incl. 5 yrs. grace period.
Interest payable annually.
Repayment of loan in equal
periodic payments combining
principal and interest (i.e.,
ordinary annuity)
Area                 On-site                "                 On-site        15 yrs. at 8.25% (incl. 1/2%
Development          investments                              investments   service charge) incl. 5 yrs.
100% loan,                              100% loan;    grace period.  Interest pay-
off-site                                off-site       able annually.  Repayment of
investments-                            investments   loan in equal periodic pay-
100% grant                              100% grant    ments combining principal and
interest (i.e., ordinary
annuity.
Transmunicipal        100% grant             -                100% grant
Drainage,
Sanitation and
Traffic &
Transportation
Municipal             100% loan      same as in               100% loan      Same as in Area Develop-
Projects:                            Urban                                   ment (see above).
Markets,                             Renewal above.
Community Halls,
and other commer-
cial projects
incl. water sup-
ply & sanitation
Other Municipal      2/3 loan &    Same as in                 2/3 loan &    Same as in Area Develop-
Projects incl.        1/3 grant.    Urban Renewal             1/3 grant.    ment (see above).
parks, playgrounds,
crematoria.
Note: See Table 3.3(b) opposite for application of the above terms and conditions to the
project components.



-23-
INDIA
THIRD CALCUTTA LRBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Table 3.3(b):  FLOWI OF FUNDS AND ONLENDING TERMS FROM CMDA TO
LOCAL BODIES/IMPLEMENTING AGENCIES
(Rs IakhsT)
---------S---SUB-PROGRAMS-------------           Total Loan
Components                        MDP          TRIP         CHIP        CMACP       Total Grant
TOTAL
Water Supply
roan                         1885.62      2361.89       1643.35          -        5890.86
Grant                                 -            -             -                   -
Subtotal                     1885.62      2361.89       1643.35          -        5890.86
Drainage
Loan                         1249.17         -            -              -        1249.17
Grant                         615.26       496.80        542.29          -        1654.35
Subtotal                     1864.43       496.80        542.29          -       2903.52
Sanitation
Loan                         1129.12         33.43       947.56          -        2110.11
Grant                         318.47       803.19       2561.93          -        3683.59
Subtotal                     1447.59       836.62       3509.49          -        5793.70
Bustee Improvement
oan                             -           -             -
Grant                         829.44        -            993.56          -        1823.00
Subtotal                      829.44        -            993.56          -        1823.00
Parks, Playgrounds
Loan                          135.35         -            -              -         135.35
Grant                          66.66        -             -              -          66.66
Subtotal                      202.01         -            -              -         202.01
Crematoria
Loan                           53.02         -            -              -          53.02
Grant                          26.12        -             -              -          26.12
Subtotal                       79.14         -            -              -          79.14
Transportation Infrastructure
loan                         1497.56         -            -              -        1497.56
Grant                         737.61         49.97      1477.74          -        2265.32
Subtotal                     2235.17         49.97      1477.74          -        3762.88
Markets and Community Halls
Loan                          856.51         -            -              -         856.51
Grant                           -            -
Subtotal                      856.51         -            -              -         856.51
Urban Renewal
Loan                            -            -           599.86          -         599.86
Grant                           -            -            -
Subtotal                        -            -           599.86          -         599.86
Shelter & Area Development
Loan                            -            45.09        -            764.97      810.06
Grant                           -          255.51         -            134.99      390.50
Subtotal                        -          300.60         -            899.96     1200.56
Health
Grant                           -           -             -            865.86      865.86
Subtotal                        -            -            -            865.86      865.86
Small-Scale Enterprise
Loan                            -            -            -              -          -
Grant                                                                 250.34       250.34
Subtotal                        -            -            -           250.34       250.34
Anchal Development
Loan                                                                     -          -
Grant                           -           -             -           1151.04     1151.04
Subtotal                        -            -            -           1151.04    1151.04
Technical Assistance Training
Loan                            -            -            -              -           -
Grant                           -           -             -            42 1. 52    421.52
Subtotal                        -           -             -           421.52       421.52
TOTAL LOAN                      6806.35       2440.41      3190.77        764.97   13202.50
TOTAL GRANT                     2593.56    .1605.47        5575.52       2823.75   12598.30
GRAND TOTAL                     9399.91       4045.88      b/bb.ZY9       Jn. Iz   zOLUU.1U IT
/1  Excludes Design, Supervision, and Management Costs.



-24-
3.07    The nature  of the proposed  investments would  determine the  mix of
loan/grant funds. Remunerative schemes for example, would be on the basis of
100% loan; partly or fully non-remunerative schemes would have a grant
element. The terms and conditions of onlending for the project are shown in
Table 3.3(a). Table 3.3(b) indicates the split between loans and grants of
each component. As compared to virtually 100% grant in the past, there will
overall be approximately equal proportions of loan and grant (see Table
3.3(a)). The reason for the 50% overall grant element is attributable to the
investments in Sanitation, Bustee Improvement, Transportation Infrastructure,
and Panchayat Development, which are normally funded from the general
revenues of the State. The loan portion will be directly recovered from user
charges  (see  paras  5.27-5.35).   The  grant  portion  will  be  indirectly
recovered through improvements to the general revenues of local bodies.
Annex 2B lists the agencies and local bodies responsible for execution of
each subproject or program.
D. Additional1 Resource Mobilization
3.08    An important feature of this project is CMDA's intention and strategy
to mobilize sources of finance such as commercial banks, public institutions,
and the private sector. For example: (a) under the SSE program, CMDA expects
the commercial banks to lend between Rs 10-20 crores, depending on the
aggresiveness with which this component is pursued; (b) use of seed capital
for shelter and area development (Rs 9.00 crores)(US$9.45 million) is
expected to generate a further Rs 32.00 crores (US$33.60 million) over the
project period  from institutional  finance (the  estimate is  the  net  cash
requirement for CMDA based on projected delivery schedules of serviced sites,
and cash income from deposits,  outright sale, etc.); and  (c) Rs 6.00 crores
(US$6.30 million) of seed capital for urban renewal schemes is expected to
generate substantial surpluses from  the sale of  development rights (Chapter
V, para 5.35).
IV.  PROJECT ORGANIZATION  MANAGEMENTj, AND IMPLEMENTATION
4.01    The project will be implemented by existing institutions and agencies
of the GOWB, and the commercial banks.   The principal ones include the CMDA,
CMC, HMC, CMWSA, CIT, HIT, and municipalities, and the State departments of
(a) Local Government and Urban Development, (b) Irrigation and Waterways, and
(c) Health.
A. Key Executing Agencies
4.02    Key roles are  played by: (a) CMDA,  (b) CMC, (c) CMWSA,  and (d) the
Municipalities. Annex 2A provides a brief summary on the organization of
each of these. Organizational changes and staffing for each agency were
discussed during project preparation, and a timetable agreed at appraisal for
completion of  all necessary  actions prior  to negotiations.   These are  as
follows.



-25-
4.03    CMDA has been restructured  to reflect the nature  of its future role
in accordance  with Chart  1 in  Annex 2.   Of special  significance  is  the
establishment of the Shelter, Urban Renewal, and Area Development (SURAD)
Directorate Unit, specifically to address the problem of shelter, (Chart 2,
Annex 2), and the setting up of regional and zonal offices (see para 4.06).
Staff strengthening for CMDA as a whole, but especially for the AMEU and
SURAD is progressing well and is being closely monitored. New recruitment is
being focused on professional and technical skills hitherto in short supply
in CMDA. These include economists, physical planners, financial analysts,
data processing operators and programmers. Confirmation was obtained at
negotiations that: (a) a revised staffing structure and organization of CMDA
has been approved by its Board and that a substantial number of key
managerial positions had been filled, the remainder to be appointed by June
30, 1983; and (b) that CMDA had issued a letter of intent with the Housing
Development Finance Corporation (HDFC), for two years of advisory and
training  services  to  assist  CMDA's   Shelter,  Urban  Renewal,  and  Area
Development  (SURAD)   Directorate  in   developing   its   marketing,   loan
administration, and financial management capabilities, starting not later
than September 30, 1983.
4.04    The  immediately  critical  staffing  requirements  of  the  CMC  are
specifically related to:
(a) financial management, particularly in the area of property
tax (3 positions)(Chapter V, para 5.17);
(b) management of a water metering program, including surveys,
(9 positions)(Chapter V, para 5.28); and
(c) two key staff for stores inventory and control.
During negotiations, confirmation was obtained that staffing for items (a),
(b) and one of the two positions in (c) had been completed. The remaining
position would be filled by June 30, 1983.
4.05    CMWSA's operations  and staffing are  being strengthened to  meet its
revised  role.    Additional  staffing   has  been   approved  by   CMDA  and
professionals are being recruited, especially in the areas of revenue
administration,  accounting,  finance  and   maintenance.   Confirmation  was
obtained at negotiations that: (a) all remaining identified positions would
be filled by June 30, 1983; and (b) an accounting system already designed and
implemented had become partly operational from April 1, 1983, in accordance
with an operating schedule prepared by CMDA.
4.06    For  the municipalities,  the most  critical support  is that  to  be
provided by the CMDA through the establishment of two regional offices and
five zonal offices adequately staffed through reassignment of a proportion of
personnel from CMDA's existing cadres. About 75% of the staffing agreed at
appraisal is already in place. The municipalities are also to receive
LGUDD's and CMDA's assistance In project management, financial controls, etc.
This assistance will include advice in the recruitment of varying numbers of
technical   staff.    These   categories   include:   engineers,   overseers,
accountants, purchase clerks, works assistants, and draftsmen. Monitoring of
the project will include a review of staff recruitment in accordance with the
assessment made at appraisal.



-26-
4.07    Given  the nature  of the  investments, the  pragmatic  selection  of
institutions and agencies for executional responsibility (Annex 2B), the
previous experience of CMDA, and CMDA's available expertise for extending
technical support to other agencies, project implementing capacity is
sufficient.
B. Institutional Responsibilities
4.08    Chart  4.1  sets  out  the  institutional  responsibilities  for  the
detailed planning (DP), execution (EX), and operation and maintenance (OM) of
major  portions  of  the  program  under  the  project.   A  distribution  of
subprojects for execution by various agencies is listed in Annex 2B. The
allocations are made on the basis of each agency's agreed role and
responsibility within the evolving framework for urban management and finance
in the CMA. (see para 1.18).
C. Implementation Schedule
4.09    The project  would be implemented  over the period  April 1,  1983 to
March 31, 1988. Given the experience of CUDP II (Annex 1, para 7) and with
the formation of a specialized Program Management Unit in CMDA (para 4.31(a))
to monitor both financial and physical progress of the Program, this
timetable appears realistic.   Detailed engineering for  sub-components to be
implemented during the first year of the project had been well advanced at
the time of negotiations. The phasing of construction and funds requirements
for all subprojects and programs are given in separate summary tables by time
and  component  in  Annex   5,  Tables  11-22.   Agreement   was  reached  at
negotiations that at six month intervals, CMDA will update the individual
subproject implementation schedules in the light of progress being made, and
provide copies of these to IDA as part of progress reporting.
D. Land- Acquisition
4.10    Land acquisition has  been a problem under  CUDP II.  Where possible,
programs have been designed to totally eliminate land acquisition as in the
health component (para 2.10).   Under the MDP,  land acquisition requirements
are  limited.   The  shelter  and  area   development  program  is  the  most
significant  in  land  requirements.   However,  under  CUDP  III,  CMDA  has
identified five specific sites for its SURAD program, all of which are now at
various stages of acquisition. A specific timetable for land acquisition has
been agreed to by CMDA. The total land requirement for this subprogram in
the project for the next five years is approximately 760 ha (1,880 acres).
In addition, as a part of CMDA's long-term shelter strategy, it has also
begun to acquire approximately 2,025 ha (5,000 acres) of heretofore non-urban
land along the Eastern  Metropolitan Bypass where there  is a large potential
for future development.



-27-
INDIA
THIRD CALCUTTA URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
CHART 4.1:   INSTITUTIONAL RESPONSIBILITIES
MUNICI-   PANCHA-                                            COMMERCIAL
CMDA  CMWSA  CMC  HMC  PALITIES   YATS    CIT  HIT  IWD  ILGUS  HEALTH  POLICE    BANKS
PROJECT/PROGRAM
PLANNING                EX
PROGRAM MANAGEMENT      EX
PROJECT APPRAISAL/
MONITORING/EVALUATION  EX
MDP:
MULTISECTOR                           DP   DP      DP
COMPONENTS                            EX   EX      EX
OM   OM     OM
TRIP:
WATER SUPPLY            DP      DP
EX     EX
OM    OM
SANITATION &            DP      DP                                                DP
DRAINAGE                EX      EX                                                EX
OM                                               OM
SOLID WASTE             DP
EX
OM
TRANSPORT INFRAS.       DP
EX
OM   OM     OM
AREA DEVELOPMENT        DP
(TRUCKING SITE)         EX                         OM                       OM
CHIP:
WATER SUPPLY            DP            DP   DP
EX           EX   EX
SANITATION &            DP            DP   DP                                     DP
DRAINAGE                EX            EX   EX                                     EX
OM    OM   OM                                    OM
SOLID WASTE             DP            DP   DP
EX           EX   EX
OM   OM
TRANSPORT PLANNING      DP
TRANSPORT INFRAS.       DP                                             DP   DP
EX                                            EX   EX
OM   OM                         OM   OM
TRAFFIC ENGINEERING    DP                                              DP   DP
MANAGEMENT              EX
OM                                                                             OM
URBAN RENEWAL           DP                                             DP   DP
EX                                            EX   EX
OM   OM
CMACP:
SHELTER                 DP
EX                                            EX   EX
OM   OM     OM
HEALTH                  DP                                                                      DP
EX   EX      EX                                          EX
OM   OM     OM                                           OM
EMPLOYMENT (SSE)        DP
EX                                                                                       EX
PANCHAYAT               DP                                    DP
DEVELOPMENT             EX                                    EX
OM
TRAINING                DP            DP                                                DP
EX            EX                                               EX
NOTE:  DP = DETAILED PLANNING   EX =EXECUTION   ONM  OPERATION & MAINTENANCE



-28-
Assurances were obtained from CMDA during negotiations, that:
(a) it will have in its possession about 290 ha (718 acres) at the
following sites: (i) West Howrah--121 ha (300 acres) by
June 30, 1983; (ii) Baishnabghata-Patuli and East Calcutta
and Howrah extensions--88 ha (218 acres)--by December 31, 1983;
(iii) West Howrah--81 ha (200 acres)--by February 28, 1984; and
(iv) the balance--470 ha (1162 acres) by March 31, 1985.
(b) it will have completed detailed engineering and specifications
for earthfilling at West Howrah by June 30, 1983; and
(c) it had secured tentative commitments from financial institutions
for its area development program.
E. Procurement
4.11    Civil Works.  The total cost of civil works, including contingencies,
is US$215 million. Civil Works under the TRIP and CHIP programs total US$108
million, including contingencies. Within this latter amount about US$36
million of works would be procurred through international competitive bidding
(ICB), in accordance with the Bank's Guidelines. ICB procurement would be
required for (i) construction of the Baranagar-Kamarhati Water Treatment
Plant (including equipment), (ii) renovation of the Serampore Water Treatment
Plant (including equipment), (iii) construction of the new water main from
Tallah to Central Calcutta, (iv) reconstrucion of Durgapur Bridge.1/ Bidders
for the above works would be prequalified in accordance with criteria already
agreed with IDA. Eligible domestic bidders would be afforded a preference of
7 1/2% under ICB procurement. All these contracts are expected to be won by
Indian contractors. Experience of ICB under CUDP II indicated that foreign
contractors did  not even  request prequalification.   The balance  of  civil
works under the TRIP and CHIP programs totalling US$72 million, comprise
investments in primary and secondary grids, staff quarters in water supply,
improvements to existing sewage pumping stations and outfalls, rehabilitation
of existing drainage canals, and bridge and road approach works in the
transportation sector. These would not interest foreign bidders as they are
widely dispersed over area and time, and will result in a large number of
small contracts. CMDA estimates these will comprise about 55 contracts of
about US$400,000 and  500 contracts of  US$100,000 and under.   CMDA however,
would, where practicable, group these works into contract packages of not
less than US$2.6 million each, to be let on a "slice and package" basis under
competitive bidding advertised on an all India basis in accordance with
procedures acceptable  to IDA.   Civil  Works  which  cannot  be  grouped  as
indicated above, would be awarded under contracts following competitive
bidding advertised locally, which are satisfactory to IDA.
4.12    Civil  works under  the MDP  and CMACP  components  totalling  US$107
million, including contingencies, will be dispersed over the whole of CMA and
1/ See Annex 5, Tables 10 to 22 for detailed cost tables of items (i)
through (iv).



-29-
be phased over the implementation period, which will result in a large number
of small contracts.  CMDA estimate that  these works will require over 20,000
contracts, grouped  to  the  extent  possible.   These  contracts  would  not
interest  foreign  bidders.   The  contracts  will  be  let  following  local
competitive bidding procedures, which are satisfactory to IDA.
4.13    Plant, Equipment, and Vehicles.  Procurement of plant, equipment, and
vehicles under the project totals about US$25 million equivalent, including
contingencies. Contracts for about US$9.50 million for bulk meters, leak
detection equipment, gully pit-emptiers, jetting machines, tipping trucks,
tanker lorries, tractors, payloaders and bulldozers, will be awarded by CMDA
(and other executing agencies) on the basis of ICB in accordance with
IBRD/IDA's guidelines.   Qualifying domestic  manufacturers would  receive  a
preference in bid evaluation of 15% or the import duty, whichever is the
lower. Contracts for pipes (US$8 million) and pumps (US$2 million) would be
awarded by CMDA and other executing agencies under local competitive bidding
procedures, which are satisfactory to IDA. These involve a variety of sizes,
distributed in space over the CMA and phased over the whole project period.
Cars/jeeps  (US$0.2  million)   and  miscellaneous  solid   waste  equipment,
including handcarts, tricycle trailers, containers, small tools (US$3.8
million) which are readily available locally, and have well-established
repair and spare parts outlets, are also to be similarly procured. There are
practical difficulties in packaging these items into contracts large enough
to attract foreign bidders.   Small items of plant,  equipment, and materials
in packages of less than about US$10,000 and totalling about US$1,500,000,
may be let after obtaining quotations from at least three suppliers.
4.14    Contract Review.  All  bidding packages for civil  works estimated to
cost US$500,000  equivalent or  more, and  all bidding  packages  for  plant,
equipment, and vehicles estimated to cost US$200,000 equivalent or more,
would be subject to IDA's prior review of procurement documentation,
resulting in a coverage of about 20% of the total estimated value of works
contracts, and about 66% of goods contracts. This will involve a review of
about 59 contracts (21 equipment, 38 civil works). The balance of contracts
would be subject to random post review by IDA after contract award.
4.15    Consultant's services totalling  about US$3.5 million  to be financed
from the Design, Supervision, and Management allocation of the Project, will
be required for those major and more complex items for which consultancy
support is necessary: (i) Transmission main from Tallah-Auckland Square and
S. Mullick Square; (ii) Abstraction and rain water mains from the River
Hooghly to the B.K. Treatment Plant; (iii) Improvement to the Ballygung and
Palmers Bazaar Pumping Station; (iv) BK and Seramnpore Water Treatment Plants;
and (v)  truck terminal  and  traffic  engineering  schemes.   Contracts  for
consultants' services would be let in accordance with IBRD/IDA's guidelines
for use of consultants.
F. Disbursement
4.16    Disbursement of  the credit  would be  made against  expenditures for
civil works, vehicles, equipment, and technical assistance and training.



-30-
The credit would be disbursed as follows:
(a) 70% of total expenditures for civil works procured through ICB;
(b) 50% of total expenditures for other civil works;
(c) 100% of foreign expenditures of directly imported plant,
equipment, and vehicles, or 100% of local expenditures (ex
factory) of locally manufactured goods procured through ICB,
and 50% for other locally manufactured goods; and
(d) 100% of total expenditures on consulting services, technical
assistance and training.
4.17    Disbursements would be fully documented except for: (a) payments made
under civil works contracts for one or more progress payments not exceeding
Rs 300,000; and (b) payments for locally procured items of equipment costing
Rs 150,000 or less. Such disbursements would be made against statement of
expenditures (SOEs), the documentation for which would nct be submitted to
IDA but retained and made available for inspection during the course of
project review missions. Agreement was reached during negotiations that
independent auditors acceptable to IDA will be retained to carry out an
annual audit of all SOEs submitted in a fiscal year, and CMDA will be
required to furnish the audit reports to IDA within nine months of the end of
each fiscal year.
4.18    The "seed capital"  of Rs 9  crores for Shelter  and Area Development
would be placed by GOWB in an account to be managed by SURAD, in two tranches
of about Rs 5.00  crores and Rs 4  crores during FY83/84.   CMDA will require
these funds: (i) to initiate its Area Development Program through a
'revolving fund approach'; and (ii) to undertake a number of prerequisite
works in order to attract institutional finance estimated at Rs 32 crores.
The fund would be replenished: (a) from surpluses generated through the
program, projected to commence in the fifth year-FY87/88-and (b) from 50% of
the net  surpluses from  the urban  renewal schemes.   From FY87/88  onwards,
deposits and outright sale of institutional, industrial, and commercial land
combined with the funds initially paid into the revolving fund less loan
repayments, will be sufficient to meet the annual investment needs of the
program. After GOWB has made deposits to the revolving fund, IDA would
reimburse its share (50%). Agreement was reached during negotiations that
GOWB would deposit the above amounts of Rs 5.00 crores and Rs 4.00 crores by
September 30, 1983 and March 31, 1984, respectively to initiate its CMDA's
Area Development Program. IDA would subsequently receive full documentation
of eligible expenditures as per para 4.16(b) and para 4.17 to justify the
payments made.
4.19    A schedule of disbursements of the  IDA Credit is shown in Table 4.1.
The region-wide sectoral disbursement profile for the Urban Sector indicates
that disbursements would cover a six-year period. Performance under CUDP II
was  somewhat  better  than  the   region-wide  average.   Based  upon  these
disbursement profiles, it is expected that this credit will be disbursed
within six years.



-31-
Table 4.1:   ESTIMATED DISBURSEMENT SCHEDULE
IDA                                          Quarterly          Cumulative
Fiscal              Quarter Ending          Disbursements       Disbursements
Year                                         (US$'000)           (US$'000)
1983       June       30, 1983
1984       September 30, 1983                                        -
December  31, 1983                  4,900              4,900
March      31, 1984                 3,500              8,400
June      30, 1984                  4,400             12,800
1985       September 30, 1984                  5,800              18,600
December  31, 1984                  6,500             25,100
March      31, 1985                 6,800             31,900
June      30, 1985                  7,200             39,100
1986       September 30, 1985                  6,300              45,400
December  31, 1985                  7,600             53,000
March      31, 1986                 9,700             62,700
June      30, 1986                 10,100             72,800
1987       September 30, 1986                  7,900              80,700
December  31, 1986                  8,400             89,100
March      31, 1987                 9,900             99,000
June      30, 1987                  7,300            106,300
1988       September 30, 1987                  7,300             113,600
December  31, 1987                  8,100            121,700
March      31, 1988                 7,400            129,100
June      30, 1988                  5,900            135,000
1989       September 30, 1988                  4,400             139,400
December  31, 1988                  4,400            143,800
March      31, 1989                 3,200            147,000



-32-
G. ACCOUNTS,, AUDITS, AND REPORTING REQUIREMENTS
4.20    Comprehensive accrual  accounting and management  information systems
for CMDA  and CMC  were designed  and implemented  during CUDP  II.   As  the
designated funding agency for CUDP III, CMDA is adequately equipped to apply
these systems on a wider basis. CMDA will manage and account for all funds
received from GOWB, plus its own market borrowings. It will release funds in
installments to local bodies and implementing agencies and account for
repayments to it on debt service obligations of those bodies. For the TRIP
and CHIP schemes which it will itself implement, CMDA will undertake detailed
project cost accounting.   On completion, assets  will be transferred  to the
operating agencies in accordance with proper asset accounting and transfer
procedures agreed with IDA and already in place.
4.21    CMC, CMWSA, CIT, and HIT are  also adequately equipped to account for
their activities, both capital and operating.   CMWSA will implement, as from
June 30, 1983, an accrual accounting system especially designed for a water
authority.
4.22     All   municipalities  will   separately   identify   project-related
transactions within their normal accounting and financial reporting systems.
Where necessary, they will receive technical assistance through: (a) LGUDD
through the transfer of qualified finance officers; (b) CMDA as part of
implementation assistance; (c) accounting firms (see below); and (d) formal
training programs run by the Institute of Local Government and Urban Studies
(ILGUS).
4.23    As late as December 1979, IDA  had not received any audited financial
statements and audit reports of CMDA despite being a covenanted requirement
under CUDP I and II. Starting in January 1980, CMDA has managed to bring its
audits up to date and is now current under the provisions of CUDP II. IDA
has now received audited financial statements and audit reports of CMDA from
FY  72/73  through  FY   81/82.   CMDA  has  also   submitted  special  audit
certificates covering its expenditures under SOEs up to March 31, 1980.
4.24    CMC likewise was in  arrears in audits since  1971/72.  Under CUDP II
it was required to submit its audited financial statements and audit reports,
starting with FY77/78 within nine months of the end of each fiscal year.
Commencing in June 1981, IDA has received CMCs audited financial statements
and audit reports  from FY 77/78  through FY 80/81.   Prior audits  have also
been completed.   The audit  of its  FY 81/82  accounts  is  expected  to  be
provided before June 30, 1983.
4.25    During negotiations, GOWB agreed  to the following audit arrangements
under the aegis of the Comptroller and Auditor General of India:
(a) CMDA's annual financial statements will continue to be audited
by the commercial wing of the Accountant General (AG) of West
Bengal. The AG will also audit CMDA's statements of expenditures
submitted in lieu of documentation for some expenditures.
(b) Calcutta Municipal Corporation - by independent commercial
auditors as at present.



-33-
(c) CMWSA, CIT, HIT - by independent commercial auditors (for the
latter two agencies project accounts only would be audited).
(d) CMA Municipalities except Calcutta Municipal Corporation - by
AG directly (or through the Examiner of Local Accounts). However,
as financial management and accounting in the municipalities are
are generally weak, accounting firms would be retained for at
least three years to assist in posting the accounts and year-end
closing.
4.26    During negotiations,  agreement was reached  that no later  than nine
months after the close of each fiscal year, CMDA, on behalf of the
implementing agencies and local bodies will submit to IDA, the audited
financial statements and auditors' reports together with an evaluation of the
internal controls and financial management of the agencies/local bodies,
accompanied by recommendations for improvements, if deemed necessary.
4.27    A comprehensive  project monitoring and  control system for  CMDA was
designed and implemented during CUDP II.   Since FY79, IDA has been receiving
timely quarterly progress reports from CMDA on CUDP II, as well as on their
non-IDA financed investments.   CMDA propose to  computerize and  extend this
reporting system to all agencies and local bodies participating in CUDP III,
thus moving towards a standard reporting and control system throughout the
CMA for urban development.   During negotiations, agreement  was reached with
CMDA that it will continue to receive quarterly progress reports promptly
(within 60 days), after the end of each quarter, (starting on 11/30/83), on
the physical and financial progress of the investment program.
H. Operation and Maintenance
4.28    Appropriate levels of operation and  maintenance and a proper pricing
structure for urban services are priority objectives of GOWB in CUDP III.
GOWB agrees that full cost recovery within the overall program, to the extent
practical, is an essential element for replicability of the program, and also
a prerequisite for proper operation and maintenance of both past and future
investments. Therefore, CUDP III is emphasizing: (i) assessment of adequate
levels of operations and maintenance expenditure; (ii) introduction of
measures to recover full costs, specifically for water supply, shelter,
transportation; and (iii) measures for possible indirect and partial cost
recovery for such programs as health, latrine conversion, sewerage, and solid
waste.
4.29    Steps have  been taken to  implement measures which  will ensure that
the proposed levels of tariffs and taxes and related measures will generate
sufficient funds to: (a) meet operations and maintenance costs, and (b)
achieve capital cost recovery. Detailed financial implications are discussed
in Chapter V.
4.30    There is also the need  for improving physical maintenance standards.
During negotiations, agreement was reached with GOWB and CMDA that a system
of regular  inspections of  installations will  be  introduced.   Inspections
would occur at intervals of time appropriate to the importance of the
installation; for major facilities, inspections would be made annually.
Government agencies with a record of good 0 and M would be engaged to make



-34-
the inspections and their reports would be submitted to the appropriate
authority which would reflect the recommendations of the report in its next
budget. Copies of these reports would be made available to IDA.
I. Monitoring and Evaluation
4.31    Under CUDP II, CMDA has been preparing and submitting regular monthly
reports to CMDA management and quarterly reports to IDA, primarily focussed
on physical and financial performance. The nature and thrust of the third
program requires further strengthening of the monitoring and evaluation
functions. Three separate levels of program monitoring are to be carried
out:
(a) a CMDA Program Management Unit (PMU) will focus on the physical
and financial aspects of implementation, and when necessary,
suggest administrative and organizational modifications and
procedures to ensure timely completion and handover.  The PMU
will prepare monthly reports for management and quarterly reports
for GOWB, GOI, and IDA. Detailed reporting formats suitable for
computer application are currently under design by CMDA in con-
sultation with the GOWB, Local Government and Urban Development
Department (LGUDD), the Metropolitan Development Department and
other implementing agencies.
(b) The Appraisal, Monitoring, and Evaluation Unit (AMEU) will
monitor performance on the programmatic goals and focus on the
fiscal and socio-economic performance in terms of key indicators
such as: the actual and estimated operation and maintenance costs;
the actual and estimated service delivery norms; the actual and
estimated revenue collection and direct cost recovery; the actual
and estimated rise in incomes and employment generation. Program
evaluation formats developed by the PMU and sector-specific
indicators being formulated by AMEU will provide the basis for this
performance monitoring which will be carried out continuously.
Annual progress reports will be submitted directly to the Chief
Executive Officer of CMDA and GOWB, and would also provide a basis
for policy formulation for the sector and geographic focus of future
investment programs. AMEU has been given an independent status
and role within CMDA in its reorganization to ensure a degree of
independent judgement. Agreement was reached during negotiations
that CMDA will, at six month intervals furnish IDA with a progress
summary of appraisals, field surveys, and other activities carried
out by AMEU, and every twelve months (starting on 4/1/84), will
furnish IDA with a copy of AMEU's annual report and recommendations.
(c) The financial performance of the local bodies for the purpose
of administering the Revised Grant Structure (para. 5.37-5.45)
will be monitored by the Directorate of Local Bodies of LGUDD
Agreement was reached during negotiations that GOWB will submit
annually to IDA, a copy of the monitoring report to be prepared
for the administration of the Revised Grant Structure.



-35-
J. Supervision and CMDA as Intermediary
4.32    At appraisal of CUDP II, it  was estimated that IDA supervision would
require 350  staff weeks  over  the  project  period.   In  practice,  it  is
estimated that about 290 staff weeks will have been spent to completion.
Supervision coefficients have been reduced from 98 staff weeks in FY79 to 31
weeks in FY82. For this project, about 120 staff weeks of IDA supervision
would be required for  the project implementation period.   Half of this will
be utilized over the first two years of project implementation, (i.e., 30
staff weeks per year) during which there is expected to be significant
transition in the nature of the implementing institutions, and during which
program monitoring  and evaluation  procedures will  be refined.   Staff time
will be rapidly reduced thereafter. Bank staff inputs are to be concentrated
on CMDA, which will play the key intermediary role.
V. FINANCIAL ASPECTS
A. Calcutta Metropolitan Development Authority (CMDA)
5.01    From the financial point of view, CMDA is a hybrid institution, being
neither financially autonomous, nor, strictly speaking, a State Government
Department. CMDA does not have financial autonomy because, apart from
receipts from octroi allocated to it, it has no other source of revenue. The
development funds it receives are either passed on to implementing agencies,
or used by CMDA to create assets which are turned over on completion to local
bodies or operating agencies. Terms and conditions of funds it receives and
passes on to other agencies are set largely by GOWB.
5.02    Projected buoyant octroi receipts will ensure that CMDA will remain a
financially sound institution.   Net surpluses  from 1986/87  will give  it a
healthier equity base. This should facilitate its ability to raise funds on
the commercial markets for commercial schemes such as urban renewal and
shelter and area development. Since inception, CMDA has not handed over any
completed assets to the respective local bodies or operating agencies.
During negotiations, agreement was reached that for all assets completed up
to March 1982, CMDA would transfer these to the operating agencies by April
1, 1984. By September 30, 1984, and each year thereafter, CMDA would prepare
a list of completed assets to be transferred on each April 1 of the following
year. GOWB would ensure that adequate provision was made by the operating
agencies for O&M and debt service (see para 3.07 and Table 3.3(a) and (b)).
The actual and projected financial statements, which are given in Annex 5,
Tables 1 and 2, take into account this phased program of transfer of
completed assets. Following up on the recommendations made by the Municipal
Finance Commission, in March 1982, GOWB has decided to write off its past
loans to CMDA except (i) loans for urban renewal (e.g., the Howrah Fish and
Pan Market); (ii) loans made for Transmunicipal Water Supply Projects between
April 1, 1981 and March 31, 1983; and (iii) on-site investments under Area
Development projects.



-36-
5.03    CMDA derives its financial resources from:
(a) GOI loans and grants (through GOWB);1/
(b) GOIB loans and grants;l/
(c) market borrowings (public sector);2/
(d) share of octroi receipts collected in CMA by GOWB;
(e) charges for services;
(f) capital recoveries for assets transferred to local bodies/operating
agencies; and
(g) short term "bridging" loans.
5.04    CMDA  is permitted  to issue  bonds which  are bought  by the  public
sector and nationalized banks. In 1981/82 it borrowed Rs 12.10 crores for 15
years at 7%. Future borrowings will rise at about 10% a year, at interest
rates which increase at 1/4% each year. Repayment of its bond issues are
through a Sinking Fund, which CMDA is required to maintain under the Town and
Country (Planning and Development) Act 1979.
5.05    CMDA receives annually 50% of collections on the 1972 Act relating to
taxes on entry of goods into the CMA (i.e., octroi). In 1981/82, it received
Rs 20.25 crores. Receipts from this source are projected to rise by at least
15% a year through  the project period.   Octroi funds are  used primarily to
service CMDA's debts.
5.06    The project's capital expenditures are  scheduled to begin with about
Rs 50 crores for the first year. This will rise to about Rs 70 crores in the
final year.   During the  first three  years of  the program  CMDA will  also
complete the spillover projects from its previous programs, expending
approximately Rs 15 crores, Rs 15 crores, and Rs 12 crores respectively.
Based on the financing plan, the implementation capacity of CMDA and that of
other implementing agencies and local bodies, the investment program is
realistic.
B. Calcutta Municipal Corporation (CMC)
5.07    The financial statements for CMC, which  are given in Annex 5, Tables
3 and 4, show that in 1982/83 CMC expects to generate internally about Rs 27
crores, or 53% of its revenue expenditures. GOWB subventions are estimated
to amount to about Rs 12 crores, or 24% of revenue expenditures. Octroi
receipts of about Rs 11 crores, or 21% of revenue expenditures and grants for
bustee services,  Rs 1 crore, make  up the  balance of  total receipts.   An
operation and maintenance liability for projects created by CMDA under CUDP I
and II amounting to Rs 9 crores a year has already been phased into the
actual and projected expenditures, although formal transfer will commence
only in 1984/85  (see para 5.02).   The debt service  on these  past projects
1/ See para 3.05 and Table 3.3(a) for typical terms and conditions.
2/ Under Section 108 of the Town and Country (Planning and Development) Act,
1979, CMDA is also permitted to borrow from the commercial markets.



-37-
which would amount to Rs 8 crores a year, has been written off by GOWB as CMC
is clearly not in a position to take on this obligation.
5.08    Under CUDP III, CMC has been  allocated Rs 11 crores for ward schemes
under MDP. The average annual incremental 0 and M and interest costs over
the project period are estimated at Rs 1.20 crores. Commencing 1988/89,
0 and M  and  debt   service  (principal  and   interest)  would   amount  to
approximately Rs 2 crores a year. Under CHIP, CMC would be responsible for
servicing approximately Rs 27.80 crores of investments; water supply (Rs 8.50
crores), sanitation (Rs 14.30 crores), and solid waste (Rs 5 crores). The
incremental operating costs are likely to be nominal as the investments are
esentially  improvements  to   existing  facilities,  or   replacement.   The
estimated annual debt service during the project period would be limited to
interest payments only and amount to an average annual cost of Rs 1.20
crores. Debt service (including principal) and 0 & M costs from 1988/89
onwards would amount to approximately Rs 4 crores annually.
5.09    The  above points  to a  need for  CMC to  improve significantly  its
financial situation. Legislation and management systems (see para 1.19(c)).
are now in place and key vacant staff positions have been filled as of April,
1983. The focus of improving CMC's finances can therefore be shifted to
action plans to achieve specific revenue increases/expenditure.
5.10    The overall objective is to reduce the required GOWB subventions from
an estimated Rs 12 crores in 1982/83 (24% of revenue expenditures) to about
Rs 8 crores (10% of revenue expenditures) in 1987/88 at the end of the
project period.   Assurances were  obtained at  negotiations  that  CMC  will
achieve the above target, which will become a covenant to the legal
agreements.
Revenues
5.11    The major  source of CMC's  'own source' revenue  is the consolidated
property tax which accounts for about 70% of such revenue. In 1981/82 it
accounted for about 37% of CMC's total receipts. Assessment of properties is
based on the annual rental value. However, these rental values are legally
linked to the West Bengal Premises Tenancy Act, 1956 which provides for rent
control. Hence, this tax is highly inelastic. In addition, properties are
valued within various valuation ranges.   There is always pressure therefore,
for revaluations to remain within the same ranges. The result is that a
major portion of the properties are assessed at under Rs 3000 annual rental
value, having a tax rate of not more than 18%.
5.12    Total assessments in 1981/82  of the approximately 140,000 properties
on the valuation roll was Rs 15.90 crores, representing 25% of the total
ratable valuation of Rs 63.70 crores.   Total ratable valuation had risen 50%
during the previous five years, or at an average annual rate of 8.5%. This
covers both new properties and (limited) reassessment. The valuation roll is
not complete and an indeterminable number of properties of all types have
never been assessed.
5.13    The percentage  of collection of  current demand has  declined from a
high of 78% in 1960/61 to a low of 47% in 1974/75. Table 5.1 below indicates
an upward trend since 1974/75. Arrears collection has been rising at an



-38-
annual average rate of nearly 13% over the past five years. The aggregate of
current and arrears collection over the past five years has increased at an
average annual rate of 7%. A discernable improvement took place between FY
80/81 and FY81/82 when total collections increased by over 16%.
Table 5.1:   DEMAND AND COLLECTIONI OF CONSOLIDATED RATE (CMC)
(Rs lakhs)
Current         Col 2 as          Arrears         Col 5 as
Year       Demand   Collection  % of Col 1   Demand  Collection % of Col 4
1          2            3           4          5
1960/61    452.02    353.10         78.12      366.33      84.10        22.96
1970/71    860.07    549.80         63.93    1266.43    124.51           9.83
1974/75   1175.00    546.68         46.53      951.00    369.01         38.80
1980/81   1532.00    671.65         43.84    1661.00    673.35          40.50
1981/82   1590.00    925.42         58.00    1705.00    872.58          51.20
5.14    A recently  completed exhaustive consultants'  study of  property tax
receivables as at March 31, 1980, estimates that there are Rs 23.71 crores of
"good debts"  (both current  and arrear).   CMC has  agreed  to  complete  an
analysis and write-off of the bad debts identified by the consultants, and to
reflect in its FY1982/83 accounts, collectible receivables, less a provision
for bad and doubtful debts. If a major portion of these debts could be
collected, combined with a growth in the tax base, updating of the valuation
roll, and improved collection performance, the financial state of CMC would
become satisfactory.
5.15    Two  pieces of  recently enacted  legislation could  have a  positive
impact on property taxes. (i) The Central Valuation Board Act 1978 (para
1.21(c)) provides for the Board to assume responsibility for valuation of all
properties in  the State,  and maintain  the valuation  roll.   The  recently
created Board is acting initially in an advisory capacity to local bodies,
assisting in drawing up proper terms of reference for assessors, and lending
support in collection efforts.   (ii) The new  Calcutta Municipal Corporation
Act 1980 provides for a straight line system of assessment between the lowest
and highest rates in place of the "slab" system. 1/ Under the straight line
system also, the lowest rate has been reduced from 15% to 11%; the highest
rate increased from  33% to 40%.   The Act provides  also for  the levy  of a
surcharge  of  up  to   50%  of  the  consolidated   rate  on  commercial  or
non-residential land  or buildings.   Estimates of  up to  a 30%  increase in
total assessments have been forecast should the property tax provisions of
the Act be implemented as currently expected.
5.16    The other  major source of  CMC's revenue is  octrol, a tax  on goods
entering the CMA,  of which CMC's  share is 25%.   In 1981/82 it  received Rs
10.12 crores, or 21% of its total revenue receipts. This source is projected
to increase by at least 15% a year over the project period. Service charges
1/  The municipalities and Howrah Municipal Corporation would continue with
the "slab" system as provided for under the Bengal Municipal (Amendment)
Act 1980, and the Howrah Municipal Corporation Act 1980 respectively.



-39-
on property, taxes and fees on trades and professions, licenses, water
supply, solid waste, etc. of Rs 7.80 crores (16%), and GOWB's grants and
subventions of Rs 12.96 crores (26%) made up the balance of CMC's total
receipts in 1981/82.
5.17    Clearly  there is  great scope  for improvements  in CMC's  finances,
especially its major source of revenue, the property tax. GOWB has agreed to
depute suitably qualified staff for up to one year to assist CMC in the
initial phase of an action plan aimed to achieve the following:
(a) improve assessments of properties (working closely with CVB);
(b) update the valuation roll;
(c) improve collection performance; and
(d) collect on the additional sources of revenue, hitherto largely
untapped, under the existing CMC Act, and on all sources of
revenue available under the new Act, once it comes into force
(see paras 1.20(d) and 1.21(a)).
5.18    The  projected receipts,  as given  in Annex  5, Table  4,  would  be
achieved through the following targets:
(a) The total rateable value of properties would increase from
Rs 63.70 crores in 1981/82 to about Rs 103 crores in 1986/87,
a 61% increase, 1/ or 10% a year. This would be achieved
through improved valuation (with participation of the CVB, if
necessary) and updating of valuation roll. Correspondingly,
the total assessed value, which has been conservatively
assumed to remain at 25% of the total rateable value, would
increase from Rs 15.90 crores in 1981/82 to about Rs 26 crores
in 1986/87, also 10% a year.
(b) The percentage of collection of current demand of property tax
would rise from 60% in 1982/83 to 85% in 1987/88. CMC would
collect about 65% In 1983/84, rising by 5 percentage points a
year to achieve 85% in 1987/88.
(c) The percentage of collection of arrears demand of property
tax would be maintained at the 1981/82 level of 50%.
5.19    Agreement was reached at negotiations that CMC will achieve the above
targets, which will become covenants to the legal agreements.
1/ The preceding five-year increase was 50%, or about 8.5% a year.



-40-
Expenditures
5.20    The three  major items of  revenue (recurrent) expenditure  are water
supply, solid waste, and administrative and support services, each accounting
for about 20% of CMC's total revenue expenditures. A study now underway on
the reorganization of the engineering departments of CMC is expected to lead
to improved productivity and cost savings in the delivery of civic services.
For some time it has been felt that too much manpower is still being used for
the operation of systems where technological changes have been incorporated
into recently completed investments. This occurs, for example at those water
treatment plants where valves etc. are electrically operated in contrast to
the manned operation of older plants. CMC also plans to study routing and
collection systems under the solid waste component of this project.
5.21     Revenue   expenditures  for   water   supply,   solid   waste,   and
administrative and support services are projected to rise at about an average
annual rate of 5%, 10%, and 10% respectively. These rates correspond to past
increases. Debt service would be limited to interest payments during the
project period; the amortization of principal on CUDP III debt will begin in
1988/89.
5.22    The combined  effect of achieving  the targets set  out in  para 5.18
will be an increase in CMC's internally generated income over the project
period by about 14% a year. Octroi receipts are projected to increase at 15%
a year over the project period (see para 5.16). Total revenue expenditures
are projected to increase at an average annual rate of 10%. The net result
would be a reduction in COWB's revenue grants and subventions to CMC from
about Rs 12 crores or 24% of CMC's total revenue expenditures in 1982/83 to
Rs 8 crores, or about 10% of total revenue expenditures in 1987/88. The
above performance targets for CMC are incorporated into the Revised Grant
Structure (para 5.36-5.44) together with targets for all CMA municipalities,
and will be closely monitored by GOWB.
Financial Management
5.23    To ensure that CMC  begins to operate on  a financially viable basis,
confirmation was received during negotiations that CMC has already set up a
Vehicles Replacement Fund, and will deposit annually to that Fund amounts
sufficient to replace vehicles, plant, and equipment that it purchases from
FY82/83 onwards. IDA also received confirmation that CMC set up a Sinking
Fund for all its long-term debt.
C. Cost Recovery Measures
5.24    Performance on cost recovery under CUDP  I and II has been poor.  CMC
has not recovered its covenanted percentages of costs for providing water on
account of poor financial management. The sites and services program has not
yet advanced to the point of testing cost recovery.
5.25    In view of the large investments already made under CUDP I and II and
the proposed investments under CUDP III, the ability of the local bodies to
generate adequate funds for proper operations and maintenance is a primary
determining factor in committing further investments, as illustrated above in
the case of CMC.   GOWB has agreed  to implement various  measures to enhance
cost recovery at the municipal level to the extent possible, through both
enhanced property tax revenues and direct user charges. In the past there



-41-
has been little or no effort to achieve full cost recovery, either direct or
indirect. Despite the introduction of the cost recovery measures discussed
below, it is unlikely that in the short term full cost recovery on a sector
by sector  basis can  be achieved.   The local  bodies and  the  implementing
agencies will continue to "sell" their services at below cost and the ensuing
deficits, albeit smaller than before will be met by transfer of resources
from GOWB through a revised system of grants and shared taxes (see Chapter V,
paras 5.37-5.45).
Property Taxes
5.26    Property taxes continue to be  the largest source of internal revenue
of the  local bodies.   In recent  years,  actual  property  taxes  collected
accounted for about 70% of internal revenues (excluding State Government
transfers), or about 45% of total revenues (including State Government
transfers) for all CMA local bodies. This significant source of revenue is
still plagued with problems like: (a) low assessment base, (b) inefficient
rate structure, and (c) poor collection performance. These problems exist
not only in CMC but all other local bodies in CMA. Under the project,
emphasis is  being placed  to maximize  revenues from  this source.   This is
being done through: (a) the CMC Act which specifically applies to the CMC, as
discussed in detail in paras 5.11-5.19 before; (b) the HMC Act; (c) the
Bengal Municipal Act of 1932, which as amended in 1980, addresses financial
improvement  measures  in   all  other  CMA   municipalities;  and   (d)  the
introduction of a Revised Grant Structure for the CMA municipalities, CMC and
HMC  where  specific  property  tax   assessment  and  collection  percentage
improvements are being  addressed (see paras  5.37 through 5.45).   Under the
Bengal Municipal Act all local bodies (except CMC) in the State will have
revised their property tax assessment base by April 1, 1983. GOWB, will by
December 31, 1983 determine whether the municipalities' assessments are
adequate and realistic. In case the assessments are found to be low, GOWB
will cause the CVB to carry out a general revaluation in those local bodies
whose tax base was  found to be inadequate.   The structure of  the tax rates
have also been changed to reflect increased assessment rates for varying
slabs of valuation. In addition, the CVB will assist all CMA municipalities
on an ongoing basis in (a) updating their property tax roll and (b) improving
collection performance. While the potential financial impact of the above
two measures is not yet determinable for the CMA municipalities, these
actions, for the first time, reflect a consistent approach towards improving
property tax revenues of CMA municipalities. One immediate improvement has
been  that   through  CVB's   assistance,  actual   collections  in   various
municipalities have gone up on an average of about 16% and the increase has
ranged between  3% to  as much  as 170%  in certain  cases.   Agreement   was
reached at negotiations, that the CVB will carry out a general revaluation of
properties in the local bodies where GOWB has determined that the assessment
is low.
Direct User Charges
5.27    Direct cost recovery  measures have been agreed  to for those sectors
where direct pricing is possible. These sectors include: (a) Water Supply;
(b) Area Development; and (c) Urban Renewal. In the light of the extensive
investments  in  this  subsector  over   the  past  decade,  and  significant
improvements in service delivery, it was agreed during negotiations, that the



-42-
increase in rates for metered non-domestic users, by the CMC in accordance
with para 5.28(a); and the introduction of new charges by the CMWSA in
accordance with para 5.29(a) be made conditions of credit effectiveness.
(a) Water Supply
Calcutta Municipal Corporation
5.28    While overall finances of the CMC  is discussed in Chapter V, Part B,
specific measures are being adopted to improve cost recovery for water
supply. Expenditure for water supply represents a significant portion of the
CMC's  total  revenue   expenditures,  currently  amounting   to  about  20%.
Moreover, water supply operations provide an opportunity for cost recovery
through direct measures and can thereby contribute towards the CMC's overall
financial improvements.   The CMC,  over and  above their  own production  of
water, is augmenting its supply through purchase of bulk water from the
CMWSA. The strategy for cost recovery aims at recovering all expenditures
for operations, maintenance, purchase of bulk water and charges for a reserve
fund equivalent to  depreciation by 1987/88.   In the interim,  for its water
supply operations, CMC will generate revenues at not less than the following
percentages of its revenue exenditure for the water supply operations:
1983/84-48%; 1984/85-63%; 1985-86-69%; 1986/87-87% (see Table 5, Annex 5).
Agreement to this effect  was obtained during negotiations.   GOWB decided to
write off all past loans for water supply investments (see para 5.07).
Therefore, as such, there is no debt service obligation for water supply for
the 0MC for  past investments.   In addition,  under CUDP  III, there  are no
major water supply capital works for which the CMC will be responsible for
debt servicing.   Therefore, to  incorporate proper  financial diciplines  in
cost recovery measures, an amount equivalent to debt service principal and
interest, which closely approximates depreciation, had the debts not been
written off, have been included. Annex 5, Table 5 indicates the sources and
uses of funds. To achieve the overall target by 1987/88, a number of
specific  actions  to  improve   operational,  institutional,  and  financial
performance have been agreed. The principal ones are:
(a) Tariffs:
(i) As a condition of credit effectiveness, CMC will increase
the rates for metered non-domestic users from the current
rate of Rs 5 per 1,000 gallons to Rs 11 per 1,000 gallons; and
(ii) CMC will introduce a graduated rate for domestic unmetered
consumers based on ferrule size, estimated to be not later
than November 1, 1983.
(b) Licensing of tubewells for extraction of groundwater: 1/
CMC will introduce annual licencing for all new private tubewells.
The licence will be renewed annually. Implementation of this is
pending full implementation of the CMC Act of 1980 and is expected
1/ The primary objective for licensing its regulatory control of groundwater
usage.



-43-
not to be later than October 1, 1983. Assurances were obtained at
negotiations that CMC will introduce this by November 1, 1983.
(c) Metering and Consumer Survey Program: CMC has agreed to undertake
a time-bound metering program for all Industrial, Commercial and
Institutional (ICI) users, and also to introduce production meters
and zonal meters. CMC will carry out the work with the assistance
of private contractors. Simultaneously, CMC has already commenced
a survey of all its ICI users and work is continuing. CMC has
agreed to complete the survey in two sections of the city by
June 30, 1983 and will complete the survey of the entire city by
March 31, 1984. The objective of the simultaneous survey and
metering program for ICI users is to meter all above average users
as a matter of priority. Annex 5, Table 6 indicates detailed time-
table for the metering and consumer survey program.
(d) Management of metered users: Since the number of metered ICI users
is expected to increase significantly during the next few years
(currently CMC has only 131 metered ICI connections), a proper
meter reading, billing, collection, and repair program will become
important to ensure proper cash flow. CMC has agreed to appoint
a Special Officer to be in charge of the metering and survey pro-
gram and to form a fully operational meter repair department prior
to negotiations. The accounting and finance department will also
install a meter reading, billing, and customer service data pro-
cessing department prior to negotiations. Agreements were obtained
at negotiations that CMC will adhere to the agreed timetable and
target for metering and consumer survey program as indicated in
Annex 5, Table 6.
Calcutta Metropolitan Water and Sanitation Authority (CMWSA)
5.29    CMWSA will operate primarily as a bulk supplier to the municipalities
(initially to four or five municipalities during the project period) and to
CMC. However, those major ICI consumers which can be serviced directly from
CMWSA's primary distribution system will become retail customers of CMWSA.
Since CMWSA will own and operate the major production and transmission
facilities, it is important that it has adequate cost recovery to operate and
maintain these large investments and to service its debts. CMWSA's sources
and uses of funds are indicated in Annex 5, Table7. Agreements were obtained
at negotiations that CMWSA will cover all expenditures for operations,
maintenance, and contributions to a replacement fund requirement from 1985/86
onwards. In the interim, CMWSA will generate revenues at not less than the
following  percentages   of  its   revenue  expenditures:   1983/84-75%   and
1984/85-95%.  At  present, CMWSA's  financial  position  is  weak.   This  is
primarily due to the fact that CMWSA is yet to realize any signiificant
revenues through sale of water from its major treatment plant, while it is
carrying high  administrative  and  overhead  costs.   This  is  basically  a
start-up situation. Once CMWSA begins to sell water from mid-1983, it should
be able to  meet the above  financial targets.   Among the  principal actions
required to achieve this objective are the following:
(a) Direct Charges. As a condition of credit effectiveness, CMWSA
will introduce the following bulk supply rates; Rs 1.25 per



-44-
1,000 gallons and Rs 3.00 per 1,000 gallons for the municipalities
and CMC respectively. The bulk rate for CMC is higher than the
municipalities because (i) Rs 3.00 per 1000 gallons approximates
CMC's own water production costs and (ii) CMC has more ICI users
than in the municipalities, from whom CMC can recover more
revenues. ICI rates have been fixed at Rs 10 per 1,000 gallons
for industrial consumers and Rs 6 per 1,000 gallons for commercial
and institutional consumers. These rates will be revised periodi-
cally to ensure that CMWSA achieve coverage of all expenditures
towards operations, maintenance and debt service by 1985/86.
(b) Guarantee of Payment for Bulk Supply. Since most of CMWSA
revenues will come from its bulk supply to the municipalities
and CMC, it has been agreed that in the event that any CMWSA
bulk water bill remains unpaid for more than 30 days, GOWB will
ensure that such amounts are paid to CMWSA. Agreement to this
effect was obtained during negotiations.
(c) Working Capital Requirements. GOWB will need a working capital
loan of Rs 90 lakhs from GOWB. The first tranche of Rs 30 lakhs
will have been paid by GOWB by April 30, 1983. Assurances were
obtained at negotiations that the remaining two tranches of
Rs 30 lakhs each, will be paid by March 31, 1984.
(b) Shelter and Area Development
5.30    Cost recovery  measures in shelter  and area development  include the
following steps.
(a) Pricing for area development has been based on the principle
of full cost recovery plus the need to generate additional
surpluses to replicate and expand a shelter program. Actual
cost of land and on-site infrastructure is first calculated
for each category. Then, 'affordable' prices are calculated
for the EWS and LIG categories. The total cross subsidies
thus required by EWS and LIG categories (actual unit development
costs minus affordable unit cost price times total area) are
added to the actual development costs of all other categories on
a prorata basis (based on area). This is labled as the "floor
price" and is expressed as Rs/m2 for each class of plots
(except EWS and LIG for which the sales prices are equal to
affordable prices).
(b) Having thus arrived at "floor prices" to reflect a break-even
cost recovery position, a premium is charged on the floor
prices to all categories except EWS and LIG to arrive at the
actual sales price for all other categories of plots. These
premium percentages vary from 10% above floor price for MIG-I
(Middle Income Group) category to 75% above floor price for
commercial plots. The premium percentages will reflect
realistic market prices at which these categories of plots
can be sold.



-45-
5.31    The above mechanism will not only achieve full cost recovery for area
development schemes but will generate a net surplus. Based on preliminary
estimates of selected sites, the amount of net surplus would range between
6-8% of capital investments, depending on the mix of plots.
5.32    The principles for pricing Area  Development schemes have been agreed
with CMDA.   The  calculation  for  their  'floor  price'  will  include  the
following: land acquisition costs, land filling, on-site infrastructure,
including sanitary core and sewer connections, plot demarcation charges,
design  and  supervision,  and  interest   during  construction.   Prices  of
residential plots would reflect differences in plot size, infrastructure
levels,  on-plot  development   and  location,  as   well  as  a   degree  of
cross-subsidy. EWS plots would be priced at less than average square meter
cost. Plots would be sold with 99-year leasehold titles.
5.33    The  terms and  conditions of  lease and  mortgage would  have to  be
acceptable to IDA and would include: (i) for residential plots designated for
EWS and LIG 1/ households, payment by beneficiaries of a 10-30% down payment
on the price of the plot, with the balance of plot price to be repaid at not
less than 12% per annum interest over 20 years. Settler selection criteria
would be satisfactory to IDA and would be based primarily on income, in order
to ensure that various plot size and design alternatives are reserved for
intended income groups.
5.34    Agreement was obtained during negotiations  that CMDA will submit for
IDA review and approval not later than September 30, 1983, a draft copy of
SURAD's  administrative   and  operational   and  financial   guidelines  for
implementing the Shelter and Area Developmeut Program; and these will
incorporate costing and pricing formula, the criteria for beneficiary
selection, conditions of lease and terms and conditions of loans for the
sites and services beneficiaries as noted above. The guidelines will also
include CMDA's recommendations for a levy on plotholders, by way of monthly
maintenance charges on a sliding scale which will help defray part of the
maintenance costs of infrastructure until property tax payment begins. CMDA
will draw up the guidelines in consultation with participating financial
institutions.
(c) Urban Renewal
5.35    The cost recovery policy adopted for investments in all urban renewal
schemes is to auction 'development rights'. Financial analysis procedures
for evaluating urban renewal schemes to determine the minimum value of
development rights reflecting a rate of return not less than commercial cost
of capital,  have been  agreed with  CMDA, CIT,  and HIT.   CIT and  HIT, the
agencies primarily responsible for executing urban renewal schemes, will
invest in providing minimum infrastructure facilities and then auction the
rights for further development to private developers based on a minimum
reserve price set to recover all costs. The exact magnitude of surpluses
cannot be determined at this stage, but will vary from scheme to scheme.
However, 50% of all net surpluses so generated (half of the total auction
1/ Households with monthly incomes in the range of Rs 350-600.



-46-
price minus all costs of development) will be retained by the agencies
concerned and reinvested and 50% will be contributed to CMDA towards
investments in shelter and area development schemes for EWS and LIG income
groups. The financial impact of urban renewal on property tax in CMC and HMC
is estimated to be significant. Agreement was obtained at negotiations,
that: (i) CMDA will submit for IDA review, draft administrative, operational
and financial guidelines, incorporating the above terms and conditions; (ii)
CMDA will submit for prior IDA review, an appraisal of each urban renewal
scheme, and only schemes yielding a financial rate of return in excess of the
prevailing commercial cost of capital (bank rate) will be implemented; and
(iii) CMDA will submit for IDA review and approval a pricing and cost
recovery analysis for each urban renewal scheme prior to the announcing the
auction of development rights.
(d) Health
5.36    GOWB has hitherto  had no formal policy  on recovery of  costs in its
integrated health services. Under CUDP III, GOWB has agreed to introduce on
an experimental basis, charges for some services. These charges are set at a
level which would not under any circumstances inhibit the target group from
seeking medical attention.   The extent of  cost recovery, albeit  limited in
its scope, will represent recovery of approximately 22% of the total
recurrent costs  of the  program over  five years.   The elements  of  direct
charges include introduction of registration fees, medical history card
renewal fees, nominal charge for nutrient food packets and polyclinic visits.
D. Structural Adjustment of Municipal Finance
General
5.37    In addition  to property tax  improvements and the  specific sectoral
measures referred to above to ensure adequate cost recovery for proper
operations and maintenance and debt servicing, GOWB is also taking steps to
introduce overall fiscal discipline for local government, both in the CMA and
in the rest of the State. GOWB's Municipal Finance Commission's (MFC) Report
of March 1982  addresses some issues.   The major  conclusions of  the report
are:
(a) the existing revenue base of the local bodies (37 municipalities
and the CMC and the HMC) in CMA is not adequate to cover their
recurrent expenditures (including operations and maintenance
costs), which have had to be covered by budgetary support from
GOWB.
(b) the magnitude of the above shortfall amount to about Rs 34
crores (51% of total revenue expenditure) in 1982/83, increas-
ing to about Rs 39 crores (47% of total revenue expenditure)
in 1985/86 for all CMA local bodies. These shortfalls do not
include the incremental increases in recurrent expenditures due
to proposed investments under CUDP III, estimated to be about
Rs 15-18 crores annually upon completion.
(c) to sustain the past investments and to justify the future
investments, the burden of this resource gap on the State



-47-
Government's budgetary resources need to be gradually reduced
through: (i) improved internal revenue generation of local
bodies; (ii) implementation of an incentive-oriented system
of devolution of grants and shared taxes from the state treasury.
5.38    While improvements in internal revenue generation are being addressed
through improved cost recovery measures, as discussed above, it is unlikely
that the total recurrent expenditures of the local bodies for both the
existing and proposed investments will be met for the near future from the
internal revenues alone. Therefore, there will be need for continuing
transfer of resources from the State Government in the form of grants and
shared taxes.
5.39    However, in  order to  insure most  effective utilization  of already
limited State Government resources, and to introduce a structural shift in
municipal finance towards more reliance on self-generated revenues, GOWB will
implement a Revised Grant Structure (RGS) effective April 1, 1983 to coincide
with the  beginning of  CUDP III  and the  GOWB's  fiscal  year.   The  basic
characteristic of RGS is a deficit grant system based on absolute levels of
performance of local bodies, linked with both a disincentive and an incentive
mechanism. Initially, the RGS will be implemented only in the CMC, HMC, and
the CMA municipalities. However, the system can subsequently be applied
throughout the State, based on the lessons and experiences of this initial
application.
Structure of RGS
5.40    Based on the financial data available from the MFC report, the likely
financial performance under a set of realistic performance targets have been
initially estimated by LGUDD in consultation with each local body for the
next five year. On the revenue side, realistic performance targets have been
set  primarily  relating  to  property  tax  administration.   These  targets
include: (i) rateable value; (ii) assessment; (iii) minimum collection
percentages for both current and arrears demands. These targets are based on
realistic estimates and are not uniform for all local bodies. They relate to
the current level of tax base and collection efficiency on an individual
basis and assume improvements over time specific to each municipality. In
addition, statutory receipts from share of octroi taxes have been projected
and included as a source of local body revenue for each individual local
body. On the expenditure side, levels of current expenditure likely to be
incurred have been initially projected for each individual local body. These
expenditures include likely operations and maintenance costs for both
existing assets and proposed investments, incremental levels of salary
expenditure, debt servicing requirements and other expenditures. Examples of
both reverue and expenditure estimates for a sample of local bodies are
indicated in Annex 5 Tables 8, 9, 10.
5.41    While the revenue and expenditure projections are estimated initially
for five years,  in practice these  will be annually  updated (rolling yearly
targets) based on actual performance data. The deficit thus estimated for an
individual local body reflects a level based on a realistic set of
performance targets.   The aggregate  of all  these deficits,  for all  local
bodies, thus indicate the total level of grant support that will be required
from the state government.



-48-
5.42    The actual operating  performance of the local  bodies will fall into
three categories: (a) those with revenue deficit equal to or less than the
targets; (b) those with revenue deficit more than the targets; and (c) those
with revenue surpluses. Through the RGS, GOWB will meet the revenue deficit
of both categories (a) and (b) above annually. However, the following steps
will be taken to link revenue performance with the annual capital investment
program for each local body. Under CUDP III, annual capital investment
program for each of the five years of implementation, has been based on an
appraisal of the current and projected capacity of an individual local body
to execute such a program and its ability to operate and maintain these
investments within the realistic limits of revenue deficits as noted above.
For the first year of implementation, each local body will be allocated
capital funds based on the above appraisal. However, beginning the second
year of implementation and each year thereafter, there will be a direct
linkage between the annual capital program of a given year with the revenue
performance of the preceding year. For those local bodies who continue to
operate at annual revenue deficits which are either equal to or less than
annually revised targets, there will be no change in the original capital
program as originally determined. Those local bodies who exceed the annually
revised revenue deficit targets receive a reduced proportion of capital
investment for  the following  fiscal year.   The reduced  capital investment
will be the appraised estimate of capital investments reduced by a percentage
equal to half of the percentage increase in actual revenue deficit over the
target. This reduction will thus reflect the level of capital investment
that can be reasonably operated and maintained by actual levels of revenues
of each local body. The local bodies which generate revenue surpluses, thus
not requiring any revenue grant, will as an incentive, receive additional
matching capital grant, equal to the revenue surplus, in addition to the
normal CUDP III capital allocation. However, capital works to be financed
through this matching grant will be subject to appraisal and approval by
CMDA. This additional capital works will reflect the ability of a local body
to operate and maintain more assets.
Finance of RGS
5.43    A "Fund Assigned  to Municipalities" (FAM)  has been set  up by GOWB.
FAM will have two separate accounts: (1) FAM (Revenue Account) and (2) FAM
(Capital Account). The FAM (Revenue Account) will be funded by COWB's State
budget allocation  of Motor  Vehicles Tax  and Subvention  Grants.   The  FAM
(Capital Account) will be funded by the State Amusement Tax. FAM (Revenue
Account) will be used only to meet the local bodies annual revenue deficits
and will be paid on a periodic basis.   FAM (Capital Account) will be used to
provide  matching  capital  grants.   Undisbursed  monies  for  FAM  (Capital
Account) will be carried over to successive fiscal years. A significant
aspect of this financing formula is the fact that "subvention grants" will no
longer be devolved automatically  based on staff strength.   In recent years,
subvention grants have totalled about Rs 10 crores per year compared to a
total revenue grant of about Rs 40 crores per year to all CMA municipalities.
By pooling subvention grants in the FAM (Revenue Account), the devolution of
these funds will now be through FAM Revenue Account based on the fact that
the local bodies will have to operate under a realistic set of revenue
performance targets.



-49-
Administration of RGS
5.44    FAM and  both its sub-accounts  has been set  up by GOWB  and will be
administered by the Directorate of Local Bodies (DLB) of LGUDD and CMDA.
Necessary data required to monitor and evaluate performance of each local
body against original targets and annual updating of targets will be done by
the DLB.   LGUDD will  make available  to CMDA  the  results  of  its  annual
analysis, so that CMDA can allocate following years funds for capital works
based on the results of this analysis.
5.45    LGUDD is  now in the  process of estimating  the performance targets,
revenue deficits, revenue grant, and capital grant requirements for each of
the 37 municipalities, CMC and HMC for each year from 1982/83 through
1989/90. At negotiations, agreements were obtained that: (a) LGUDD will
annually update the performance targets, revenue deficits, annual revenue
grant and capital grant requirements for each of the 37 municipalities, CMC
and HMC for implementing the RGS on the principles as discussed herein; (b)
GOWB will fund the FAM Revenue and Capital Accounts based on these rolling
yearly estimates; and (c) CMDA will allocate capital resources in accordance
with the recommendations of LGUDD.
E. Affordability and Replicability
5.46     The  project  takes  a   comprehensive  view  of  affordability  and
replicability. The investments have been designed within acceptable design
standards and at agreed minimum levels of service, that can be realistically
affordable within the available resource base. The emphasis on operation and
maintenance has been matched with policies relating to on-lending terms, cost
recovery,   pricing   of    services,   agreed   principles    for   internal
cross-subsidies, and other fiscal improvements such as the Revised Grant
Structure. This will ensure that the programs are affordable and replicable.
The calculation of tariff charges for water supply as described before, with
the  inherent  cross-subsidies   between  non-domestic  and   domestic  users
illustrates this principle. In area development, affordability of plots by a
wide range of  income groups is  a prime consideration.   Monthly installment
payments under the area development program have been compared with market
payments  for  equivalent  plots  in  other   parts  of  the  CMA.   For  the
economically weaker (Rs 150-350 per month per household) and lower income (Rs
351-600 per month per household) groups, monthly installments under CUDP III
are estimated to amount to 15X of monthly income, leaving them adequate
individual resources to complete the superstructures.
5.47    The modest charges  proposed under the health  program (annual family
registration fee of Rs 1 per family per year and Rs 0.25/visit to a clinic),
have been checked by a sample survey of some 2,000 potential beneficiaries.
The response indicated a significant willingness to pay this nominal amount
for the range and quality of health services being offered.
5.48    The process that  has been set  in motion, coupled  with the training
program, is initially being fdcused on the CMA but is replicable for other
local bodies throughout the State.



-50-
VI. PROJECT JUSTIFICATION
A. Summary
6.01    Different methods were used to assess  the benefits of several of the
principal components of the project, reflecting the varying availability of
data. In the case of bustee improvements, rental market information was used
to determine the difference in rental value between existing residential and
commercial  structures  and  the  estimated   market/rental  value  of  these
structures after  upgrading, yielding  an economic  rate of  return (ERR)  of
about 15%.  To  estimate the ERR  for area  development (sites  and services)
survey data on rental values and sale prices for developed land and buildings
of similar standards in similar  locations was used, which  yielded an ERR of
about 13%.   An ERR  of 24%  was estimated  for road  improvements, based  on
reduced vehicle and road maintenance  costs and time savings.   An ERR of 18%
was very tentatively estimated for municipal drainage improvements based on
reduced maintenance cost and flood loss, using data on flood impacts
collected by CMDA during the 1970s in order to better assess priorities and
design standards in this sector.
6.02    Due to the limited use of volumetric water tariffs in the CMA at this
stage, no ERR for water supply investments could be determined on the basis
of the standard methodology which estimates benefits using existing tariffs
as an indicator of consumers' minimum willingness to pay for services. CMDA
has attempted to use an alternative methodology, basing benefit estimates on:
(a) payments by domestic consumers to private water vendors and (b) savings
in ground water extraction costs to industrial and commercial consumers.
This methodology yields an ERR of about 17% for the water supply investments,
under the conservative assumption that water consumption would not increase
beyond what is currently bought from private vendors and produced by private
ICI tubewells.   Still another  set of  estimates  have  been  prepared  with
benefit estimates based on the water tariffs which will shortly be introduced
(Chapter V, para 5.28(a) and 5.29(a)). These tariffs, which are comparable
to tariffs currently in force in other major Indian cities, yield an overall
ERR of about 8% for water supply investments.
6.03    The ERRs outlined  above average about 15%,  and apply to investments
which account for about 54% of total project costs. The benefits of many of
the other components would be even more difficult to quantify but would
nonetheless be important. For example, improved health and reduced job
absenteeism would result from the health and the service privy conversion
program.
6.04    In addition to the direct benefits in improved and expanded municipal
services, and urban efficiency, there are a number of indirect benefits which
would result from the project. The following are the most significant.
(a) The metropolitan economy would be boosted directly by the
following employment generation:
-   30,000 construction jobs  generated by the CUDP  III investments over
the 5-year construction period;



-51-
-   20,000  jobs generated  over the  operational life  of the  CUDP  III
program for operation and maintenance;
-   42,600 beneficiaries  and an estimated  16,000 net  additional direct
jobs generated by the SSE program.
The above employment generation, exclusive of the secondary effects, is
equivalent to about 3.5% of current total CMA-wide employment.
(b) The regional economy can be expected to benefit from increased
business  efficiency  and  lower  transaction  costs   as  a  result  of  the
significant reductions in the intensity and duration of waterlogging,
improvements in health, lower freight trucking costs, and increases in
accessibility within the municipalities and anchals.
6.05    Perhaps the  most important unquantifiable  long-term benefit  of the
project would be the strengthening of metropolitan and municipal management
systems   as demonstrated through investments under CUDP I and II (paras 1.09
to 1.21).   Under  CUDP  III,  institutions  and  agencies  within  the  CMA,
particularly the municipalities will benefit from: (a) training at all
levels; (b)  exposure to  methods  for  eliciting  public  participation  and
responding  thereto;  and  (c)  improved   processes  and  methodologies  for
planning, budgeting, appraisal, monitoring and evaluation.
B. Distribution of Benefits
6.06    Data for  1981 indicates  that over  60% of  the CMA  population have
incomes below the poverty threshhold (EWS). 1/ In absolute terms, this is
equivalent to 6 million people, a large percentage of whom are located in the
municipalities outside the metrocore where little previous investment has
been made. Most of these urban poor will benefit from the proposed project.
Some 70% of all project beneficiaries would be in the poverty group.
6.07    Table 6.1 summarizes the number of beneficiaries under each sector of
the  metropolitan-wide  program   appraised  to  date,   and  the  percentage
represented by the EWS.   A part of the  population will benefit  from one of
more sector investments.
Table 6.1:   URBAN POVERTY - METROPOLITAN-WIDE PROGRAM
Total              of which
Sector                         Beneficiaries          % EWS
Solid Waste Management          3,165,750                73
Sewerage & Drainage             1,255,000               55
Water Supply                    2,074,000                60
SSE                                59,000                65
Health                          2,000,000               100
1/ See para 2.04.



-52-
6.08    The number of beneficiaries in  the poverty group under the municipal
development program appraised to date is summarized similarly in Table 6.2.
Table 6.2:   URBAN POVERTY - MUNICIPAL DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
Total
Components                       Beneficiaries        % EWS
Markets                           3,198,500             65
Drainage                          2,375,000             69
Water Supply                      3,171,500             69
Solid Waste                       3,031,500             68
BIP                                 307,360            100
Service Privy Conversion            167,000            100
Local Road Improvements           3,240,500             65
C.  Project Risks
6.09    The major project risks  concern project implementation and political
commitment:
(a) There is the risk that the program will prove too complex to
administer and manage. The fragmentation of responsibility
requires strong leadership and coordination from CMDA. Project
Management on a day-to-day basis, as well as project monitoring
for socio-economic impacts, will require more sophisticated
systems than hereto available within CMDA.
(b) The nature of the project investments combined with the
decentralization policy provides a direct link between development
and politics. Any weakening of political commitment or dilution
of discipline will make technical implementation and financial
control difficult.
6.10    Implementation:   In order  to minimize  the risks  involved  in  the
execution of such a multi-sectoral and geographically extensive project, a
systematic monitoring and control process has being established within CMDA.
The 'institutionalization' of this process, is substantially completed.
First, a monitoring and control system (PMU, see para 4.31(a)) has been
established for the project as a whole, whereby physical progress and
financial performance will be measured for individual implementing agencies.
6.11    A second  monitoring and  control system  through the  Directorate of
Local Bodies in LGUDD will focus on the implementation of the municipal
program within each municipality for the purpose for administering the
Revised Grant Structure (paras 5.37-5.45). Physical progress and financial
performance relative to predetermined targets will again define the basis of
control. In both cases, quarterly and annual reports will provide the
indicators on which to assess and adjust sectoral investment priorities and
municipal investment allocations.
6.12    A  third system  by which  AMEU will  monitor  and  evaluate  program
benefits through key indicators long-term has also been established and will
provide additional information for program or policy modification.



-53-
6.13    Political  commitment.  This  relates to  the GOWB's  willingness  to
fully utilize the system of performance monitoring and controls built into
the project. The test of this will come towards the end of the first year of
the program, at which time the picture of individual municipal performance
relative to present targets will become clear. The controls built into the
project dictate that those municipalities not achieving a certain level of
financial performance would then face a reduction in investment for the
following year. Similarly, high performance would be rewarded by additional
investment funds for the following year.
6.14    There is clearly a risk that GOWB may not follow these procedures and
that the overall program may falter accordingly. However, this risk appears
minimal for the following reasons. First, it is clearly stated GOWB policy
to extend financial self-dependency and accountability to the municipal level
throughout West Bengal. Second, GOWB has encouraged the proposed system of
controls within CMDA and LGUDD. Third, there is an urgent financial and
practical necessity for expanded service provision.
D. Approach to On-going Appraisal and Evaluation
6.15    An appraisal and  evaluation system has been  developed for the TRIP,
CHIP, and municipal programs to ensure that each component is consistent with
project objectives and to monitor the degree which objectives are actually
achieved. This system has been institutionalized through the AMEU of CMDA
which will remain a part of CMDA beyond the project period.
6.16    In the case of  the TRIP and CHIP  programs, sub-projects are grouped
by sector and by planning/implementing/operating agency. For each sector, a
summary of performance estimates for each sub-project is compared against a
common set of financial, physical design, service delivery, institutional,
implementation, and benefit indicators. For schemes in excess of Rs I crore,
this information is supplemented by an appraisal specific to that scheme.
The main elements of the project-specific appraisal include:
(a)  Key impacts
- justification and project benefits
- economic analysis
- distribution of benefits and poverty analysis
(b)  Financial & cost recovery analysis
(c)  Project risk analysis
(d)  Implementation issues
These formats are consistent across sectors and provide the basis for the
implementation, monitoring, and control of the metropolitan-wide program.
6.17    Under the municipal  program, each municipality is  appraised using a
standard format comprising the following elements:
(a) Key demographic, municipal revenue, and expenditure indicators;



-54-
(b)  Summary of CUDP program including program size, components,
staffing, land acquisition requirements and implementation
timetable;
(c)  Component (sector) specific summary of investment cost, service
delivery norms (existing and proposed), physical design standards
target population, and percent EWS of target population;
(d)  Key impact summary (justification and program benefits, economic
analysis, distribution of benefits and poverty analysis);
(e)  Analysis of existing and projected municipal finances, including
annual performance targets to be met as a pre-condition of
continued disbursement to that municipality;
(f)  Project risk analysis; and
(g)  Implementation issues.
6.18    These formats  provide the basis  of the  implementation, monitoring,
and control of the municipal program. By way of illustration of the process,
an appraisal of a typical municipality (Barasat) is set out in Annex 3D.
VII. AGREEMENTS REACHED, ASSURANCES RECEIVED, AND RECOMMENDATIONS
7.01   During negotiations AGREEMENTS were reached as follows:
A.  with GOWB, that:
(a) GOWB will appoint independent auditors, acceptable to IDA,
to audit the accounts and financial statements of the project
implementing agencies, the local bodies, and CMDA's Statement
of Expenditures. The audit reports and financial statements
are to be submitted to IDA within nine months of the end
of each fiscal year. (Chapter IV, paras 4.17 and 4.25);
(b) GOWB will deposit Rs 9 crores into the Area Development Account
during FY 1984; Rs 5 crores by September 30, 1983, the balance
by March 31, 1984. IDA would reimburse its share (50%) and
would subsequently receive full documentation of eligible
expenditures to justify the payments made (Chapter IV,
para 4.18);
(c) GOWB/CMDA will retain accounting firms not later than 9/30/83
to assist the municipalities in maintaining accounts and
preparing final accounts for audit (Chapter IV, para 4.25(d));
(d) GOWB will submit annually to IDA starting 6/30/84, a copy of
the monitoring report for the administration of the Revised Grant
Structure to be prepared by LGUDD (Chapter IV, para 4.31(c)).



-55-
(e) GOWB will cause CMC to reduce its reliance on GOWB subventions
from 24% of its revenue expenditure in 1982/83 to about 10% by
1987/88. GOWB will cause CMC to:
i) increase the total ratable value of properties from
the 1981/82 total of Rs 63.70 crores to about 103
crores in 1986/87 (Chapter V, para 5.18(a));
ii) achieve cash collections of at least 65%, 70%, 75%, 80%,
and 85% of the current year's consolidated property tax
demand during fiscal years 1983/84, 1984/85, 1986/86,
1986/87 and 1987/88 (Chapter V, para 5.18(b)); and
iii) achieve cash collections of at least 50% a year of total
annual outstanding arrears property tax demand (Chapter V,
para 5.18(c));
(f)  GOWB will, by December 31, 1983, complete an evaluation of
the adequacy of the new property tax assessment base of all
CMA municipalities, HMC and CMC. If the base in any munici-
pality is found to be inadequate GOWB will cause the CVB
to carry out a revaluation of properties in such munici-
palities (Chapter V, para 5.26).
(g) GOWB will cause:
i) CMC to achieve full cost recovery for water supply
operations by 1987/88 and to recover the following
interim percentages of its revenue expenditures obtained
through water supply operations: about 48% in FY83/84;
63% in FY84/85; 69% in FY86/86; and 87% in FY86/87
(Chapter V, para 5.28);
ii) CMC to introduce a graduated rate, satisfactory to IDA,
for domestic unmetered consumers based on ferrule size,
not later than November 1, 1983(Chapter V, para 5.28(a)(ii)).
iii) CMC to introduce annual licencing for all new
private tubewells, (Chapter V, para 5.28(b));
iv) CMC to adhere to the agreed targets for metering and
consumer survey programs (Chapter V, para 5.28(d)).
(h)  GOWB will cause CMWSA to achieve full cost recovery for its
water supply operations by 1985/86 and to recover the
following percentages of its revenue expenditures for
water supply: 75% in FY83/84; and 95% in FY84/85 (Chapter V,
para 5.29).
(i)  GOWB will ensure that CMWSA's overdue bills for bulk water
supply will be paid. (Chapter V, paras 5.29(b)).
(j)  GOWB will annually update the performance targets for each
municipality and GOWB will fund the FAM Revenue and Capital
accounts based on these targets. CMDA will allocate capital
resources in accordance with recommendations of LGUDD
(Chapter V, para 5.45).



-56-
B. With CMDA, that:
(a) CMDA will review annually the interest rebate feature in
the SSE component to determine its effectiveness starting
4/1/84 (Chapter II, para 2.16);
(b) CMDA will consult with IDA on any major changes proposed in
its five-year investment program (Chapter II, para 2.28);
(c) CMDA will onlend at the prevailing commercial interest rate
for urban renewal schemes, and for other investments at not
less than 8.25% a year (Chapter III, para 3.06);
(d) CMDA will establish and maintain an Area Development Account
in a commercial bank for SURAD (Chapter IV, para 4.18);
(e) CMDA will within nine months after the close of each financial
year, for the agencies and municipalities, submit audited
financial statements and auditors' reports, including
evaluation of contracts, financial management, and recommenda-
tions (Chapter IV, para 4.26).
(f) CMDA will furnish quarterly progress reports to IDA, which will
include updated implementation schedules (para 4.09), within
60 days after the close of each quarter starting 11/30/83
(Chapter IV, para 4.27);
(g) CMDA will at six month intervals, furnish IDA with a progress sum-
mary of appraisals, field surveys, and other activities carried
out by the Appraisal Monitoring and Evaluation Unit (AMEU), and
every twelve months starting on 4/1/84 will furnish IDA with a
copy of AMEU's annual report and recommendations (Chapter IV, para
4.31(b)).
(h) CMDA/GOWB to arrange for regular inspections of key installations
by suitable agencies (with a record of good O&M). Copies of these
reports to be made available to IDA starting 9/30/84 (Chapter IV,
para 4.30);
(i) CMDA will transfer to the appropriate operating agencies, all
assets completed up to March 1982, not later than 3/31/84 and
regularly thereafter on an annual basis, for all assets to be
completed under this project (Chapter V, para 5.02);
(j) CMDA will submit for IDA review and approval no later than
9/30/83 a draft copy of SURAD's administrative, operational,
and financial guidelines for implementing the Shelter and Area
Development Program; and these will incorporate costing and
pricing formula, maintenance charges, the criteria for
beneficiary selection, conditions of lease and terms and
conditions of loans for the sites and services beneficiaries,
all satisfactory to IDA (Chapter V, para 5.34);



-57-
(k) CMDA will submit for IDA review and approval:
i) a draft copy of administrative, operational, and
and financial guidelines for implementation of the
Urban Renewal schemes not later than 9/30/83 (which
will incorporate: the costing and pricing formula
for the sale 'development rights;' the terms and
conditions of sale by Auction of leasehold rights;
terms and conditions of rental facilities; accounting
and placement of all funds generated through urban
renewal schemes);
ii) an appraisal of each urban renewal scheme, (only
schemes yielding a financial rate of return in
excess of the prevailing commercial cost of capital
will be implemented); and
iii) a pricing and cost recovery analysis for each urban
renewal scheme prior to the auction of development
rights (Chapter V, para 5.35).
7.02    The following are agreed conditions of credit effectiveness:
(Chapter V, para 5.27):
(a) GOWB will cause CMC to increase the water rates
for metered non-domestic users from Rs 5 per 1000
gallons to not less than Rs 11 per 1000 gallons
(Chapter V, para 5.28(a)).
(b) GOWB will cause CMWSA to introduce the following
minimum rates for bulk water supply:
i) Rs 1.25 per 1000 gallons to municipalities except CMC;
ii) Rs 3.00 per 1000 gallons to CMC;
iii) Rs 10 per 1000 gallons for industrial consumers; and
iv) Rs 6 gallons for commercial and institutional consumers.
(Chapter V, para 5.29(a)).
7.03    In addition, during negotiations, confirmation, and assurances were
received from:
(a) GOWB, in connection with the Calcutta Urban Transport Project,
that the following actions have been completed:
i) a task force in the Calcutta State Transport Corporation
has been appointed;
ii) bus and tram fares have been raised;
iii) transportation planning responsibilities have been
consolidated in the CMDA (Chapter I, para 1.06);
(b) GOWB, that CMC has completed the following:
i) placement of three suitably qualified staff to improve
assessments of properties, updating of valuation roll,
and collection performance;
ii) appointment of a Special Officer and supporting staff
to manage a consumer survey and water metering program,
including meter repair facilities;
iii) establishment of a meter reading, billing, and customer



-58-
service department; and
iv) appointment of one person for stores inventory and control
(a second position would be filled by 6/30/83)(Chapter IV,
para 4.04); and
v) a Vehicles Replacement Fund and a Sinking Fund has been
established effective 4/1/83, and annual deposits will be
made (Chapter V, para 5.23).
(c) GOWB, that in CMWSA:
i) all identified positions required to implement the project
will have been filled by 6/30/83; and
ii) the accounting system designed for the water authority
was already operational effective 4/1/83 (Chapter IV, para 4.05).
iii) The first tranche of a working capital loan to CMWSA of Rs 90
lakhs will have been paid not later than 4/30/83 and the balance
before 3/31/84 (Chapter V, para 5.29(iii);
(d) GOWB that it has established effective 4/1/83 the FAM Revenue
and Capital accounts (Chapter V, para 5.45);
(e) CMDA, that:
i) a revised staffing structure and organization has been
approved by its Board;
ii) most key management positions have been filled;
three remaining posts will be filled by 6/30/83;
iii) a letter of intent has been issued to contract HDFC for
two years of advisory and training assistance to develop
SURAD's marketing, loan administration, and financial
capabilities. A draft contract will be sent for IDA
review by 6/30/83 (Chapter IV, para 4.03).
iv) by 6/30/83, CMDA will be in possession of about 120 ha (300 acres)
in West Howrah and about 90 ha (220 acres) in Baishnabghata-
Patuli, East Calcutta and West Howrah Extensions by December 31,
1983; and a further 80 ha (200 acres) in West Howrah by 2/29/84;
v) by 6/30/83, CMDA will submit for IDA review, detailed engineering
drawings and specifications for earth filling at West Howrah;
vi) it has secured tentative commitments from financial institutions
for its Area Development program (Chapter IV, para 4.10);
7.04    The proposed project constitutes a suitable basis for an IDA credit
of US$147 million to the Government of India.



-59-
ANNEX 1
Page 1
BACKGROUND
A. Urban Growth at the National, State, and Metropolitan Level
1.      Urban  growth in  India has  been accelerating  over the  past  three
decades, from 2.3 percent a year in the 1950's to 3.9 percent a year in the
1970's. This growth, which is more than twice the rate at which the rural
population is increasing, adds some 7 million people to India's towns and
cities  each  year.   Much  of  this  growth  is  taking  place  in  the  135
medium-sized cities with population between 100,000 and 1,000,000, which grew
at an average annual rate of 6.6% between 1961-71, and which accounts for 52%
of all urban population.   The nine largest cities,  with populations of more
than one  million are  growing at  an average  annual rate  of 3.3%.   If the
present  trends  in  urban  population   growth  continue,  the  total  urban
population would be about 300 million by the year 2000 and by the same time
43 Indian cities would have populations of over one million.
2.      West Bengal is the second most densely populated state in India after
Kerala. In 1981, its population approximated 54.5 million with about 13
million (or 24%) living in urban areas, including Calcutta, the state
capital. The population living in the Calcutta Metropolitan Area (CMA) 1/ is
growing at an average rate of 2.2% and was in 1981, approaching 10 million,
or over 70% of West Bengal's urban population.
3.      The CMA is the slowest growing metropolis in India.  Yet it continues
to add over 200,000 persons annually to its population in spite of continuing
deficiencies in environment, infrastructure, public services, and employment.
About 3.3 million of the CMA population is within the Calcutta Municipal
Corporation (CMC) administrative area on the east bank of the Hooghly river.
The west bank population is about 2.2 million, concentrated mainly in the
Howrah Municipal Corporation (HMC) and Bally Municipality opposite the CMC.
About 45% of the CMA population, or about 4.5 million people, belong to
households in the economically weaker section, with a monthly income of Rs
350 (approximately US$37 equivalent) or less per household.
4.      The Economy.  Manufacturing and service activities predominate in the
CMA. In the manufacturing sector, a major shift has taken place over recent
decades from dominance by the jute industry to dominance by the engineering
industry. However, in recent years there has been an overall decline in
production. Service activities proliferate throughout the area, particularly
in transport, storage, and communications. In the CMA as a whole, employment
in 1981 was about 2.8 million according to official census estimates, a
modest increase over the 1971 figure of 2.6 million--with about 1.5 million
in services, 1.1 million in manufacturing, and 0.2 million in agriculture and
mining.
1/ The census figures are in reference to the Calcutta Urban Agglomeration
(CUA), which roughly equates with the CMA.



-60-
ANNEX 1
Page 2
5.      Administration  of Local  Government.  The  State Government  of West
Bengal (GOWB) is responsible for framing and enacting legislation governing
all local  authorities in  West Bengal.   As such,  GOWB, through  its  Local
Government and Urban Development Department (LGUDD) has authority over the
CMC, HMC, and the municipal authorities, which provide government services in
their respective areas within the CMA. The local government framework in the
CMA consists of two municipal corporations and 37 municipalities. (see Annex
3A). In 1971, GOWB created the Calcutta Metropolitan Development Authority
(CMDA) to act as an area-wide statutory authority charged primarily with
planning, design  and construction  of infrastructure  in  the  CMA.   It  is
largely through the CMDA that GOWB coordinates and manages development within
the CMA.  From  January 1982, the  CMDA has been  formally designated  as the
planning and development Authority for the CMA under the West Bengal Town and
Country (Planning and Development) Act, 1979.
B.  Bank Group Role and Experience in Calcutta
6.      The First  Calcutta Urban Development  Project (CUDP) 1/  comprised a
broad program of urban works, with emphasis on infrastructure to meet the
most urgent service needs of the population. The IDA Credit of US$35 million
equivalent, or 36% of total estimated project costs of about US$97 million,
was directed to investments mainly in the water supply, sewerage, drainage,
and transportation sectors. The credit is now fully disbursed. Progress
under the First Credit was slow, reflecting the lack of experience in program
management  on  the  part   of  CMDA,  the   principal  implementing  agency.
Particularly noticeable were deficiencies in coordination of agencies,
project budget sanctioning, monitoring, bidding procedures, and delays in
land acquisition. 2/ These difficulties are understandable, as CMDA was
established only iTn 1971 and was immediately given responsibility for an
extensive and complex development program.
7.      The Second  Calcutta Urban Development  Project 3/ (CUDP  II) differs
from the  first in  that it  includes a  greater number  of  components.   In
addition to the provision of shelter, municipal infrastructure improvements,
solid waste management and technical assistance, other components such as
1/   Cr. 427-IN, 1973/74 to 1978/79.
2/   Project Completion Report (PCR) dated 6/1/81 and Draft Project Perfor-
mance Memorandum Report (PPAM) dated 6/11/82.
3/   Cr. 756-IN, 1977/78 to 1982/83.



-61--
ANNEX 1
Page 3
school construction and health care, credit for small businesses, traffic
engineering and management, strategic land management improvement, and urban
renewal  projects  were  included.   This  project  composition  reflects  an
adjustment in CMDA's investment program to give priority also to neglected
sectors providing immediate improvements and assistance in urban services
conditions for the city as a whole. The project places emphasis on the
operation and maintenance of all completed works and on the formulation of
plans for the future development of the Calcutta Metropolitan Area (CMA).
After an unsatisfactory start, both these aspects have recently been
receiving considerable attention from GOWB. IDA made available a credit of
US$87 million equivalent, or just under 50% of the total project costs of
about US$184 million, towards financing of this project, which was originally
scheduled for completion in March 1982, and is now substantially completed.
Progress under the second credit has been considerably better than the first.
As of March 31, 1982 a total of US$78.7 million or 90.5% of the appraisal
estimates, had been disbursed over 4.75 years 1/ and progress on physical
works in spite of severe materials supply problems has been good.
8.      The Calcutta Urban  Transport Project (CUTP I)  2/ which was approved
by the Board on June 3, 1980, attempts to respond to the GOWB's expressed
priority for a thorough upgrading of mass transportation services in
Calcutta.   The   project,   which   supports   financial   and   operational
rehabilitation of the public bus and tram operations in Calcutta as well as
investments and policy measures to support private bus operations, is an
important step in improving the quality and quantity of mass transport in the
city  and  complements  traffic   management  and  engineering  interventions
initiated under the first two urban projects in Calcutta. The estimated
total cost of the transport project is US$121.7 million. The credit of US$56
million would finance about 50% of project costs net of taxes and duties.
The project period has been scheduled for just over three and a half years.
9.      Although physical oerformance (e.g.,  acquisition of buses and trams,
progress of civil works) has been satisfactory, the operational and financial
performance of project agencies has been poor. A review mission in the
field, simultaneously at the time of appraisal, agreed with GOWB on a set of
specifically defined operational targets, along with a program and management
actions to be  undertaken over the  past six months  leading to negotiations.
This is being closely monitored. Other specific problems such as the delay
on the route rationalization study and the execution of traffic engineering
schemes relate to overlapping responsibilities given to several agencies
1/   As compared to the South Asia Urban Projects norm and South Asia Region
norm of approximately 97% and 80% respectively.
2/   Cr. 1033-IN, 1980-1983.



-62-
ANNEX 1
Page 4
concerned with traffic management, and are addressed along with broader
institutional issues relating to the third project.
C. Physical Achievements
10.     Service delivery in  all sectors has improved.   To date for example,
just over 2 million persons living in registered slums will have benefitted
from the Bustee Improvement Program, (equivalent to 65% of the CMA slum
population). Progress in other shelter- oriented programs has been slow.
Although  land  acquisition,   organization,  and   contracting  difficulties
resulted in excessive delays, the effort and experience was useful in
refining technical solutions and facilitating the adoption of appropriate
policies on  design standards,  affordability, and  cost recovery.   Physical
delivery of serviced lots is now imminent.   By June 1983, the first of about
25,000 persons, who have already been allocated serviced sites in a scheme
financed under CUDP I, will take possession of these. The first of a further
45,000 persons will begin to move to a second site in East Calcutta sometime
in early 1984.
11.     Treated water supply  production has almost doubled  from the 100 mgd
ten years ago, to a current 200 mgd. During 1983/84, with the inauguration
of new works at Garden Reach and other improvements, this figure will reach
300 mgd, with greatly increased coverage under a much enhanced distribution
network. More intensive use is intended of existing infrastructure. About
5,000 m of new branch sewers have already been laid within Calcutta city and
a program to  desilt approximately 43,000  gully pits  is underway.   A major
sewer cleaning exercise for approximately 650 km of existing sewers in
Calcutta City, however, has not started due to a number of difficulties,
including the shortage of experience in this complex operation in India.
About 10,000 m of a trunk sewer system in Howrah (which had no sewers at all)
and a treatment plant have now been completed. The next phase will complete
the  secondary  and  tertiary  sewerage  systems  in  Howrah.   In  Calcutta,
collection of nightsoil from existing 'service privies' by CMC's conservancy
department has improved with better organization and the acquisition of
additional tankers and equipment. In the meantime, a long-term program to
phase out privies has been proceeding well, with over 35,000 sanitary
latrines installed.
12.     The incidence of water-logging has  been reduced, with the completion
of approximately 80,000 m of new drainage as well as modifications to a
number of drainage outfalls included under CUDP II following severe floods in
September 1978. Solid waste management is also much better. Currently, an
estimated 2,300 tonnes is collected daily which represents almost 94% of the
total tonnage generated in Calcutta City. Most other municipalities within
the CMA have also instituted elementary solid waste collection and disposal,
although only about 350 tonnes per day is collected out of an estimated daily
generation of 1,500 tonnes.



-63-
ANNEX 1
Page 5
13.     In traffic  and transportation, about  50 km of  new roads  have been
completed and  are in  use.   Engineering  improvements  have  been  made  to
existing routes. A traffic management scheme which includes inter alia, the
introduction of computerized traffic signals is just beginning to become
operational.
14.     A primary school  construction program to reduce  the deficiencies in
the bustees, is also making good progress. Approximately 50 new schools have
been completed and a further 200 existing schools have been renovated.
Similarly, a 'pilot scheme' to build and operate three zonal health centers
and 10 urban community health clinics in the improved bustees, has become
fully operational.
15.     In addition  to the major  effort in the  metrocore under CUDP  II, a
parallel  pilot   program  in   the  CMA   municipalities   (panchayats   and
non-municipal urban areas) has resulted in about 350 km of existing roads
being provided with surface and drainage improvements.
D. Highlights from Project Performance Audit Memorandum - CUDP I
16.     The Calcutta  Urban Development  Project was  the first  Bank lending
operation to support  a metropolitan-wide  development program.   It provided
finance for 44 sub-projects in six sectors and was designed to support the
program and strengthen the operations of a new urban development institution,
the Calcutta Metropolitan Development Authority (CMDA) and to develop a
program to provide future support for the operation and maintenance of public
facilities and services in the Calcutta Metropolitan Area (CMA).
17.     The CMDA  expanded quickly, absorbing  staff from other  agencies and
taking direct responsibility for the execution of most of its program. It
became the dominant public works agency in the CMA. Developing the expanded
organization to effectively deal with its expanded responsibilities proved
more difficult and took longer than expected. Execution of the projects also
took longer than expected and was hindered by inadequate preparation and
CMDA's reorganization problems.   With the development  of a  second project,
the institutional goals for CMDA were substantially achieved and specific
measures to strengthen operation and maintenance were identified.
18.     Benefits from  the program supported  by the project  were widespread
but difficult to quantify. Progress was made in expanding the supply and
distribution of potable water, improving drainage, sanitation and general
environment especially in Bustee (slum) areas and in improving facilities for
traffic at  critical points.   Benefits were  delayed in  some cases  by  the
inefficient sequence of project construction and the loose coordination of
complementary investments.



-64-
ANNEX 1
Page 6
19.     The  focus of  the  project  on  the  development  of  CMDA  and  the
experience with that development suggest that institution building, at least
in this case, can be seen as a process of change - moving through stages. It
seemed important to support the change that was possible even when it did not
constitute a  complete, balanced  approach to  the problem.   The  investment
program was financed before a supporting financial reform was in place. It
was recognized that subsequent adaptation would be necessary to sustain
progress. The nature of the needed changes has become more clear with time
and so  has the  pressure to  make them.   Present focus  is on  the need  to
strengthen the finance, operation and maintenance of the system.
20.     Aspects of this experience that may be of special interest are:
(a) the critical aspect of timing in urban reform. The project
supported a borrower's initiative, the CMDA, at a critical
time in its development (PPAM, paras. 2.08, 4.01);
(b) the difficulties of developing an effective new institution even
with strong local support and strong leadership (PPAM, para. 4.07;
PCR, paras. 7.01-7.09);
(c) the limitations of a centralized approach to the complex problems
of metropolitan development. Although a centralized approach
seemed best at the time and was probably responsible for getting
the whole program started and for much that was achieved, the need
to strengthen operating institutions has become increasingly
important "PPAM, paras. 7.08, 7.10 and 7.23); and
(d) the contrast between the relative ease with which a lender, central
government or foreign agency, can support investments and the
difficulty experienced in trying to strengthen operations and
maintenance (PPAM, paras. 4.30-4.31; PCR, paras. 9.10-9.12; 10.09).



-65-
ANNEX 2A
Page 1
INDIA
THIRD CALCUTTA URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
KEY EXECUTING AGENCIES
A. The Calcutta Metropolitan Development Authority (CMDA)
1.      The Calcutta  Metropolitan Development  Authority (CMDA)  was created
under the Calcutta Metropolitan Development Authority Act of 1970 and
reconstituted  under  the  West   Bengal  Town  and   Country  (Planning  and
Development) Act  of  1979  (TNCP).   Its  territorial  jurisdiction  is  the
Calcutta Metropolitan Area (CMA). CMDA is vested with the responsibility of
urban development within the area which comprises the Calcutta Municipal
Corporation (CMC), the Howrah Municipal Corporation (HMC), 37 municipalities,
two notified areas, and a number (165) of non-municipal urban and semi-urban
areas.
2.      Under the TNCP Act, Ct(DA has the following powers and functions:  (a)
to prepare a present land use plan; (b) to prepare and enforce an outline
Development Plan; (c) to prepare and enforce a detailed Development Plan; (d)
to prescribe use of land within its area; (e) to prepare and execute a
development scheme; and (f) to coordinate development activites of all
departments and agencies of the State Government or local authorities
operating within the planning area. CMDA also exercises land use control in
the CMA, besides executing and coordinating development schemes either by
itself or by delegating any of its functions, except plan preparation, to the
municipal bodies. Along with these powers and functions CMDA is the primary
regional budgetting and funding authority for the urban development programs
in the CMA.
3.      CMDA's Board  includes two elected  corporation counselors  and three
elected municipal commissioners representing the municipalities in CMA. The
Advisory Council of CMDA also includes a representative each of CIT and HIT,
the  Commissioners  of  CMC  and  HMCO,   and  three  representatives  of  the
municipalities in the CMA. To finance all development schemes in the CMA,
CMDA obtains financial resources through state plan allocations, 50% of the
present entry tax, and its own market borrowing.
B. Calcutta Municipal Corporation (CMC)
4.      Calcutta was established in 1690  by the East India Company.  Between
1774 and 1911 it was officially the capital of the British Empire in India.
In 1727, a municipal corporation for Calcutta, headed by a mayor, was
established. In the latter half of the 19th century, a filtered water
supply, underground drainage, a network of roads, and other improvements were
planned and built. Up to independence (1947) Calcutta was the premier
industrial center  and  largest  port  in  India.   In  the  years  following



-66-                        ANNEX 2A
Page 2
independence, its relative importance as an industrial and commercial base
has declined.
5.      From March  1972 to  the present,  the powers  of the  Corporation of
Calcutta have been superseded, and administration has vested with GOWB. The
new Calcutta Municipal Corporation Act 1980, which was notified on January
18, 1982, attempts to bring the administration and financial management of
the Corporation up-to-date, providing it again with an elected body and
increased powers over the 1951 Act. The Act provides for the election of a
mayor, councillors, and aldermen.   Elections are scheduled to  take place no
later than October 1983.
6.      The functions of CMC are  administered by its Commissioner through 12
departments. The total number of staff employed by CMC is approximately
33,000, of which the Water Production and Distribution Department account for
about 6,000, the Motor Vehicles and Conservancy Department, about 12,000.
7.       A  number  of  systems  to  improve  the  financial  and  managerial
performance of CMC were designed and satisfactorily implemented under CUDP
II.  Principal  among these  were the  accounting and  management information
system and  the stores  organization,  control,  and  purchasing  system.   A
revised municipal accounting and cost accounting system was installed.
Property tax billing and accounts were computerized. Year-end closing of
accounts, which had been in arrears for a number of years, were brought
up-to-date with  the help  of consultants.   Independent commercial  auditors
were retained to audit the backlog of accounts. CMC is now only one year
behind its submission to IDA of its annual audited financial statements, but
expects to  be up-to-date  by  June  30,  1983.   The  associated  management
information system provides for budgetary control, including performance
budgeting. Under the stores' organization, control, and purchasing system, a
complete inventory of all stores was taken, after which slow and fast-moving
items were identified. Inventory records were computerized and purchase and
control procedures  streamlined.   After  only  one  year  in  operation  the
benefits of the system are already apparent.
C. Calcutta Metropolitan Water and Sanitation Authority (CMWSA)
8.      The Calcutta Metropolitan Water  and Sanitation Authority (CMWSA) was
created under the CMWSA Act in 1966. Under the Act, CMWSA was vested with
the resposibility for the "promotion and operation" of all schemes relating
to the production and supply of water, sewerage, drainage, sewage treatment,
and collection and disposal of nightsoil in unsewered areas. CMWSA is also
empowered to levy direct charges and taxes to recover its costs of
operations.
9.      Although  vested with  broad operational  and financial  powers, ever
since its inception CMWSA has been essentially operating as a subcontractor
to CMDA, limited only to water supply production and sewage treatment
investments. The Board of CMWSA was dissolved in 1972 and it is currently
run by  an Officer  on Special  Duty (OSD),  appointed by  GOWB.   All  major
decisions are taken jointly by the Chief Executive Officer of CMDA and the
OSD of CMWSA.



-67-                        ANNEX 2A
Page 3
10.     Due to  its limited role  heretofore as  a subcontractor  for capital
works only, CMWSA is currently understaffed primarily in the areas of revenue
management, administration, accounting and finance. Under CUDP III, it is
proposed that while CVWSA will continue to act as an executing agency for
capital works in water supply and sewerage, it will be given increasing
autonomy, in both its operations and finances.   As a first step towards this
objective,  CMWSA  will  now   become  a  bulk  supplier   of  water  to  the
municipalities, CMC, and HMC. It will own and operate all production and
transmunicipal transmission facilities. It will also retail water to major
industrial and commercial consumers who have direct access to CMWSA's
transmunicipal  transmission   lines.   Its   operational   and   maintenance
responsibilities  for   transmunicipal  facilities   will   be   considerably
strengthened.
D. The Municipalities
11.     In  addition to  CMC and  HMC, there  are  37  municipalities  and  2
notified area authorities (treated as municipalities throughout this report)
within CMA with population ranging from about 400,000 to about 20,000. Until
recently, the elected councils of these municipalities were superceded for
nearly 18 years.   Following the  municipal elections  held in  mid-1981, the
municipalities are now governed by a council of elected representatives. A
list of these municipalities is attached in Annex 3A.
12.     Traditionally, the municipalities have  been responsible for planning
and implementing local water supply, drainage, and sanitation schemes,
construction of access roads, schools and markets, conversion of latrines,
collection and disposal of solid waste, etc. However, investments in these
areas have been relatively small and have been primarily financed by grants
from the State Government.
13.      Under  CUDP  III,  keeping  in  line  with  GOWB's  decentralization
objectives, the responsibilities of these municipalities have been expanded
to include selection of investment priorities, detailed planning, design, and
implementation of investments.   The municipalities will  also be responsible
for full operation of these investments.
14.     Steps have already  been taken to ensure  that the municipalities can
effectively discharge these responsibilities. The Bengal Municipal Act which
was amended in 1980, is currently in force. The amendments aim to improve
overall municipal management through: (a) appointment of four senior-level
officers (Administration, Finance, Engineering, and Health) to each of these
municipalities from state-level cadres; and (b) introduction of measures to
improve the resource base of these municipalities. In addition, a Central
Valuation Board, established in 1980 is currently working closely with each
of the municipalities to improve revenues through: (i) better property tax
assessment procedures and  (ii) better tax  collection methods.   Finally, an
ambitious training program has been designed, targetted mainly to the
municipalities (paras 2.22-2.24).



-68-                     ANNEX 2B
Page 1
LIST OF SUB-COMPONENTS BY KEY EXECUTING AGENCIES
The implementing agencies for the proposed CIJDP III sub-projects have been
identified as follows:
Agency/Sector                      Work                            Value
(Rs. crores)
A. CMDA
1)  Improvement to Talla-Palta System    1.74
Water Supply         2)  Remodelling of existing 45"
Sector                   and 60" Main                           6.65
3) Baranagar Kamarhati Treatment Plant
and Primary Grid                      13.99
4)  Kamarhati Water Supply Scheme          0.10
5)  Calcutta Distribution System           7.06
Sewerage &           6)  Improvement of Pumping Stations
Drainage                 (Ballygunge, Palmers Bazaar,
Sector                   Dhapa Lock)                            0.88
7)  Alternative Power Feeder to            0.40
Pumping Station
8)  Swarnamoyee Khal (Howrah)              0.43
9)  Bhatpara-Naihati Nikashi               0.50
10)  Cosspore-Chitpore Drainage             0.35
Solid Waste         11)  Environmental Hygiene                  0.23
Management          12)  Water-logging in Calcutta              0.63
Sector              13)  Garages                                5.18
14)  Durgapur Bridge                        3.98
15)  Gaznabi Bridge                         0.54
16)  Link Rd.with Deshpran Shasmal-MG Rd. 2.41
Traffic &           17)  Link Rd.Anwar Shah Rd-NSC Bose Rd.   0.81
Transportation      18)  Subway from ferry crossing             0.54
Sector              19)  Zeerut Bridge                          1.00
20)  Garia Bus Terminal                     1.50
21)  CTEP                                   2.50
22)  Kona Truck Terminal                    3.01
23)  Barrackpore-Dum Dum Expressway         0.25
24)  Southern Expressway                    0.25
Bustee Improve. &
Panchayat Dev.      25)  Panchayat Development Program         21.45
Sector
Health Sector       26)  Construction/Renovation of
Health Facilities                     2.09
Shelter, Urban      27)  Urban Renewal of Dum Dum               1.00
Renewal, and        28)  Six Shelter Subprojects                9.00
Area Dev. Sector
Training            28)  ILGUS Building                         1.04
89.51



-69-                     ANNEX 2B
Page  2
B. CMWSA                1)  Tollygunj, Panchannangram
Drainage                               1.00
2)  G.T. Road Drainage (Howrah)            0.86
3)  Solid Waste Management                 1.01
4) Serampore Water Treatment
Plant with Primary Grid                9.52
12.39
C. CIT                  Urban Renewal of Bhowanipur,
Tollygunj and Shvambazar (3 projects)    3.00
D. HIT                  1)  House connection of Howrah
Sewerage                               7.90
2)  East West Road                         0.50
3)  Makardah Road (Phase II)               1.00
4)  Urban Renewal (3 projects)             1.00
5)  New Howrah Bus Terminus                1.00
14.40
E. Irrigation           1)  Outfall Improvement:
and Water                a) Calcutta Outfall                     4.16
Sector                   b) Additional pump at Chowbhaga
& excavation of channel             2.00
c) Improvement of Tolly's Nullah       1.00
2)  Howrah Drainage Channel                2.32
3)  Beliaghata-Kristopur-Bagjola Khal    7.35
4)  Bally Khal                             0.97
5)  Anti Malaria Khal                      1.00
6)  Adi Ganga                              2.50
21.30
F. Howrah               1)  Centrally Planned SWM
Municipality             for Howrah                              2.00
2)  Ward Level Projects for Howrah(MDP)  7.00
9.00
G. Calcutta             1)  Secondary Grid of Calcutta              0.75
Corporation          2)  Bulk Metering                           0.10
3)  Leak Detection                         0.14
4)  SWM for Calcutta City                  5.00
5)  Ward Level Schemes (MDP)              11.00
16.99
H. Other                Ward Level Schemes                         76.00
Municipalities
I. CMDA and CC          Sewer Cleansing and Study                   5.35



Chart 1: REORGANIZATION OF CMDA
[            CMDA Board
t        Chief Executtve Officer                                                                  ip    m
AMEU     -* _          _ *       - _  _ _  _ _ . > _  _  _  _  _  _ _ _   Input trom Other
Director Generals of Operations         Sources & Agencies
DGOF                                Sec-retory                                                                             Directorate
- ----  - --  -------                    Monitoiing                                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~of Materials
Dlrector General                                                                                                                                                         I 
(Planning & Development)                                                                         .4
Chief Physical Planner    Director General of Finance                                                      Monltcring                                                \ 
Physicol/Financiol                                Materiais/
ram          -       Performance of Other                                Equipment
Managemen              implementing Agencies                           t C
Unlt    | Physical/                                        Su pply to CMD  
(CUDP III)                                  PROGRAM        Operating Divisions
Pt~Ferformance of
L_ CMDAsProgram
Planin 4R                                                                                                                                               Supply to Other
Plonning         Accotunts                   Admlnilstraion & CoordInation           o     P     F     p      A     TI    I    0      N      S    Implementing
___I____I___-__t_I__I__                                                             ___I___o__I_I__I_I_ I       Agencies
c       '
-c      -)cd.
E                                                                          c-~~~~~~
u  &                E ~~~~~~~~~~~u~E 2                                                       tu
CUDP i11
Source: CMDA                                                                                                                                                WrHBn-47
LD~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~WidBn-47



Chart 2: ORGANIZATION OF SHELTER, URBAN RENEWAL AND AREA DEVELOPMENT DIRECTORATE (SURAD)
Director General
SUJRAD Progqram
Prog ra m/Policy
Coordination of Shelter                                                    Legal (Lond Acquisition) Marketing.
Programs by Other                                                           Loan Administration Services
Agencies Negotiating
InstItutIonal Finance
Local Body
CMDA            ~~~~(Maintenance of
Administrative                Municipal
Support Services             Infrastructure)
Director                                     Director
SUPAD (Planning)                             SURAD (Execution)
Multidisciplinary                            Site Supervision
Design Teams                                    Project
Management Teams
Responsibilities:
Identificatlon of
Sltes wlthin CMA     _
Program & Phasing                             Responsibilities:
Preliminary Plan                              Project Management
Formulation                                   of Construction
Cost Estmnates                                (Number of Sites
Ricing & Financial                            in Parallel)
Flows
Preparation of TOP
for Consultants &
Other Implementing
Agencies
Issuance of Design
Standards/Manuals, etc.
Source: CMDA                                                                                                            World Bank-24775



-72-
ANNEX 3A
THE MUNICIPAL DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM: ALLOCATION OF FUNDS
Corporation/Municipality/ Location Population   MDP Funds Allocation 2/   % of
Notified Area            1/        1981        Rs Crores       US$(m)    Total
01. Calcutta Mun. Corp.    EB        3,291,655        11.00         11.6       11.7
02. Howrah Mun. Corp.        WB        742,298         7.00          7.4        7.4
03. South Suburban           EB        394,594         6.50          6.8        6.9
04. Bhatpara                 EB        269,158         4.00          4.2        4.3
05. Jadavpur                 EB        249,424         4.00          4.2        4.3
06. Kamarhati                EB        240,418         4.00          4.2        4.3
07. South Dum Dum            EB        227,578         4.00          4.2        4.3
08. Panihati                 EB        205,546         3.70          3.9        3.9
09. Garden Reach             EB        191,389         3.44          3.6        3.7
10. Baranagar                EB        167,848         3.00          3.1        3.2
11. Bally                    WB        137,723         2.48          2.6        2.6
12. Uluberia                 WB        136,000         2.z'5         2.6        2.6
13. Hooghly-Chinsurah        WB        129,338         2.33          2.4        2.5
14. Serampore                WB        126,918         2.28          2.4        2.4
15. Naihati                  EB        114,165         2.00          2.1        2.1
16. Barrackpore              EB        109,149         1.96          2.0        2.1
17. Titagarh                 EB        104,439         1.88          2.0        2.0
18. Chandernagar             WB        101,568         1.83          1.9        1.9
19. North Barrackpore        EB         99,902         1.80          1.9        1.9
20. North Dum Dum            EB         96,490         1.74          1.8        1.8
21. Rishra                   WB         95,041         1.71          1.8        1.8
22. Halisahar                EB         89,791         1.62          1.7        1.7
23. Kancharapara             EB         38,544         1.59          1.7        1.7
24. Uttarpara Kotrung        WB         85,678         1.54          1.6        1.6
25. Bansberia                WB         81,355         1.46          1.5        1.5
26. Champdani                WB         78,550         1.41          1.5        1.5
27. Baidyabati               WB         65,144         1.17          1.2        1.2
28. Budge Budge              EB         64,116         1.15          1.2        1.2
29. Garulia                  EB         63,269         1.14          1.2        i.2
30. Barasat                  EB         59,115         1.04          1.1
31. Bhadreswar               WB         57,386         1.03          1.1        1.1
32. New Barrackpore          EB         47,392         1.00          1.1        1.1
33. Rajpur                   EB         46,013         1.00          1.1        1.1
34. Dum Dum                  EB         45,546         1.00          1.1        1.1
35. Konnagar                 WB         39,665         1.00          1.1        1.1
36. Khardah                  EB         36,198         1.00          1.1        1.1
37. Baruipur                 EB         28,923         1.00          1.1        1.1
38. Kayani Not. Area         EB         28,000         1.00          1.1        1.1
39. Gayeshpur Not. Area    WB           20,000          .75          0.8        0.8
TOTALS                  94.00         99.0     100.0
1/ EB = East Bank (of Hooghly River)
WB = West Bank (of Hooghly River)
2/ on per capita basis



73                          A14NEX 3B
SECTOR SERVICE DELIVERY NORMS FOR THE MDP
These norms, drawn up by CMDA and the municipalities, are intended
to reflect the minimum needs focus of the program.
Sector Subproject                           Service Delivery Norms
Component                     Minimum                       Maximum
Water Supply               5 gpcd.                        25 gpcd.
Drainage                   component specific:            component specific:
waterlogging per %            waterlogging per 100%
target population             target population
Service Privy              1 communal privy               I communal privy
Conversion                 25 populatiou                  10 population
So.iA' Waste               component specific:            compoaernt specific:
Management                 tons collected per             tons collected per
target population              100% target population
Local Road                 target population              target population
Improvements               within 20 minutes              within 5 minutes
walk of nearest               walk of nearest
metallic road                 metallic road
Bustee Improvements        component specitic             municipal service
municipal service             improvements per 100%
improvements per %            target population
target population
Markets                    provision of 50 sq.ft.         provision of 600 sq.ft.
covered space/1,O0O           covered space/1,000
people                        people
Parks & Playgrounds        basic improvements to          basic improvements to
existing facilities           existing facilities,
provision of additional
park-playground areas
Cremation Grounds          maintenance of current         provision of hygienic
facilities                    facilities for
disposal of bodies



-74-                     ANNEX 3C
Page 1
PHYSICAL DESIGN STANDARDS FOR THE MDP
Sector Subproject/                         Physical Design Standards
Component                     Minimum   .                 Maximum
Water Supply                concentrated Population    secondary grid
aceep ru;ewelLs wItn         connected to primary
secondary distribution       grid; house connection
system; provision of
standpipes for EWS
dispersued poplation
spot tubw s
Drainage                   unlined surface drains        surface drains with
concrete slab covering
at critical locations
Service privy              sanitary latrines to          sanitary latrines
conversion.                seat level only              with superstructure
Solid Waste                hand cart and                 tricycle rickshaws/
Management                  intermediate VAT             transfer stations for
collection, final            primary collection.
disposal by                  Tractor trailers to
trailer truck                final disposal or
secondary transfer
stations; pilot
composting plants
Local Road                 brick paved roads             black topped metallic
Improvements                                             roads protected
against erosion
Bustee Improvements        provision of shallow          provision of water
tubewells, street            taps and standpipes,
lighting, open               intermediate vats for
surface drainage,            solid waste collection,
communal sanitary            open surface drainage,
latrines, brick              communal sanitary
paved pathways               latrines, brick paved
pathways
Markets                     tubular structure with       concrete structure
asbestos roofing and         with same services
brick paved flooring,        as minimum standard
water supply, solid          but also with
waste collection,            provision of parking
lighting, open               spaces
drainage, brick paved
circulation system
Parks & Playgrounds        wire fencing;                 brick wall or metal
basic seating                boundary fence, basic
seating, basic play
facilities
Cremation Grounds           proper boundary wall         proper boundary wall
to ground                    and covered area for
mourners
Notes: The above standards were agreed by CMDA in discussion with
the municipalities. It is the intention that all municipal subprojects
should fall within the range of standards prepared for each sector.
Differences in design standards between municipalities (e.g., water supply)
reflect (i) differences (quality of groundwater, density of population,
etc.); (ii) availability of necessary transmunicipal infrastructure (e.g.,
primary distribution system), and (iii) sector priorities of the
municipalities themselves.



-75-
ANNEX 3D
SUMMARY APPRAISAL FOR MUNICIPAL IMPROVEMENT PROGRAM (ILLUSTRATIVE)
MUNICIPALITY NO.  30           NAME:  BARASAT         DATE APPRAISED:  June 1982
A. Key Indicators
Background Data on Barasat
1971 population                       42,642
1981 population                        69,311
Projected 1991 population            1,00,000
1971-8i annual population
growth rate                             6.25%
Municipal area                         19.25/sq. km.
1981 gross population density           5,195/sq. km.
% 1981 EWS of total population          65%
* Average annual municipal capital
expenditure 1979-81                Rs  9.3 lakhs
Average annual internal revenue
during 1979-81                     Rs 10.4 lakhs
Average annual collection as
% of assessment                         52%
CUDP III Data
Program Investment Total: Rs. 104 lakhs (Rs. 20.8 lakhs/year)
Program Components: Water Supply, Drainage, Service Privy Conversion,
Solid Waste Management, Local Road Improvements, Markets, Bustee Improvement
Cremation Ground, Parks & Playgrounds.
Staffing:
Executive   Health    Finance
Officer   Officer    Officer   Engineer   Other   Overseer
Recruited
(LGUDD)          1                      1
Required                     1          1          1
Land Acquisition:  Negotiations for 0.8 ha required by program have
been initiated by Municipality.
Target date for completion cf land acquisition: March 1983
Detailed Design Preparation:  To be started by municipality in
July 1982.



INDIA
THIRD CALCUTTA URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Table 1: PROGRAM PROFILE - BARASAT
Investment    % of              Service Delivery Norms                       Physical            Target         % EWS of
Component          Cost      Total         Existing               Proposed                    Design           Populatic r.       Target
Rs lakhs      Cost                                                         Standards                          Population
Water Supply      25.0        24.0     22.5 liters ped/    45 liters pcd/             deep tubewell secon-       70,000            65
40,000 people        70,000 people             dary distribution line,
(5 gallons pcd)      (10 gallons ped)         house connections,
standpipes
Drainage          19.0        18.3     40% tot.municipal   70% tot.municipal          lining of open drains,   65,000              65
population covered  population covered         improvements to
existing culverts.
Service Privy      2.5         2.4     no conversion         100% conversion of       low-cost double pit          1,500          100
Conversion                                                   250 service privies      sanitary latrines
Solid Waste        6.0         5.8     4.5 metric tons       9 metric tons            tricycle rickshaws/        70,00C            65
Management                             collected and         collected and            transfer stations for
disposed of (14%    disposed of 991            primary collection.
current daily        daily production          Tractor/trailors to
production                                     final disposal or
secondary transfer
stations.
Local Road        28.0        27.0     pa't brick paved/   44 km (27.4 miles)         partly brick paved         70,000            65
Improvements                           part mud. 73 km.    to be black-topped
(4.5 miles)         29 km (18 miles)
to be brick paved.
Markets           15.0        14.4     15.8 sq.m.            52.95 sq.m.              concrete structure
(170 sq.ft.)/        (570 sq.ft.)/            with provision of
1,000 people         1,000 people             utilities                   70,000           65
Bustee                         2.0     no coverage          upgrading of              provision of stand-        30,000           100
Improvements                                                residential               pipes, sanitary privies,
environment for          street lighting, paved
5,000 households         roads
Cremation          0.5         0.5     lnade~quate/poor     upgrading of burial       boundary wall, lighting, 80,000              65                 f
Ground                                 faci ities           ground for 80,000         improvement of ghat                                             I-'
people
6.0        5.6      15 parks and 4       1 new park, 1 new         play facilities and        70,000           65
Parks and                              pl;. ,,ounds in      playground, upgrading   basic benches with
Playgrounds                            poor conditions      of existing parks and   fencing
playgrounds
TOTAL            104.0      100.0



ANNEX 3D
Table 2
INDIA
THIRD CALCUTTA URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Table 2:   FINANCIAL AND COST RECOVERY ANALYSIS - BARASAT (M/30)
(Rs lakhs)
Annual Debt       Total      Total      Total Annual    Share of    Total          Annual deficit (-)
Year          Servicing Cost    Annual    Annual  Internal Revenue  Entry Tax   Revenue    Surplus (+)
a/c (CUDP 3)    O&M Cost    Cost   (from Property    per Year   per Year    Deficits to be met
Taxes & Other                                through govt. Revenue
Taxes and Fees)                                 Support
(1)              (2)       (3)-C1)+(2)   (4)          --(5)       (6)-(4)+(5)    (3
1988-89          6.96            20.70 *      27.66       19.50           5.60         25.10          - 2.56
1989-90          6.96            22.12        29.08       21.45           6.44         27.89          - 1.19
1990-91          6.96            23.67        30.63       23.59           7.41         31.00          + 0.37
1991-92          6.96            25.35        32.31       25.95           8.52         34.47          + 2.16
1992-93          6.96            27.17        34.13       28.55           9.80         38.35          + 4.22
1993-94          6.96            29.13        36.09       31.40          11.27         42.67          + 6.58
1994-95          6.96            31.26        38.22       34.54          12.96         47.50          + 9.28
1995-96          6.96            33.53        40.49       38.00          14.9          52.90          +12.41
*  Rs 6.75 lakhs (on A/C of CUDP III) + Rs 13.95 lakhs (O&M) of existing assets)   20.70 lakhs-
Notes:  1)  Terms of loan:  For all commercial nature schemes - 100% loan; for rest of schemes,
2/3 loan and 1/3 grant. Loan to be repaid in 15 years at an 8.25% rate of interest
per annum, subject to moratorium of principal during initial 5-year construction period.
2)  CUDP III Capital Expenditure during the construction period will be as follows:
Year                 Rs lakhs
1983-84               24.85.
1984-85               20.95
1985-86               20.65
1986-87               20.65
1987-88                16.90
T04.0



-78-
ANNEX 3D
Page 4
B. Key Impacts
1. Justification and Program Benefits
i) Program based on priorities of local population identified through
elected representatives. Service delivery norms and design standards repre-
sent minimum cost approach to reducing major service delivery deficiencies in
provision of critical municipal services.
ii) The target population for 97.5% of the total investment program
represents more than 65% of the total municipal population. The remaining
investment is targeted directly at the EWS (economically weaker sections).
2. Economic Benefits
i) The construction works associated with the program are estimated to
create 260 full-time equivalent jobs over a period of 5 years. This is
equivalent to 1% of the estimated 1981 employment in the municipality.
ii) The operation and maintenance of the assets created are estimated to
create 150 full-time equivalent jobs over the life of the program. This is
equivalent to 0.5% of the estimated 1981 employment in the municipality.
iii) The road improvement program would, based on the results of the CUDP
II Municipal and Anchal Development Program, is expected to generate major
economic benefits through greatly improved accessibility to key urban serv-
ices and reductions in vehicle maintenance costs.
iv) Water supply, drainage, service privy conversion, solid waste manage-
ment, and bustee improvements can be expected to have a major impact on the
environmental hygiene and health of the population. The greatest direct
benefits will accrue to the EWS who represent 100% of the target population
for the bustee improvement and service privy conversion components of the
program.
v) The provision of the greatly increased covered market floor space
will, together with the improved local road system, provide improved
facilities at reduced travel costs to traders and consumers over an area
beyond that of the municipality. This would be reflected in increased rental
and entry (octroi) tax revenues to the municipality.
3. Distribution of Benefits on Poverty Group
It is estimated that for the program as a whole, 65% of the target
population would be EWS. This figure increases to 100% in the case of the
service privy conversion and bustee improvement components.



-79-
ANNEX 3D
Page 5
4. Implementation Issues
Institutional/Staffing Arrangements
(i) GOWB has seconded one executive officer and one finance officer.
Municipality has additionally requested one engineer, one overseer, and one
financial analyst.
(ii) CMDA will continue to provide technical assistance and training to
municipal staff during preparation and implementation of programs.
Implementation
(i) Implementation timetable has been prepared; implementation will
commence in March 1983; land acquisition negotiations underway for 0.8 ha
required by the municipality to implement components of the program.
(ii) CMDA will be responsible for monitoring and evaluating the impact
of program and undertaking all necessary surveys.
Ancillary Investment
Municipal drainage improvements are dependent on construction of new
outfall channel by Irrigation and Waterways Directorate of GOWB.
Municipality has been assured by GOWB that this scheme will be coordinated
with municipal drainage component.
Finance
Market component planned to break even. Municipality will be responsible
for market development and grant leases to traders. All applicants will be
charged non-refundable advances. Market impact on increased turnover would
be recouped through entry tax.



-80-
ANNEX 4
LIST OF SELECTED DOCUMENTS IN PROJECT FILE
1. GOWB - Municipal Finance Commission Report, March 1982
2. Legislation
The Calcutta Metropolitan Development Authority Act, 1970
The West Bengal Town and Country (Planning and Development) Act 1979
The Bengal Municipal Act 1982 and Amendments 1980
The West Bengal Central Valuation Board Act 1978
The Calcutta Municipal Corporation Act 1980
The Howrah Municipal Corporation Act 1980
The Calcutta Thika Tenancy (Acquisition and Regulation) Act 1981
The West Bengal Premises Tenancy Act 1956
The West Bengal Slum Areas (Improvement and Clearance) Act 1971
The Calcutta Metropolitan Water and Sanitation Authority Act 1966
The Urban Land (Ceiling and Regulation) Act and Rules, 1976
The Calcutta Improvement Act 1911
The Howrah Improvement Act 1956
3. Consultants' Reports
Planning in the Calcutta Metropolitan Districts - H. Richardson 1980
Institutional Aspects and Training in the CMD - B. D'Souza 1980
Public Finance Situation in the CMD -- E. Bachrach 1981
Forward Planning Process in the CMD - C. Turner 1981
4. CMDA
Perspective Plan and Action Program for the CMD (Draft) 1981
Development Perspective for the CMD 1982
Miscellaneous Sector and Project Reports (call ext. 32795)
Detailed Subproject/Program Cost Estimates
Economic/Financial Analysis Worksheets
5. IDA - Project Performance Audit Memorandum, dated 6/82
(Cr 427-IN, 73/74-79/80)



-81-
ANNEX 5
Table 1
INDIA
THIRD CALCUTTA URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
CALCUTTA METROPOLITAN DEVELOPMENT AUTHORiIY
BALANCE SHEET AS OF MARCH 31  1980 THROUGH 1988
(Rs Crores3
--------ACTUAL-----------/1   --------------P  R  0  J  E  C  T  E  D               --------_______
Fiscal Year  79/80       80/81      81/82      82/83      83/84      84/85      85/86      86/87      87/88
CURRENT ASSETS1
Cash--   -                              6.51       7.59       6.79       5.26        6.19       7.18       8.22       9.28      10.48
Advances and Debtors                   25.61      57.22      43.31      34.19      40.23      46.66       53.42      60.34      68.16
Stock                                   6.22       2.63       5.17       3.94        4.64       5.38       6.16       6.96       7.86
Area Development Fund                   0.00       0.00       0.00       0.00        9.00      14.39      25.05      35.68      40.95
Subtotal                               38.34      67.44      55.27      43.39      60.06      73.61      92.85    112.26    127.45
INVESTMENTS
Sinking Fund Investments               31.02       0.00      38.24      33.68      28.17        6.96       0.00       0.00       0.00
Other                                   0.05       0.06       0.06       0.07        0.95       0.99       0.97      10.00      10.27
ASSETS & OUTLA'
Outlay on Dev. Projects               273.87    323.78    355.65    424.55    499.68    570.41    645.22    731.25    811.31
Less Assets to Agencies                 0.00       0.00       0.00        0.00       0.00   -184.64/2 -217.65   -250.63   -290.19
Subtotal Assets Retained by CMDA   273.87    323.78    355.65    424.55    499.68    385.77    427.57    480.62    521.12
CMDA Operating Assets
(Net of Depreciation)                   6.64       6.99       7.40       6.96       7.57       7.95       8.38        9.00       9.67
TOTAL ASSETS                          349.92    398.27    456.62    508.65    596.43    475.28    529.77    611.88    668.51
LIABILITIES
CURRENT LIABILITIES
Accounts Payable                        7.55      10.09       9.53        8.95     21.55      23.98      26.85       30.08      33.69
Others Payable                          2.56       1.94       2.76       2.56        3.01       3.49       4.00       4.51       5.08
Deposits from Contrs.                   5.14       5.96       4.72       4.47       5.26       6.11        6.99       7.89       8.90
Short Term Portion
of Long Term Debt                       0.00       3.61/3    0.00        0.00        0.00       0.00       6.05      11.25       8.25
Subtotal                               15.25      21.60      17.01      15.98      29.82      33.58      43.89       53.73      55.92
Sinking Fund for
Bonds Redemption                       31.02      31.02      38.24       33.68      28.17       6.96       0.00       0.00       0.00
LONG TERM DEBT
Lo-ans~                               166.66    191.42    216.56    240.36    277.52          158.46/4  186.70    211.70    231.73
Less Transferred to Agencies            0.00       0.00       0.00        0.00       0.00    -16.66    -41.42    -66.16    -95.83
Subtotal                              166.66    191.42    216.56    240.36    277.52    141.80    145.28    145.54    135.90
Loan Bonds                            121.00    133.10    147.12    161.42         179.82    201.02    228.88    260.81    294.83
Subtotal L.T. Debt                    287.66    324.52    363.68    401.78    457.34    342.82    374.16    406.35    430.73
EQUIIY
Grants                                 27.99      32.79      38.02      67.69      99.68    266.68    288.72    307.75    327.42
Others                                  0.35    . 0.38        1.71       0.26       0.95       0.99       0.97       10.00      10.27
CMDA Surplus (Deficit)                -12.35    -12.04       -2.34    -10.74    -19.53        -7.77       -1.74      18.52      38.53
Less Transferred to Agencies            0.00       0.00       0.00        0.00       0.00   -167.98   -176.23   -184.47   -194.36
Subtotal Equity                        15.99      21.13      37.69      57.21      81.10      91.92    111.72    151.80    181.86
TOTAL LIABILITIES                     349.92    398.27    456.62    508.65    596.43    475.28    529.77    611.88    668.51
/i  Audited
71  Phased program of transfer of completed assets to operating 4gencles/local bodies.  Includes design, supervision,
and management changes.
13 In lieu of Sinking Fund payment for retirement of Market Borrowings.
7   Past loans written off and transferred to grants.
3urce:  CMDA and IDA Estimates



-82-                            ANNEX  c5
Table  2
INDIA
THIRD CALCUTTA URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
CALCUTTA METROPOLITAN DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY
FORECAST SOURCES AND APPLICATIONS OF FUNDS 1983/84-1987/88
(Rs Crores)
1983184  1984/85  1985/86-  1986/87  1987188
Net Operating Surplus (Deficit)  9.10    12.09         3.63      9.45    12.28
Add Depreciation                    0.03     0.03      0.03      0.03      0.03
Net Cash Generation                Y7lY    12.12       3.66      9.48    12.31
BORROWINGS
Loans                              19.86    24.54    28.24    25.00    20.03
Loan Bonds /1                      18.40    21.20    39.70    29.70    22.70
Subtotal Borrowings               38.26    45.74    67.94    54.70    42.73
Grants - GOI                       4.04      4.24      4.46      4.68      4.91
Grants - GOWB                      19.86    19.16    17.58    14.35    14.76
Octroi /2                         27.68    31.82    36.59    42.08    48.40
TOTAL SOURCES OF FUNDS            98.97   113.08   130.23   125.29   123.11
APPLICATIONS
Purchase of Fixed Assets           0.61      0.38      0.43      0.62      0.67
Expenditure on Dev. Projects/3  64.29    71.48    84.90    86.03    80.06
DEBT SERVICE
Interest                          21.45    21.72    20.79    20.41    20.53
Sinking Fund Contribution          9.79      9.71      9.13      8.66     8.85
Subtotal Debt Service             31.24    31.43    29.92    29.07    29.38
Increas- in Working Capital        2.83      9.79    14.98       9.57    13.00
TOTAL APPLICATIONS                98.9.7   113.08   130-.23   125.29   123.11
CASH
Surplus (Deficit) for Year         0.93      0.99      1.04      1.06      1.20
Balance at Beginning of Year       5.26      6.19      7.18      8.22      9.28
Balance at End of Year             6.19      7.18      8.22      9,.28    10.48
/1  Includes "rollover" of three bond issues in 1985/86, 1986/87, and
1987/88, aggregating Rs 30.80 crores.
/2 Projected to increase at 15% a year.
7T Includes design, supervision, and managements costs charged to project
expenditures.
Source: CMDA and IDA Estimates



-83-                                                      ANNEX  S
Table 3
INDIA
THIRD CALCUTTA URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
CALCUTTA MUNICIPAL CORPORATION
BALANCE SHEET AS OF MARCH 31, 1980 THROUGH 1988
(Rs crores)
-      ACTUAL-----------        --------------P  R  0  J  E  C  T  E  D----------------
Fiscal Year  79/80 /1  80/81 LI  81/82          82/83      83/84      84/85       85/86      86/87      87/88
CURRENT ASSETS
Cash                                     7.82       7.38       4.09        4.51       4.70       4.10        3.90       4.61       4.91
Receivables                             51.21      52.80      53.10       53.26      49.40      45.57       39.12      37.70      38.04
Advances to Staff/Contractors           15.07      17.20       17.90      18.71      19.75      20.91      22.35       22.87      23.75
Stock & Stores                           0.26       0.27        0.27       0.56       1.25       2.25        4.03       6.16       7.00
Other                                    0.21       0.24       0.30        0.36       0.40       0.44       0.48        0.53       0.58
Subtotal - Current Assets               74.57      77.89      75.66       77.40      75.50      73.27      69.88       71.87      74.28
Investments                              0.96       1.11        1.16       1.22       1.28       1.35        1.41       1.48       1.56
Sinking Fund                             1.67       1.75        1.84       0.08       1.85       3.52        5.19       6.87       8.55
FIXED ASSETS                            30.53      30.69       32.99      34.09      36.29     169.60/2  175.60    190.60    217.60
Subtotal                                33.16      33.55      35.99       35.39      39.42     174.47    182.20    198.95    227.71
TOTAL ASSETS                           107.73    111.44    111.65        112.79    114.92    247.74    252.08    270.82          301.99
LIABILITIES
CURRENT LIABILITIES
CredFltors                              16.77      17.51       18.40      18.30      17.60       16.51      18.41      20.24      22.27
Deposits                                17.36      19.81       19.81      21.21      23.86      26.47      27.15       31.03      35.13
Subtotal - Current Liabilities          34.13      37.32       38.21      39.51      41.46      42.98       45.56      51.27      57.40
Loans
Loans - GOWB                            17.16      17.30       17.16      17.16      17.16       17.16      17.16      17.16      17.16
Debentures                               3.99        3.99       3.33       2.23       2.23       2.23        0.00       0.00       0.00
Subtotal - Loans                        21.15      21.29       20.49      19.39      19.39       19.39      17.16      17.16      17.16
Capital
Capital Account                          9.38        9.40      12.10      13.20      15.40    148.71    154.71        169.71     196.71
Municipal Fund - Loan A/C                6.01        6.00       5.92       5.92       5.92        5.92       5.92       5.92       5.92
Municipal Fund - Revenue A/C            34.87      35.13       34.07      34.07      32.02      29.97      27.92       25.87      23.82
Other                                    2.19       2.30        0.86       0.70       0.73       0.77        0.81       0.89       0.98
Total Capital                           52.45      52.83      52.95       53.89      54.07    185.37    189.36    202.39    227.43
TOTAL LIABILITIES - CAPITAL            107.73    111.44    111.65    112.79    114.92    247.74    252.08    270.82    301.99
/1 Audited.
72 Transfer of Assets from CMDA.
Source: CMC and IDA Estimates.



-84-
ANNIEX S
Table  4
INDIA
THIRD CALCUTTA URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
CALCUTTA MUNICIPAL CORPORATION
INCOME & EXPENDITURE ACCOUNT AS OF MARCH 31, 1980 ThROUGH 1988
(R. crores)
------ACTUALP--- -----        ----------------P  R  O  J  E  C  T  E  D---=--------------
Fis-al Year  79/80/1   80/81/1   81/82         82/83     83/84      84/85      85/86      86/87      87/88
INCOME
Revenue A/C
Consolidated Property Tax              13.64      13.45      17.98      18.02      19.66     21.69      24.06      26.79      29.87
Service Charge on
Central Govt. Properties                0.47       0.49       0.56       0.59      0.62       0.65       0.68       0.72       0.75
Surcharge on Land & Buildings           0.00       0.00       0.00       0.00      0.00       0.00       0.00       0.00       0.00
Tax on Professions & Trades             1.72       0.96       1.96      2.06       2.16       2.27       2.38       2.50       2.63
Other Taxes                             0.12       0.23       0.10      0.11       0.12       0.12       0.13       0.14       0.14
Subtotal                               15.95      15.13     20.60      20.78      22.56      24.73      27.25      30.15      33.39
Other Rece.ipt.
Other Re'eipts                          0.18       0.05       0.17       0.18       0.20      0.22       0.24       0.27       0.29
Health Services                         0.00       0.00       0.28       0.30       0.32      0.36       0.39       0.43       0.48
Comsercial Services                     1.09       1.42       0.67       0.73       0.81      0.89       0.98       1.07       1.18
Water Supply                            1.48       0.42       0.63       1.54       2.92       4.11      4.71       7.82      11.18
Solid Waste                             0.08       0.08       0.09       0.10       0.11      0.12       0.14       0.15       0.17
Other                                   1.52       1.18       3.33       3.50       3.68      3.86       4.06       4.26       4.47
Subtotal                                4.35       3.15       5.17       6.35      8.04       9.56      10.52      14.00      17.77
TOTAL - OWN SOURCE REVENUE             20.30      18.28      25.77      27.13      30.60     34.29      37.77      44.15      51.16
Revenue Grants
Octroi                                  6.01       6.74      10.12      10.88      13.84/2   15.92      18.30      21.05      24.21
Dustee Services                         0.00       0.00       0.00       1.00       1.00      1.00       1.00       1.00       1.00
GOWB Subventions                        4.48       9.76      12.96      12.38      11.20     11.59      11.25       9.34       8.34
Subtotal                               10.49      16.50     23.08      24.26      26.04      28.51      30.55      31.39      33.55
Total Revenue Receipts                 30.79      34.78     48.85       51.39      56.64     62.80      68.32      75.54      84.71
Capital Receipts
Grants - GOWB                           0.00       0.00       0.00      0.00       2.33       2.91       3.43       5.24       5.43
Grants - Other                          0.00       0.00       0.00       0.00       0.00      0.00       0.00       0.00       0.00
Loans - GOWB                           1.00       0.00      0.00       0.00       2.33       2.91       3.43       5.24       5.43
Loans - Other                          0.00       0.00       0.00      0.00       0.00       0.00       0.00       0.00       0.00
Total Capital Receipts                  1.00       0.00       0.00       0.00       4.66      5.82       6.86      10.48      10.86
TOTAL RECEIPTS                         31.79      34.78      48.85      51.39      61.30     68.62      75.18      86.02      95.57
EXPENDITURES
Revenue A/C
Water Supply                            5.24       7.86       8.96      10.79      12.05/3   13.65      13.98      14.87      15.62
Sewerage & Drainage                     2.25       2.09       3.32       3.49       3.66      3.84       4.04       4.84       5.81
Roads                                   0.92       2.26       3.30       3.63       4.00      4.40       4.84       5.32       5.85
Lighting & Electricity                  1.20       1.83       2.00      2.10       2.21       2.32       2.43       2.92       3.50
Solid Waste                             6.92       6.39       8.46       9.31     10.24/4   11.26       12.39      13.63      15.67
Motor Vehicles                          0.00       0.00       1.29       1.42       1.56       1.72      1.89       2.27       2.72
Commercial Services                     0.77       0.90       0.73       0.80       0.89      0.98        1.07      1.18       1.30
Education Services                      0.00       0.00       2.42       2.66      2.92       3.22       3.54       3.89       4.28
Health Services                         2.04       2.03      2.37       2.61       2.87       3.15       3.47       3.82       4.20
Bustse Service.                         0.00       0.00       0.63       0.66       1.00       1.50      2.00       2.00       2.00
Admin. & Support Services               9.88       9.36       8.57       9.43      10.37/4   11.41      12.55      13.81      15.88
Other                                   0.58       0.00       0.00       0.00       0.o0      0.00       0.00       0.00       0.00
Interest                                0.10       0.02      0.00        1.34       1.72      2.20       2.67       3.54       4.43
Depreciation                            0.00       0.00       0.00       3.15/5    3.15       3.15       3.45       3.45       3.45
Subtotal Revenue Exp.                  29.90      32.74     42.05      51.39      56.64      62.80      68.32      75.54      84.71
Capital A/C
DIevelopsent Works                      0.09       0.01       0.00       0.00       4.66       5.82      6.86       10.48     10.86
Other                                   0.00       1.24       0.00       0.00      0.00       0.00       0.00       0.00       0.00
Subtotal Capitel Exp.                   0.09       1.25       0.00       0.00       4.66      5.82       6.86      10.48      10.86
TOTAL EX`ENDITURES                     29.99      33.99      42.05      51.39      61.30     6e.62      75.18      86.02      95.57
Excess of Income over ExP.              1.80       0.79       6.80       0.00       0.00      0.00       0.00       0.00       0.00
Transfer to Municipal
Fund-Revenue Account                    0.89       0.02       6.80       0.00     -2.05      -2.05      -2.C5      -2.05      -2.05
Transfer to Municipal
Fund-Capital Account                    0.91        -          -          -          -          -
Transfer to Sinking FPnd                           0.77        -          -         1.67       1.67       1.67      1.67       1.67
Transfer to Vehicle                      -          -          -          -         0.38      0.38       0.38       0.38       0.38
Replacement Fund                         -          -          -          -
GOWB Subventions as Percentage
of Total Revenue EzDenditures          14.98      29.81      30.82     24.09       19.77      18.46      16.47     12.36       9.85
/8 Audited.
7_ Proiected to increase at 152 a year.
/3 Projected to increase at approxisately 5% a year.
7% Projected to increase at 102 a year until the last year when 15% projected, when full impact of project will occur.
/5 In the absence of a Fixed Asset Register the Depreciation quoted is the Book Depreciation.
TFurce: CMC and IDA estimates.



-85-
ANNEX 5
Table 5
INDIA
THIRD CALCUTTA URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
CALCUTTA MUNICIPAL CORPORATION
WATER SUPPLY OPERATIONS: SOURCES AND USES OF FUNDS
(Rs lakhs)
Actual  Estimated               Projected
81/2      82/3      83/4  84/5  85/6  86/7  87y'8
SOURCES
Share of Consolidated           450      451        492   716   794   884   986
Property Tax (25%)
Metered ICI consumers            63       69         76    83    92   101   110
(existing)
Private Tubewells and
Highrise buildings               -         5         20    25    30    35    40/1
Metered ICI consumers
(additional)                     -        80        126   135   178   472   790/2
Graduated Rate from
domestic users                   -        -          70   168   171   174   178/3
TOTAL Sources                   513      605        784  1127  1265  1686  2104
USES
Production Costs                480      500        527   553   581   610   650
Distribution Costs              416      437        460   482   487   517   552
Overhead                         89       94         99   103   107   112   120
Charge in Lieu of
Depreciation                    325      325        325   325   325   325   325
Payment for Bulk Supply          -       142        218   330   330   360   360
TOTAL USES                     1310    1498        1629  1793  1830  1924  2007
SURPLUS (DEFICIT)              (797)   (893)       (845) (666) (565) (258)   97
Sources as % of Tot. Uses    39%         40%        48%   63%   69%   87%  105%
14 reflects proposed metering program.
/2  reflects estimated additional users through the proposed consumer
survey and net of bad debts at 20%.
/3 net of bad debts at @ 10%.



-86-
ANNEX 5
Table 6
INDIA
THID CALCUTTA URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
CALCUTTA MUNICIPAL CORPORATION
CONSUMER SURVEY AND METERING PROGRAM
A. CONSUMER SURVEY PROGRAM
1. The following sections of the city have been surveyed by
March 31, 1983.
a) Manicktalla Section:
Wards: 13, 14, 30, 31, 32, 33, 34, 35 (in full)
b) Section 3:
Wards: 57, 58, 60, 61 (in full)
Wards: 59, 62, 66, 67, 68, 23 (in part)
2. The survey of the remainder of the 16 sections will continue from
April 1, 1983 and will be completed by March 31, 1984. The
objective of the survey is to: (i) identify all ICI consumers who
Paz be metered and tli) those consumers with above average
consumption who will be metered as a priority.
B. METERING PROGRAM
The following metering program with specific timebound targets, has
been agreed to with CMC.
Category                         Nos.                Dates
ICI                             2,200         by June 30, 1983
2,500             July 1, 1983-March 31, 1984
4,000         Annually, until all "large"
(minimum)       consumers are metered.
Production Meters                  60         by June 30, 1983
(big tubewell)
Zone Meters                         2         to be repaired by June 30,1983
(Total 8)
6        place orders (ICB) and install
by June 30, 1983



-87-                         ANNEX 5
Table 7
INDIA
THIRD CALCUTTA URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
CMWSA - SOURCES AND USES OF FUNDS (OPERATIONS)
(Rs in lakhs)
Estimated -    -------------Projected------------------
1982-83   1983-84   1984-85   1985-86   1986-87  1987-88
SOURCES
(1) Fringe Area
Initial Charge (I)          15.00      65.00     78.00    100.00        96.00    68.00
Monthly Fee    (F)           2.49      20.45      50.40    103.20      132.00   160.84
TOTAL                          17.49      85.45    128.40    203.20       228.00   228.84
(2) Municipalities
(A) Industrial
Rate (Rs)    (R)           10.00      10.00     10.00      10.00       11.00    11.00
Consumption (MGD) (C)       8.00       8.00     11.00      18.80       18.80    18.80
TOTAL                         292.00    272.00    401.50    686.20        754.82   754.82
(B) C & I
Consumption (MGD)(C)        2.00       3.00      5.50       5.50        5.50      5.50
Rate (Rs)         (R)       6.00       6.00       6.00      6.00        6.50      6.50
TOTAL                          43.80      65.70    120.45    120.45        130.49   130.49
(3) (A) Bulk to Cal.Corp.
Consumption (MGD)(C)       12.00     20.50      30.00      30.00       30.00    30.00
Rate (Rs)         (R)       3.00       3.00       3.00      3.00        3.50      3.50
TOTAL                         142.00    218.00    330.50    330.00        360.00   360.00
(B) Bulk to Municipalities
Consumption  (C)            3.50       8.50     30.70      30.70       30.70    30.70
Rate (Rs)    (R)            1.25       1.25       1.25      1.25        1.75      1.75
TOTAL                          15.97      34.78    140.07    140.07       196.10   196.10
TOTAL SOURCES                       511.26    695.93   1120.92   1479.92    1669.41  1670.525
less Bad Debt (at 15%)             <76.69>  C104.39>  <168.57>  <222.00>   <250.41> <250.54>
NET SOURCES                        434.57    591.54    952.35   1257.92    1419.00  1419.71
USES
Administrative Function
Salaries                        120.00    137.00    163.50    180.00          196.00  215.00
Fringe Benefits                   3.00       3.42       4.08       4.49         4.89    5.00
Production Function
Repair, Replacement, and
Regular Maintenance              35.60      49.75      73.45      74.85        84.25   94.00
Chemical Supplies                15.85      27.70      45.80      51.40        53.00   60.00
Distribution Function
Energy                          112.65    203.30    344.45    385.00          393.93  400.00
Revenue Function
Administrative & Other           15.54      18.18      21.82      24.46        27.10   32.00
REPLACEMENT FUND /1                308.38    308.38    308.38    308.38          308.38  308.38
INTEREST EXPENSES                   40.49      40.49      40.49      40.49        40.49   40.49
TOTAL USES                         651.51    788.72   1002.47   1075.57         1108.54 1154.87
NET SURPLUS <DEFICIT>             <216.94>  <197.18>   <50.12>   182.35          310.46  264.84
Sources as a X of Total Uses          67%      754        95X        117%         128%    123%
/1 Represents amount appropriated to pay debt service principal to commence 1989/90.



-88-
ANNEX 5
Table 8
INDIA
THIRD CALCUTTA URBAN DEVELOPMENI PROJECT
ESTIMATE OF POTENTIAL PROPERTY TAX AND EXPECTED COLLECTION
(Rs in lakhs)
(Collection Percentage in brackets)
HOOGHLY                                 SOUTH
CHINSURAH            KA)iARHATI        SUBURBAN
Rateable Value
Current                          68.50               119.35            248.68
1985-86 /1                      119.88               208.86            435.19
Assessment
Current                          16.44                32.56             34.06
1985-86                          29.97                52.22            108.80
Total Collection
1980-81                          15.44 (29)           26.01 (42)        36.34 (33)
1981-82                          15.79 (30)           26.05 (42)        38.27 (33)
1982-83                          16.18 (31)           27.35 (42)        37.14 (31)
1983-84                          18.28 (32)           31.66 (43)        39.00 (33)
1984-85                          19.19 (33)           34.90 (45)        40.95 (34)
Collection 1985-86
Arrears                           8.00 (20)            8.75 (35)        13.50 (15)
Current                          17.98 (60)           28.72 (55)        59.84 (55)
TOTAL                            25.98 (37)           37.47 (48)        73.34 (37)
Collection 1986-87
Arrears                          10.99 (25)           13.91 (35)        25.09 (20)
Current                          19.48 (65)           31.33 (60)        65.28 (60)
TOTAL                            30.45 (41)           45.24 (49)        90.37 (39)
Collection 1987-88
Arrears                          13.18 (30)           11.99 (35)        35.97 (25)
Current                          20.98 (70)           33.94 (65)        70.72 (65)
TOTAL                            34.77 (46)           45.93 (53)       106.69 (42)
Collection 1988-89
Arrears                          13.91 (35)           14.91 (35)        43.80 (30)
Current                          22.48 (75)           36.55 (70)        76.16 (70)
TOTAL                            36.39 (52)           51.46 (54)       119.95 (47)
Cellection-1989-90
Arrears                          11.59 (35)           14.46 (35)        47.19 (35)
Current                          22.48 (75)           39.16 (75)        81.60 (.75)
TOTAL                            34.07 (54)           53.62 (57)       128.79 (53)
11  All CMA municipalities except CMC revised their property tax assessment
base as of April 1, 1983. However, the GOWB will evaluate the adequacy of
these valuations, to be completed by December 31, 1983. In the event GOWB
considers the base in any municipality inadequate, it will cause the CVB,
to carry out a general revaluation in such municipalities. Therefore,
conservatively, it has been estimated that the full impact of a proper
assessment base will be realized from the year 1985/86. The rateable
value is expected to increase by an average 75% over 1982/83 (current)
assessment base.  The property tax rate is assessed at 25% of rateable value.



INDIA
THIRD CALCUTTA URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
ANNUAL D & M AND) OTHER RECURRING EXPENDITURE
(Rs in lakhs)
MUNICIPAL BODIES      1980-81  1981-82  1982-83  1983-84  1984-85  1985-86  1986-87  1987-88  1988-89  1989-90
ActuaI   Actual   -------------------------------estimated- ---------------------------
HOOCIiLY CllINSlJRAI:
;TATsting )Tis~ets    42.41    45.14    48.28    51.64    55.23    59.02    62.93    67.13    71.64    76.49
On CUDP III Assets:
Salary & Wages         -         -        -        1.65      3.84     5.98      6.82      7.12      7.48      7.85
Other recurring        -         -        -        1.11      2.56     3.98      4.55      4.75      5.23      5.75
Interest on Loan       -         -        -        1.73      5.10     9.11    11.79    12.19        0.28      -
Loan Repay.  (P&I)    -          -         -        -         -         -        -         -       19.02    19.02
TOTAI.                 42.21    45.14    48.28    56.13    66.73    78.09    86.09    92.19   103.65   109.11
o0
KAMARHATI:
On Existing Assets    67.22    70.58    74.11    77.82    82.61    87.79    93.06    98.64   104.56   110.83
On CUCP III Assets:
Salary & Wages         -         -         -       4.43    10.78    15.40    18.80    21.34    22.41    23.53
Other recurring        -         -        -        2.96      7.19    10.27    12.54    14.24    15.66    17.23
Interest on Loan       -         -        -        2.44      8.35    14.37    18.77    22.04        1.40       -
Loan Repay.  (P&I)          -         -        -         -         -        -              -       33.70    33.70
TOTAL                  67.22    70.58    74.11    87.65   108.93   127.83   143.17   156.26   177.73   185.29
SOUTr  SUklJRBAN,
OTncxisting Assets    88.48    95.56   103.21   111.47   120.05   129.22   146.10   157.20   169.30   182.39
On CUDP IIT Assets:
Salary & Wages         -         -         -       4.69    12.11    18.57    20.56    21.84    22.93    24.08
Other recurring        -         -         -       3.13      8.07    12.37    13.70    14.56    16.02    17.62
Interest on Loan       -         -        -        3.91    14.00    25.57    32.61    35.34         1.07       -
Loan Repay.  (P&I)    -          -         -        -         -         -        -         -       52.36    52.36
TOTAL                  88.48    95.56   103.21   123.20   154.23   185.73   212.97   228.94   261.68   276.45
(P'&1) =Principal & Interest Amortization.                                                                                                    %Z LA



INDIA
THIRD CALCUTTA URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
REVISED GRANT STRUCTURE
(Ra In lakhs)
Total                    Additional                  Deficit to               Total Deficit
Other     Share of    Revenue   Expenditure  Expenditure           Total      be tet from  Matching   as 7 of Tot.
Property  Internal   Entry Tax    Income   on Existing    due to           Expenditure  FAM Revenue  Grant /2   Rev. Expen.
Tax     Revenue    (Octroi)    (1+2+3)        Assets       CUDP III         (5+6)      A/C (4-7)       (4-7)      (8 - 7) %
(1)       (2)         (3)          (4)         (5)           (6)             (7)                        (9)         (10)
{O  -.. 18.28             4.70       22.86         45.84      51.64           4.49          56.13       -10.29            N/A           18
1984-85              19.19       5.68       26.29         51.16      55.23         11.50          66.13       -14.97             N/A          23
1985-86              25.98       5.18       30.23         61.39      50.02         19.07          78.09       -16.70             N/A          21
1986-87              30.45       5.44       34.76         70.65      62.93         23.16          86.00       -15.44             N/A          18
1987-88              34.77       7.99       39.97         82.73      67.13         25.06          92.19        -9.46             N/A          10
1988-89              36.39       8.71       45.97         91.07      71.64         32.01         103.65       -12.58             N/A          12
1989-90              34.07       9.10       52.87         96.04      76.49         32.62         109.11       -13.07             N/A          12
Kamarhati /1
1983-84F             31.66       5.22       45.08         81.96      77.82          9.83          87.65        -5.69             N/A           6
1984-85              34.90       5.48       51.84         92.22      82.61         26.32         108.93       -16.71             N/A          15
1985-86              37.47       5.75       59.62        102.84      87.79         40.04         127.83       -24.99             N/A          24
1986-87              45.24       6.04      68.56         119.84      93.06         50.11         143.17       -23.33            N/A           16
1987-88              45.93      13.35       78.84        138.12      96.64         57.62         154.26       -16.14            N/A           10
1988-89              51.46      14.54       90.67        156.67    104.56          73.17         177.73       -21.06             N/A          12
1989-90              53.62      14.87      104.27        172.76    110.83          74.46         185.29       -12.53             N/A           7
South Suburban /1
1983-84              39.00      22.08       71.35        132.43    111.47          11.73         123.20         N/A              9.23        N/A                                     'D
1984-85              40.95      23.19       82.05        146.19    120.05          34.18         154.23        -8.04             N/A           5                                     0
1985-86              73.34      24.37       94.36        192.07    129.22          56.51         185.73         N/A              6.34        N/A
1986-87              90.37      25.20      108.51        224.08    146.10          66.87         212.97         N/A             11.11        N/A
1987-88             106.69      30.53      124.79        262.01    157.20          71.74         228.94         N/A            33.07         N/A
1988-89             119.95      32.15      143.51        295.61    169.30          92.38         261.68         N/A            33.93         N/A
1989-90             128.79      33.54      165.04        327.37    182.39          94.06         276.45         N/A            50.92         N/A
Note:  The above municipalities represent a sample of likely performance rauiges by varioua local bodies.  As demonstrated above, those local
bodies incurring revenue deficits will gradually decrease their dependence on State Budgetary support relative to the total expenditure
requirements.
Assumptlions:
Column (1): Obtained from Table 8, Annex 5 which reflect realistic collection and assessment base targets.
Column (2): Based on current trends of concome and likely increases based on the ability of individual local bodies to levy other
taxes, licenses and fees.
Column (3):  Based on current level of total octroi collections by the State, pro rata share of the local bodies based on popalation
and expected annual increase of 15% a year.
Column (5):  Based on actual levels of expenditure (operations, maintenance and debt service (P+I)), increasing at about 10% per year
on variable expenses.  Also reflected in Table 9. Annex 5.
Column (6):  Based on actual appraisal estimates of expenditures (operations, maintenance and debt service (P+I)).  Also reflected in
in Table 9, Annex 5.
(DX
/1  Hooghly Chinsurah (pop. 129,338); Kamarhati (pop. 240,418); South Suburban (pop. 394,594).
/2  Matching Grant from FAM Capital Account.  Of the 37 municipalities, South Suburban is an exception in terms of its surplus financial
position.
N/A - Not Applicable



-91-
ANNEX 5
Table 11
INDiIA
rUJDP III - M,UNICIPAL DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM (MDP)
SUMMARY OF SECTOR INVESTMENTS OVER PROJECT PERIOD
(Rs 100000)
Total
Base Costs                    -----------------
(USS
83/84    84/85    85/86    86/87    87/89          Rs    million)
oI L";'TER SUPPLY                                  162.36   191.86   247.39   371.44   386.05 1,359.89    14.31
9.  'R.AIMNAGE                                     l1661L   205.95   246,37   371.84   383.86 1,374.08    14.14
 . SW^,TTIONM
SEWER A  E                                       34,59    43.44    52.02    74.02    74.02   278.09          2.93
, IIG.! PRTIV Y UCOT4ERCMN                       42 ,4    52.93    63.51    ?5.27    98,79   352.83          3,71
SGOLIDUS !:T-E ..AmArcEA HT                     104,98    61.05    75.61   107.15   113.36   462.14          1.86
E:'t-TAt:2!~N AITATI0N                            181.90   157.41   191.15   276.43   286.16 1,093.06    11.51
'. BUE'TEE TiMROYEEMEIT                             77.30    91.63   109.95   164.93   171.04   610.35          6.43
., .>  S   ;. :LAYPRITINDS                         19.64    24.55    29.16    44.19    45.92   163,65          1.72
F  CRE'mi4TORIA                                      7,6      9.62    11,54    17.31    17,95    64.11         0.67
8r  TR,r;^'-' II8N %T TCINR F:UCATURE
R2rTS r ND !,S!IajfjSr,                        183.55   229.24   9773.9?  409.35   . 23.62 1,519.74    16,00
STPET 1.IGHTrING                                 15.59    19.48    23.38    35.07    36.36   129.08          1.37
C-K-Tu-.'l T",NCSPQRPTTTi    ..FRA S T.U CT"I RE   199.15   24B72?  297.37   444.42   i59.97 1649?.62    17,36
H. 49,\R FiS hbDl Ch014,i,U!TY d'iLLS               77.05    ?3.61   115i57   170.66   181.57   638.46          6.72
To :i - ..ELtE COSTS                                   7.2. 1C,070L23.24 1,2!29,79 19861.21 1l933*.13 67?53.71    73.20
~~~~~~                               9~~~~~~~~~0,29    990,11   120.99   181.33   187.66   669,39  7.05
P'-ico C',trneencies                               38,70   135,24   276,19   570.97  7155,70 1,776.91    18.70
~tutz  PF:OJEWT  OSSTS                             1y006,24 1,25  .50i 1,6Q45.97 2,613.52 2,376.59 77399.?l    98.95
33 00    3Q.02    50.19    79.35    B7.33   297.20          3.04
For2i'-cr,' EX InCe                               125.53   164,41   214.33   343.46   377.39 1,225.63    12.90
uzrch 2; -1 933  16:09



-92-
ANNEX 5
Table 12
CUDP III - NUNICIPAL DETELOPHENT PROGRAA (MDP)
SUMMARY OF INVESThENTS BY SECTOR
(Rs lOOiOOO)
TRANSPORTATIDN
SANITATION                                                       INFF.AS7 RICTIRE                          Ph'isical
--    ---- -- P4KETS5 AND            Contingencies
SERYJICE PRIVY SOLID WASTE  POSTEE         PARKS                  ROA1S AND' STPEET   COlIIIJIY
04TECR SUPPLY DRAINAGE SEAtRASiE  CON!.ERSION   NIANACET  IMPROVEMENT PLAYGROUNDS CREMATORIA RICOASLSTN                     AL       Total      I   Aaomt.
I. INVEETMENT COSTS
A,. LAND1                                       10.63      8.78         -              -        236                           --                10.35         -        86.22   138.34   0.0    0.00
Priets Cmitiniencies                          2.50      2.04         -              -         5.24            --                              2.43         -        20.62    32.03   0.0    0.00
Eub-Tctz?1 INCLU,DINGS CONTINGENCIES            13.13    10.93          -              -        27.60            -                               12.78         -      100.84   171.17   0.0    0.00
P. CIVIL WOQYS                               1I295..25 1,365.29   274.51          352.83       254.60       610.05       163.65       64.11  1,404.91   129.00        550.70 6,550.0B  10.2  M69.39
PNs,jeC1 Ccntir~-encies                     165.53   13.6.53    41,18           35.28        13.24        61.09            -           -    140.49    12.99         55.07   669.39   0.0    0.00
P'ce Comtirdcmje~                          345,84   351.7      72.78          9098         62,44       157.51        38.36       15.03    325.04    33.49         142.93 19695.23   9.3  157.11
Su,b-Thtz1 INCLUDING CONTINGENCIES           liaSlOll 1,853.61   388.46           479.09       330.27       929.44       202.01       79.14  2,018.44   176.36        747.77 8,914.70   9.3  826.49
%xez                                         54.30    55.61    11.65            14.37         9.91       24.08         6.06        21.37     60.55      5.29        22,43   207.44   9.3   24,79
F-re;gn E;!cham,e                           217.21   2221.43    46.62           57.49        39,63        99,53            -        4.75    363.32    31.74         09.73 1,172.40   9.5  111.15
C. VEHICLES                                          -        -         -              -       128.72            -            -           -       3.31         -            -   13,.03   0.0    0.00
Price Eont4dit,esj~-                                                                -        30.26            -            -           -       0.40        -            -    30.06   0.0    0.00
SL.b-TotUl INCLU.DING CCNTIRG-ENCIES                -                                           58.98            -            -           -       3,71         -            -   162.69   0.0    0.00
T3::es  ~~-                                   -                        -        14.92            -            -           -       0.37         -            -    15.29   0.0    0.09
fctttio,Emthar,oe                               -         -        --                      29.04             -            -           -      0.50         -            -    30.34   0.0    0.00
D. ELI'IPMIENT
OTHIER                                       50.51         -     3.58               -       56.46             -            -           -     21.17          -        1.54   133.20   0.0    0.00
Sub-Tct3l EOUIPhENT                             50.51         -      3.58              -        56.46            -            -           -      21.17         -        1.54   133.26   0.0    0.00
Price Conir~nimces                           11.86                0.09              -         2.26                  -            -             2.72        -         0.16    10.09   0.0    0.09
Sub-TotaV  INCLIDOINS CCNTINGENC!ES             62.37         -      4.47              -        50.fl-                        -                  23.09         -        1.90   151.35   0.0    0.00
%xcs                             ~~~~0.14      -         -              -         3.74            -            --                  2.39         -        0.1.9     6.46   0.0    0.00
F-.rcj!:P Ex~Ihznle                          18.43         -      1,34              -         2.54            -            -                    .33         -         1.19    22.?3   0.0    0.10
Te.t21 TIHVESIA~EqT CeSTS                       1,359.?9 1,274.O0   270.09           352.83       402.14       619.05       163.65       64.11  1,519.?4   129.90        039.46 6,P53.72   9.6  669.39
Ph-j"1 cuitm=ncipo                             10556 3.53           41.!8          35.28        13.24        61.09            -           -    148,49    12.99        515.07   909.39   0.0    0.90
Price Contuihn~rcia                            360.210   3531.03    73.06          90.98       100.1.9      157.51        38.36      1.5.03    390.51    33,49        162.98 1,77o.81   0.0  157.1!
lotal IMCLUDIA0 C00TIOOENC1ES                   1,0'15.62 1,164.43   3i2.93.         479.09       575.57       829,44       202.01       79,14  2,058,01   176.36        056.51 9,399,91   0.0  026.49
T.::es                             ~~~~~~~54.45    55.01    11.605     14.37        2B.57        24.08         6.06       2.37      63.31      5,29        22.6?   28Q.20   9.9   24.79
Fv~,  E~::hx"0e                                235.64   222.43    47.96            57,49        72.01        99,53            -        4.75    364.15    31,.74        09.92 1,225.93,  9.1  111.15
II. RECURRENT COSTS
T.''.      OTS                             1,359.;9 1,37i.08   278.09           352.03       402.14       910.05       163.65       64.11  1,519.74   129.90         630.46 6.953.72   P.o  009.39
P,:;4  ICc,,t4r-4eries                          .1065.53   136.53    41.18          35.20        13.24        61.09            -           -    148.49    12.99         55.07   669.39   0.9    0,90
P,zcs Conlintc'nces                             360.20   353.e3    73.09            90.90       100.19       157.51        10.36       15.03    390.50    33.49        192.90 1,770.01   0.0  157.11
7:t:1 P1125EC1 CO2STS                            1,155.02 1,0064.43   392.93          479,09       575.57       829.44       2021.01      79.14  2,058.01   170.36         556.51 9.399.91   0.9  026.49
Tz::es                              ~~~~~~~~54.45    55.61    11.05     14,37       28.57        24.80         60.0        2.37      63,31      5.29        22.62   209.20   8.6   24.79
r.?2ilf Lxhafi!e                               2254.064   222.13    47,96          57.49        721.01       99.53            -        4.75   3,64.15    31.74         99.92 1,325.63   9.1  111.15
Marc 2,190?3 16020



-93-
ANNEX 5
Table 13
INDIA
CUDP III - TRANSMUNICIPAL INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECTS (TRIP)
SUMMARY OF SECTOR INVESTMENTS OVER PROJECT PERIOD
(Rs 100000)
Total
Base Costs                   -----------------
(USS
83/84   84/85   85/86   86/87    87/88         Rs    Million)
A. WATER SUPPLY                                  217.56  260.74  312.37   468.49   487.11 1.746.28    13.38
B. DRAINAGE                                       53.01   52.36   69.26   100.10    93.40   368.13         3.88
C. SANITATION
___ ______
SEWERAGE                                       61.72   74.11  105.94   149.18   153.31   544.26         5.73
SOLID WASTE MANAGEMENT                          9.39   11.84   14.22    21.33    22.11    78.89         0.83
Sub-Total SANITATION                              71.11   85.95  120.16   170.51   175.42   623.15         6.56
D. TRANSPORTATION INFRASTRUCTURE
ROADS AND HIGHWAYS                              4.86    6.07    7,29    10.93    11.33    40.48         0.43
Sub-Total TRANSPORTATION INFRASTRUCTURE            4.86    6.07    7.29    10.93    11.33    40.48         0.43
E. SHELTER AND AREA DEVELOPMENT                   27.49   34.34   40.39    62,01    63.52   227,75         2.40
Total BASELINE COSTS                               374.03  439.46  549.46   812.04   830.79 3,005.79    31.64
Physical Contingencies                           32.23   38.31   49.04    76.12    77.85   273.55         2.88
Price Contingencies                              16.25   57.57  120.68   248.27   323.76   766.53         8.07
Total PROJECT COSTS                                422.51  535.35  719.19 1,136.43 1,232.40 4,045.87    42.59
Taxes                                             9.98   13.46   19,10    32.59    35.30   110.43         1.16
Foreign Exchange                                 58.93   77.91  107.39   176.81   192.02   613.07         6.45
April 19, 1983 13:45



-94-
INDIA                                                                ANNEX   5
CUDP III - TRANSMIMICIPAL INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECTS (TRIP)                                        Table   14
SUMNARY OF INVESTmENTS BY SECTOR
(Rs 100,000)
TRANSPORTATION
SANITATION       INFRASTRUCTURE                          Physical
---------------- ------------- SHELTER AND                  Cont:nsencies
SOLID WASTE       ROADS AND    AREA                -------------
WATER SUPPLY DRAINA6E SEWERA6E MNAGEMENT           HIGHWAYS  DEVELOPMENT  Total       I   Amount
I. INVESTMENT COSTS
A. LAND                                         18.51     0.68         -       21.83            36.10       76.51   153.63   0.0    0.00
Price Contingencies                          0.74      0.03         -        2.07            8.46         9.54    20-S4   0.0    0.00
Sub-Total INCLUDING CONTINGENCIES              19.25      0.71         -       23.90           44.56        86.05   174.47   0.0    0.00
B. CIVIL WORKS                              1,181.94   366.67   452,.9          20.56               -      151.24 2,173.40  12.6  273.55
Physical Contingencies                      168.63    36.67    50.05          3.08              -         15.12   273.55   0.0    0.00
Price Contingencies                        314.67    91.79   119.89           6.30               -       48.18   580.83  11.2   64.81
Sub-Total INCLUDING CONTINGENCIES           1,665.23   495.13   622.93          29.94               -      214.55 3,027.78  11.2  338.36
Taxes                                       49.96    14.85    18.69          0.90                -        6.44    90.83  11.2   10.15
Foreign Exchange                           299.12    59.42    74.75           3.59               -       25.75   462.63  11.5   53.03
C. VEHICLES                                         -        -         -       27.50                -            -    27,50   0.0    0.00
Price Contingencies                              -        -         -         8.10               -            -     8.10   0.0    0.00
Sub-Total INCLUDING CONTINGENCIES                   -        -                  35.60               -            -    35.60   0.0    0.00
Taxes                                            -        -         -         3.56               -            -     3.56   0.0    0.00
Foreign Exchange                                 -        -         -         7.12               -            -     7.12   0.0    0.00
D. EQUIPMENT
PLANT                                      150.83      0.78    91.27          8.50               -           -   251.38   0.0    0.00
OTHER                                      395.00         -         -        0.50                -            -   395.50   0,0    0.00
Sub-Total EQUIPMENT                            545.83     0.78    91.27          9.00               -            -   646.88   0.0    0.00
Price Contingencies                         131.58     0.18    21.11          2.86               -            -   155.73   0.0    0.00
Sub-Total INCLUDING CONTINGENCIES             677.41      0.96   112.38         11,86               -            -   802.61   0.0    0.00
Taxes                                       14.74      0.03         -         1.19               -            -    15.95   0.0    0.00
Foreign Exchange                           104.98      0.10    33.71         2.37                -            -   141.16   0.0    0.00
E. TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE and STUDIES                 -         -        -            -            4.38            -     4.38   0.0    0.00
Price Contingencies                              -        -         -            -            1.03            -     1.03   0.0    0.00
Sub-Total INCLUDING CONTINGENCIES                   -        -         -            -            5.41            -     5.41   0.0    0.00
Taxes                                            -        -         -            -            0.08            -     0.08   0.0    0.00
Foreign Exchange                                 -        -         -            -           2.16             -     2.16   0.0    0.00
Total INVESTMENT COSTS                          1,746.28   368.13   544.26         78.89           40.48      227.75 3,005,79   9.1  273.55
Physical Contingencies                         168.63    36.67    50.05          3.08               -        15.12   273.55   0.0    0.00
Price Contingencies                            446.98    92.00   141.00         19.33            9.49       57.73   766.53   8.5   64.81
Total INCLUDING CONTINGENCIES                   2,361.89   496.80   735.31        101.31           49.97       300.60 4,045.87   8.4  338.36
Taxes                                          64.69    14.88    18.69          5.64             0.08        6.44   110.43   9.2   10.15
Foreign Exchange                              404.10    59.51   108.47          13.09            2.16       25.75   613.07   8.6   53.03
II. RECURRENT COSTS
Total BASELINE COSTS                             1,746.28   368.13   544.26         78.89           40.48       227.75 3,005.79   9.1  273.55
Phvsical Contingencies                          168.63    36.67    50.05          3.08               -        15.12   273.55   0.0    0.00
Price Contingencies                             446.98    92.00   141.00         19.33            9.49       57.73   766.53   8.5   64.81
Total PROJECT COSTS                              2,361.89   496.80   735.31        101.31           49.97      300.60 4,045.87   8.4  338.36
Taxes                                           64.69    14.88    18.69           5.64            0.08        6.44   110.43   9.2   10.15
Foreign Exchange                                404.10    59.51   108.47         13.09            2.16       25.75   613.07   8.6   53.03
April 19, 1983  13:46



-95-
-95-                                 ~~~~~~~ANNEX S
Table 15
INDIA
CUDP III - CALCUTTA HOWRAH INVESTMENT PROGRAM (CHIP)
SUMMARY OF SECTOR INVESTMENTS OVER PROJECT PERIOD
(Rs 100000)
Total
Base Costs
_______ -- - - -------_______ -__    - - --               CUSS
83/84    84/85    85/86    86/87    87/88       Rs   Mlillion)
=========     _ .===        -------  --- ====   n======= .. ====:===_==
As WATER SUPPLY                                 426,80   255.12   255.30   165.18   171.87 1,274.26    13,41
B. DRAINAGE                                     126.32    99,21    47.64    71,45    74.07   418-*67      4.41
C. SANITATION
SEWERAGE                                     222.08   245.05   297.42   443.18   458.82 1.666.56    17,54
SERVICE PRIVY CONVERSION                      20.00         -        -        -         -    20.00     0.21
SOLIDI WASTE MANAGEMENT                      174.77   241.78   256.27   160,60   146.29   979.71    10.31
Sub-Total SANITATION                            416.85   486.82   553.70   603.79   605.11 2,666.27    28,07
t. BUSTEE IMPROVEMENT                           300.15   283,93   227.14          -        -   811.22     8.54
E, TRANSPORTATION INFRASTRUCTURE
ROADS ANt' HIONWAYS                          158,45   163,90   195.51   283.19   293.44 1,094,49    11.52
STREET LIGHTING                                1.85      2.28     2,78     4.13     4.22    15.25      0.16
Sub-Total TRANSPORTATION INFRASTRUCTURE         160.30   166.17   198.29   287.32   297.66' 1,109.74    11,68
F, UPRAN RENEWAL                                 57.24    71.99    86.13   129.19   134.57   479.12       5.04
Total BASELINE COSTS                            1#487.66 19363.25 1,368.21 1f256.92 1,283,27 6t75,.30    71.15
Phusical Contir.gencies                        131.21   123.21   120.04   105.53   106.87   586.86       6.18
Price Contingencies                             64.75   179,12   300.08   '80.86   495.32 1s420,13    14.95
Total PROJECT COSTS                             1,683.62 1,665.58 1,788.33 10743,31 1885.46 B8766.29    92,28
Taxes                                           50.45    50.54    54,35    60.68    62.22   278.25       2.93
Foreign Exchange                               197,23   197.53   218.57   244.e8   255.86 1,113.99    11.73
MIarch 7, 1983  16:41



-96-
INDIA                                                    Table 16
CUOIP III - CALCUTTA HOURAH INVESTMENT f'ROGRAM (CHIP)
SUMMART OF INVESTMENTS BY SECTOR
(Rs 100,000)
TRANSPORTATION
SANITATION                             INFRASTRUCTURE                        Phvsital
---        -----------------        ---------------                                    Continsencies
SERYICE PRIYY SOLID UASTE   1USTEE    ROADS AND  STREET   URBAN               -------------
JATER SUPPLY DRAINAGE SEWERAGE  CONVERSION   MANAGEMENT  IMPROVEMENT HIGHWAYS  LIGHTING REIEIAL  Total           Z   Amount
I. INVESTMENT cOSTS
A. LAND                                          1.09    13.75      1.00              -       59.60            -    143.08         -    8.00   226.52   0,0    0.00
Price Contingencies                          0.26      3.22      0.04              -       14.61            -     20.93         -    0,32    39.39   0.0    0.00
Sub-Total INCLUDING CONTINGENCIES                1.35    16.97      1,04              -       74.21            -    164.01         -    8.32   265.90   0.0    0.00
B. CIVIL WORKS                              1,229.27   404.94 1,445.10           20.00       252.52       811.22    913.72    15.25  471.12 56503.14  10.1  564.47
Physical Contingencies                     139.40    43.05   175.13            2.00        25.25        81.12     91.37      1.52    6.63   564.47   0.0    0.00
Price Contingencies                        221.31    77.33   371.35            0.88        42.50       101.22    241,41      3.92  113,79 1,173.70   9.3  109.01
Sub-Total INCLUDING CONTINGENCIES           1,588.98   525.32 1,991.57           22.88       320.27       993.56  1,246.50    20.70  591.54 7,101.32   9.2  673.49
Taxes                                       47.67    15.76    59.75            0.69         9.61        29.81     37.40      0462   17.75   219.04   9.2   20.20
Foreign Exchange                           228.74    63.04   238.99            2.75        38.43       119.23    149.59      2.48   70.99   914.22   9.3   85.40
C. VEHICLES                                      1.15        -         -              -      297.95            -          -        -        -   299.10   0.0    0.00
Price Contingencies                          0.09         -         -             -        72.88            -          -        -        -    72.97   0.0    0.00
Sub-Total INCLUDING CONTINGENCIES               1.24         -         -             -       370.83            -          -        -        -   372,07   0.0    0.00
Taxes                                        0.12         -         -              -       37,08            -          -        -        -    37.21   0.0    0.00
Foreign Exchange                             0.25         -         -             -        74.17            -          -        -        -    74.41   0.0    0.00
D. EQUIPMENT
PLANT                                           -         -    83.35              -        91.36            -     27.53         -        -   202.24   0.0    0.00
METERS                                       8.22         -         -             -            -            -         -         -       -      8.22   0.0    0.00
OTHER                                       11.17         -    16.89               -      262.33            -      3.28         -        -   293.67   7.6   22.38
Sub-Total EQUIPMENT                            19.39         -   100.24               -      353.69            -      30.81        -        -   504.13   4.4   22.38
Physical Cortingencies                          -         -        -              -        22.38            -          -        -       -    22.3B   0.0    0.00
Price Contingencies                          3.56         -    26.47               -       56.78            -       7.22        -        -    94.03   3.0    2.96
Sub-Total INCLUDING CONTINGENCIES              22.95         -   126.71               -      432.85            -      38.03        -        -   620.54   4.1   25.25
Taxes                                        2.30         -     5.25              -        10.65            -      3.80         -        -    22.00   0.0    0.00
Forei-n Exchanse                             3.02         -    27.51              -        16,73            -      3.80         -        -    51.06   0.0    0.00
E. TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE and STUDIES            23.36         -   120.22               -       15.95            -       6.88        -        -   166.41   0.0    0.00
Price Continger,cies                         5.48         -    28.18               -        4.78            -       1.61        -        -    40.C5   0.0    0.00
Suib-Total INCLUDING CONTINGEtNCIES            28.84         -   148.40               -       20.73                    8 8.49      -        -   206.46   0.0    0.00
Foreign Exchange                            11.53         -    59.36              -            -            -      3.40         -        -    74.29   0.0    0.00
Tctal INVESTMENT COSTS                        1274.26   418.69 1,666.56             20.00      979.71       811.22  1,094.49    15.25  479.12 6,759.30   8.7  586.86
Phvsical Contingencies                        138.40    43.05   175.13             2.00       47.63        81.12      91.37     1.52    6.63   586.86   0.0    0.00
Price Contingencies                           230.69    80.55   426.04            0.88       191.55       101.22    271.17      3.92  114.11 1,420.13   7.9  111.88
Total INCLUDING CONTINGENCIES                  1,643.35   542.29 2,267.72            22.88    1,219.89       993.56  1,457.04    20.70  599.86 8,766.29   8.0  698.73
Taxes                                          50.09    15.76    65.00             0.69       57.34        29.81      41.20     0.62   17.75   278.25   7.3   20.20
Foreign Exchange                              243.54    63.04   325.86             2.75      129.33       119.23    156.78      2.48   70.99 1#113.99   7.7   85.40
II. RECURRENT COSTS
Total BASELINE COSTS                             1,274.26   418.69 1,666.56           20.00      979.71       811.22  1,094.49    15.25  479.12 6,759.30   8.7  586.86
Phssical Contingencies                          138.40    43,05   175.13            2.00       47.63        81.12      91.37     1.52    6.63   56.86   0.0    0.00
Price Contingencies                            230.69    80.55   426.04             0.88      191.55       101.22    271.17      3.92  114.11 1,420.13   7.9  111.88
- -- -- -- - - -- - - -- - -- - -- -- - -- - - - - - - -- - - -- -- -- -- - -- - -- -- - -- - - - - -  - -- -- - - - -- ----- --- - - - _-- -  
Total PROJECT COSIS                              1,643.35   542.29 2.267.72           22.88    1.21,889       993.56  1,457.04    20.70  599.86 8766.29   8.0  698.73
Taxes                                           50.09    15.76    65.00  .          0.69       57.34        29.81      41.20     0.62   17.75   278.25   7.3   20.20
Foreisn Exchange                               243.54    63.04   325.86             2.75      129.33       119.23    156.78      2.48   70.99 1,113.99   7.7   85.40
March 7, 1983 16:41



-97-
ANNEX 5
Table 17
INDIA
CUDP III - CMA-WIDE COMPLEMENTARY PROGRAMS (CMACP)
SUMMARY OF SECTOR INVESTMENTS OVER PROJECT PERIOI
tRs 100000)
Total
Base Costs                 ----------------
--------------------------------------                (USS
83/84    84/85   85/86   86/87   87/88       Rs    Million)
A. SHELTER AND AREA DEVELOPMENT                   865.35       -        -       -        -   865.35     9.11
B. HEALTH                                         115.36  185.52  174.01  100.16  124.38   699.44       7.36
C. SMALL SCALE ENTREPRENEUR ( SSE ) PROGRAM        37.28   38.08   39.54   47.47   44,47   206.84       2.18
D. PANCHAYAT DEVELOPMENT                          157.64  169.18  131.94  198.78  206.45   863.98       9.09
Et TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE AND TRAINING               59.14   85.58   79.05   64.12   43.88   331.77       3.49
Total BASELINE COSTS                              1,234.76  478.37  424.55  410.53  419,18 2,967.38    31,24
Physical Contingencies                            28.37   35.99   31.79   35.66   37.81   169.61       1.79
Price Contingencies                               50.30   60.14   86.40  112.58  142.31   451.73       4.76
Total PROJECT COSTS                               1,313.42  574.50  542.73  558.76  599.29 3,588.72    37.78
Taxes                                              9.48   14.29   15.02    9.71    9.75    58.25       0.61
Foreign Exchange                                  35.01   45.43   43.82   51.29   48,46   224.00       2.36
April 19, 1983 14:08



-98-
IHIA                                                                  ANNEX  5
Clw  III - C"i4KE CUPLETW   PRIGRAMS    CP)                                                Table   18
SUIY Of IHESTI3TS IY SECTOR
(Rs loo.eee0
Phwical
SELTER M           SIAL SCALE               TEONIICAL           ConUtimicin
AA             OMMEN   EIEIR C PMIMAT  ASSISTOI
II4ELCFIM 4  ELTH SSE  1Rom  IEDPIT An TRAININ  Toal    I  bowt
1. INESTIEfT COSTS
A. CML   MS                             865.35  16.26            -     863.96        70.50 1,976.09  S.8  115.00
PhIsiral CE ntimin                        -  16.13             -       16.40       11.78  115.00  0.0   0.00
Price Ctntinwnies                     34.61  23.46             -      200.66       13.7B  272.51  8.1  22.17
Se-Total IIQEING COIITINNGICIES        8f9.96 20B.54              -   1,151.04       104.05 2,3463.60  5.8 137.17
Ts                                        -   6.26             -       29.90          -   36.24  9.1   3.29
Foreign E2h.                              -  25.02             -      119.92           -  144I.5    .1  13.18
D. GEIEHCES                                 -  29.3B              -          -           -   29.38  0.0   0.00
Price Conte ir su                         -   3.75             -          -            -    3.75  0.0   0.00
Sub-Totl IICUDING CONTINSENCIES             -  33.12              -          -           -   33.12  0.0   0.00
Tm                                       -   3.31              -          -           -    3.31  0.0   0.00
Foriin Exdn                               -   6.62             -          -            -    6.62   0.0   0.00
C. EWIPNCNT
fTIR                                      - 154.71          3.27          -        58.76  216.74  0.0   0.00
Sub-Total EOUIPNIIT                         - 154.71           3.27          -        50.76  216.74  0.0   0.00
PriCn Cotikingiis                         -  21.40          0.13          -         9.77   31.30  0.0   0.00
Sub-Totl INMUDING CONTINlCIES                - 176.10          3.40          -        68.53  248.03  0.0   0.00
TVx"s                                     -  17.61             -          -            -   17.61  0.0   0.00
Fortign Exdwa-                                   -             -          -         4.14    4.14  0.0   0,00
D. LOMS                                     -       -         60.00          -           -   60.00  0.0   0.00
Sub-Total INCLUDING CITINIENCIES            -       -         60.00          -           -   60.00  0.0   0.00
E. TECNIICIL AISTANE and STUDIES            -  48.25           6.94          -        79.61   134.80  0.0   0.00
Price Continmnies                         -   7.94          0.56          -        15.34   23.83   0.0   0,00
Sub-Total INCLUDINS CONTINECIES             -  56.19           7.50          -        94.95  150.63   0.0   0,00
Taxes                                     -      -             -          -         1.09    1.09  0.0   0.00
Foreies Exchani                           -      -             -          -        60.28   68.28  0.0   0.00
F. TRAINING                                 -       -          4.29          -           -    4.29  0.0   0.00
Price Continmcits                         -      -          0.52          -            -    0.52   0.0   5.00
Sub-Total INCLUDINS CONTINEICIES            -       -          4.81                           o4.1  0o0  0.0O
Total IIWSTIOT COSTS                       6s.35 400.59          74.50     863s.       216.87 2,421.29  4.7 115.00
Phnsical Cntiaenci,s                        -   16.83             -      06.40        11,7B  115.00  0.0   0.00
Price Contingencies                      34.61  56.54          1.21      200.66       38.80  331,91   6.7  22.17
Total INCLOSING CONTINGENCIES             899.96  473.96         75.70   1,151.04      267.53 2,868.20  4.8 137.17
Taxes                                       -  27.18              -      29.90         1.09   50.25  5.7   3.29
Foreign Exct                                -  31.65              -      119.92       72.43  224.00  5.9  13.10
11. RECUT COSTS
A. SALRAIES , FEES AU ND.AU tAS            - 264,78         129,9S          -       114.90  509.66  10.0  50.97
Phnsical Continsencies                  -  26.40           13.00         -        11.49   50,97  0.0   0.00
Pritc  Continancies                      -  53.46         28.54          -        27.60  109.60  9.1   9,96
Sub-Txtal I0MU0Ns CONTINGENCIES            - 344.71         171.53          -       153.90  670.24  9.1  6OX03
D. EHICLE 0 AND N                          -   3.9            2.35                      -    6.33  10.0   0.63
Phasical Contingencies                   -   0.40          0.24          -            -    0.63  0.0   0.00
Price Cntirnencies                       -   0.87          0.52          -            -    1.39  9.1   0.13
Sub-Total INCUDIG CONTINGENCIES             -    .25          3.10          -           -    8.35  9.1   0.76
C. SUPPLIES ND MISC. MATERIALS             -  30.10              -          -           -   30.10  10.0   3.01
PhOsical Cortinemies                     -   3.01             -          -            -    3.01  0.0   0.00
Price Continmncies                       -   0.3              -          -           -    0.03  9.1   0.80
Sub-Total INCLUDINS COTTINECIES            -  41.94              -          -           -   41.94  9.1   3.01
Total RECLRRENT COSTS                          - 298.a5         132.34          -      114.90   546.09  10.0  54.61
Phusical Contingencies                      -  29.a9          13.23          -        11.49   54.61  0.0   0.00
Price Contingencies                         -  63.17          29.06          -       27.60   1198.2   9.1  10.09
Total INCLUDINS CONTINSENCIES                  - 391.90         174.63          -      153.99  720.52  9.1  65.50
Total MSEINE COSTS                        s65.35  699.44        206.04     063.9      331.77 2,967.30   5.7  169.61
Phssical Contingencies                       -  46.71          13.23      06.40       23.27  169.61  0.0   0.00
Price Contingencies                       34.61  119.71        30.26     200.66       66.48  451.73  7.3  33.06
Total PROJECT COSTS                        899.96  865.86        250.34    1,151.04     421.52 3,saa.72   5.6  202.67
Taxes                                        -  27.18              -      29D90        1.09   58.25  5.7   3.29
Fortisn Exchaae                              -  31.65              -     119.n        72.43  224.00   5.9  13.18
Apil 19, 1983 14:08



INBIIA
CUnP III - TRANSMUNICIPAL INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECTS (TRIP)
lable 201. BARRANAGAR KAMARHAII WATER TREATHENY PLANT AND PRIhARY GRI1l
Detailed Cost Table
Base Costs                              Totals lncludim6 Contingerncies
(Rs 100000)                                        IRs 100000)                     Ph,.
-------------------------------------------- Cant, For,   Gros    Sumar
Unit 83/84   84/85   85/86   86/87   87/88   Total    83/84   84/85   85/86   86/87   87/88   Total   Rate  E.:ch. Tit! Rate Acoosint
S. INVESTMENT COSTS
A. LAND                           ha    18.51        -       -       -        -    18.51   19.25        -       -        -       -    19.25      0     0         0      LA
B. CIVIL WORKS
RISING MAIN                   Unit   10.44   13.04   15.65   23.48   24.35    86.96   12.48   16.81   21.63   34.55   37.98   123.45  0.15  0.18           0.03      CA
INTAKE STRUCTURES             Unit    7.59    9.49   11.39   17.08   17.72    63.27    9.08   12.23   15.74   25.14   27.63    89.82  0.15  0.18          0.03       CA
TREATMENT PLANT STRUCTURES   Unit   45.68   57.1G   68.52  102.78  106.58   380.66   54.63   73.58   94.68  151.23  166.25   540.37  0.15  0.18            0.03      CU
PRIMARY GRID                   ka    15.50   19.36   23.28   34.93   36.17   129.25   18.54   24.95   32.18   51.39   56.42   183.48  0.15  0.18           0.03      CL
STAFF QUARTERS                Unit    4.91    6.14    7.36   11.05   11.45    40.91    5.62    7.56    9.73   15.55   17.09    55.55   0.1  0.18           0.03      Cl
ROADS                         Unit    3.93    4.92    5.90    8.85    9.18    32.79    4.50    6.06    7.80   12.46   13.70    44.52   0.1  0.18           0.03      CA
MISCELLANEOUS                 Unit    2.60    3.25    3.90    5.85    6.07    21.68    2.98    4.01    5.16    8.24    9.06    29.44   0.1  0.18           0.03      CA
Sub-Total CIVIL WORKS                   90.66  113.30  136.01  204.02  211.53   755.52  107.83  145.20  186.92  298.56  328.12 IY06b.63
C. EOUIPHENT
PUMPS and MOTORS               No    12.46   15.57   18.69   28.03   29.07   103.83   12.96   17.45   22.46   35.87   39.43   128,17          0   0.3         0     EOP
MISCELLANEOUS                 Unit    1.47   24.99   29.40   44.10   47.04   147.00    1.53   28.00   35.33   56.43   63.80   185.09          0   0.1      0.03     ECO
Sub-Total EOUIPMENT                     13.93   40.56   48.09   72.13   76.11   250.83   14.49   45.45   57.79   92.30  103.23   313.26
Total INVSTEN  COSTS-- -23--9 _53.8-  _04.10  2_6.15   287.6  _-  141.57  1-0.-5  2--.--  390,-6  431.35 - -------
Total INVESTMENT COSTS                    123.09  153.87  184.10  276.15  287.64 1.024.86  141.57  190.65  244.71  390.86  431.35 1,399.14
Total BASELINE COSTS                       123.09  153.87  184.10  276.15  287.64 1,024.86  141.57  190.65  244.71  390.86  431.35 i,399.14
========== == =  == == = == ==== =-=_= ===== = ======= == ===== = = == =  == === == = = ==== = ==_= ==== = ====== =
April 19Y 1983  12:32
0'  L



INDIA
CUDP III - TRANStJUNICIPAL INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECTS (TRIP)
Table 202, RENOVATION OF SERAMPORE WATER TREATMENT PLANT, AND PRIMARY GRID
Detailed Cost Table
Base Costs                          Totals Including Contingencies
(Rs 100000)                                    (RsOOOO0)                   Phu.
-------------------------------------------- --------------------------------------------- Cont. For.  Gross   Suar
Unit 83/84  84/85   85/86   86/87   87/88  Total   83/84  84/85   85/86   86/87   87/88  Total   Rate  Exch. Tax Rate Account
I. INVESTMENT COSTS
A. CIVIL WORKS
RISING MAIN                  Unit 0.48    0.60    0.72    1.08    1.12    4.00  0.57    0.77    0.99    1,59    1.75    5,68  0.15  0.18         0.03      Cl
INTAKE STRUCTURES            Unit  6.00    7.50    9.00   13.50   14.00   50,00  7.18    9.66   12.44   19,86   21.84   70,98  0.15  0.18        0.03      Cv
TREATMENT PLANT STRUCTURES   Unit 21.90   27.38   32.85   49.28   51.10  182.50 26.19   35.27   45.39   72.51   79.70  259.07  0.15  0.18        0.03      CW
STAFF QUARTERS               Unit  1,27    1.59    1.91    2.86    2.97   10.60  1.46    1.96    2.52    4,03    4,43   14.39   0.1  0.18.    0,03         CV
PRIMARY GRID                  km  13.42   16.81   20.20   30.23   31.36  112.04 16.05   21.66   27.92   44.49   48.92  159.04  0.15  0.18        0.03     CU
MISCELLANEOUS                 kn   6,99    8.74   10.49   15.74   16.32   58.28  8.00   10.77   13.87   22.15   24.35   79.14   0.1  0.18        0.03     CW
Sub-Total CIVIL WORKS                50.07   62.62   75.17  112.69  116.87  417.42 59.45   80.11  103.13  164.63  180.98  588.30
B. EQUIPMENT
PUMPS AND MOTORS              No   5.64    7.05    8.46   12.69   13.16   47.00  5,87    7.90   10.17   16.24   17.85   58.02        0   0.3        0     EQP
MISCELLANEOUS                unit 29.76   37.20   44.64   66.96   69.44  248,00 30.95   41.68   53.64   85.68   94.18  306,13        0   0.1     0.03     EGO
Sub-Total EQUIPMENT                  35.40   44.25   53.10   79.65   82.60  295.00 36.82   49.58   63.81  101.92  112.03  364.15
Tot__  -ES-E--COTS---- -0.7-2,2-923    199.47  712.42- 96.27  129-69  166,94  266.54  293.01  952.45-
Total INVESTMENT COSTS                  85.47  106.87  128.27  192.34  i99.47  712.42 96.27  129.69  166.94  266.54  293.01  952.45
Total BASELINE COSTS                     85.47  106.87  128.27  192.34  199.47  712.42 96.27  129.69  166.94  266.54  293.01  952.45                                                       1 a
April 19,  1983  12:32



INDIA
CUDP III - CALCUTTA-HOWRAH INVESTMENT FROGRAM (CHIP)
Table 302, REMODELLING OF EXISTING MAINS-PHASE I
Detailed Cost lable
Base Costs                       Totals Ircluding Coritingercies
(Rs 100000)                                (Rs 100000)                  Phs-
-------------------'------ Cont. For.   Gross   Summsrs
Unit 83/84 84/85 85/86  86/87   87/88  Total   83/84 84/85  85/86   86/87   87/88  Total  Rate  E-ch, Tsz  Rate Arecount
I. INVESTMENT COSTS
A. LANB                               Unit 0.13  0.16  0.20    0.29    0.31    1.09  0.14  0.18    0.24    0.38    0.41    1.35        0     0        0       LA
B. CIVIL WORKS
____  ___   _   _ -
PRIMARY GRID                        km  40.03 50,04 60.04   90.07   93.40  333,58 47.88 64.48   82.97  132.53  145.69  473.54  0.15  0.18       0.03       CW
MISCELLANEOUS                      Unit 14.22 17.77 21.32   31.98   33.17  118.46 16.26 21.90   28.18   45.02   49.49  160.85   0.1  0.18       0.03       CW
Sub-Total CIVIL WORKS                      54.24 67.81 81.37  122.05  126.57  452.04 64.14 86.38  111.16  177.55  195.17  634.39
C. TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE AND STUDIES
SURVEY AND CONSULTANCY             Unit 2.80  3.50  4.20    6.31    6.54   23.36  2.92  3.93    5.05    8.07    8.87   28.84        0   0.4        0      TAS
T I T_5    71.47 85.77  128.65  133.42  476.49 67-19 90-4  116-45  185.99  204_46  664_57 ----
Total INVESTMENT COSTS                        57.18 71.47 85.77  128.65  133.42  476.49 67.19 90.49  116.45  185.99  204.46  664.57                                                         M Z
Total B,19ELINE COSTS                          57.18 71.47 85.77  128.65  133.42  47649 67.19 90.49  116.45  185.99  204.46  664.57
===== ===== ===== ======= ======= ======= ===== ===== ======= ======= ======= =======                                                        ,
April 19Y 1983  12:39



T ijdt,6
C'DP11;1 - CALCUTTA-HOWRAH INVESTMENT PROGRAM (CHIP)
3so4 321, RECONSTRUCTION OF DURGAPUR BRIDGE
7et.ilei Cost Table
.-i-e :'in-t:                  Totals Includin! Contingencies
RS 107.1001i                              lRs 100000)                  Ph,.
--------------------------------                                                     Cont. For,   Gross   Su mmar
Unit 83/84 84/85 85/86 86 86/27 873  Totl Tht4  >    4,)3   S.5%  8b687   37/,88  Total   Rate  Exch. Tax Rate Account
I. INVESTMENT COSTS
A. LAND                                        Unit  3.00  6.00  6.00       -     -   15.00  3il2  6.-2  7.21              -       1  Ot                      0      LA
B. CIVIL WORKS
BRIDGE                                      Unit 15.36 19.20 23.04 34.56 35.84  128,00 17.57 23.66 30.45   48.64   53.4?  17i.8l 0I       4   042       1 3      CW
APPROACH BOX VIADUCT                        Unit 11.71 14.64 17.57 26.35 27.33   97.60 13.40 18.04 23.22   37.09   40.77  132.53   0.1  0.12            0.03      Cw
APPROACH ROAD JUNCTION AND IMPROVEMENTS   Unit  6.37  7.97  9.56 14.34 14.87   53.10  7.29  9.82 12.63   20.18   22.18   72.10   0.1  0.12              0.03      CW
____   -----   -----   -----  -----   ---- -- -  -- ---   -----  -- ---   ------ -  ---- ---   ----- - -
Sub-Total CIVIL WORKS                               33.44 41.81 50.17 75.25 78.04  278.70 38.26 51.53 66.31  105.91  116.43  378.43
C. TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE AND STUDIES
SURVEY AND CONSULTANCY                      Unit  0,27  0.34  0.41  0.61  0.64    2.27  0.28  0.38  0.49    0.78    0.86    2.80           0   0.4         0     TAS
Total INVESTMENT COSTS                                  36.72 48.15 56.57 75.86 78.67  295,97 41.66 58.63 74.01  106.70  117.29  398,29
Total BASELINE COSTS                                     36.72 48.15 56.57 75.86 78.67  295.97 41,66 58.63 74.01  106.70  117.29  398.29
April 19. 1983 12:40



THIRD CALCUTTA URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT                                        -uc
MAJOR WATER SUPPLY, DRAINAGE,                                                   n-S          , a>                  Nt
AND SANITATION  INVESTMENTS                                                                           Ai>AM
Prolect Boundary
SEWERAGE  WCRKS                                             ,-'       t   II!
Drainage 
i   Pumping Stations                                               /                                             =
WATER  SUPPLY                                              ~-
+    Water Treatment Plant                                           /
Existig Water Treatment Plants                            t /
EXISTING:C
;    Built-up Areas                                           /               t uu       C
Open Spaces
-      Not onal Highways
Major Roads-
___Miner Reads
Railroads 
Z  Bridges
.      Ferry Ser-ices                                   /             /
vfD  Lakes
c t  Marshes                                               |i
Corporation and Municipohty           -Ag 7
Boundaries                                                                         .
Kalpyni - Bonsberia Boundary yy                        
-.-Calcutta Metropaoitor Boendary
-      International Boundaries
4~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~1 /Dl5E e''    H_A            
.    '/Nen   >   CHINA
3,=X  N U I A            m.       m   o.s   W n                                                    r        d 
==  7                ,niii  44'y A   ased fnd Ule tbu dar eh%0
-9 0 t \ '' 5 RL Y Xf  z  or  TM Wodd r --a   =   r   t  '\  %
4,eh =As  (   /  f PLF /   sTh ir mms i,cuii6                                                                     6                            mui
tA~~~~~~~5S4Drirnrrunun
N  .Dr=......   0_a






I N  D I A
THIRD CALCUTTA URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
MAJOR TRANSPORTATION, SHELTER, AND
URBAN RENEWAL INVESTMENTS                                        os \                       (  -
PROJECT COMPONENTS:
Proposed Moo  Roads
---- Proposed Connector Roods
Proposed Bridges
Koan Truck Terminal
Shelter and Area  Development
0    Urban Renewul
Project Boundary
UNDER CONSTRUCTION  (on-project):
Roads
>4 Bridges
-U    Subway ond Stations                                 ,.
*    Cool /GOa  Plornt
EXISTING
    Built-up Areos                                                        -Y         A
Open Spaces
National Highways
Major Roads
___Minor Roods
-   Railroads
Bridges
Ferry Services
Canals
Lakes                                 ru           V A          Mrrr
Marshes                 r                        A v           ne  minE
C--    CpoationI  and Municipality Bocndaries
----Kalyani-Bansheria Boundary
-  -  Calcutta Metropolitan Boundary                          i!-.                                                            5
International Boundories                                         f                                             Z    \,/  "
t KILOMETERS                                   5 I i
Ki&M E R
-'-
_~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~- II                                          I   -11
R4~~~~~~~~ri5~  ii              rruog  t  ', ,v Bh.,r A N,_ 1 
C  1^   I N  D I A   ,v'>   .9d w d s9 eaclowwid E k                                        <;v/      N
D 7 7       / S ;:~~~~~~~~~~~0 ised 20c 00 b2mar' shoi 0m                                     , 22
iv              J             iu- a. -                                                                                                                0-XO   z.1.nlr     
-u-i.a    'y%k                                                                                                                                     ocr-  a uGmm ed1tXwr      



