OFFICIAL
DOCUMENTS CREDIT NUMBER 1369 IN
West Bengal Agreement
(Third Calcutta Urban Development Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
STATE OF WEST BENGAL
Dated                             , 1983


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 1369 IN
WEST BENGAL AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated                              , 1983, between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASOCIATION (hereinafter called the
Association) and STATE OF WEST BENGAL, acting by its Governor
(hereinafter called West Bengal).
WHEREAS by the Development Credit Agreement of even date
herewith between INDIA, acting by its President (hereinafter
called the Borrower) and the Association, the Association has
agreed to make available to the Borrower an amount in various
currencies equivalent to one hundred thirty-six million three
hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 136,300,000), on
the terms and conditions set forth in the Development Credit
Agreement, but only on condition that West Bengal agree to under-
take such obligations toward the Association as are hereinafter
set forth;
WHEREAS by an agreement of even date between the Association
and the Calcutta Metropolitan Development Authority, the Calcutta
Metropolitan Development Authority has agreed to undertake cer-
tain obligations in respect of the carrying out of the Project
described in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement; and
WHEREAS West Bengal, in consideration of the Association's
entering into the Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower
and Project Agreement with the Calcutta Metropolitan Development
Authority, has agreed to undertake the obligations hereinafter
set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context shall otherwise require, the several terms defined in
the Development Credit Agreement and in the General Conditions
(as so defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth
and the term "FAM" means the Fund Assigned to the Municipalities,
with its revenue and capital accounts, established by West Bengal
to administer the Revised Grant Structure for the purpose of
devolving revenue grants and capital grants to the Municipalities
from FAM's revenue and capital accounts, respectively, based on
agreed performance targets to be set annually by West Bengal.


﻿-2-
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. Without any limitation or restriction upon any
of its other obligations under this Agreement, West Bengal shall
cause the Authority to perform in accordance with the provisions
of the Project Agreement all the obligations of the Authority
therein set forth, shall take or cause to be taken all action,
including the provision of funds, facilities, services and other
resources, necessary or appropriate to enable the Authority to
perform such obligations, and shall not take or permit to be
taken any action which would prevent or interfere with such
performance.
Section 2.02. For the purpose of carrying out the Project,
West Bengal shall make available the proceeds of the Credit made
available to it by the Borrower, to the Authority on standard
terms and conditions of West Bengal applicable to transfer of
funds for development projects which shall, except as the
Association may otherwise agree, include, inter alia, that the
Authority shall pay interest on the principal amount so made
available and withdrawn and outstanding from time to time at a
rate of not less than 7% per annum, and repay the principal
amount over a period of 15 years, including therein a period of
grace of five years.
Section 2.03. West Bengal shall exercise its rights under
the Act in such manner as to protect the interests of West Bengal
and the Association, and to accomplish the purposes of the
Credit.
Section 2.04. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods and civil works required for the
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
shall be governed by the provisions set forth or referred to in
Section 2.03 of the Project Agreement.
Section 2.05. West Bengal undertakes to ensure that, except
as the Association may otherwise agree, the Corporation shall
perform all the obligations set forth in the Schedule to this
Agreement.
Section 2.0. (a) West Bengal shall, at the request of the
Association, exchange views with the Associaticn with regard to


﻿- 3 -
the progress of the Project, the performance of its obligations
under this Agreement and other matters relating to the purposes
of the Credit.
(b) West Bengal shall promptly inform the Association of
any condition which interferes or threatens to interfere with the
progress of the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of
the Credit, or the performance by West Bengal of its obligations
under this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Particular Covenants
Section 3.01. West Bengal shall cause its departments and
other agencies and authorities responsible for carrying out any
part of the Project to maintain records adequate to reflect in
accordance with consistently maintained appropriate accounting
practices their operations and financial condition related to the
Project.
Section 3.02. West Bengal shall cause the Municipalities,
CMWSA, the Calcutta Improvement Trust and the Howrah Improvement
Trust to: (i) have their accounts and financial statements
(balance sheets, statements of income and expenses and related
statements) for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with
appropriate   auditing  principles   consistently   applied,   by
independent auditors acceptable to the Association; (ii) furnish
to the Association as soon as available, but in any case not
later than nine months after the end of each such year, (A)
certified copies of the financial statements for such year as so
audited, and (B) the report of such audit by said auditors, of
such scope and in such detail as the Association shall have
reasonably requested; and (iii) furnish to the Association such
other information concerning their accounts and financial state-
ments and the audit thereof as the Association shall from time to
time reasonably request.
Section 3.03. West Bengal shall by September 30, 1983,
employ accounting firms acceptable to the Association to assist
the Municipalities (except the Corporation) in maintaining
accounts and in preparation of final accounts for audit.
Section 3.04. West Bengal shall, by December 31, 1983,
complete its review of the current property tax assessment base


﻿of the Municipalities, and shall cause to be carried out a
general revaluation of properties by its Central Valuation Board
in respect of such Municipalities whose tax base after said
review is found to be inadequate.
Section 3.05. West Bengal shall cause CMWSA to introduce
such charges for supply of water as shall be agreed upon between
the Association and West Bengal and to ensure that such rates
shall be revised periodically to enable CMWSA to achieve coverage
of all expenditures for operation, maintenance and debt service
requirements by its financial year 1985/86.
Section 3.06. West Bengal shall ensure prompt payment of any
bulk water supply bills remaining outstanding from the Municipa-
lities to CMWSA for more than 30 days.
Section 3.07. West Bengal shall, by September 30, 1983 and
March 31, 1984, deposit amounts equivalent to Rs. 50,000,000 and
Rs. 40,000,000, respectively, in the Area Development Account
referred to in paragraph 10 of Schedule 2 to the Project
Agreement.
Section 3.08. Except as the Association may otherwise agree,
West Bengal shall cause CMWSA to:
(a) take administrative, operational and financial mea-
sures (including adjustments of the structure or levels of its
water tariffs) as shall be required to recover not less than the
following percentages of its revenue income to its revenue expen-
ditures obtained through its water supply operations: 75% in
fiscal year 1983/84 and 95% in fiscal year 1984/85; and achieve
full cost recovery for its water supply operations by fiscal year
1985/86;
(b) prepare, before January 1 of each year, forecasts of
its water supply operations on a basis satisfactory to the
Association, review measures taken or proposed to be taken,
including the adequacy of its tariffs, to meet the requirements
set forth in paragraph (a) of this Section for the next following
fiscal year, and forward to the Association a copy of such review
on completion; and
(c) for the purpose of paragraph (a) of this Section, the
term "revenue income" means the sum of gross revenues from
sources related to CMWSA's water operations, including consumer


﻿- 5 -
deposits, and the term "revenue expenditures" means the sum of
all expenses of CMWSA's water supply operations including
maintenance, administration, replacement fund and interest on
debt.
Section 3.09. West Bengal shall: (i) update annually the
performance targets, maximum revenue deficits, annual revenue
grant and capital grant requirements for each of the Municipali-
ties, for the purpose of making suitable provisions in the
following year; and (ii) make arrangements for appropriate
provisions to FAM based on rolling yearly estimates.
ARTICLE IV
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 4.01. This Agreement shall come into force and
effect on the date upon which the Development Credit Agreement
becomes effective.
Section 4.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the
Association and of West Bengal thereunder shall terminate on the
earlier of the following two dates:
(i) the date on which the Development Credit Agreement
shall terminate in accordance with its terms; or
(ii) a date 20 years after the date of this Agreement.
(b) If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in
accordance with its terms before the date specified in paragraph
(a) (ii) of this Section, the Association shall promptly notify
West Bengal of this event.
Section 4.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancella-
tion or suspension under the General Conditions.
ARTICLE V
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 5.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to
be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing.


﻿- 6 -
Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or
made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or
permitted to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter
specified or at such other address as such party shall have
designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making
such request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INDEVAS
Washington, D.C.
For West Bengal:
The Secretary to the Government
of West Bengal
Metropolitan Development Department
18 Rabindra Sarani
Calcutta 700001, India
Cable address:
CHIEFSEC
Calcutta
Section 5.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or permitted to be executed, under this
Agreement on behalf of West Bengal may be taken or executed by a
Scretary to the Government of West Bengal or such other person or
persons as West Bengal shall designate in writing, and West
Bengal shall furnish to the Association sufficient evidence of
the authority and the authenticated specimen signature of each
such person.
Section 5.03. This Agreement may be executed in several
counterparts, each of which shall be an original, and all
collectively but one instrument.


﻿-7-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives  thereunto  duly   authorized, have   caused  this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
/A                 Regional Vice President
South Asia
STATE OF WEST BENGAL
eBy
Authorized Representative


﻿-8-
SCHEDULE
Obligations of the Corporation
1.   To reduce its reliance on revenue subventions from West
Bengal from about 24% of its revenue expenditures in fiscal year
1982/83 to about 10% by fiscal year 1987/88 and the annual level
of said subventions for the intervening years to be such as shall
be agreed upon between the Association and West Bengal.
2.   To take all necessary steps within its power to achieve cash
collection of not less than 85% of the current demand of its
consolidated property taxes by fiscal year 1987/88, and the
collection percentages for the intervening years to be such as
shall be agreed upon between the Association and West Bengal.
3.   To take all necessary steps within its power to achieve cash
collections of its arrears demand of property tax of at least 50%
annually.
4.   By fiscal year 1987/88, to recover all expenditures for
operation, maintenance, purchase of bulk water and charges
equivalent to depreciation.
5.   (a) To take all administrative, operational and financial
measures (including, adjustments of the structure or
levels of the Corporation's water tariffs) as shall
be required to achieve full cost recovery for its water
supply operations by fiscal year 1987/88, and the
targets for cost recovery during the intervening years
to be such as shall be agreed upon between the Asso-
ciation and West Bengal.
(b) To prepare, before March 1 of each year, forecasts of
its water supply operations on a basis satisfactory
to the Association, review the adequacy of its tariffs
to meet the requirements set forth in the preceding
paragraph (a) for the next following fiscal year and
forward to the Association a copy of such review on
completion.
(c) For the purpose of paragraph (a) above the term "reve-
nue income" means the sum of gross revenue from sources
related to the Corporation's water operations, includ-
ing consumer deposits, and share of consolidated


﻿-9-
property tax, and "revenue expenditures" means the sum
of all expenses of     the Corporation's water    supply
operations including maintenance, administration, and
charges equivalent to depreciation.
6.   To introduce by November 1, 1983, a graduated water rate
based on ferrule size in consultation with the Association for
unmetered domestic consumers, and to review and revise said rate
annually in order to meet the requirements of paragraph 4-of this
Schedule.
7.   To revise the rates for metered non-domestic water users as
such rates shall be agreed upon between the Association and West
Bengal.
8.   To introduce annual licensing of all new private tubewells.
9.   To adhere to a timetable and targets for metering and con-
sumer survey programs acceptable to the Association.
10. To install, by September 30, 1983, and thereafter maintain a
meter reading, billing and customer service department within the
Corporation.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true                       L
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Development Association.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Association
thereunto the            day of
19 8 3.
FOR SECRETARY


