F  FICIAL
DOCUMENTS       DIT NUMBER 1369 IN
Development Credit Agreement
(Third Calcutta Urban Development Project)
between
INDIA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated                            1983


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 1369 IN
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated       Qyz  t ?               , 1983, between
INDIA, acting by its Presiddnt (hereinafter called the Borrower)
and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the
Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower .has requested the Association to
assist in the financing of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement by extending the Credit as hereinafter provided;
(B) by an agreement of even date herewith between the
Association and the State of West Bengal, the State of West
Bengal has agreed to undertake certain obligations in respect of
the carrrying out of the Project;
(C) by an agreement of even date herewith between the
Association and the Calcutta Metropolitan Development Authority,
the Calcutta Metropolitan Development Authority has agreed to
undertake certain obligations in respect of the carrrying out of
the Project; and
(D) the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia,
of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower, upon the
terms and conditions set forth hereinafter, in the West Bengal
Agreement of even date herewith between the Association and the
State of West Bengal and in the Project Agreement of even date
herewith between the Association and the Calcutta Metropolitan
Development Authority;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Development
Credit Agreements of the Association, dated June 30, 1980, with
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein
(said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit
Agreements of the Association being hereinafter called the
General Conditions).


﻿- 2 -
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth
and the following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "Act" means The West Bengal Town and Country (Planning
and Development) Act, 1979, as amended;
(b) "Authority" means the Calcutta Metropolitan Development
Authority, a statutory body governed by the Act and such term
shall include any successor thereto;
(c) "Bustee" means an area occupied for the purposes of any
collection of huts or other structures used or intended to be
used for human habitation;
(d)  "CMA" means Calcutta Metropolitan Area, comprising the
area described as such in the first Schedule to the Act, as such
Schedule may be amended from time to time;
(e) "CMWSA" means the Calcutta Metropolitan Water and
Sanitation Authority;
(f) "Corporation" means the Calcutta Municipal Corporation;
(g) "Howrah" means the Howrah Municipal Corporation;
(h)  "Municipalities" means the 35 municipalities, 2 noti-
fied areas, the Corporation and Howrah, all within CMA:
(i) "Panchayat" means a non-municipal area within CMA;
(j) "Project Agreement" means the agreement between the
Association and the Authority of even date herewith, as the same
may be amended from time to time, and such term includes all
schedules to the Project Agreement and all agreements supple-
mental to the Project Agreement;
(k) "rupees" and "Rs." means rupees in the currency of the
Borrower;
(1) "West Bengal" means the State of West Bengal, acting by
its Governor, a State of India or any successor thereto; and


﻿- 3 -
(m) "West Bengal Agreement" means the agreement between the
Association and West Bengal of even date herewith, as the same
may be amended from time to time.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the
Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in
this Agreement, an amount in various currencies equivalent to one
hundred thirty-six million three hundred thousand Special Drawing
Rights (SDR 136,300,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from
the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Sched-
ule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from
time to time by agreement between the Borrower and the Associa-
tion, for expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so
agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and
services required for the Project and to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit.
Section 2.03. (a) Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods and civil works required for the
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 to the Project
Agreement.
(b) Where a contract is awarded for the supply for this
Project of goods manufactured outside India, the Borrower shall
immediately grant permission to import the goods covered by the
contract, and all foreign exchange required therefor shall be
promptly made available.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be March 31, 1989
or such later date as the Association shall establish. The
Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later
date.
Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a commitment charge at the rate of one-half of one per cent (1/2
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit not with-
drawn from time to time. The commitment charge shall accrue from


﻿a date sixty days after the date of the Development Credit Agree-
ment to the respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn
by the Borrower from the Credit Account or shall be cancelled.
(b) The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places
as the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without
restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the
Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in
such other eligible currency or currencies as may from time to
time be designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that
Section.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn
and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.07. Commitment charges and service charges shall
be payable semiannually on January 15 and July 15 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each Janu-
ary 15 and July 15 commencing July 15, 1993, and ending Janu-
ary 15, 2033, each installment to and including the installment
payable on January 15, 2003, to be one-half of one per cent (1/2
of 1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter
to be one and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal
amount.
Section 2.09. The currency of the United States of America
is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the
General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) Without any limitation or restriction upon
any of its other obligations under the Development Credit Agree-
ment, the Borrower shall cause West Bengal to perform in accor-
dance with the provisions of the Project Agreement all the
obligations therein set forth, shall take and cause to be taken
all action, including the provision of funds, facilities, ser-
vices and other resources, necessary or appropriate to enable
West Bengal to perform such obligations, and shall not take or


﻿- 5 -
permit to be taken any action which would prevent or interfere
with such performance.
(b) The Borrower shall make the proceeds of the Credit
available to West Bengal in accordance with the Borrower's
standard arrangements for developmental assistance to the States
of India.
ARTICLE IV
Remedies of the Association
Section 4.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the
General Conditions the following additional events are specified
pursuant to paragraph (h) thereof:
(a) West Bengal shall have failed to perform any of its
obligations under the West Bengal Agreement.
(b) The Authority shall have failed to perform any of its
obligations under the Project Agreement.
(c) As a result of events which have occurred after the
date of the Development Credit Agreement, an extraordinary
situation shall have arisen which shall make it improbable that
West Bengal will be able to perform its obligations under the
West Bengal Agreement or the Authority under the Project
Agreement.
(d) The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any action for the dissolution or disestablish-
ment of the Authority or for the suspension of its operations.
Section 4.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the
General Conditions, the following additional events are specified
pursuant to paragraph (d) thereof:
(a) any event specified in paragraphs (a) or (b) of Section
4.01 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a
period of 60 days after notice thereof shall have been given by
the Association to the Borrower and West Bengal; and
(b) any event specified in paragraph (d) of Section 4.01 of
this Agreement shall occur.


﻿- 6 -
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The following events are specified as addi-
tional conditions to the effectiveness of the Development Credit
Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General
Conditions:
(a) CMWSA has introduced the water supply rates in accor-
dance with the provisions of Section 3.05 of the West Bengal
Agreement; and
(b) the Corporation has revised the rates for metered
non-domestic water users in accordance with the provisions of
paragraph 7 of the Schedule to the West Bengal Agreement.
Section 5.02. The following are specified as additional
matters, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be fur-
nished to the Association:
(a) that the West Bengal Agreement has been duly authorized
or ratified by West Bengal, and is legally binding upon West
Bengal in accordance with its terms; and
(b) that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or
ratified by the Authority and is legally binding upon the
Authority in accordance with its terms.
Section 5.03. The date              q            , is hereby
specified for the purposes of Slction 12.04 of the General Condi-
tions.
Section 5.04. The provisions of Section 4.02 of this Agree-
ment shall cease and determine on the date on which the Develop-
ment Credit Agreement shall terminate or on a date twenty years
after the date of this Agreement, whichever shall be the earlier.
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. Any Secretary, Additional Secretary, Joint
Secretary, Director, Deputy Secretary or Under Secretary of the
Department of Economic Affairs in the Ministry of Finance of the


﻿- 7 -
Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for the
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purpose of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
The Secretary to the
Government of India
Ministry of Finance
Department of Economic Affairs
New Delhi, India
Cable address:
ECOFAIRS
New Delhi
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INDEVAS
Washington, D.C.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
INDIA
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
/#                  egional Vice President
South Asia


﻿-8-
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the -roceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated            % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category              SDR Equivalent)       to be Financed
(1) Civil works
(a) contracts             20,400,000       70%
procured
through
international
competitive
bidding
(b)  others               87,650,000        50%
(c) area development       4,350,000        50%
(2) Equipment and              16,030,000        100% of foreign
vehicles                                    expenditures,
100% of local
expenditures
(ex-factory
cost) and 50%
of local ex-
penditures for
other items pro-
cured locally
(3) Consultants                 3,700,000        100%
services and
training
(4) Unallocated                 4,170,000
TOTAL               136,300,000


﻿-9-
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)  the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country
other than that of the Borrower; and
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from
the territory of the Borrower.
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in com-
pliance with the policy of the Association that the proceeds of
the Credit shall not be disbursed on account of payments for
taxes levied by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or
services, or on the importation, manufacture, procurement or
supply thereof; on this basis, if the amount of any such taxes
levied on or in respect of items in any Category decreases or
increases, the Association may, by notice to the Borrower,
increase or decrease the disbursement percentage then applicable
to such Category as required to be consistent with the aforemen-
tioned policy of the Association.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of expenditures made prior
to the date of this Agreement, except that withdrawals, in an
aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of SDR 463,600, may
be made on account of expenditures made before that date but
after March 1, 1983.
5.    Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit
or the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in para-
graph 1 above, if the Association has reasonably estimated that
the amount of the Credit then allocated to any Category will be
insufficient to finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures
in that Category, the Association may, by notice to the Borrower:
(i) reallocate to such Category, to the extent required to meet
the estimated shortfall, proceeds of the Credit which are then
allocated to another Category and which in the opinion of the
Association are not needed to meet other expenditures; and (ii)
if such reallocation cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall,
reduce the disbursement percentage then applicable to such
expenditures in order that further withdrawals under such
Category may continue until all expenditures thereunder shall
have been made.


﻿- 10 -
6.   If the Association shall have reasonably determined that the
procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the
procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no
expenditure for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit, and the Association may, without in any way
restricting or limiting any other right, power or remedy of the
Association under the Development Credit Agreement, by notice to
the Borrower, cancel such amount of the Credit as, in the Asso-
ciation's reasonable opinion, represents the amount of such
expenditures which would otherwise have been eligible for
financing out of the proceeds of the Credit.


﻿- 11 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project comprises part of the Authority's five year
(1983-88) investment program to be carried out in CMA and con-
sists of the following:
Part A:   Municipal Development Program
The carrying out of a program to provide water supply,
drainage, sanitation, transportation infrastructure, markets and
community halls, and upgrading of the Bustees in the Munici-
palities.
Part B:   Transmunicipal Infrastructure Program
The carrying out of a program to provide critical infra-
structure in the water supply, drainage, sanitation, transporta-
tion and area development sectors.
Part C:   Calcutta-Howrah Investment Program
The carrying out of a program of investments to optimize
existing infrastructure in the Corporation and Howrah jurisdic-
tions in the water supply, drainage, sanitation, Bustee improve-
ment, traffic, transportation and urban renewal sectors.
Part D:   Complementary Programs
The carrying out of CMA-wide complementary programs of
shelter and area development, health, assistance to small-scale
entrepreneurs, Panchayat development, technical assistance and
training.
The Project is expected to be completed by March 31, 1988.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Development Association.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Association
thereunto the            day of
198-,?
FOR SECRETARY


