Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
LOAN NUMBER 7779-DO 
 
Loan Agreement 
 
(Public Finance and Social Sector Development Policy Loan) 
 
between 
 
DOMINICAN REPUBLIC 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
Dated November 18, 2009  
Page  2
LOAN NUMBER 7779-DO 
 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
 
Agreement dated November 18, 2009, entered into between DOMINICAN REPUBLIC 
(“Borrower”) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND 
DEVELOPMENT (“Bank”) for the purpose of providing financing in support of the Program (as 
defined in the Appendix to this Agreement).  The Bank has decided to provide this financing on 
the basis, 
inter alia
,
of: (a) the actions which the Borrower has already taken under the Program 
and which are described in Section I of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and (b) the Borrower’s 
maintenance of an appropriate macro-economic policy framework.  The Borrower and the Bank 
therefore hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I 
—
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) constitute an 
integral part of this Agreement. 
 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this Agreement have 
the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in the Appendix to this 
Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE II 
—
LOAN 
 
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or referred 
to in this Agreement, the amount of one hundred and fifty million Dollars 
($150,000,000), as such amount may be converted from time to time through a Currency 
Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.07 of this Agreement 
(“Loan”). 
 
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in support of the Program in 
accordance with Section II of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
 
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one percent 
(0.25%) of the Loan amount.   
 
2.04. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate equal to 
LIBOR for the Loan Currency plus the Fixed Spread; provided, that upon a Conversion 
of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan, the interest payable by the 
Borrower during the Conversion Period on such amount shall be determined in 
accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions.  
Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance remains 
unpaid when due and such non-payment continues for a period of thirty days, then the 
interest payable by the Borrower shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02 
(d) of the General Conditions. 
 
2.05. 
The Payment Dates are May 15 and November 15 in each year. 
Page  3
-2- 
 
2.06. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
2.07. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions of the 
terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: (i) a change of 
the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan, 
withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved Currency; (ii) a change of the 
interest rate basis applicable to all or any portion of the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice 
versa; and (iii) the setting of limits on the Variable Rate applicable to all or any 
portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding by the 
establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar on the Variable 
Rate. 
 
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that is 
accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined in the 
General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the provisions of 
Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion Guidelines.  
 
(c) 
Promptly following the Execution Date for an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate 
Collar for which the Borrower has requested that the premium be paid out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from 
the Loan Account and pay to itself the amounts required to pay any premium 
payable in accordance with Section 4.05 (c) of the General Conditions up to the 
amount allocated from time to time for the purpose in the table in Section IV of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
2.08. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of Section 2.07 of this 
Agreement and unless otherwise notified by the Borrower to the Bank in accordance with 
the provisions of the Conversion Guidelines, the interest rate basis applicable to 
consecutive withdrawals from the Loan Account which in the aggregate equal fifteen 
million Dollars ($15,000,000) shall be converted from the initial Variable Rate to a Fixed 
Rate for the full maturity of such amount in accordance with the provisions of the 
General Conditions and of the Conversion Guidelines. 
 
2.09. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 5.08 of the General Conditions 
(renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 4 of Section II of the Appendix to this 
Agreement and relating to 
Cooperation and Consultation
), the Borrower shall promptly 
furnish to the Bank such information relating to the provisions of this Article II as the 
Bank may, from time to time, reasonably request. 
 
ARTICLE III 
—
PROGRAM 
 
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the Program and its implementation.  To this 
end, and further to Section 5.08 of the General Conditions: 
 
(a) 
the Borrower and the Bank shall from time to time, at the request of either party, 
exchange views on the progress achieved in carrying out the Program; 
Page  4
-3- 
 
(b) 
prior to each such exchange of views, the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank for 
its review and comment a report on the progress achieved in carrying out the 
Program, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request; and 
 
(c) 
without limitation upon the provisions of paragraphs (a) and (b) of this Section, 
the Borrower shall promptly inform the Bank of any situation that would have 
the effect of materially reversing the objectives of the Program or any action 
taken under the Program including any action specified in Section I of Schedule 
1
to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE IV 
—
REMEDIES OF THE BANK 
 
4.01. 
The Additional Events of Suspension consist of the following: 
 
(a) 
A situation has arisen which shall make it improbable that the Program, or a 
significant part of it, will be carried out. 
 
(b) 
The Borrower’s macroeconomic policy framework has, in the opinion of the 
Bank, become inconsistent with the objectives of the Program. 
 
(c) 
An action has been taken or a policy has been adopted to reverse any action or 
policy under the Program (including any action listed in Section I of Schedule 1 
to this Agreement) in a manner that would, in the opinion of the Bank, adversely 
affect the achievement of the objectives of the Program. 
 
ARTICLE V 
—
EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION
 
5.01. 
Without prejudice to the provisions of the General Conditions, the Effectiveness Deadline 
is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement, but in no case later than the 
eighteen (18) months after the Bank’s approval of the Loan which expire on May 17, 
2011. 
 
ARTICLE VI 
—
REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
 
6.01. 
The Borrower’s Representative is its 
Secretario de Estado de Hacienda
.
6.02. 
The Borrower’s Address is: 
 
Secretaría de Estado de Hacienda  
 
Avenida México No. 45, Gazcue 
 
Santo Domingo, Apartado Postal 1478 
República Dominicana 
 
Tel: 
 
  Facsimile: 
 
(809) 687-5131  
(809) 688-8838 
Page  5
-4- 
 
6.03. 
The Bank’s Address is: 
 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
 Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
INTBAFRAD  
248423(MCI) 
or 
1-202-477-6391 
Washington, D.C. 
 64145(MCI) 
 
AGREED at the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first 
above written. 
 
DOMINICAN REPUBLIC 
 
By /s/ Vicente Bengoa Albizu 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
By /s/ Evangeline Javier 
 
Authorized Representative 
Page  6
-5- 
 
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Program Actions; Availability of Loan Proceeds 
 
Section I. 
Actions Taken Under the
Program
The actions taken by the Borrower under the Program include the following:
 
1. 
The Borrower has taken the following actions to improve the SIUBEN beneficiary 
database for CCT 
Solidaridad
 and other social programs: 
 
(a) 
JCE and the Soci
al Cabinet, through its SIUBEN unit, have shared JCE’s and 
SIUBEN’s respective databases (including lists of citizens with proper identity 
documentation and of poor households eligible for social programs, 
respectively), as evidenced by a letter from JCE to SIUBEN dated March 31, 
2009.  
 
(b) 
The Social Cabinet has approved an action plan for the recertification of 
SIUBEN, including the recertification of SIUBEN registered households and the 
incorporation of households living in poor areas that were not interviewed in the 
previous data collection, as evidenced by the Memorandum of July 31, 2009 
from the Social Cabinet to the Secretariat of State of Finance attaching the said 
action plan.  
 
2. 
The Borrower has taken the following action to implement its Universal Health 
Insurance Law, providing for the financing of the Borrower’s Subsidized Regime: 
 
The Borrower has included in its 2009 budget sufficient resources to finance FHI 
capitations for all individuals enrolled in the Subsidized Regime at the end of 2008, as 
evidenced by volume I of the annexes to the Borrower’s Budget Law (
Ley No. 498-08 
que aprueba el Presupuesto de Ingresos y Gastos Públicos para el año 2009
 
y
su 
Addendum
). 
 
3. 
The Borrower has taken the following actions to reduce the fiscal burden created by the 
losses of the electricity sector: 
 
(a) 
The Electricity Superintendency has increased the average electricity tariff paid 
by users by 12.25 percent between May and July 2009 and simplified the tariff 
structure for residential customers from eight to four blocks, as evidenced by 
Electricity Superintendency Resolutions SIE-44-2009, dated May 29, 2009, and 
SIE-47-2009, dated June 29, 2009. 
 
(b) 
The Electricity Superintendency has
 
reduced the ceiling for subsidized tariffs 
from 700 kWh per month to a maximum of 300 kWh per month, as evidenced by 
Electricity Superintendency Resolutions SIE-44-2009, dated May 29, 2009, and 
SIE-47-2009, dated June 29, 2009. 
 
Page  7
-6- 
 
(c) 
The Distribution Companies have improved their Cost Recovery Index 
(expressed as a 12-month moving average) from a level of 64 percent in 
December 2008 to a level of 66 percent in March 2009, as evidenced by letter 
No. CTR-1511/09-
2009
from CDEEE’s Comptroller’s office dated September 
29, 2009, together with the corresponding certified audited accounts of the 
Distribution Companies. 
 
(d) 
The Borrower has cleared all arrears owned to electricity generators and 
accumulated during 2008. Additionally and before September 18, 2009, the 
Borrower has paid an amount up to $100 million to reduce the arrears owed to 
the electricity generators and accumulated up to the end of June 2009, to an 
amount of $222 million, as evidenced by letter No. CTR-1510/09-2009 from the 
CDEEE Comptroller’s office dated September 30, 2009. 
 
4. 
The Borrower has taken the following actions to achieve a better targeting of social and 
other expenditures: 
 
(a) 
The Borrower has eliminated the universal subsidy for liquefied gas and replaced 
it by a new subsidy as part of CCT 
Solidaridad
 (BONOGAS) targeted to those 
individuals meeting the SIUBEN criteria or working in the transport sector, as 
evidenced by SEIC Resolutions No. 95., dated September 26, 2008, and No. 96, 
dated October 3, 2008 and by Social Cabinet Resolution No. 03-09, dated March 
15, 2009.  
 
(b) 
The Borrower has adopted a decree providing for the end of the PRA and its 
related subsidies based on geographic criteria, as evidenced by Presidential 
Decree 421-09, dated May 30, 2009. 
 
5. 
The Borrower has taken the following action to enhance transparency about the 
efficiency and distributional effects of its tax policies: 
 
The Borrower included as an annex to its 2009 budget an analysis and an estimation of 
the costs of the exceptions to its taxes on domestic and international transactions, as 
evidenced by the appendix entitled “Estimation of the 2009 tax expenditures for the 
Dominican Republic” (
Estimación de Gastos Tributarios del Año 2009 para República 
Dominicana
)
to 
the Borrower’s Budget Law (
Ley No. 498-08 que aprueba el 
Presupuesto de Ingresos y Gastos Públicos para el año 2009
 
y
su Addendum
). 
 
Section II. 
Availability of Loan Proceeds
A. General. 
 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the 
provisions of this Section and such additional instructions as the Bank may specify by 
notice to the Borrower. 
 
B. 
Allocation of Loan Amounts.
 
The Loan shall (except for amounts required to pay the 
Front-end Fee) be withdrawn in a single tranche.  The allocation of the amounts of the 
Loan to this end is set out in the table below: 
 
Page  8
-7- 
 
Allocations 
Amount of the Loan 
Tranche Allocated 
(expressed in Dollars) 
Percentage of Expenditures to 
be Financed 
Single Tranche 
149,625,000 
100% 
Premia for Interest Rate 
Caps and Interest Rate 
Collars 
-0- Amount 
due 
under 
Section 
2.07(c) of this Agreement. 
Front-end 
Fee 
375,000 
Amount payable pursuant to 
Section 2.03 of this Agreement 
in accordance with Section 2.07 
(b) of the General Conditions 
TOTAL AMOUNT 
150,000,000 
 
C. 
Deposits of Loan Amounts.
 
1. 
Except as the Bank may otherwise agree:   
 
(a) 
all withdrawals from the Loan Account shall be deposited by the Bank into an 
account designated by the Borrower and acceptable to the Bank; and 
 
(b)  
the Borrower shall ensure that upon each deposit of an amount of the Loan into 
this account, an equivalent amount is accounted for in the Borrower’s National 
Treasury, in a manner acceptable to the Bank. 
 
2. 
For purposes of paragraph 1(a) of this Section C, prior to furnishing to the Bank the first 
request for withdrawal from the Loan Account, the Borrower shall open and, thereafter 
maintain, a deposit account in United States Dollars at the Central Bank of the 
Dominican Republic, on terms and conditions satisfactory and acceptable to the Bank. 
 
3. 
The Borrower shall confirm to the Bank:  
 
(a)  
the name and number of the designated deposit account mentioned in paragraphs 
1(a) and 2 above; 
 
(b)  
the foreign currency amount received in the designated deposit account referred 
to above; 
 
(c)  
the foreign currency amounts withdrawn from the said designated deposit 
account at the Central Bank of the Dominican Republic, and the equivalent 
amounts credited to the National Treasury single account to finance budgeted 
expenditures; and  
 
(d) 
the date and name, and/or number of the National Treasury account to finance 
budgeted expenditures to which the amounts equivalent to the amounts 
withdrawn from the Loan Account have been credited. 
 
Page  9
-8- 
 
D. Excluded 
Expenditures
.
The Borrower undertakes that the proceeds of the Loan shall 
not be used to finance Excluded Expenditures. If the Bank determines at any time that an 
amount of the Loan was used to make a payment for an Excluded Expenditure, the 
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund an amount equal to the 
amount of such payment to the Bank. Amounts refunded to the Bank upon such request 
shall be cancelled. 
 
E. Audit.
 
1. 
Upon the Bank’s request, the Borrower shall: 
 
(a) 
have the Deposit Account audited by independent auditors acceptable to the 
Bank, in accordance with consistently applied auditing standards acceptable to 
the Bank; 
 
(b) 
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later than six (6) 
months after the date of the Bank’s request for such audit, a certified copy of the 
report of such audit, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably 
request; and  
 
(c) 
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning the Deposit Account and 
their audit as the Bank shall reasonably request.
 
F. 
Closing Date.  
The Closing Date is December 31, 2010. 
 
Page  10
-9- 
 
SCHEDULE 2 
 
Amortization Schedule  
 
1. 
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the 
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal Payment 
Date (“Installment Share”).  If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully withdrawn as of 
the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the 
Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be determined by the Bank by 
multiplying:  (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the first Principal Payment Date; by (b) 
the Installment Share for each Principal Payment Date, such repayable amount to be 
adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, 
to which a Currency Conversion applies.  
 
Principal Payment Date 
Installment Share 
(Expressed as a Percentage)
 
November 15, 2022 
6.66% 
May 15, 2023 
6.66% 
November 15, 2023 
6.66% 
May 15, 2024 
6.66% 
November 15, 2024 
10.00% 
May 15, 2025 
0.00% 
November 15, 2025 
0.00% 
May 15, 2026 
0.00% 
November 15, 2026 
0.00% 
May 15, 2027 
0.00% 
November 15, 2027 
0.00% 
May 15, 2028 
10.00% 
November 15, 2028 
10.00% 
May 15, 2029 
6.66% 
November 15, 2029 
6.66% 
May 15, 2030 
6.66% 
November 15, 2030 
6.66% 
May 15, 2031 
6.66% 
November 15, 2031 
3.33% 
May 15, 2032 
3.33% 
November 15, 2032 
3.40% 
2.  
If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal 
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on each 
Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows: 
 
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of the first 
Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the Withdrawn Loan Balance 
as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 of this Schedule. 
Page  11
-10- 
 
(b) 
Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be repaid on 
each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such withdrawal in amounts 
determined by the Bank by multiplying the amount of each such withdrawal by a 
fraction, the numerator of which is the original Installment Share specified in the 
table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (“Original 
Installment Share”) and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining 
Original Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such 
date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts 
referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion 
applies. 
 
3. 
(a) 
Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two calendar months prior to any 
Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the principal 
amounts payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as withdrawn and 
outstanding on the second Principal Payment Date following the date of 
withdrawal and shall be repayable on each Principal Payment Date commencing 
with the second Principal Payment Date following the date of withdrawal. 
 
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if at any 
time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which invoices are issued 
on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the provisions of such sub-
paragraph shall no longer apply to any withdrawals made after the adoption of 
such billing system.  
 
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a Currency 
Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an Approved 
Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is repayable on any 
Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion Period, shall be determined by 
the Bank by multiplying such amount in its currency of denomination immediately prior 
to the Conversion by either: (i) the exchange rate that reflects the amounts of principal in 
the Approved Currency payable by the Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction 
relating to the Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in accordance with the 
Conversion Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen Rate.  
 
5. 
If the Withdrawn Loan Balance is denominated in more than one Loan Currency, the 
provisions of this Schedule shall apply separately to the amount denominated in each 
Loan Currency, so as to produce a separate amortization schedule for each such amount. 
 
Page  12
-11- 
 
APPENDIX 
 
Section I.  Definitions 
 
1. 
“CCT 
Solidaridad
¨
means the Borrower’s conditional cash transfer program for poor 
Dominican households as part of the Borrower’s social protection system and created 
pursuant to the Borrower’s Decree 536-05, dated September 26, 2005. 
 
2. 
“CDEEE” means 
Corporación Dominicana de Empresas Eléctricas Estatales
,
the 
Borrower’s Conglomerate of Electric Companies. 
 
3. 
“Cost Recovery Index” or “CRI” means  Cash Recovery Index, which is calculated 
monthly on a cumulative basis, using the data for the month of the calculation and the 
eleven months immediately prior to said calculation date, and using the following 
formula excluding PRA:  
 
(energy billed by the Distribution Companies/energy purchased by the Distribution 
Companies) 
 
Multiplied by 
 
(bills paid by consumers to the Distribution Companies/total billing of the Distribution 
Companies to consumers). 
 
For purposes of this paragraph the data used to calculate said CRI, means data, provided 
by the Distribution Companies, which shall have been audited on a quarterly basis, by 
independent auditors acceptable to the Bank, in accordance with appropriate auditing 
principles consistently applied, for which audits the Borrower shall have furnished to the 
Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later than 25 days after the close of each 
month, beginning with the first month following the Effective Date, a certified copy of 
the report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank 
shall have reasonably requested. 
 
4. “Distribution 
Companies” 
means, 
collectively, 
Empresa Distribuidora de Electricidad 
del Norte, S.A. 
(EDENORTE), 
Empresa Distribuidora de Electricidad del Sur, S.A. 
(EDESUR),
 
and 
Empresa Distribuidora de Electricidad del Este, S.A. 
(EDESTE), the 
Borrower’s publicly-owned electricity companies. 
 
5. 
“Electricity Superintendancy” means the Borrower’s 
Superintendencia de Electricidad
 
(SIE), the entity responsible for the supervision of the generation, transmission, and 
distribution of electricity and created pursuant to the General Electricity Law 125-01 (
Ley 
General de Electricidad
)
dated July 26, 2001.  
 
6. 
“Excluded Expenditure” means any expenditure
:
(a)  
for goods or services supplied under a contract which any national or 
international financing institution or agency other than the Bank or the 
Page  13
-12- 
 
Association has financed or agreed to finance, or which the Bank or the 
Association has financed or agreed to finance under another loan, credit, or grant; 
 
(b) 
for goods included in the following groups or sub-groups of the Standard 
International Trade Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev.3), published by the 
United Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev.3 (1986) (the SITC), 
or any successor groups or subgroups under future revisions to the SITC, as 
designated by the Bank by notice to the Borrower: 
 
Group
Sub-group Description 
of 
Item 
112  
Alcoholic 
beverages 
121  
Tobacco, 
un-manufactured, 
tobacco refuse 
122  
Tobacco, 
manufactured 
(whether or not containing 
tobacco substitutes) 
525 
 
Radioactive and associated 
materials 
667 
 
Pearls, precious and 
semiprecious stones, 
unworked or worked 
718  
718.7 
 
Nuclear reactors, and parts 
thereof; fuel elements 
(cartridges), non-irradiated, 
for nuclear reactors 
728 
728.43  
Tobacco processing 
machinery 
897  
897.3 
Jewelry of gold, silver or 
platinum group metals (except 
watches and watch cases) and 
goldsmiths’ or silversmiths’ 
wares (including set gems) 
971  
 
Gold, non-monetary 
(excluding gold ores and 
concentrates) 
(c) 
for goods intended for a military or paramilitary purpose or for luxury 
consumption; 
 
(d) 
for environmentally hazardous goods, the manufacture, use or import of which is 
prohibited under the laws of the Borrower or international agreements to which 
the Borrower is a party; 
 
(e) 
on account of any payment prohibited by a decision of the United Nations 
Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations; 
and 
 
(f) 
with respect to which the Bank determines that corrupt, fraudulent, collusive or 
coercive practices were engaged in by representatives of the Borrower or other 
Page  14
-13- 
 
recipient of the Loan proceeds, without the Borrower (or other such recipient) 
having taken timely and appropriate action satisfactory to the Bank to address 
such practices when they occur. 
 
7. 
“FHI” means Family Health Insurance (
Seguro Familiar de Salud
), the mandatory health 
insurance as established by the Borrower’s Laws 87-01 and 42-01. 
 
8. 
“General Conditions” means the “International Bank for Reconstruction and 
Development General Conditions for Loans”, dated July 1, 2005 (as amended through 
February 12, 2008) with the modifications set forth in Section II of this Appendix. 
 
9. “JCE” 
means 
Junta Central Electoral
,
the Borrower’s entity responsible for, 
inter alia,
 
organizing and holding public elections and administering and regulating the civil status 
of the Borrower’s citizens. 
 
10. 
“PRA” means the Borrower’s Blackout Reduction Program
 
(
Programa de Reducción de 
Apagones
)
created pursuant to Presidential Decree No. 1080-01, dated November 3, 
2001, and modified by Presidential Decree No. 1554-04, dated December 13, 2004. 
 
11. 
“Program” means the program of actions, objectives and policies designed to promote 
growth and achieve sustainable reductions in poverty and set forth or referred to in the 
letter dated August 7, 2009 from the Borrower to the Bank declaring the Borrower’s 
commitment to the execution of the Program, and requesting assistance from the Bank in 
support of the Program during its execution. 
 
12. “SEIC” 
means 
Secretaria de Estado de Industria y Comercio
,
the Borrower’s Secretariat 
of Industry and Commerce. 
 
13. 
“Single Tranche” means the amount of the Loan allocated to the category entitled “Single 
Tranche” in the table set forth in Part B of Section II of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. 
 
14. “SIUBEN” 
means 
Sistema Único de Beneficiarios
,
the Borrower’s beneficiary targeting 
system, created pursuant to Presidential Decree No. 1073-04, dated August 31, 2004. 
 
15. 
“Social Cabinet” means the Borrower’s set of secretariats in charge of organizing and 
coordinating the Borrower’s social sector and social assistance programs, and 
coordinated pursuant to the Borrower´s Presidential Decrees No. 570-05, dated October 
12, 2005, No. 1082, dated September 3, 2004, and No. 1251, dated September 22, 2004. 
 
16. 
“Subsidized Regime” means the subsidized regime (
Régimen Subsidiado
)
of the 
Borrower’s social security for poor individuals (as identified according to the SIUBEN). 
 
17. 
“Universal Health Insurance Law” means the Borrower’s Law 87-01 (
Ley que crea el 
Sistema Dominicano de Seguridad Social
), dated May 9, 2001. 
 
Section II.  Modifications to the General Conditions 
 
The modifications to the General Conditions are as follows:   
Page  15
-14- 
 
1. 
The last sentence of paragraph (a) of Section 2.03 (relating to Applications for 
Withdrawal) is deleted in its entirety. 
2. 
Sections 2.04 (
Designated Accounts)
 and 2.05 (
Eligible Expenditures
)
are deleted in their 
entirety, and the remaining Sections in Article II are renumbered accordingly. 
3. 
Sections 5.01 (
Project Execution Generally
), and 5.09 (
Financial Management; 
Financial Statements; Audits
)
are deleted in their entirety, and the remaining Sections in 
Article V are renumbered accordingly. 
4. 
Paragraph (a) of Section 5.05 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 4 above and 
relating to 
Use of Goods, Works and Services
)
is deleted in its entirety. 
 
5. 
Paragraph (c) of Section 5.06 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 4 above) is 
modified to read as follows: 
 
“Section 5.06. 
Plans; Documents; Records 
 
…
(c) 
The Borrower shall retain all records (contracts, orders, invoices, 
bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing expenditures under the Loan until 
two years after the Closing Date. The Borrower shall enable the Bank’s 
representatives to examine such records.” 
 
6. 
Paragraph (c) of Section 5.07 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 4 above) is 
modified to read as follows: 
 
“Section 5.07. 
Program Monitoring and Evaluation 
 
…
(c)  
The Borrower shall prepare, or cause to be prepared, and furnish 
to the Bank not later than six months after the Closing Date, a report of such 
scope and in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request, on the execution of 
the Program, the performance by the Loan Parties and the Bank of their 
respective obligations under the Legal Agreements and the accomplishment of 
the purposes of the Loan.” 
 
7. 
The following terms and definitions set forth in the Appendix are modified or deleted as 
follows, and the following new terms and definitions are added in alphabetical order to 
the Appendix as follows, with the terms being renumbered accordingly:
 
(a) 
The definition of the term “Conversion Date” is modified to read as follows: 
 
“‘Conversion Date’ means, in respect of a Conversion, the Execution Date (as 
herein defined) or such other date as requested by the Borrower and accepted by 
the Bank, on which the Conversion enters into effect, and as further specified in 
the Conversion Guidelines.” 
 
(b)  
The definition of the term “Eligible Expenditure” is modified to read as follows:   
 
Page  16
-15- 
 
“‘Eligible Expenditure’ means any use to which the Loan is put in support of the 
Program, other than to finance expenditures excluded pursuant to the Loan 
Agreement.” 
 
(c) 
The term “Financial Statements” and its definition are deleted in their entirety. 
 
(d) 
The term “Project” is modified to read “Program” and its definition is modified 
to read as follows (and all references to “Project” throughout these General 
Conditions are deemed to be references to “Program”):  
 
“‘Program’ means the program referred to in the Loan Agreement in support of 
which the Loan is made.” 
 
