Page  1
PROGRAM INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
APPRAISAL STAGE 
Report No.:  AB5128 
Operation Name 
Public Finance and Social Sector Development Policy Loan 
Region 
LATIN AMERICA AND CARIBBEAN 
Sector 
Central government administration (50%); Other social services 
(20%); Banking (15%); Capital markets (15%) 
Project ID 
P115145 
Borrower(s) 
DOMINICAN REPUBLIC 
Implementing Agency 
MINISTRY OF ECONOMY 
Secretaria de Estado de Hacienda 
Avenida Mexico No. 45 Gazcue 
Santo Domingo 
Dominican Republic 
Tel: (809) 687-5131 Ext. 2361 
 
evictoria@creditopublico.gov.do 
Date PID Prepared 
October 7, 2009 
Date of Appraisal 
Authorization 
July 29, 2009 
Date of Board Approval 
November 17, 2009 
1. 
Country and Sector Background 
This operation was prepared to support the government
’s efforts to (a) overcome the fiscal 
strains caused by the current global financial crisis and (b) continue the implementation of its 
reform agenda in this difficult context of economic slowdown. The government reform 
agenda has three pillars related to public finance and the social sectors, namely: (1) improve 
the efficiency of public spending by strengthening public sector institutions of budgeting and 
public finance management and by continuing to improve the effectiveness and targeting of 
poverty reduction and human development related expenditures; (2) promote fiscal 
sustainability by mitigating the global crisis’ impact on the Dominican Republic’s public 
finances and reducing its vulnerability to future shocks; and (3) improve the environment for 
private sector-led growth and job creation by securing the stability of the financial sector and 
increasing international competitiveness. The government program also addresses longer 
term actions aimed at laying the foundations for the DR’s recovery from the current global 
economic crisis and for sustainable development. The policies of the public expenditure 
pillar focus on increasing government expenditure efficiency, an essential objective during a 
crisis. In addition, the policies under this pillar address areas where the Dominican Republic 
has lagged behind comparable countries in terms of investments in human development and 
protection of the poor. The fiscal sustainability pillar complements the first pillar by assuring 
that fiscal resources will be available to implement the desired spending programs and that 
macroeconomic institutions will weather the global economic storm. The private sector and 
competitiveness pillar aims to facilitate economic growth. 
 
2. Operation 
Objectives 
The Public Finance and Social Sector DPL support two main objectives of the Dominican 
Republic’s crisis response program:   
Page  2
A. Improvement of the quality and efficiency of public spending, especially for poverty 
reduction and human development. 
i. 
Improvement of institutions for budgeting and expenditure management. 
ii.  Improvement of quality of health sector spending. 
iii. Improvement of targeting of spending intended for the poor. 
B.  Mitigation of the impact of the ongoing global economic crisis on the Dominica Republic
’s 
public finances and reduction of vulnerability to future shocks.  
i. 
 Control of spending 
1.  Reduction of outlays for inefficient subsidies. 
2.  Improvement of cost recovery in the energy sector.  
ii.  Improvement in the transparency of tax policies. 
iii. Improvement of effectiveness of revenue collection by domestic tax and customs 
authorities 
 
3. 
Rationale for Bank Involvement 
The Public Finance and Social Sector DPL is a single-tranche operation whose aim is to reduce 
the negative impact of the global financial crisis on the Dominican Republic. The project is 
consistent with the objectives of the Bank’s engagement as set forth in the Country Partnership 
Strategy (CPS, FY10-12) discussed by the World Bank Board on September 17, 2009. More 
specifically, this DPL supports policies and institutional reforms aimed at two strategic 
objectives in the CPS, namely: (a) strengthen social cohesion and improve access to and quality 
of social services and (b) promote competitiveness in a sustainable and resilient economic 
environment.  This operation is closely linked to another DPL (the Performance and 
Accountability of the Social Sectors – PASS DPL), which is launches the Bank’s multi-year 
engagement with the country under the CPS. 
 
4. Financing 
Source: ($m.) 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
150 
 Total 
150 
 
5. 
Institutional and Implementation Arrangements 
The Ministry of Finance is the implementation agency. 
 
6. 
Benefits and Risks 
By providing the government with needed external financing, this loan is part of a coordinated 
effort by the WB, IDB and IMF to support the country to weather the current international 
economic downturn. In particular, by supporting a shift towards better targeted social programs 
within a sustainable fiscal framework, the loan will improve the prospects of making growth 
stronger and more pro-poor 
 
The operation is subject to some economic, political and natural disaster related risks. The main 
economic risk is related to a possibly longer than expected global economic downturn with 
stronger negative effects on the Dominican Republic growth. This in turn may strain government 
finances, put pressure on the exchange rate and affect the poor disproportionally. The main 
political risks concern distraction from the agenda and its weakening by special interests. There 
Page  3
is also the risk of lack of political sustainability of the energy sector reform and/or its potential 
reversal. Finally, the Dominican Republic is highly vulnerable to natural disaster risks, 
particularly floods and hurricanes, which have the potential to derail economic growth and 
poverty reduction. 
 
7. 
Poverty and Social Impacts and Environment Aspects 
This proposed DPL is expected to have a positive poverty and social impact. The objectives of 
improving the effectiveness and targeting of poverty reduction and human development related 
expenditures directly address problems of low coverage, regressive allocation and small unit 
values. In particular, the positive distributional effects of the simultaneous dismantling of PRA 
(
Programa de Reducción de Apagones) and its substitution by Bonoluz are going to be 
significant: with the same budget resources, Bonoluz will reach more than 4 times the number of 
poor families covered with the old geographic-based scheme. Another important measure for 
poverty reduction supported by this loan is the process of extension in coverage of Identification 
Cards among Dominicans. Lack of identification cards has hindered many households from 
getting access to 
Solidaridad
,
currently the government’s most important conditional cash 
transfer program. Additionally, fully funding the subsidized health insurance program and, as 
fiscal conditions permit, expanding its coverage will reduce out-of-pocket expenditures for 
health by the poorest members of society. 
 
The energy sector policies supported by this DPL are expected to have a favorable impact on the 
environment, by reducing emissions of greenhouse gases and other pollutants, due to a more 
efficient electricity sector and a reduction of the need for electricity generation off-grid. The 
other policies supported are not expected to entail significant impacts on the environment, forests 
or other natural resources. 
 
8. Contact point 
Contact: Maurizio Bussolo 
Title: Senior Economist 
Tel: (202) 458-2619 
Fax:  
Email: mbussolo@worldbank.org 
 
9. 
For more information contact: 
The InfoShop 
The World Bank 
1818 H Street, NW 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
Telephone:  (202) 458-4500 
Fax:  (202) 522-1500 
Email: pic@worldbank.org 
Web: http://www.worldbank.org/infoshop 
 
