Page  1
PROGRAM INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
CONCEPT STAGE 
Report No.:  AB5125 
Operation Name 
Public Finance and Social Sector Development Policy Loan 
Region 
LATIN AMERICA AND CARIBBEAN 
Sector 
Central Government Administration  (60%); Health (30%) Other 
Social Sectors (10%) 
Project ID 
P115145 
Borrower(s) 
DOMINICAN REPUBLIC 
Implementing Agency 
MINISTRY OF FINANCE 
Secretaria de Estado de Hacienda 
Avenida Mexico No. 45 Gazcue 
Santo Domingo 
Dominican Republic 
Tel: (809) 687-5131 Ext. 2361 
 
evictoria@creditopublico.gov.do 
Date PID Prepared 
October 7, 2009 
Estimated Date of 
Appraisal Authorization 
July 29, 2009 
Estimated Date of Board 
Approval 
November 17, 2009 
1.  Key development issues and rationale for Bank involvement 
This operation was prepared to support the government in its efforts to (a) overcome the fiscal strains 
deriving from the current global financial crisis and to (b) continue the implementation of its reform 
agenda in this difficult context of economic slowdown. The government reform agenda has three pillars 
related to public finance and the social sectors, namely: (1) improve the efficiency of public spending by 
strengthening public sector institutions of budgeting and public finance management and by continuing 
to improve the level and targeting poverty reduction and human development related expenditures; (2) 
promote fiscal sustainability by mitigating the global crisis’s impact on the DR’s public finances and 
reducing their vulnerability to future shocks; and (3) improve the environment for private-sector led 
growth and job creation by securing the stability of the financial sector and increasing international 
competitiveness. The government program also addresses longer term issues to lay the foundations for 
the DR’s recovery from the current world crisis and for sustainable development. The policies of the 
public expenditure pillar focus on increasing government expenditure efficiency, an essential objective 
during a crisis. In addition, the policies under this pillar address areas where the Dominican Republic 
has lagged behind comparable countries in terms of investments in human development and protection 
of the poor. The fiscal sustainability pillar complements the first pillar by assuring that resources—fiscal 
space—will be available to implement the desired spending programs and that macroeconomic 
institutions will weather the global economic storm. The private sector and competitiveness pillar aims 
to facilitate economic growth. This, in turn, will underpin fiscal progress and, most importantly, will 
provide employment opportunities to the workers with enhanced human capital (resulting from the 
improved government social programs) and will reduce poverty. 
 
2. Proposed objective(s) 
The Public Finance and Social Sector DPL supports the Dominican Republic in implementing key 
aspects of its program, and in particular three main objectives are pursued:   
Page  2
(1) To continue improving the efficiency of budget processes generally and of social protection and 
public health, in particular by introducing and expanding performance-informed budget; targeting social 
and other expenditures better; providing Dominican households with the identification card to be 
eligible for CCT Solidaridad; up-dating nation-wide the SIUBEN beneficiary database for 2009, to 
minimize errors of inclusion or exclusion; implementing the mandates of the universal health insurance 
laws; and ensuring that targeted subsidies to finance health insurance for the poor are protected.  
(2) To promote fiscal sustainability through the consolidation of overall public sector balances and debt 
management, including: maintaining macroeconomic stability; enhancing revenues from internal and 
customs sources; reducing the fiscal burden from the losses of the electricity sector; and improving debt 
management. 
(3) To increase the resilience and soundness of the financial system, through stronger and more 
consolidated supervision. 
 
3. Preliminary description 
The 
Public Finance and Social Sector
 DPL is a single-tranche, non-programmatic operation whose aim 
is to reduce the negative impact of the international crisis. This operation is closely linked to another 
DPL (the PASS), which is viewed as the beginning of a multi-year engagement with the country under 
the Country Partnership Strategy (FY10-12) approved by the Board on September 17, 2009. The 
assistance provided through this operation is thus consistent with the objectives of the Bank engagement 
with the Dominican Republic as set forth in this recently approved Country Partnership Strategy.  
The primary development objectives of the DPL are to support government’s efforts to improve the 
quality and efficiency of public spending, especially for poverty reduction and human development and 
to mitigate the impact of the ongoing present global economic crisis on DR’s public finances and reduce 
vulnerability to future shocks.  
 
4. Environment Aspects 
In general, actions supported by this DPL are not likely to have significant effects on the environment, 
forests, or other natural resources. As far as the specific activities supported by this DPL in the energy 
sector (Restructuring Tariffs, Reducing distribution losses, actions to improve the targeting of electricity 
subsidies to the poorer population) do not pose additional environmental burden, on the contrary, these 
actions will strengthen other ongoing operations and their environmental compliance activities. The 
subsidies for electricity consumption have had two major negative environmental effects:  
overconsumption of power from the grid when it is available and use of electricity from small and 
inefficient private on-site generation when the grid becomes overloaded. The program supported here 
will substantially reduce both of these tendencies, and thus benefit the environment. Further 
improvement clearly remains possible, and subsequent lending and non-lending activity will support 
further reforms. Reduction of the subsidy for liquefied gas (BONOGAS), through better targeting, might 
have some negative environmental effects if people switch to dirtier or more environmentally unfriendly 
fuels (like wood), but the continuation of the subsidy for low-income households is expected to 
minimize this. 
 
5. Tentative financing 
Source: ($m.) 
Borrower 0 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
150 
 Total 
150 
 
6. Contact point 
Contact: Maurizio Bussolo 
Page  3
Title: Senior Economist 
Tel: (202) 458-2619 
Fax: (202) 522-2119 
Email: mbussolo@worldbank.org
 
