                                  Document of
                              The World Bank




                                                Report No: ICR00001881



          IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                           (IBRD-77790)



                                    ON A

                                    LOAN

                   IN THE AMOUNT OF US$ 150 MILLION


                                   TO THE

                           DOMINICAN REPUBLIC

                                   FOR A

   PUBLIC FINANCE AND SOCIAL SECTOR DEVELOPMENT POLICY LOAN



                                June 30, 2011




Poverty Reduction and Economic Management
Caribbean Countries Management Unit
Latin America and Caribbean Region
                   CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

          (Exchange Rate Effective as of December 31, 2010)

                Currency Unit    =   Dominican Pesos
                  US$1.00                37.4

                          FISCAL YEAR
                     January 1st – December 31st


               ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS


APL       Adaptable Program Loan
BONOGAS   Cash transfer subsidy of liquefied gas
BONOLUZ   Cash transfer subsidy of electricity consumption
CCT       Conditional Cash Transfer
CDEEE     Corporación Dominicana de Empresas Eléctricas Estatales
          (Dominican Corporation of State Electricity Enterprises)
CPS       Country Partnership Strategy
DPL       Development Policy Loan
GPS       Global Positioning System
IADB      Inter-American Development Bank
IFI       International financial institution
IMF       International Monetary Fund
JCE       Junta Central Electoral (National Civil Registry)
LAC       Latin America and Caribbean
PASS      Performance and Accountability of Social Sectors DPL
PDA       Hand-held computer
PRA       Programa de Reducción de Apagones (Program to Reduce Blackouts)
SIUBEN    CCT targeting system (Sistema Único de Beneficiarios)




                     Vice President: Pamela Cox
                   Country Director: Françoise Clottes
             Acting Sector Manager: Oscar Calvo-Gonzalez
                 Task Team Leader: Elizabeth Ruppert Bulmer
                  ICR Team Leader: Elizabeth Ruppert Bulmer
                                        DOMINICAN REPUBLIC

PUBLIC FINANCE AND SOCIAL SECTOR DEVELOPMENT POLICY LOAN

          IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT




                                                  CONTENTS



 Data Sheet
 A. Basic Information
 B. Key Dates
 C. Ratings Summary
 D. Sector and Theme Codes
 E. Bank Staff
 F. Results Framework Analysis
 G. Ratings of Program Performance in ISRs
 H. Restructuring

1. Program Context, Development Objectives and Design ............................................ 1
2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes .............................................. 7
3. Assessment of Outcomes .......................................................................................... 12
4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome ......................................................... 19
5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ..................................................... 20
6. Lessons Learned........................................................................................................ 22
Annex 1 Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes.............. 24
Annex 2. Beneficiary Survey Results ........................................................................... 25
Annex 3. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results................................................... 26
Annex 4. Summary of Borrower's Comments on Draft ICR ........................................ 27
Annex 5. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders ....................... 28
Annex 6. List of Supporting Documents ...................................................................... 29
MAP
 
A. Basic Information
                                                                          Public Finance and
                                                                          Social Sector
Country:                Dominican Republic      Program Name:
                                                                          Development Policy
                                                                          Loan
Program ID:             P115145                 L/C/TF Number(s):         IBRD-77790
ICR Date:               06/01/2011              ICR Type:                 Core ICR
                                                                          DOMINICAN
Lending Instrument:     DPL                     Borrower:
                                                                          REPUBLIC
Original Total
                        USD 150.0M              Disbursed Amount:         USD 150.0M
Commitment:
Revised Amount:         USD 150.0M
Implementing Agencies:
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:

B. Key Dates
                                                                               Revised / Actual
     Process             Date             Process             Original Date
                                                                                   Date(s)
Concept Review:       04/15/2009     Effectiveness:                              12/01/2009
Appraisal:            07/29/2009     Restructuring(s):
Approval:             11/17/2009     Mid-term Review:
                                     Closing:                  12/31/2010        12/31/2010

C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                       Moderately Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                    Substantial
Bank Performance:                               Moderately Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                           Moderately Satisfactory

C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                 Ratings                 Borrower         Ratings
Quality at Entry:           Satisfactory        Government:         Not Applicable
                                                Implementing
Quality of Supervision: Moderately Satisfactory                     Not Applicable
                                                Agency/Agencies:
Overall Bank                                    Overall Borrower
                        Moderately Satisfactory                  Moderately Satisfactory
Performance:                                    Performance:




                                                i
C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                           QAG Assessments
                             Indicators                                          Rating:
     Performance                                 (if any)
 Potential Problem
                                                 Quality at Entry
Program at any time        No                                            None
                                                 (QEA):
(Yes/No):
 Problem Program at any                          Quality of
                        No                                               None
time (Yes/No):                                   Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before
Closing/Inactive status:

D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                Original            Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Central government administration                                    9                   9
Health                                                               9                   9
Other social services                                               37                  37
Power                                                               45                  45


Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Macroeconomic management                                            31                  31
Other economic management                                           31                  31
 Public expenditure, financial management and
                                                                    19                  19
procurement
Social safety nets                                                  13                  13
Tax policy and administration                                        6                  6

E. Bank Staff
         Positions                      At ICR                            At Approval
Vice President:            Pamela Cox                         Pamela Cox
Country Director:          Francoise Clottes                  Yvonne M. Tsikata
Sector Manager:            Oscar Calvo-Gonzalez               Rodrigo A. Chaves
Program Team Leader:       Elizabeth N. Ruppert Bulmer        Maurizio Bussolo
ICR Team Leader:           Elizabeth N. Ruppert Bulmer
ICR Primary Author:        Elizabeth N. Ruppert Bulmer




                                                ii
F. Results Framework Analysis

Program Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
I. Improve quality and efficiency of public spending, especially for poverty reduction
and human development.
  a. Improve institutions for budgeting and expenditure management
  b. Improve quality of health sector spending
  c. Improve targeting of spending intended for the poor

II. Mitigate the impact of ongoing global economic crisis on DR's public finances and
reduce vulnerability through fiscal sustainability.
  a. Control spending by reducing outlays for inefficient subsidies and improving cost
recovery in the energy sector
  b. Improve debt management
  c. Improve effectiveness of tax collection by domestic and customs authorities

Revised Program Development Objectives (if any, as approved by original approving
authority)



(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                             Original Target      Formally        Actual Value
                                              Values (from         Revised         Achieved at
    Indicator          Baseline Value
                                                 approval          Target         Completion or
                                               documents)          Values         Target Years
                   Targeting of social spending is improved through an updated SIUBEN (the
Indicator 1 :      targeting instrument) thanks to a new socioeconomic household survey which
                   covers additional geographic sectors not included in the 2004-2005 survey
                                            New survey with                    Procurement
Value                                       expanded                           constraints delayed
                   Old survey dates from
(quantitative or                            geographic                         survey
                   2004-2005
Qualitative)                                coverage                           implementation by
                                            completed.                         8 months.
Date achieved                               12/31/2010                         12/31/2010
Comments           Target not met. The lack of bids in the competitive selection process of a
(incl. %           survey administrator and Congressional financing delays caused a revised
achievement)       procurement approach which delayed the survey launch to July 2011.
                   Public debt expansion is contained and consolidated public sector debt does not
Indicator 2 :
                   exceed 40 percent of GDP
Value
(quantitative or   36.6% of GDP            40% of GDP                         37.2% of GDP
Qualitative)
Date achieved      12/31/2009               12/31/2010                         12/31/2010
Comments           Target fully achieved. Consolidated public sector debt rose slightly in 2010
(incl. %           compared to both 2008 and 2009 due to the primary deficits associated with
achievement)       fiscal stimulus, but remained below target.

                                                iii
                   Transfers from the Ministry of Finance to the CDEEE to cover the electricity
Indicator 3 :      sector deficit have been limited to no more than 0.8 percent of GDP, down
                   from 1.1 percent of GDP in 2009
Value                                                                         Transfers to
(quantitative or   2.4% of GDP in 2008 0.8% of GDP                            CDEEE were 1.3%
Qualitative)                                                                  of GDP
Date achieved      12/31/2008               12/31/2010                        12/31/2010
Comments
                   Target not achieved. Costs very high despite expanded billing due to high oil
(incl. %
                   prices, increased consumption and inadequate reduction of distribution losses.
achievement)
                   No individual (poor or not poor) is receiving electricity via the Programa de
                   Reducción de Apagones (PRA), and the # of poor [and not poor] receiving
Indicator 4 :
                   electricity subsidy BONOLUZ is close to the # of poor households covered by
                   PRA (i.e., at least 450,000
                                                                                 Government ends
                                                                                 PRA; 135,000
                   PRA in place in poor Government ends
Value                                                                            beneficiaries of
                   areas, covering 450,000 PRA; 450,000
(quantitative or                                                                 BONOLUZ,
                   households of which        households benefit
Qualitative)                                                                     including 2/3 of
                   196,000 were poor          from BONOLUZ
                                                                                 poor formerly
                                                                                 under PRA
Date achieved      06/30/2009                 12/31/2010                         12/31/2010
                   Target partially achieved. BONOLUZ coverage has expanded but budget
Comments
                   resources are inadequate to expand further. Two-thirds of poor households
(incl. %
                   under PRA now covered, but the total number of targeted households falls
achievement)
                   short.
                   Fiscal sustainability is improved through a strategy to rationalize and restrain
Indicator 5 :
                   tax exemptions and improve tax administration.
                                              Higher fiscal
                                              revenues due to                    Fiscal revenues
Value
                   Many exemptions result tax administration                     higher as a result of
(quantitative or
                   in a narrow tax base       measures and                       tax administration
Qualitative)
                                              restrained                         measures
                                              exemptions
Date achieved      12/31/2008                 12/31/2010                         12/31/2010
Comments           Target achieved. VAT retained on credit card purchases and electronic tax
(incl. %           reporting and payment for large firms increased tax revenues, and the
achievement)       Government has started implementing additional measures.


(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                              Original Target                      Actual Value
                                                                Formally
                                               Values (from                         Achieved at
    Indicator          Baseline Value                            Revised
                                                 approval                          Completion or
                                                              Target Values
                                               documents)                          Target Years




                                                 iv
G. Ratings of Program Performance in ISRs

                                                               Actual
       Date ISR
No.                         DO                  IP         Disbursements
       Archived
                                                           (USD millions)
  1    02/26/2011       Satisfactory        Satisfactory           149.63


H. Restructuring (if any)
Not Applicable




                                       v
 
1. Program Context, Development Objectives and Design

The Dominican Republic has one of the fastest growing economies of the Latin American
and Caribbean region. During the past four years, per capita income grew from
US$3,370 in 2006 to US$4,860 in 2010.1 The benefits of growth are not universally
spread across the population of 9 million, however, as poverty afflicts one-third of the
population (April 2010). The island economy is highly integrated into global markets,
reliant on imported inputs and consumables, but with a diversified basket of exports, the
majority of which are destined to the US. Economic growth is vulnerable to external
shocks, and negative shocks tend to have a disproportionate (and asymmetric) impact on
poverty rates. For example, the economic crisis in 2003-2004 led to a 15 percentage
point increase in poverty to 43 percent, and although four subsequent years of robust
economic growth allowed a significant reduction in poverty, they were inadequate to
return poverty rates to pre-crisis levels. The share of GDP invested by the Government in
human development – such as through health and education expenditures – lags regional
neighbors. Transfers absorb a large share of the budget but have been largely spent on
untargeted subsidies, in particular for electricity and other types of energy. For example,
the Government sets the price of electricity and subsidizes the difference between tariffs
paid and generation costs (which in turn depend upon the price of oil). As international
oil prices rise, the price fixed by the Government covers less and less of the actual cost,
driving up budget expenditures. Various energy subsidies have been in place for decades
and have proved politically difficult to address in the past. Moreover, their persistence
over time has raised their cost by encouraging over-consumption and low levels of
investment, resulting in widespread electricity shortages.

1.1 Context at Appraisal

The Dominican economy was not insulated against the recent global financial crisis and
economic slowdown. On the contrary, the Dominican economy suffered a sharp reversal
as demand for Dominican products and foreign investment fell. Sectoral output across
the board began contracting in the second half of 2008 and remained depressed until 2010
(manufacturing and construction are shown in Figure 1). Slack domestic demand and the
spike in oil prices in mid-2008 in turn caused imports to plummet by one-third during the
first three quarters of 2009. And FTZ exports and remittances registered sustained
declines beginning in late 2008 and persisting into the first part of 2010. The decline in
tourist arrivals – three consecutive quarters of 6 percent declines – also had a dampening
effect on overall economic growth. The current account deficit doubled in 2008 to -10
percent of GDP.

Although per capita GDP continued to grow (see Table 1 for data on selected economic
indicators), inflationary pressures and reduced earnings led to a rise in the poverty rate as
250,000 slipped below the poverty line (moderate poverty) between April and October
2008, when the poverty headcount rose from 35.2 percent to 37.8 percent. Basic


1
       Per capita income is calculated using the Atlas method.

                                                  1
education coverage in the Dominican Republic is almost universal (94 percent), but
access to pre-school (31 percent) and secondary school (53 percent) is limited. Because
school attendance and educational attainment are worse for children in poor households,
the economic crisis risked further deterioration in education outcomes. And although
health service coverage is relatively high, quality is low, as reflected by, for example,
high maternal mortality rates and sub-optimal access to micronutrients for mothers and
children. Public expenditure on health and education as a share of GDP are extremely
low in the Dominican Republic compared to most countries in the LAC region.



                                                             Figure 1: Evolution of selected sectors 
                                                                        (constant prices)
                                             40.0%
   % change, same quarter in previous year




                                             30.0%


                                             20.0%


                                             10.0%


                                              0.0%
                                                       q1    q2   q3    q4   q1     q2     q3   q4   q1     q2   q3      q4   q1   q2   q3     q4
                                             ?10.0%
                                                              2007                   2008                    2009                   2010

                                             ?20.0%


                                             ?30.0%

                                                      Manufacturing                                       Construction
                                                      Total imports (goods and services)                  Total exports (goods and services)
                                                                                  Source: Central Bank of the DR




                                                                                           2
                                   Table 1: Selected Economic Indicators
                                               2005          2006         2007        2008      2009        2010 
                       (Annual percentage change, unless otherwise indicated) 
 National income and prices                                                                                
 GDP at current prices (RD$ billion)       1,020            1,190  1,364  1,576  1,679   1,902 
 GDP at constant prices                        9.3%  10.7%                8.5%        5.3%      3.5%        7.8% 
 Consumer prices (end of period)               7.4%          5.0%         8.9%        4.5%      5.8%        6.2% 
 GNI per capita (US$, atlas method)                         3,370  4,030  4,330  4,540     4,860 
 Extreme Poverty rate (October, 
 headcount)                                  15.0%   12.9%  11.9%   11.7%   10.4%                                  
 Moderate Poverty rate (October, 
 headcount)                                  40.1%  36.3%  35.8%  37.8%  34.6% 
                                                                                                           
                           (In percent of GDP, unless otherwise indicated) 
 National accounts                                                                                         
 Private Consumption                         82.3%  82.4%  82.7%  87.8%  85.3%  87.6% 
 Public Consumption                            6.7%          7.2%         7.4%        7.6%      7.8%        7.7% 
 Gross domestic investment                   16.5%  18.4%  18.9%  18.3%  14.8%  16.5% 
 Net exports                                  ?5.5%         ?8.0%  ?9.1%  ?13.8%  ?8.0%  ?11.7% 
 Gross National saving                       13.4%  14.0%  13.0%                      8.3%      9.8%        8.7% 
                                                                                                           
 Central Government                                                                                        
 Public Sector Revenue                       15.7%  16.2%  17.7%  15.9%  13.7%  13.6% 
 Expenditure                                 15.8%  16.1%  17.1%  19.6%  16.9%  16.3% 
    ?Transfers to CDEEE                        1.5%          1.6%         1.1%        2.4%      1.1%        1.3% 
 Noninterest expenditure                     14.9%  15.0%  15.5%  18.0%  15.1%  14.4% 
 Central Government balance                   ?0.1%          0.0%         0.6%  ?3.8%  ?3.2%  ?2.5%a 
 Primary balance                               0.8%          1.2%         2.2%  ?2.1%  ?1.4%  ?0.6% 
                                                                                                           
 External Sector                                                                                           
 Current account balance                      ?1.6%         ?3.6%  ?5.3%  ?9.9%  ?5.0%  ?8.5% 
 Capital and Financial Account                 5.6%          3.8%         5.3%        8.9%      5.9%        8.5% 
 Gross int. reserves (months of                                                                                      
 imports)                                        1.8           2.1          2.4         2.0       2.6         2.3 
                                                                                                           
 Total consolidated public debt              34.3%  36.1%  33.1%  33.5%  36.6%  37.2% 
 Central Government debt                     20.2%  20.6%  18.3%  24.5%  28.4%  28.7% 
 a
    Preliminary estimate; without errors and omissions, deficit would be ?2.7% of GDP. 
 Sources: Central Bank of the Dominican Republic, Public Credit Office in Ministry of Finance, 
 Ministry of Economy.   

With the resulting slowdown in economic activity, the fiscal situation saw a rapid
deterioration. Government revenues fell by 4 percentage points of GDP between 2007
and 2009. At the same time spending grew as the Government took steps to protect
consumers by bearing some of the burden of rising international prices for oil and food
commodities. Higher Government outlays for subsidies on food, fuel for the transport
sector, zonas francas and – most significantly – electricity caused the fiscal deficit to
deteriorate from near balance in 2007 to -3.8 percent of GDP in 2008. In fact the cost of
energy subsidies doubled between 2007 and 2008, reaching 2.4 percent of GDP.

                                                            3
The subsequent strain on the fiscal and external balances raised particular concern due to
the limited availability of external financing and its high associated cost. The
Government’s once-easy access to the international bond markets froze as bond spreads
rose to unsustainable levels. For example, sovereign bond spreads started to ease up in
July 2008 but spiked beginning in October 2008 and reaching over 1700 basis points by
the end of the year. Under these circumstances, external borrowing was no longer a
viable option. As the fiscal deficit rose, the Government focused attention on the
potential impact that deep spending cuts would have on the poor, particularly in light of
past experience. In early 2009 the Government convoked a summit of National Unity to
facilitate a social dialogue to identify priority actions for protecting vulnerable
populations and ensuring employment and growth. It was within this context of global
economic crisis and fiscal fragility that the DPL was prepared, in conjunction with the
Performance and Accountability of Social Sectors DPL (PASS I) to support the CCT
program, complemented by an IMF Stand-By Arrangement and budget support from the
IADB, all with a view to providing transitional financing to the Government to help boost
growth, maintain priority social spending, and support the Government’s ongoing
program to improve transparency and public financial management and strengthen public
institutions.

1.2 Original Program Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators (as approved)

The Program Development Objectives are to support the PA’s implementation of the
Palestinian Reform and Development Plan generally, with specific focus on:
I. Strengthening the PA’s fiscal position through:
        a. improved spending controls on the public sector wage bill;
        b. reductions in net lending through the transfer of electricity supply and
           distribution to commercial companies;
        c. better targeting of the social safety net to increase efficiency and protect the
           most vulnerable populations;
        d. improved domestic revenue collection; and

II. Increasing government transparency and accountability and improving public
financial management through:
       a. improved efficiency and transparency of the budget preparation process;
       b. upgraded institutional and regulatory procedures to support PFM reforms;
       c. stronger PFM infrastructure; and
       d. improved auditing functions.

The associated key performance indicators (outcomes expected for end-2010) are as
follows:
    i.    Targeting of social spending is improved through an updated SIUBEN
          (Sistema Único de Beneficiarios, the targeting instrument), thanks to a new
          socioeconomic household survey which covers additional geographic sectors
          not included in the 2004-2005 survey.
    ii.   Public debt expansion is contained and does not exceed 40 percent of GDP.
    iii.  Transfers from the Ministry of Finance to the Dominican Corporation of State
          Electricity Enterprises, or CDEEE, to cover the electricity sector deficit have
                                            4
           been limited to no more than 0.8 percent of GDP, down from 1.1 percent of
           GDP in 2009.
   iv.     No individual (poor or not poor) is receiving electricity via the Programa de
           Reducción de Apagones (PRA) mechanism, and the number of poor people
           (i.e., entitled beneficiaries of CCT according to SIUBEN) receiving the
           electricity subsidy BONOLUZ will be close to the number poor [and not poor]
           households covered by PRA (i.e., at least 450,000).
   v.      Fiscal sustainability is improved through a strategy to rationalize and restrain
           tax exemptions and improve tax administration.

1.3 Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators, and
Reasons/Justification

There were no revisions to the program objectives or indicators.

1.4 Original Policy Areas Supported by the Program (as approved)

The key motivating factor behind the DPL design was the risk of a prolonged economic
downturn and its harmful effects on macroeconomic stability and social spending
precisely when vulnerable populations are most in need, and maintaining progress on the
Government’s public finance and institutional strengthening program. In recent years the
Government adopted a series of measures to strengthen the economic planning and
budget management functions through new structures and mandates to improve cross-
ministry collaboration. In the past, Government investment decisions were made on an
annual basis and were inadequately prioritized across sectors and coordinated with line
ministries. Recent reform efforts focused on introducing a multi-annual public
investment plan and multi-annual budgeting more broadly. The DPL helped to advance
this part of the Government’s agenda through supporting the introduction of
performance-informed budgeting in four ministries: health, education, agriculture and
labor. Pilot Results Agreements to be developed as part of the DPL follow-up would
develop strategic plans and identify performance indicators, which would feed into
budgeting decisions.

Other actions toward better public financial management included the Government’s
adoption of and adherence to its publicly announced 2009 financing plan, which in itself
reflected efforts to maintain a sound macroeconomic framework. Restraining public
sector indebtedness and strengthening debt management (e.g., through arrears repayment)
are particularly crucial policy areas for the Dominican Government, given its history of
accumulating arrears, and are supported by the DPL.

Given the context of tightening fiscal constraints at the time of appraisal, the DPL aimed
to support policies to promote fiscal sustainability through long-term measures that
would not only create fiscal space during the ongoing crisis but would also improve
public financial management in a sustained way. The biggest challenge facing the
Government arises on the expenditure side. Because of the preponderance of universal
subsidies, the strong economic growth rates of recent years have driven up the cost of


                                            5
maintaining these subsidies. The DPL helped the Government reduce the level of
subsidy by shifting away from general subsidies to means-tested subsidies.

For example, the universal subsidy on liquefied gas was replaced with a targeted gas
subsidy BONOGAS, which is targeted to poor families using gas for cooking, and to
those working in the transport sector (i.e., choferes). In the electricity sector, the DPL
supported the cancellation of the Programa de Reducción de Apagones, or PRA, which
was introduced in 2001 to provide free electricity to poor and under-served
neighborhoods. Geographic targeting is not very effective, however; of the 450,000
households benefitting from the PRA, less than half were in fact poor. The Government
replaced the PRA with a targeted electricity subsidy BONOLUZ to which all poor
households qualifying under SIUBEN will be eligible. BONOLUZ is valued at the
equivalent of 100kWh/month, the average electricity consumption of a poor household.

As mentioned above, the Government fixes the electricity tariff and then bears the cost of
subsequent fluctuations in the oil price, the main determinant of electricity generation
costs. The DPL supported raising the electricity tariff in order to re-coup a higher
proportion of real costs, and thus increase the Cost Recovery Index. Additional policy
actions supported by the DPL included a reduction in the electricity consumption cap
below which consumers are subsidized, from 700kWh/month to 300kWh/month, and
clearing Government arrears to electricity generators.

The DPL also supported improvements to the current targeting mechanism SIUBEN
(Sistema Único de Beneficiarios) to improve the CCT program Solidaridad. 2 The
existing SIUBEN is based on the slightly out-dated household socioeconomic survey
from 2004-2005. The DPL – prepared in tandem with a first programmatic Performance
and Accountability of Social Sectors DPL (PASS I) – helped to strengthen the targeting
of benefits by updating the database to correct errors of exclusion and inclusion. This is
being achieved through: (i) inter-agency data-sharing between the SIUBEN unit in the
Social Cabinet (which administers Solidaridad) and the National Civil Registry (Junta
Central Electoral), the latter of which is engaged in documenting households identified
in the 2004-2005 survey as lacking identity documents, a prerequisite for CCT benefits;
and (ii) incorporating eligible households from poor areas that were not surveyed in
2004-2005. The DPL is also supporting a new household survey with broader geographic
scope in order to update the SIUBEN database.3

A related policy area supported by the DPL is public health insurance. A system of
universal health insurance was established by law in 2001, comprising three regimes:
fully subsidized, for families qualifying under SIUBEN and without a formal sector job;
contributive, for formal sector salaried workers; and partly subsidized, for non poor
individuals in the informal sector or self-employed (the latter has yet to be designed and


2
        Introduced in 2005, Solidaridad initially operated as an un-conditional cash transfer program. The
PASS DPLs supported its transformation to a conditional program focused on promoting human capital.
3
        These DPL measures were designed to complement the PASS I and PASS II DPLs, and a third
PASS is under preparation.

                                                    6
implemented). The DPL supported the maintenance and expansion of the subsidized
regime in order to ensure access by the poor to an explicitly guaranteed package of
comprehensive health services. The DPL also contributed to improving the quality of
spending by providing health services through the health insurance system using formal
contracts with public providers, developing performance indicators, and strengthening
incentives to improve outcomes at the first level of care.4

On the revenue side, the DPL supported steps to strengthen tax administration in order to
increase revenue collection from internal sources as well as on international transactions.
The DPL supported an updated analysis of the costs associated with tax exceptions,
which was included as an annex to the 2009 budget, with plans to develop a strategic plan
for further administrative reforms.

2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

In light of the country context, the project aimed to help the Government make progress
on its reform program during a period of economic contraction and constrained public
finances, and at the same time sought to provide the necessary stimulus for a return
robust economic growth. The policy actions were designed to align with the
Government’s program within the urgent timeframe of the deepening crisis. But this
timeframe could not anticipate important exogenous shocks to the economic environment,
most fundamentally in terms of skyrocketing oil prices.

The World Bank Board approved the DPL in November 2009, and the loan became
effective on December 1, 2009. The operation was a single tranche, such that submission
to the Bank’s Board was conditioned on prior actions being met. The following section
provides a summary of prior actions and implementation milestones.

2.1 Program Performance

                                      Public Finance and Social Sector DPL
    Prior Actions                                                                                   Status
    1. JCE and SIUBEN shared their respective databases including lists of documented                Met
    citizens and poor households qualifying for social protection
    2. Social Cabinet approved a plan to recertify SIUBEN including the incorporation of             Met
    households living in poor areas that were excluded in the previous data collection.
    3. Government included in the 2009 budget sufficient resources to finance Family Health          Met
    Insurance (Seguro Familiar de Salud) for all individuals enrolled in the Subsidized
    Regime at end-2008.
    4. Electricity Superintendency increased the average electricity tariff paid by users by         Met
    12.25 percent between May and July, 2009
    5. Electricity Superintendency simplified the tariff structure for residential customers from    Met
    eight to four blocks: 0-200 kWh/month; 201-300 kWh/m; 301-700 kWh/m; >700 kWh/m
    6. Electricity Superintendency reduced the ceiling for subsidized tariffs from 700 kWh/m         Met
    to a maximum of 300 kWh/m



4
         The DPL policy measures were developed in conjunction with the APL2 Health Sector Reform
operation.

                                                        7
 7. Distribution Companies improved their Cost Recovery Index (expressed as a 12-month       Met
 moving average) from 64 percent in December 2008 to 66 percent in March 2009
                              Public Finance and Social Sector DPL (continued)
 Prior Actions                                                                              Status
 8. Borrower cleared all arrears owed to electricity generators and accumulated during       Met
 2008, and paid an amount up to US$100 million before September 18, 2009, to reduce
 arrears accumulated up to June 2009 to US$222 million
 9. Borrower eliminated the universal subsidy for liquefied gas and replaced it by a new     Met
 subsidy BONOGAS as part of CCT Solidaridad targeted to individuals meeting the
 SIUBEN criteria or working in the transport sector
 10. Borrower adopted a decree providing for the end of the PRA (Programa de Reducción       Met
 de Apagones) and its related subsidies based on geographic criteria
 11. Government included as an annex to its 2009 budget an analysis and estimation of the    Met
 costs associated with exceptions to taxes on domestic and international transactions
 Implementation Milestones (from the policy matrix)
 12. Ministries of Health, Education, Agriculture and Labor have signed agreements to        Met
 undertake necessary preparations to participate in pilot Results Agreements, setting out
 strategic plans, objectives and performance indicators.
 13. Government has maintained a satisfactory macroeconomic framework as evidenced by        Met
 inter alia adoption of and adherence to its publicly announced 2009 financing plan.
 14. Substantial progress in replacing the PRA with BONOLUZ for the equivalent of            Met
 100kWh/m for 800,000 families now registered in SIUBEN.
 15. Requirement and system for tax reporting and payment on the internet for al large       Met
 businesses has been implemented.
 16. Automatic retention of VAT for retail credit card purchases has been implemented        Met
 through 2009.
 17. The arrears to government suppliers have been reduced by RD$1.4 million.                Met

The policy measures supported by the DPL are presented in detail in Section 1.4 above.

2.2 Major Factors Affecting Implementation

Implementation of the DPL was affected by both economic and political factors, some of
which bolstered implementation but some of which hindered progress. With respect to
the economic environment, for example, the DPL was prepared in the midst of a serious
economic downturn during the second half of 2008 and into 2009, when the Government
saw its carefully prepared 2009 budget threatened. As mentioned above, the global
economic crisis hurt Dominican exports and imports, and the slowdown in sectoral output
compounded the decline in tax revenues. At the same time, rising international oil and
gas prices sharply increased the fiscal cost of the electricity and liquefied gas subsidies.
For instance, oil prices doubled between end-2008 and end-2010. In 2010, the price of
fuel oil #6 rose 25 percent, translating into US$160 million in additional sector losses that
needed to be covered by the budget. These exogenous fuel price fluctuations together
with higher food prices translated into lower real incomes and therefore increased
demand for Government income support.

The dire fiscal situation provided the impetus for the shift away from general subsidies to
more targeted support, thus helping the Government to: eliminate the untargeted PRA
and replace it with the targeted BONOLUZ; raise the electricity tariff and reduce the
subsidy ceiling on electricity consumption; and replace the universal subsidy on liquefied

                                                   8
gas with the targeted BONOGAS. These fundamental reversals in popular subsidy
schemes became possible due to a combination of factors: fiscal pressures resulting from
the economic crisis, an appropriate and enabling institutional structure and targeted social
protection instruments, and external support from IFIs. Concerns about the potential
poverty impact of the crisis promoted closer collaboration between the JCE and SIUBEN
in their efforts to identify newly poor or previously omitted poor households and ensure
the necessary documentation for inclusion in SIUBEN.

The crisis-induced deterioration in macro balances threatened the Government’s capacity
to cover priority social expenditures, since access to external finance effectively dried up
(recall the skyrocketing bond spreads, more than double the spreads for most other
countries in LAC). For example, the subsidized health insurance regime for poor
households came under threat as funding was suspended. The only viable alternative for
the Government was to seek interim budget support from the international financial
institutions.   The IADB, IMF and World Bank lending instruments supported
complementary policy reforms in order to maximize the long-term development impact
of what is effectively short-term financing. In 2009, this exceptional budget support
amounted to US300 million from the World Bank, US$450 million from the IADB, and
US$300 million from the IMF, jointly equivalent to 2.2 percent of GDP. Close
coordination among the IFIs provided extra impetus for the Government to meet the
development objectives supported by these various loans. One policy area that
particularly benefited was strengthening inter-institutional coordination among some
Government entities with respect to, for example, budget planning and implementation.

Fears of prolonged recession in the US and globally and the associated knock-on effects
for the Dominican economy helped galvanize support for difficult reforms. However,
despite the continued popularity of President Leonel Fernandez and his party’s
dominance of Congress (holding 31 of 32 seats), more aggressive reforms did not
materialize. Whereas the measures to contain the electricity subsidy were extensive (i.e.,
increasing means-tested targeting, raising the tariff, and reducing the ceiling on
subsidized consumption), they did not effectively cap or control the portion of the
electricity subsidy that is driven by international oil prices. A flexible electricity tariff
pricing mechanism linked to market forces was planned, but the rise in oil prices
increased political pressure on the Government to postpone this reform and avoid further
tariff increases. This response could be construed as a lack of commitment or willingness
to expend political capital by the Government, although that interpretation would not
adequately acknowledge the long-standing social contract that the Government bear the
financial burden inherent to an island economy reliant on oil imports. Another
complicating factor is the disparate vested interests of a small but powerful business elite
and the pervading lack of transparency. The Government has, however, demonstrated a
commitment to continued institutional strengthening, both with respect to public financial
management and social protection.

Institutional weaknesses including inadequate capacity and coordination within and
among Ministries inhibited faster progress in implementing new budget procedures that
would support results-informed budgeting. Although advances are being made in the

                                             9
Health and Education ministries with the help of Bank support provided under the PASS
I and PASS II DPLs, the APL2 Health Sector Reform operation, and through non-lending
technical assistance by PREM 5 , the other pilot ministries have advanced little in this
regard.

Three types of risk were identified during preparation of the DPL, all of which proved to
be relevant during the life of the operation. Mitigation measures were partly successful.
     Political risk is significant in the Dominican Republic. Although President
        Fernandez was reelected in 2008 by a healthy margin, the main political risk was
        that the Government might deviate from its agenda or that special interests would
        weaken the reform agenda. The economic crisis in some ways reinforced the
        Government’s commitment to its reform agenda vis-à-vis institutional
        strengthening and public financial management, but in other areas reforms
        faltered. Although important changes were made to electricity and gas subsidies,
        the underlying electricity sector distortions were not addressed because the
        Government backed down from further price increases and a flexible pricing
        mechanism due to the negative impact that higher electricity prices would have on
        already weak economic growth (note that electricity tariffs were already higher
        than in the rest of the LAC region). To mitigate the risks to its reform agenda, the
        Government pursued an open dialogue on these pressing reform issues, which
        helped elicit support for initial price increases but was ultimately insufficient to
        sustain further progress. Another political risk relates specifically to Bank
        financing; delays in Congressional approval of investment loans could pose an
        important risk for the timely execution of DPL tasks linked to investment
        operations (e.g., those relating to social sectors), potentially reducing the impact
        of coordinated Bank support.
     Economic risk stemming from the global economic crisis was and remains very
        high in the Dominican Republic, given the degree to which the economy is
        integrated with global markets and the US economy in particular. A worsening of
        the credit crunch and growth slowdown – such as through further declines in
        demand for Dominican exports, tourist arrivals and remittances – would have
        raised the cost of debt servicing and access to additional finance even more, and
        strained public finances to critical levels, resulting in severe and disproportionate
        repercussions for the poor. Although growth started to recover in the beginning
        of 2010, the external environment remained fragile in the face of commodity price
        shocks and depressed remittances. Fiscal revenues continued to suffer, and the
        Government called for temporary freezes and cutbacks that delayed the launch of
        the new SIUBEN survey, inter alia.6 Donor support helped to fill the financing
        gap, in addition to domestic and external bond issuances. Furthermore, the tax
        administration measures boosted revenues, and the shift from universal to targeted
        subsidies eased the pressure on the Government budget and provided more


5
         The programmatic non-lending technical assistance provided by PREM is entitled "Improving the
Quality of Public Expenditure in the Dominican Republic" (Project #P119206).
6
         Responsiveness on the part of Bank management and Dominican policymakers mitigated these
budget effects to avoid further delays.

                                                  10
       targeted support. The CCT program also mitigated the impact on the poor. But
       fiscal pressures from electricity sector losses remain acute and the Government
       announced across-the-board budget cuts of 12 percent in 2011 (except in priority
       social sectors and security), which may threaten recovery as investment projects
       are curtailed.
      The Dominican Republic is susceptible to natural disasters, in particular
       stemming from hurricanes. Although no major disasters occurred during the life
       of the DPL, the severe earthquake in Haiti in 2010 had spillover effects on the
       Dominican economy. Whereas there was an initial influx of Haitian migrants
       following the emergency, subsequent and ongoing reconstruction efforts in Haiti
       have actually boosted demand for Dominican products.

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization:

Four of the five outcome indicators defined in the policy matrix provide a clear metric for
assessing progress toward the Program Development Objectives. But the indicator on
fiscal sustainability poses measurement difficulties because it is subjective and vague. A
strategy to rationalize and restrain tax exemptions and improve tax administration
represents an important first step toward higher tax revenues, but without implementing
the plan there is no reason to expect improved fiscal sustainability. The indicator would
have been easier to monitor if specific steps in the strategy’s implementation had been
included.

Monitoring arrangements are somewhat difficult to design given the short time-horizon
of a single-tranche DPL. Programmatic DPLs, by contrast, define outcome indicators
that can act as triggers for subsequent operations, thus internalizing the monitoring
function to a degree. This DPL was prepared in conjunction with the first Performance
and Accountability Social Sector DPL (PASS I), thereby leveraging monitoring functions
related to policy areas in which there is overlap. For example, progress in updating
SIUBEN to improve targeting of social assistance was aided by the follow-up PASS II
DPL. Similarly, with respect to results-informed budgeting, of the four original pilots,
only two – the Ministries of Health and Education, both covered under PASS I and PASS
II – have sustained progress in establishing performance indicators and results-linked
management agreements. The Bank’s monitoring and impact evaluations supported a
growing culture of accountability and increased focus on social expenditure quality and
efficiency. This experience suggests the need for stronger monitoring mechanisms in the
other ministries, although the short time horizon of a single-tranche DPL cannot easily
accommodate delays typical of M&E studies. An additional process-related outcome
indicator relating to results budgeting may have been useful.

The data requirements for the defined outcome indicators were manageable (with the
exception cited above) and M&E has been for the most part carried out by the Bank and
other partners such as the IMF, through its regular reviews linked to the Stand-By
Arrangement. At least one indicator proved to be unrealistic to achieve within the 13-
month timeframe of the DPL; the new household survey launch was bogged down by
procurement delays which in turn triggered politically motivated financing delays

                                            11
(discussed below). And the indicator relating to BONOLUZ combined two targets in one.
In December 2009 (i.e., after the DPL was approved), it was estimated that of the
450,000 households benefiting from the PRA, only 196,000 were poor. The two
objectives embedded in the outcome indicator – which became clear during
implementation – were to expand BONOLUZ to cover at least the 196,000 poor
households who previously benefited from the PRA, and to reallocate PRA resources to
cover at least 450,000 households that are actually poor. Closer follow-up thus may have
provided greater clarity on this indicator by identifying the two sub-targets and setting
levels appropriate to the timeframe of the DPL. Similarly, the outcome indicator for
Ministry of Finance transfers to CDEEE could have been adjusted upward to reflect the
exogenous increase in oil prices.

The real challenge – for the DPL as for all Bank operations – lies in stimulating the
effective use of monitoring data to inform civil society in order to increase transparency
and participation in decision-making and resource allocation. For example, the
publication of the cost of tax exemptions was effective in highlighting the problem and
generating debate around tax reform, but the impact was short-lived. The DPL may have
benefited from formalizing stakeholder involvement in monitoring.

2.4 Expected Next Phase/Follow-up Operation (if any):

Within the current CPS period, the prospects for additional development policy lending
are limited to the planned PASS III currently under preparation.

3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation

The development objectives of the DPL remain highly relevant today in the context of the
ongoing challenges facing the Dominican Republic. These objectives were fully aligned
with the Government’s development priorities as articulated in the September 2009
Country Partnership Strategy Report, namely to (i) strengthen social cohesion and
improve access to and quality of social services, (ii) promote competitiveness in a
sustainable and resilient economic environment, (iii) enhance quality of public
expenditures and institutional development, and (iv) build capacity and constituencies for
reform. The policy areas supported by the DPL fall under these four overarching
objectives.

The operation’s design was consistent with stated objectives, and the DPL’s
implementation proved to make an important contribution toward implementing the
Government’s program. Numerous counterparts in the Dominican Republic noted the
vital role that the Bank’s development policy lending played in helping the Government
achieve its priorities by defining specific achievable steps within an overall strategy. And
incorporating these steps into the framework of a DPL helped to accelerate their
implementation. The DPL was particularly effective in galvanizing support for the
highly-charged policy decision to reduce universal subsidies for electricity (through the
PRA and tariff fixing for moderate consumption levels) and gas. The Government faced
                                            12
stiff opposition to the removal of the PRA, which was plagued by fraud and misuse. The
DPL – together with other donor assistance – provided essential support for shifting from
generalized to targeted subsidies and in the process increasing transparency.

With respect to the operation’s design, the components represent a sound and consistent
framework with a strategically appropriate and achievable scope.7 As an instrument, a
single-tranche DPL is confined to relatively short-term measures because of its short-
time-horizon. Some reforms, however, require longer-term input. For example, results-
informed budgeting is complex to implement and in the case of the Dominican Republic
would be facilitated by sustained technical assistance.

As mentioned above, the DPL was designed to complement the PASS I DPL to reinforce
support for the Government’s agenda in the areas of poverty alleviation and better service
delivery in social sectors. And improvements in the efficiency and quality of health
sector spending under the DPL were supported by the APL2 Health Sector Reform
operation. This coordinated approach proved to be effective in achieving results. In a
similar vein, the overlap between the DPL and the IMF Stand-By Arrangement policy
measures increased inter-institutional coordination among the central ministries. For
instance, the DPL recommended better coordination on debt issuance. There is some
evidence that this is occurring, namely through differentiating their bond instruments,
although the Debt Committee meets only sporadically on broader issues of debt
management. Other components of the policy matrix sought to embed the reforms by
implementing them across agencies, thereby fostering inter-agency cooperation. But this
is difficult to accomplish in the best of times. The DPL has however resulted in
increased cooperation between the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Economy on
budget planning and execution.

3.2 Achievement of Program Development Objectives

I. Improve the quality and efficiency of public spending, especially for poverty reduction
a. Improve institutions for budgeting and expenditure management
The DPL helped to improve the quality and efficiency of public spending through its
support for budgeting and expenditure management institutions, namely in terms of
starting to implement results-informed budgeting in four Ministries. A multi-ministerial
committee has contracted diagnostic studies to (i) identify areas for institutional
strengthening required to implement results budgeting, and (ii) help to define the basis for
results. The analysis will be used by the committee to set the criteria for measuring
results (i.e., performance indicators), and for designing the incentives associated with
meeting results. More progress has been achieved in the Ministries of Health and
Education compared to the other pilots (the Ministries of Agriculture and Labor) because
of the links to the PASS I and PASS II DPLs and the APL2 Health Sector Reform. The


7
         The DPL was designed on the basis of extensive analytical work including the Poverty
Assessment (2006), Financial Sector Assessment Program Update (2010), Investment Climate Assessment
(2008), Country Fiduciary Assessment (2007), and the preliminary results of the Policy Notes on Growth
and Equitable Development (2010) and the PEFA (2010).

                                                 13
authorities expect to pilot results agreements with one or two specific programs within
the Ministry of Education (for example relating to closing the supply gap).

The health sector is even more advanced; the Government has introduced results-based
management agreements between the Ministry of Health and all Regional Health
Services. These management agreements create incentives for health care providers to
improve timeliness and quality at the first level of care focusing on mother and child care
and other key prevention methods and care services needed to mitigate the majority of the
burden of illness and disease on the poor. By defining specific indicators and setting
targets for health outputs/intermediary outcomes related to delivering a mandatory
package of health services, these agreements provide the basis for budgetary allocations
linked to achieving targets.

b. Improve quality of health sector spending
The DPL supported the Government’s efforts to expand and consolidate the health
dimension of social protection through extending the Family Health Insurance scheme.
The focus of the DPL was on ensuring adequate fiscal resources for the Family Health
Insurance scheme targeted to poor households, i.e., the subsidized regime. A total of 3.4
million individuals qualify for the subsidized regime, but at end-2008 the number of
affiliates was only 1.23 million, and annual expenditures were RD$2.56 billion. By end-
2010, the number of affiliates had surpassed 2 million, and the budget had increased by
35 percent over two years. A pillar of the health sector reform strategy was the shift from
untargeted health services that were inefficiently budgeted on a historical basis to a
specifically guaranteed basket of services provided to the poor under the subsidized
Family Health Insurance regime. This shift directly improved both the quality and
efficiency of health spending, and the use of performance budgeting created incentives
for better service quality at the first level of care, as mentioned above. At the height of
the fiscal crisis, the Government’s ability to continue financing the Family Health
Insurance system faltered, and payments were in fact suspended for a short period. The
DPL provided key support to ensure continued coverage of the poor and maintain the
progressive implementation of far-reaching health sector reforms.

c. Improve targeting of spending intended for the poor
In recent years, significant progress has been made in targeting support to the poor. The
DPL helped extend the use of the SIUBEN targeting mechanism as the basis for
determining eligibility for the Government’s various subsidy programs. To address
errors of omission and inclusion in the 2004-2005 household living standards survey, the
DPL supported the SIUBEN unit of the Social Cabinet and the National Civil Registry
(JCE) in linking their databases to ensure that those recently documented individuals that
qualify under the SIUBEN proxy means test as poor are incorporated into the SIUBEN
database for their integration into the social protection system. As a result of this
coordination, 82,000 recently documented individuals have been incorporated into the
SIUBEN database qualifying as poor. SIUBEN has taken additional steps, in
coordination with JCE and the Social Cabinet, to follow up on the 2004-2005 survey
results on undocumented individuals to verify whether those individuals still lack identity
documents and, for those that remain undocumented, to provide legal assistance to

                                            14
facilitate documentation. Since launching this legal assistance phase in April 2011,
16,000 individuals have been provided with identity documents and are being
incorporated into the SIUBEN database.

The DPL – in conjunction with the PASS series – supported the recertification of
SIUBEN and the commissioning of a new household socioeconomic survey to improve
targeting further. The survey was supposed to be launched during the life of the DPL, but
faced significant, unanticipated procurement delays related to the complex nature of its
design, along with equally unanticipated financing delays. 8 These procurement and
financing hurdles have since been resolved, and the final procurement process is near
completion. The survey will be launched in August 2011. Although these delays caused
the Government to miss the target outcome indicator, at the same time they allowed an
improved survey strategy and expanded coverage to 1.8 million households. The new
survey will take advantage of innovative technology-based delivery mechanisms, using
PDAs with specialized software, GPS, and data transfer services for areas where the GPS
and network coverage are most cost-effective. The PDAs allow for immediate data entry,
monitoring, and quality control at a central level and will shorten the implementation and
information collection period.

II. Mitigate the impact of the ongoing global economic crisis on the DR’s public finances
and reduce vulnerability through fiscal sustainability
a. Control spending by reducing outlays for inefficient subsidies and improving cost
recovery in the energy sector
Given that electricity sector losses absorb a very large share of public resources – 2.4
percent of GDP in 2008 – efforts to improve fiscal sustainability must address inefficient
energy subsidies and weak cost recovery. The DPL supported a fundamental policy shift
by the Government away from universal subsidies and toward more targeted
interventions. Universal subsidies were particularly costly in the context of strong
economic growth; as consumption increased, the fiscal burden rose as well. And by
fixing the electricity tariff, the Government bears the cost of oil price fluctuations. Of the
total US$652 million in sector losses in 2010, US$160 million were due to higher oil
prices, and US$119 million were the result of increased consumption. Policy actions
supported by the DPL included a 12 percent increase in the electricity tariff in mid-2009
and a reduction in the electricity consumption cap below which consumers are subsidized,



8
         The survey implementation involves the coordination of more than a dozen procurement processes
that have been beset by significant procurement hurdles. The complexity of this process was not understood
in the initial action plan, particularly the reliance of each procurement process on an adequate, timely
response from the private sector and NGOs. Bidding processes have faced low levels of responses and
non-competitive bidding, requiring multiple bidding cycles. Significant political hurdles related to
Congressional elections in May 2010 also delayed the approval of the Additional Financing to the Social
Protection Investment Loan, which contains significant funding for the census and therefore delayed the
launching of large bidding processes until July 2010. In September 2010, the Ministry of Finance issued a
mandate to all Government agencies to suspend disbursements, including investment projects, until the end
of the calendar. Despite the immediate and concerted efforts of the SPIP Bank team and Bank management
to ensure investment projects were exempted from the mandate, which were ultimately successful,
Government agencies suspended many pending activities.

                                                   15
from 700kWh/month to 300kWh/month. No longer do high-income households benefit
from subsidized electricity, although 300kWh/month still reflects a moderate level of
consumption (e.g., a poor household might consume 100kWh/month). Efforts to reduce
distribution losses have not made much progress in improving the Cost Recovery Index,
although this is partly due to the rapid increase in invoicing during 2010 (the number of
invoiced clients rose 36 percent during this period, but this has a negative initial effect on
the Cost Recovery Index).9

The main causes of higher electricity sector deficits were high continued distribution
losses due to widespread fraud and illegal connections (i.e., the “culture of non-
payment?), expanded consumption (without payment), and rising oil prices. Based on
total electricity consumption and production, the average price of electricity purchased by
distribution companies from electricity generators rose nearly 12 percent between 2009
and 2010, but the average sale price recouped by the distribution companies climbed only
2.6 percent, thus widening the gap to be covered by the Government. The budgeted
transfers from the Ministry of Finance to the distribution companies (through CDEEE)
exceeded the 0.8 percent of GDP targeted in the policy matrix for 2010, instead reaching
1.3 percent of GDP (compared to 1.1 percent in 2009 and 2.4 percent in 2008, as reported
in Table 1).

The elimination of the PRA and its replacement by the targeted subsidy BONOLUZ
would have been unlikely without DPL support. The introduction of BONOLUZ initially
targeted the poor households that formerly benefited from the PRA, about 196,000
households of the original 450,000 households benefitting from the PRA. The ultimate
goal will be to benefit all 800,000 poor households. Since its inception in 2009, some
135,000 families were benefiting from BONOLUZ by end-2010. This number falls far
short of the 450,000 households targeted under the DPL outcome indicator, and implies
that approximately 60,000 poor households that used to benefit from PRA have fallen
through the cracks. Part of the delay in expanding BONOLUZ was due to administrative
bottlenecks unforeseen when the DPL was being prepared. The authorities plan to
expand BONOLUZ coverage to 250,000 by end-2011. But until more fiscal resources
are made available, additional eligible beneficiaries will not be added to the BONOLUZ
program.

The Government successfully eliminated the universal subsidy on liquefied gas, shifting
instead to a targeted mechanism under the CCT program. This new subsidy, BONOGAS,
currently reaches 764,000 households and nearly 18,000 choferes, generating annual
savings of over 0.3 percent of GDP.

The switch from universal to more-targeted subsidies should go some way towards
ensuring fiscal sustainability in the future by reducing – but certainly not eliminating –


9
          The Cost Recovery Index (CRI) was beset by measurement errors and its baseline was adjusted
downward in 2010. The CRI has however seen a modest 0.4 percent improvement during the first quarter
of 2011. New management teams in the distribution companies have replaced the old-guard, with initially
positive results.

                                                  16
the vulnerability of public finances to external price shocks, especially oil price shocks,
and distorted consumption incentives.

b. Improve debt management
Maintaining macroeconomic stability and a sustainable fiscal policy of modest deficits
will help to curb debt accumulation. But this type of deficit financing has implications
for the cost of finance. High borrowing costs place additional strain on the fiscal balance
due to debt servicing costs; high levels of indebtedness may result from a vicious cycle of
high deficits, rising debt, poor credit rating, higher interest costs, worsening deficits,
mounting debt.       Restraining public sector indebtedness and strengthening debt
management are particularly crucial for the Dominican Government in light of past
arrears accumulation. The country’s need for external finance underlines the importance
of maintaining the Government’s financial credibility and thus its credit-worthiness.
Accumulating arrears can be a costly method of financing public expenditures, as
mounting interest charges begin to eat into priority spending areas. With DPL support,
the Government cleared 2008 arrears and reduced 2009 arrears to electricity generators,
and reduced arrears to other government suppliers. Despite sharply lower tax revenues in
2009 and 2010, spending restraint kept the primary balance modest, which helped slow
the growth in public debt.10 In end-2010, the consolidated public sector debt reached
37.2 percent of GDP, significantly below the target outcome indicator of 40 percent.

c. Improve effectiveness of tax collection by domestic and customs authorities
The depressed tax revenue collections that accompanied slower economic growth are
difficult to address through higher tax rates due to the risk of forestalling economic
recovery. This leaves the policy lever of tax administration reform as a means to increase
tax collections. Low levels of tax revenues in the Dominican Republic are partly due to
the narrow tax base resulting from extensive tax incentives provided to disparate sectors,
many of which are the key engines of growth and consequently have great untapped
potential for generating taxes. Under the DPL, the Government published as an annex to
its 2009 budget an analysis and estimation of the costs associated with exceptions to taxes
on domestic and international transactions. The DPL supported two main prior actions to
improve tax administration of existing taxes: (i) requiring large firms to file and pay on-
line, and (ii) the automatic retention of VAT on credit card purchases. Three subsequent
improvements in tax administration that reduced exemptions included collecting VAT on
imports to firms previously exempt under the Proindustria Law, withholding income tax
on casino and lottery prize winnings, and reinstituting inflation-indexing of the specific
tax on hydrocarbons. Each of these measures is estimated to raise tax revenues by 0.1
percent of GDP, or 0.3 percent of GDP in total, representing a tangible improvement in
tax collection effectiveness. The Domestic Tax Office is currently finalizing a strategy
for implementing the additional measures recommended in the analysis.




10
       Spending restraint was of course partly the result of tight credit availability.

                                                    17
3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

The overall outcome rating balances the degree to which overall program development
objectives were achieved and the extent to which target indicators were met. The policies
supported by the DPL clearly contributed to achieving the two overarching development
objectives. The quality and efficiency of public spending improved, in particular relating
to poverty reduction. This was achieved primarily through better targeting of health and
education services and social protection for poor households. And the economy was able
to weather the effects of the global economic crisis and restore fiscal sustainability
despite exogenous shocks that strained public finances. The DPL was fundamental in
enabling the Government to eliminate untargeted electricity and gas subsidies and replace
them with means-tested support. But electricity sector losses remained a burden as oil
prices continued to climb, consumption increased, and improvements in cost recovery
were delayed due in part to lack of investment. Nevertheless, fiscal balances improved in
2010, tax reform measures helped raise revenues, and overall debt levels remained below
the cap. Among the six specific development objectives, all were achieved or partially
achieved.

With respect to outcome indicators, performance was more mixed. Two of the five
indicators were fully met and one was partially met. One of the unmet indicators – on the
new SIUBEN survey – was unrealistic in its timeframe. With respect to Government
transfers to CDEEE, continued high electricity sector losses were partly explained by
exogenous factors, but structural shortcomings contributed to the target being missed.
The overall outcome rating is therefore moderately satisfactory.

3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts

(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development
This operation addresses poverty and welfare both indirectly – through more efficient use
of public resources – and directly – through measures to improve social safety net
targeting. Estimates of poverty indicate progressive improvement through 2009 and 2010.
The expansion in CCT program coverage most likely contributed, aided by the joint
efforts of SIUBEN and the JCE to incorporate poor households excluded from the 2004-
2005 survey. And although the cancellation of the PRA will have had harmful welfare
effects on those no longer benefitting from free electricity, the replacement subsidy
BONOLUZ off-sets the losses (except for the 60,000 poor households currently
excluded). As stated above, many eligible households are missing out because budget
constraints have limited the expansion of BONOLUZ.




                                              18
(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening
The DPL supports key measures aimed at strengthening Government’s institutional
capacity. For example, tax administration reform and streamlining payment processes
not only increase revenues and spread the tax burden more equitably, but also help to
increase confidence in the Government and legitimize its tax and spending functions.
The move toward results-informed budgeting requires extensive planning and
coordination within a multi-year framework, all of which will extend the institutional
capacity of the ministries involved.

With respect to the CCT program, targeting has been strengthened through the inter-
agency cooperation of SIUBEN and JCE, and will be further improved following
completion of the new household survey. By removing untargeted gas and electricity
subsidies and replacing them with BONOGAS and BONOLUZ under the SIUBEN
targeting mechanism, the Government’s social assistance programs are centralized under
a single, integrated and internally consistent system that reduces leakage and ensures
more effective use of resources.

3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops
Not applicable.

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome
Rating: Substantial

The risk that development outcomes will not be maintained is substantial and stems from
several sources.

The program objective to improve the quality and efficiency of public spending
especially for poverty reduction and human development has been addressed through
budget reforms and to a lesser degree through budget allocations. When policies are
embedded in an institutional framework they are harder to reverse. This is the case with
the revised budget procedures being implemented as part of results-informed budgeting.
The improved targeting and realignment of subsidies should ease pressure on public
resources, thus helping to ensure future financing. Measures to ensure adequate and
higher quality health sector spending have made real progress, but additional financing is
required to cover the total targeted population.

The program objective to improve fiscal sustainability through restraint of generalized
subsidies is on the right track, but insufficient budget funding or potential policy reversals
risk undermining the tighter targeting which translates into more efficient use of public
funds. And because electricity sector reforms are incomplete and the Government
continues to cover sector losses arising not only from distribution losses but also the de-
coupling of domestic tariffs (i.e., price charged) from market-determined oil prices (i.e.,
real cost), higher oil prices in the future could translate into even greater fiscal pressures.
This represents the most significant risk.




                                              19
Other exogenous shocks – such as a large natural disaster or sharply high import costs –
could threaten macroeconomic stability and possibly push the economy into recession
and a mounting debt burden.

5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1 Bank Performance
(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry
Rating: Satisfactory

The DPL was prepared in close consultation with the Government and stakeholders such
as civil society groups and international donors. The policy measures were identified on
the basis of extensive analytical work and in coordination with reforms being supported
by other donors in order to maximize the development impact and at the same time
provide mutually reinforcing mechanisms of support. This approach also succeeded in
leveraging additional financial support and providing positive signals to investors. The
operation was conceived to help the Government weather the economic downturn,
minimize its negative impact on the poor, and help bolster the Government’s public
finance and institutional reform efforts within a fiscally sustainable framework. The DPL
also aimed to help address three key challenges affecting Dominican society: fiscally
crippling electricity sector losses, costly untargeted subsidy regimes, and high poverty
rates despite strong economic growth.

The Bank demonstrated a high degree of responsiveness to the Government’s request for
assistance in the context of the global economic crisis; the DPL was not part of the
Bank’s planned lending program identified in the Country Partnership Strategy and yet
the necessary resources were allocated. A complicating factor was the wide scope of the
project, implicating a range of ministries and agencies not centralized under the Ministry
of Finance. Whereas one of the monitoring and evaluation criteria proved slightly
problematic in its vagueness (improved fiscal sustainability) and another indicator proved
over-ambitious (SIUBEN survey), these constitute minor shortcomings. The overall
implementation and M&E arrangements were adequate. The operation was prepared
with a full appreciation and articulation of the risks to program outcomes, and identified
mitigation measures to address these risks (some more successfully than others).

(b) Quality of Supervision
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

As mentioned above, the operation’s design enabled broadly adequate monitoring and
evaluation, but closer supervision could have addressed the shortcomings that emerged in
outcome criteria, such as the BONOLUZ indicator. More rapid follow-up could have
helped to identify more realistic measures of progress toward development objectives.
Close monitoring was successful in addressing the series of procurement and financing
bottlenecks that plagued the launch of the new household survey, however. The Bank
prepared one ISR after the loan’s closing with a rating of satisfactory. Monitoring
arrangements are challenging to design given the short time-horizon of a single-tranche
DPL. Because this DPL was prepared in conjunction with the first Performance and

                                           20
Accountability Social Sector DPL (PASS I) and the APL2 Health Sector Reform
operation, supervision was strengthened by monitoring functions related to areas of
policy overlap, in particular with respect to updating SIUBEN and implementing results-
informed budgeting in the Ministries of Health and Education. The relatively better
performance of these measures compared to other outcomes underscores the importance
of effective monitoring and evaluation, which should be a fundamental consideration in
future projects. Broadening M&E to involve local stakeholders could foster greater
accountability and responsiveness on the part of the Government.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

Quality at entry was satisfactory while quality of supervision was moderately satisfactory,
making the overall Bank performance rating moderately satisfactory.

5.2 Borrower Performance11
(a) Government Performance
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

The operation was designed to align fully with the Country Partnership Strategy and the
Government’s objectives. Government ownership and commitment was strong from the
outset. When emerging fiscal pressures threatened to derail or at least delay the
Government’s development agenda, the Government sought Bank assistance to define an
action plan, which is reflected in the DPL policy matrix. Despite the tenuous economic
situation and fiscally constrained environment, significant progress has been made, even
with respect to dismantling popular generalized subsidies. Replacing the PRA with the
targeted BONOLUZ subsidy and replacing the universal liquefied gas subsidy with
BONOGAS translated into many non-poor consumers who were worse off. The
Government nevertheless succeeded in implementing these policy measures even as the
economy slowed and real incomes fell.

On the other hand, several outcome targets were not fully achieved. Some of these
implementation shortcomings can be partly attributed to exogenous factors such as
international oil price shocks, as well as by unanticipated procurement and financing
delays relating to the new household survey to update SIUBEN. On the other hand, the
Government exhibited signs of wavering ownership with respect to adequately budgeting
for BONOLUZ and capping electricity sector losses through higher tariffs or intensified
efforts to reduce distribution losses, or deepening the reduction in the ceiling on
subsidized electricity consumption from 300kWh/m to levels closer to the BONOLUZ
target. On balance, borrower performance has been moderately satisfactory.




11
       For a Development Policy Loan providing budget support, the borrower consists of the
government, which also acts as the implementing agency.

                                            21
6. Lessons Learned

Lesson 1: Be flexible. As described above, the global economic crisis exacted a heavy
toll on the Dominican economy, endangering macroeconomic balances and in particular
the Government’s fiscal position. The DPL proved to be a timely, flexible and effective
instrument that helped the Government meet the challenges of the global crisis within a
sustainable fiscal strategy that protected social sectors. Past crises led to sharp increases
in poverty; to avoid this risk, Bank support helped the Government prioritize spending,
provide basic services, and meet its payment obligations, and at the same time restoring
confidence and macroeconomic sustainability. Moreover, by offering policy support for
the Government’s reform agenda during a period of vulnerability, the Bank was able to
help articulate and contribute positively to pro-poor, pro-development and institutional
strengthening policies that may have otherwise suffered backtracking during a prolonged
economic crisis.

Lesson 2: Use the crisis to achieve strong reforms. DPL support also provided a window
of opportunity for achieving a fundamental reform of the subsidies regime. The
politically popular electricity subsidies under PRA and the universal subsidy on liquefied
gas were costly transfers that the Government struggled to address in the past. The crisis
environment and DPL policy support facilitated their replacement with targeted subsidies
BONOLUZ and BONOGAS, generating important fiscal savings and reducing incentives
of excess consumption.

Lesson 3: Align with the Government’s program and reward results. As seen in other
Bank lending, policies that have the biggest impact are those closely aligned with the
Government’s priorities. As political pressures emerge, Governments are less likely to
implement reforms if their own commitment is weak. One way to address potential
backtracking is to structure Bank support in response to results achieved on the ground,
in contrast to the current reliance on prior actions which may be only nominally
indicative of Government commitment – such as legal decrees or short-lived measures.
The Bank’s long history of involvement in the Dominican energy sector raises questions
regarding the prospects for successful electricity reform given the political climate in the
Dominican Republic.

Lesson 4: Foster cross-sector coordination. Because DPLs typically address multi-
sectoral policies that tend to have overlapping themes and implicate a range of actors,
they provide an opportunity to establish a culture of coordination and collaborative policy
articulation. This not only helps to ensure the most effective policy design by
recognizing and capitalizing on the inherent overlaps of sectors and agencies, but it also
helps to establish inter-agency relationships and mechanisms for enhanced
communication and coordination.

Lesson 5: Choose appropriate indicators. The action plan for updating the SIUBEN
database with a new household survey was an important policy action, but the linkage
between this initial policy action and the outcome indicator (improved targeting due to an
updated SIUBEN based on a new completed survey) proved too ambitious. The Bank

                                             22
team might have anticipated possible delays given that implementing a large household
survey requires the coordination of complex procurement processes that depend on actors
outside of Government control, such as the private sector. A key lesson from this
operation is to select realistic outcome indicators that are within the executive control of
the agency to which the policy action corresponds.

Lesson 6: Good outcomes require good supervision. Finally, the difficulties with policy
follow-up in terms of supporting continued reform progress in a single-tranche DPL are
illustrated by contrasting the relative success of various Bank interventions associated
with this DPL. The measures that overlapped with the programmatic PASS series
benefited from greater monitoring and follow-up because of subsequent phases of
adjustment PASS lending. Take, for example, the delays in launching the new SIUBEN
household survey: procurement and funding delays derailed progress and yet the delays
were turned to greater advantage because the survey scope could be extended and
implementation could take advantage of technical advances that would not only speed up
the process but improve the quality of the survey through more accurate sampling and
data entry and better quality control. Similarly, great strides in performance budgeting
have been achieved in the Education and Health ministries in particular, because of
regular supervision and technical assistance by the PASS and APL2 Health Reform teams.
Little progress was made in the other two pilot ministries, by contrast. This result
suggests a need for closer follow-up beyond the usual scope of a DPL. Expanding
stakeholder involvement in M&E could be a way of keeping attention on reform progress
after project closing.




                                            23
Annex 1. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

(a) Task Team members
                                                                           Responsibility/
          Names                             Title                Unit
                                                                             Specialty
Lending
Maurizio Bussolo             Sr. Economist                      LCSPE   TTL
Carine Clert                 Sr. Social Protection Specialist   LCSHS   Social sector
Fernando Montenegro Torres   Sr. Health Economist               LCSHH   Social sector
Juan Miguel Cayo             Sr. Energy Specialist              LCSEG   Electricity
Marco Arena                  Consultant
Carolina Biagini Majorel     Consultant                         LCSPS
Benu Bidani                  Sector Leader                      LCC3C
Christina Malmberg Calvo     Sector Leader                      LCSSD
Leritza Monsanto Abreu       Consultant                         LCSPE
David Reinstein              Sr. Energy Specialist              LCSEG
Roby Senderowitsch           Country Manager                    LCCDO
Cornelia Teliuc              Sr. Social Protection Specialist   LCSHS
Theo David Thomas            Sr. Public Sector Specialist       EASPR
David Seth Warren            Sector Leader                      LCSHD
Tammy Lynn Pertillar         Temporary                          LCSPE
Steven Benjamin Webb         Consultant                         IEGCC

Supervision
Maurizio Bussolo             Sr. Economist                      LCSPE   Supervision, ISR
Elizabeth Ruppert Bulmer     Sr. Country Economist              LCSPE   ICR Team Leader
Miguel Sanchez Martin        Jr. Professional Officer           LCSPE   ICR - Macro
Timothy Cheston              Jr. Professional Associate         LCSHS   ICR - Social sectors
Jasmin Chakeri               Sr. Country Economist              LCSPE   ICR - Mission


(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                           Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
              Stage                                             USD Thousands (including
                                         No. of staff weeks
                                                                travel and consultant costs)
Lending

FY09                                               43                      250.6
FY10                                               10                       60.2
                             Total:                53                      310.8
Supervision/ICR
FY10                                                3                       34.4
FY11                                                6                       30.6
                             Total:                 9                       65.0




                                              24
Annex 2. Beneficiary Survey Results

Not applicable.




                                      25
Annex 3. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results

Not applicable.




                                   26
Annex 4. Summary of Borrower's Comments on Draft ICR

The Government submitted the following comments on the draft ICR:

The Social Cabinet of the Dominican Republic is particularly involved in the compliance
with the following key performance indicators, expected for the end of 2010: Indicator 1
and Indicator 4 (Part F(a), pages iii-iv of the Implementation Completion and Results
Report (IBRD-77790).

Indicator 1: Targeting of social spending is improved through an updated SIUBEN
(Sistema Unico de Beneficiarios, the targeting instrument), thanks to a new and improved
socioeconomic household survey which covers additional geographic sectors not
included in the 2004-2005 survey

Comment: The procurement process for the selection of the institutions that will
participate in the new SIUBEN household survey is developing well currently and is
expected to end within the month of July. The SIUBEN plans to launch the survey in
August 2011.

[The Government provided an attachment of the “Alternative strategy for SIUBEN’s
socioeconomic household survey 2011?.]

Indicator 4: No individual (poor or not poor) is receiving electricity via the Programa de
Reducción de Apagones (PRA) mechanism, and the number of poor people (i.e. entitled
beneficiaries of CCT according to SIUBEN) receiving the electricity subsidy BONOLUZ
will be close to the number of poor [and not poor] households covered by PRA (i.e. at
least 450,000)

Comment: The total number of new electricity service contracts of individuals living in
former PRA areas, validated by the Ministry of Finance as of May 2011, is 409,731. Of
this total, 145,953 belong to beneficiaries of BONOLUZ, and 263,777 to regular clients
(i.e. not eligible for BONOLUZ).

[The Government provided the Document decree providing for the end of the PRA, and
the relevant PRA database.]

The Unidad Asesora de Análisis Económico y Social del Ministerio de Economía,
Planificación y Desarrollo commented that the ICR report’s rating of risk to development
outcome as “substantial? is overstated, in light of the observed consolidation of reforms
supported by the DPL. Examples include the effective institutional structures to
efficiently target subsidies, which could serve as a basis to extend and strengthen the
social safety net during future crisis episodes. Another example relates to the health
sector reforms and the expansion of Family Health Insurance and the associated
mechanisms to induce better quality service provision.



                                           27
Annex 5. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders

Not applicable.




                                    28
Annex 6. List of Supporting Documents

“Comparativo Indicadores EDEs – 2010 vs 2009?, presentation by the Corporación
     Dominicana de Empresas Eléctricas Estatales (CDEEE), May 2011.

“Expansión de la Generación del Sistema Eléctrico Dominicano: Abastecimiento de
      energía eléctrica para el desarrollo y crecimiento económico?, presentation by
      the Corporación Dominicana de Empresas Eléctricas Estatales (CDEEE), May
      2011.

“Precios de los Combustibles y Déficit del Sector Eléctrico?, presentation by the
       Corporación Dominicana de Empresas Eléctricas Estatales (CDEEE), May 2011.

“Gestión 2010?, Seguro Nacional de Salud (SeNaSa), Santo Domingo, Dominican
       Republic, January 2011.

“4 Años de Gestión?, Seguro Nacional de Salud (SeNaSa), Santo Domingo, Dominican
      Republic, August 2009.

“De la Crisis Financiera Internacional al Crecimiento para Todos: Notas de Política?,
       eds. R. Senderowitsch and Y. Tsikata, World Bank, Santo Domingo, Dominican
       Republic, 2010.




                                          29
                       72º W                                                                                 71º W                                                                           70º W

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             DOM INICAN
                                                                                                                                                                  AT LA NT IC O CEA N                                                                         REP UBL IC
           20º N                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       SELECTED CITIES AND TOWNS                    20º N

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       PROVINCE CAPITALS
                                                                                                                      Luperón
                                                       Monte Cristi
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       NATIONAL CAPITAL
                                                                                                                                              Puerto Plata
                                       Pepillo
                                      Salcedo     MONTE                    Villa Vásquez C
                                                                                                    ord
                                                                                                                      Imbert
                                                                                                                                                             Sousúa
                                                                                                                                                                          ESPAILLAT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       RIVERS

                                                  CRISTI                                 Yaq            ille               PUERTO PLATA                                                                                                                                MAIN ROADS
                                                                                                   or t e r a
                                                                                            ue el N                                                                                                      Cabrera
                                                                                              d                      Sep                                                                     Rio San
                                    To                                                                                     tent
                                Fort Liberté
                                Fort-Liberté
                                                   Dajabón
                                                                                                     Mao         3                riona
                                                                                                                                          l
                                                                                                                                                                            Gaspar
                                                                                                                                                                            Hernández
                                                                                                                                                                                             Juan                                                                      RAILROADS
                                                                                                                                                                                             MAR?A                                                                     PROVINCE BOUNDARIES
                                                                                                                                       Santigo                                              TRINIDAD
                                                      1                          Sabaneta                                                             Moca            4                     S?NCHEZ
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES

                                                                                 2                                         Jánico                                      San Francisco
                                                                                                                                                               Salcedo de Macorís                            Nagua
                                                   Restauración                                            San Jose                                                                                                                                          This map was produced by the Map Design Unit of The World Bank.
                                                                                                       de las Matas
                   HAITI                                                                                                                              La Vega                                                           SAMAN?                               The boundaries, colors, denominations and any other information
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             shown on this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank

                                                                      AC                             SANTIAGO                                                                    Pimental
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Sánchez                              Group, any judgment on the legal status of any territory, or any
                                                                                                                                                                      Camu
                                                                                                                                                                                            DUARTE                                                           endorsement or acceptance of such boundaries.
                                                               Ñ                                                                                                                                                                      Samaná
                                                            PI                  ord
                                                                                          ille                                                           Rincón
                                                                                                                                                                          Fantino
                                                                                                   r a Pico Duarte                                                                      Cotuí                                       Sabana de la Mar
                                                  AS




                                                                                                        (3175 m)
                                                                                         Monte Mijo       Ce                   LA VEGA                                       Yu
                                                                                                                                                                               na
                                                                                                                                                                                                              Sabana Grande
           19º N                                                                                              nt                                                                        5                                          HATO                  Miches                                                     19º N
                                                 EL?




                                                                                          (2266 m)                                                    Bonao                                                   de Boya
                                                                                                                      ra
                                                                                                                           l                                                                                                       MAYOR
                                                                  SAN JUAN                                                           Constanza
                                                                                                                                                                  6                                                                                    EL SEIBO
                                        To
                                    Lascahobas
                                                   Elías Piña
                                                                                               San Juan                                                   Monte Tina
                                                                                                                                                                                                        MONTE PLATA                          Cordillera Orient
                                                                                                                                                          (2830 m)                     Yamasa            Monte         Bayaguana                                        al                     El Macao
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Hato
                                                                  El Cercado                                                                                                                              Plata                                   El Seibo
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Mayor




                                                                                                                                                                                                          O
                                                                                                                                                           7




                                                                                                                                                                                                           za
                                                                                                                                                                            Villa                                                                                          Higüey




                                                                                                                                                                                                             ma
                                                 Cordillera                                                                                                           Altagracia
                                                                 Neiba                                                AZUA                    San Jose
                                                                                                                                                                                                   9                                                                             LA
                                                                                                                                              de Ocoa
                                                                                                                                                                             8                                                10
                                                            BAORUCO                                          r                                                                                                                                                               ALTAGRACIA
                                                                                                         u
                                                                                                       lS




                         To                           Lago                                                                           Azua
                                                                                                     de




                                    Jimaní          Enriquillo             Neiba                        e                                                                  San Cristóbal
                   Port au Prince
                   Port-au-Prince
                                          IN                                                      Ya
                                                                                                     qu                                                                                                   SANTO   Boca                 San Pedro
                                             D    EPE            Duverge                                 Vicente                                                                                Nigua
                                                                                                                                                                                                          DOMINGO Chica                de Macorís             La Romana                    Boca de Yuma

                                                     ND           ENCIA                                  Noble                        Bahía
                                                                                                                                                                                                          DISTRITO NACIONAL
                                                                                                           Bah
                                                                                                                                     de Ocoa                              Baní                                                                 LA ROMANA
                                                                                                               í
                                                                                                           Nei a de
                                  To
                                                                                         Cabral                 ba                                       PERAVIA                      Punta Palenque
                                                                                                         Barahona
                                                      Si




                              Grand-Gosier
                                                                                     Polo                                                                                                                                                                                                    Isla
                                                 P ED
                                                        er




                                                                                                                               1. DAJABÓN                                                                                                                                                    Saona
                                                   E
                                                            r
                                                            ra




                                                                 de
                                                                      Ba    BARAHONA                                           2. SANTIAGO RODR?GUEZ
                                                     ER




           18º N                Pedernales                                 or                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       18º N
                                                                                uc
                                                                                     o                                         3. VALVERDE
                                                      NA
                                                       AL




                                                                 S                                                             4. HERMANAS MIRABAL
                                                        LE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    DOMINICAN
                                                          E




                                                                                                                               5. S?NCHEZ RAM?REZ                                                                                   REPUBLIC                        Car i bbe an S e a
                                                                 Oviedo
                                                                                                                               6. MONSEÑOR NOUEL
                                                                                                                               7. SAN JOSÉ DE OCOA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                0            20             40 Kilometers
                                                                                                                               8. SAN CRISTÓBAL




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                IBRD 33398R
                                                     Isla
                                                   Beata                                                                       9. SANTO DOMINGO
MAY 2009




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                0                     20                     40 Miles
                                                                                                                               10. SAN PEDRO DE MACOR?S
                       72º W                                                                                 71º W                                                                           70º W                                                      69º W
