Doc_=t of
The World Bank
FOR OmaAL USE ONLY
Rept No. 12890
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PAKISTAN
SALINITY CONTROL AND RECLAMATION PROJECT (SCARP) MARDAN
(CREDIT 877-PAK)
MARCH 29, 1994
Agriculture Operations Division
Country Department III
South Asia Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performace of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bankl authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Name of currency (abbreviation) = Pakistani Rupee (PRs)
Appraisal Year (1978):                        US$1.00 =  PRs 9.90
Intervening Years (1979-91):                  US$1.00 =  PRs 15.60
Completion Year (1992):                       US$1.00 =  PRs 25.08
FISCAL YEAR
July 1 to June 30
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
i foot (ft)                           30.5 centimeters (cm)
I mile (mi)                           1.609 kilometers (km)
i acre (ac)                           0.405 hectare (ha)
I cubic yard (cu.yd)       =          0.765 cubic meters (n3)
I acre foot (ac.ft)        =          1,233 m3
1 cu.ft/sec                           0.028 m3/sec
I maund                               37.3 kg
ABBREVIATIONS
CCA           Cultivable command area
CIDA          Canaaian International Development Agency
ECNEC         Executive Committee of the National Economic Council
GCA           Gross command area
GOP           Government of Pakistan
LSC           Lower Swat Canal
NWFP          North West Frontier Province
O&M           Operation and Maintenance
USC           Upper Swat Canal
WAPDA         Water and Power Development Authority



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Office of Director-General                                               March 29, 1994
Operations Evaluation
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT: Project Completion Report on Pakistan
Salinity Control and Reclamation Proiect (SCARP) Mardan (Credit 877-PAK)
Attached is the Project Completion Report on Pakistan - SCARP Mardan (Credit 877-PAK).
Parts I and Ill were prepared by FAO/CP for the South Asia Regional Office and Part 11 by the Borrower.
Due to poor drainage, farming on the Swat Canal irrigation system was suffering from salt and
rising water tables. The project aimed to solve this problem through tile drainage and to improve
services to farmers through better water delivery, on-farm water use, T&V extension, and roads for
a farming area of 85,000 ha.
Implementation was delayed three years when the National Economic Council ordered the
project redesigned. The project area was cut to 50,000 ha. and roads were eliminated. Problems with
local and international contractors and paucity of local funds caused further major delays. Required
density of drains, which had not yet been designed at appraisal, was much higher than appraisal
estimates. Costs increased 12.5% for 59% of the appraised area--a unit cost increase of 91 %.
There have been major agricultural benefits from drainage, improved canal water supply, and
land reclamation. Based on estimates (agricultural monitoring stopped after the baseline survey), yields
have exceeded appraisal estimates and cropping intensities matched them. Thus, despite the
implementation problems, the PCR reports a still satisfactory 13%  ERR.  There were tangible
environmental benefits. Sustainability is likely. The project's principal institution-building goal--
applying T&V principles to the extension system--seems to have had negligible results.
The PCR provides a balanced assessment of project achievements and shortcomings. Useful
comments from the cofinancier, CIDA, were received and integrated into the report. Part i discusses
problems with contractors and insufficient release of Government funds; it recommends rigid
enforcement of Bank pre-qualification guidelines to avoid contractor problems.
No audit is planned at this time.
Attachment                             C:             3
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PAKISTAN
SALINITY CONTROL AND RECLAMATION PROJECT (SCARP) MARDAN
(Cr. 877-PAK)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
PREFACE .............                             .............
EVALUATION SUMMARY .... ......... ..............i
PARTI ..............1.............
1. Project Identity .........................                                1
2. Background ........................    1
3. Project Objectives and Description ........................   1
4. Project Design and Organization ........................   3
5. Project Implementation ........................   3
6. Project Results ........................   6
7. Project Sustainability ..........................   8
8. Donor Performance ..........................  9
9. Borrower Performance .... 10
10. Project Relationship ...........................  11
11. Consulting and Contractor Services .........  ..................  11
12. Project Documentation and Data ...........................  11
PART II ...........................   12
General ...........................   12
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
Iofficial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Major Changes ..............................   12
Rates of Return ..............................   12
Project Monitoring ..............................  12
Overall Impact ..............................   13
Bank's Performance .................................                          13
PART I  .....         .............................   15
1. Related Bank Loans and/or Credits .................................    15
2. Project Timetable .................................  16
3. Credit Disbursements .................................  17
4. Project Implementation ................................  18
A. Physical Targets and Achievements ...............................   18
5. Project Cost and Financing ................ ................  19
A. Project Cost ................................  19
B. Project Financing ..........         ......................  21
6. Project Results ................................  22
A. Direct Benefits ................................  22
B. Economic Impact ..........           ......................  23
C. Financial Impact ................................  24
D. Studies ................................  24
7. Status of Covenants ................................  25
8. Use of Bank Resources ................................  27
A. Staff Inputs (staff weeks) . ................................  27
B. Missions ................................  28
ANNEXES
Annex 1: Economic Evaluation
Annex 2: Equipment List
Appendix 1: Comments by CIDA



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PAKISTAN
SALINITY CONTROL AND RECLAMATION PROJECT (SCARP) MARDAN
(Cr. 877-PAK)
PREFACE
1.         This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Salinity Control and Reclamation
Project (SCARP) Mardan for which Credit 877-PAK in the amount of US$60 million was approved on
January 23, 1979. Co-financing was provided by the Canadian International Development Agency
(CIDA) in the amount of Can$30 million (US$25 million equivalent). The project was revised and
approved by the Government of Pakistan (GOP) in 1982 and the original credit closing date was moved
two years to June 30, 1988. After four one-year extensions, the final closing date was June 30, 1992,
and the credit account was kept open until October 31, 1992, to facilitate completion of disbursements.
Credit 877-PAK was fully disbursed, with the last disbursement made on September 3, 1992. Except
for a sum of Can$0.82 million, set aside for the final socio-economic survey to be undertaken in 1995,
the CIDA grant was also fully disbursed.
2.         Parts I and III of the PCR were prepared by an FAOlWorld Bank Cooperative Program
mission,"' which visited Pakistan in February 1993, and reviewed by the Agriculture Operations
Division, Country Department III, South Asia Region. Preparation was based on the Staff Appraisal
Report and legal documents; IDA supervision reports and project files; field visits; and discussions with
Government officials, beneficiaries, and IDA staff associated with the project. Part II was prepared by
the Borrower.
Messrs. S. Rajagopal (irrigation engineer/mission leader), K. Selvavinayagam (financial analyst), and T.
Bachmann (agronomist).






iii
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PAKISTAN
SALINITY CONTROL AND RECLAMATION PROJECT (SCARP) MARDAN
(Cr. 877-PAK)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Objectives
1.         SCARP Mardan, the first irrigated agricultural development project financed by the Bank
Group in the North West Frontier Province (NWFP), was aimed to increase crop production through (a)
lowering and controlling groundwater levels; (b) provision of increased irrigation deliveries to leach salts,
meet optimum crop water requirements and increase cropping intensities; (c) reclamation of marginally
productive and/or abandoned land; and (d) increasing on-farm water use efficiency. These objectives
were to be attained through investments in subsurface drainage using perforated PVC pipes and effluent
disposal system comprising open drains, canal remodelling works to handle increased deliveries,
watercourse modifications to improve on-farm water use, gypsum application, rural roads", and
improved agricultural extension services. Technical assistance for project implementation was also
provided. Originally, the total area to benefit from the project was 210,000 ac comprising 134,500 ac
of Lower Swat Canal (LSC) and 75,500 ac of Upper Swat Canal (USC) command. The revised project
area (see para 2) was 123,600 ac.
Implementation Experience
2.         The project was to be implemented over a six-year period (FY80 to FY85). However,
during the first three years, only preparatory work was undertaken due to queries raised by GOP and non-
approval of the project by the Executive Committee of the National Economic Council (ECNEC).
Following detailed discussions among IDA, CIDA and GOP, the project scope was reduced to match
available local funds, and ECNEC approval was obtained in February 1982. The downsizing was
achieved essentially by excluding USC and deleting the rural roads component from the project. The
credit closing date was moved to June 30, 1988, reflecting the delayed project start. The actual
implementation period ran from 1982 to 1992 (final credit closing date June 30, 1992). The main reasons
for the time overrun were: late project approval, paucity of local funds, poor performance of contractors,
and increase in the amount of civil works as a result of detailed designs carried out only during
implementation.
3.         At the time of project preparation and appraisal, final detailed designs for the subsurface
drains were not available. Detailed designs were carried out during implementation. The total length
of drains increased from earlier estimates. Subsurface drains were installed using two contractors. Unit
I subsurface drains covering about 24,000 ac were installed over a period of two years on schedule by
11 Original text changed in response to CIDA's comments; see Appendix 1, second paragraph.



Iv
a Canadian contractor utilizing CIDA grant funds. Unit II subsurface drains covering about 49,000 ac
were installed over a period of four years by another international contractor with actual completion
always lagging behind target because of cash flow and equipment problems. Surface drains were
remodelled with considerable delay due to poor performance of the original contractor who had to be
expelled. The remaining works were split into three smaller packages, retendered, and executed with
about six months delay. Even though contracts were delayed, the quality of construction appears to be
good in general. The drains are functioning properly and watertable depths are already being controlled
to desirable levels.
4.         Canal remodelling included increasing the capacity of the Lower Swat Canal and its
headworks, and modifications to the distribution system including conversion of some watercourses into
minors. LSC remodelling was carried out through relatively trouble-free contracts (with about one year
delay). The distributaries contractor was expelled after about 18 months due to poor performance. The
remaining works were split into two packages, retendered and awarded in 1989, and completed in 1992.
The quality of construction appears to be good in general. Construction quality of the Munda headworks
is good. However there were some technical problems in the construction of the Jindai aqueduct which
is a key structure in the LSC irrigation system such as improper placement of clay blankets and poorly
constructed waterstops.
5.         On-farm works were carried out successfully. Water Users' Associations were formed as
required during the implementation period, but these associations have so far not been performing as
expected in maintaining the renovated watercourses. The impact of the T&V extension system on
agricultural production seems fairly limited to date, as evidenced by CIDA's evaluation of the system in
1985 and spot-check farmer interviews carried out by the PCR mission. Land reclamation using gypsum
applications and precision land levelling have been carried out as originally planned.
6.         At the credit closing date, total project cost was PRs 3.18 billion (US$169 million)
compared to the appraisal estimate of PRs 1.48 billion (US$150 million) and the 1981 revised estimate
of PRs 1.3 billion (US$131 million). The cost overrun was due to price escalation and increase in
quantities. The major part of the cost was attributable to civil works whose share in the total increased
to 58% from 38% estimated at project revision.
Project Results
7.         Physical targets of the project's major components have been largely achieved, though with
considerable delay. The project will, by and large, be successful in achieving increased agricultural
production. At full development, it is expected to generate higher production of a number of crops than
projected at the 1981 revision. Farm budget analysis indicates that incremental agricultural income,
expressed in 1992 prices, would be about PRs 19,000 (2.00 ac farm), PRs 72,000 (7.5 ac farm), and PRs
206,000 (21.5 ac farm), representing a real increase of 137%, 157% and 182%, respectively, over the
appraisal estimates.
8.         The economic rate of return calculated now is about 13%, significantly lower than the
revised (1981) estimate of 22%. The lower ERR is mainly due to the prolonged implementation period
resulting in delayed accrual of benefits, higher investment costs and a lower ratio of output to input prices
than anticipated at appraisal or project revision, which are not fully offset by higher crop yields now
projected at full development. The project would directly benefit some 23,000 farm families as targeted
in 1981 and would generate additional employment of about 2.7 million work-days (48% more than
expected in 1981).



v
Project Sustainability
9.         The project worked within the existing organization of WAPDA, the entity chiefly
responsible for implementation, and programs of the participating agencies.  After completion,
responsibility for maintenance and operation of project infrastructure (irrigation and drainage works) is
transferred to the NWFP Irrigation Department. Sustainability of project benefits from improved
agricultural production will depend to a large extent on the availability of irrigation water and drainage,
which in turn will depend on the proper functioning of project works. For the future, and given the
limitations on Government's ability to fully meet operating and maintenance costs, it is critical that
farmers contribute more (through water charges and cost sharing) towards meeting these costs.
Findings and Lessons Learned
10.        As regards the Bank, the main lessons to be learned are that: (a) efficient agricultural
support services should be provided to make investment in irrigation and drainage effective; (b)
meaningful agro-economic evaluation is possible only if the baseline survey carried out prior to project
start is supplemented by regular follow-up surveys; (c) technical capability of the Borrower and resultant
technical assistance requirements should be examined carefully during project preparation; (d) specific
agreement should be obtained from the Borrower regarding budgetary provisions for regular maintenance
of project facilities. As regards the Borrower, the main lessons to be learned are that: (a) management
skills and procedures of the implementing agency should be reviewed and improved, if necessary, and
more decentralized decision-making may prove beneficial; (b) right-of-way acquisition should be carried
out in time to meet design requirements; (c) selection procedures for award of contracts may require
improvement, or existing procedures more careful application than under the project; (d) ability of local
contractors (both financial and technical) should be analyzed prior to determining contract packages; and
(e) timely release of funds is necessary for smooth project implementation.






PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PAKISTAN
SALINITY CONTROL AND RECLAMATION PROJECT (SCARP) MARDAN
(Cr. 877-PAK)
PART I
1. Project Identity
Project Name             Salinity Control and Reclamation Project (SCARP) Mardan
Credit No.               877-PAK
RVP Unit                 South Asia Region
Country                  Pakistan
Sector                   Agriculture
Subsectors        :      Irrigation and Drainage
2. Background
2.1        Irrigation is the dominant subsector in Pakistan's agriculture accounting for about 90% of
agricultural production. Decades of irrigation, with high seepage losses from the vast canal network, and
inadequate drainage have resulted in raised watertable levels in most of the irrigated areas, and many
areas have become waterlogged. In these areas, salinity and alkalinity problems have developed because
of the poor drainage. GOP's SCARP program was established to address these problems. The Bank
Group supported GOP's initiatives through projects aimed at providing drainage, reclaiming land,
increasing irrigation efficiencies, and improving on-farm water management practices. Its first assistance
for the SCARP program came in 1962 with a US$21.15 million credit for the Khairpur Groundwater and
Salinity Control Project located in the northern part of Sindh Province. Other similar projects followed.
SCARP Mardan was one such project, and the first irrigated agricultural development project assisted by
the Bank Group in NWFP.
3. Project Objectives and Description
3.1        Project objectives were to improve agricultural production through:  (i) drainage of
waterlogged lands; (ii) provision of additional irrigation water to meet crop water requirements
adequately; (iii) reclamation of marginally productive and/or abandoned land; (iv) increasing on-farm
water management efficiency; and (v) improved agricultural extension services. The project was to cover
half of the irrigated land in the Mardan area, including the entire LSC command (134,500 ac) and part
of the USC command (75,500 ac). As agreed at negotiations, its objectives were to be achieved through
implementation of the following activities.
installation of subsurface (tile) drains in areas with a watertable depth of less than 5 ft,
altogether about 110,000 ac;



2
remodelling existing surface drains in about 183,000 ac to carry storm water and provide
a gravity outlet for the tile drainage effluent;
modification of the 2.1 mile long Benton Tunnel near the head of the USC to increase the
discharge capacity from 1,800 cusecs to 2,060 cusecs thus providing additional irrigation
water for the part of the USC command covered;
remodelling of the Munda Headworks and the LSC system to provide increased capacity
and improve canal operating efficiencies. Additional water from the Swat river to be
directed through the enlarged and improved system to provide full irrigation and
reclamation requirements of the LSC command area;
reclamation of about 25,000 ac of abandoned and/or marginally productive saline-alkaline
land;
-           improvement in on-farm water management efficiency through watercourse improvements
on 143,000 ac and precision land levelling on 35,000 ac;
-          improvements to the rural market road network to handle increased inputs and outputs
expected with project development;
-           improvements in agricultural extension services and institution of the training and visit
(T&V) system over the entire administrative district of Mardan and the Charadda Tehsil
of the Peshawar district, covering a gross command area (GCA) of 670,000 ac;
-          provision of 461 staff-months of consultancy services to assist WAPDA in the preparation
of final designs for the project, and feasibility studies for suitable follow-up projects; to
advise and assist in setting up the T&V system; and to advise and develop local expertise
in sugar beet agronomy; and
-          provision of: (i) equipment for construction of irrigation system and surface drains,
subsurface drainage network, and rural roads; (ii) land levelling and land reclamation
equipment, monitoring equipment for water measurement, drainage and water table
observations; (iii) project support and management equipment and vehicles; (iv) plants for
PVC pipe manufacturing, gravel crushing and processing of envelope material; (v)
operation and maintenance (O&M) equipment such as high pressure drain pipe cleaners,
backhoes, loaders and trucks; and (vi) maize seed processing equipment.
3.2        Total project costs were estimated at appraisal to be US$150 million (PRs 1,485 million),
including US$7 million (PRs 69 million) taxes and duties. The foreign exchange component was about
US$67 million. An IDA credit of US$60 million and CIDA grant of US$25 million equivalent were to
finance all foreign exchange cost and 24% of local cost, or 59% of total project costs net of taxes and
duties. The remainder was to be financed by GOP. The project was to be implemented over a six-year
period with WAPDA responsible for most aspects of implementation. The NWFP Irrigation Department
was to have responsibility for watercourse remodelling, and the Agriculture Department for extension and
research activities, and provision of necessary inputs to farmers. For the first two years after completion,
the constructed works were to be operated and maintained by WAPDA. Following formal acceptance,
the Irrigation Department was to take over O&M responsibilities. The main project benefits were to
come from increased annual crop production.



3
4. Project Design and Organization
4.1         Project design and concept were clear and provided a good conceptual foundation for the
project. They were clearly understood by many of the relevant parties."' At the time of project
formulation, subsurface drainage using perforated plastic pipes was relatively new in Pakistan. The
topography of the project area allows the subsurface drains to discharge into open surface drains by
gravity. The surface drains lead the effluent into the Kabul river. The concept of such a drainage
network was well-founded and the design of the project components reflected this. The project
components represented a balanced investment in drainage and irrigation infrastructure and in agricultural
research, extension, on-farm water management works and other inputs.
4.2        In the light of its objectives, the scope of the project was appropriate. However, as
explained in para 5. 1, the size was not related to availability of local funds. It also appears that GOP was
not fully convinced of the technical superiority of the components included in the project design, since
ECNEC requested the Soil Survey of Pakistan to conduct an independent technical review of the project
after it had been negotiated. This led to significant delay (about 2 1/2 years) in project implementation
(para 5.1). However, these issues were resolved. The project was well prepared both conceptually and
in overall engineering design, but left details to the implementation phase, which created further delays
since WAPDA staff did not have enough experience in subsurface drainage design and construction.
CIDA provided a team of Canadian drainage engineers to assist with the preparation of detailed
engineering designs and to train WAPDA staff.
4.3         The roles of the institutions responsible for the project were clearly defined and understood.
Some of the responsibilities were modified during project implementation (e.g., transfer of responsibility
for watercourse remodelling from the Irrigation to the Agriculture Department). In general, these
changes contributed to the overall success of the project.
4.4         Subsurface pipe drainage being relatively new in Pakistan at the time of appraisal, its
inclusion in the project could be considered as innovative, particularly considering the debate over
tubewell drainage and pipe drainage going on in the country at that time. Given the complex hydraulic
conductivity of the various soil strata found in the project area, pipe drainage was the best choice.
5. Project Implementation
5.1         Credit Effectiveness. Even though the legal documents were signed on February 7, 1979,
the IDA credit became effective only on October 16, 1979, due to delay in appointment of consultants,
which was a condition of effectiveness. However, project implementation did not start immediately
thereafter due to:  (i) lack of support from  GOP and minimal Rupee financing provided for
implementation during FY80 and FY81 as a result of serious financial constraints; and (ii) appointment
of a high-level technical committee to review the scope of the project, and ECNEC's decision to defer
approval until completion of the technical review.
5.2         Project Revision. Extensive discussions were held among IDA, CIDA and GOP over a
two-year period to resolve the issues raised by GOP and to get project implementation started. Agreement
Some technical questions were raised after appraisal regarding the advantages of horizontal (pipe) and vertical
(tubewell) drainage, but these were resolved later and the project concept was eventually accepted by all
parties.



4
was reached in late 1981, the project size was reduced and the implementation schedule changed to
accommodate the Government's financial constraints. Principally this was done by excluding, for later
development under a proposed Swabi SCARP, the USC command area, and deleting a small part of the
LSC area and the rural market road component. The revised project covered 123,600 ac (50,040 ha).
Its principal parts were:
installation of subsurface drainage covering about 73,000 ac with a water table depth of less
than 5 ft;
remodelling of surface drains on about 101,600 ac;
remodelling of the LSC system to provide increased capacity and improved operational
efficiency;
reclamation of about 14,600 ac of abandoned or marginally productive saline-alkaline land;
on-farm improvements through watercourse remodelling covering about 123,600 ac and
precision land levelling on about 20,000 ac; and
others as at appraisal.
5.3        The revised project costs were estimated (at mid-1981 prices) to be US$131.3 million (PRs
1,301 million). IDA and CIDA financing remained the same as at appraisal. The IDA credit closing date
was moved to June 30, 1988.
5.4        Main Variances. The 2'h year start-up delay indicates that the project was probably not
on GOP's priority list. If the project cost had been compared to the overall budget availability for the
subsector and other Government commitments in the subsector over the intended project implementation
period, the financial constraints could have been identified and a reduced project could have been
prepared in the first place. In retrospect, the start-up delay could perhaps have been avoided.
5.5        Implementation started slowly in the second quarter of 1982 but gained momentum in 1984.
However, further progress was slow due to poor performance of: (i) a local contractor who was awarded
a contract in late 1985 for remodelling of surface drains; (ii) an international contractor who was awarded
a contract in mid-1986 for installation of subsurface drains on about 49,000 ac; and (iii) a local contractor
who was awarded a contract at the end of 1986 for remodelling of the irrigation distributory system.
5.6        Since at the time of project preparation and appraisal detailed designs had not been
completed for the drains, they had to be prepared during implementation. The total length of drains
increased as a result. In addition, the Abazai gated weir on the Swat river controlling the flow into the
Munda headworks had to be modified as well, to avoid siltation problems at the intake.
5.7        Originally, the project was to be implemented over a six-year period. However, due to the
poor performance of contractors, the paucity of counterpart funds and the increase in the volume of work,
the project was implemented over a period of eleven years.
5.8        Unit I subsurface drains covering about 24,000 ac were installed on schedule, over a period
of two years. Unit II subsurface drains covering about 49,000 ac were installed over a period of four
years with actual completion always lagging behind target. The contractor had serious cashflow problems



5
and equipment difficulties. Additional trenchers had to be brought in from other sites and new trenchers
had to be bought to accelerate performance. Without these measures, the contract would not have been
completed.
5.9         Both trenchers and trenchless ploughs were used in subsurface drain installation. It appears
that the trenchless ploughs caused some problems during construction with silt entering the drains from
above. More frequent flushing of drains constructed using trenchless ploughs may be required as
compared to trencher-installed drains."
5.10        Subsurface drain construction was also hampered by the non-completion of surface drains,
which were on the critical path of the implementation schedule. Late acquisition of the necessary right-
of-way hindered construction progress as well.
5.11        The surface drain remodelling contract was awarded in October 1985 with an estimated
completion period of 42 months. However, the contractor's performance was inadequate resulting in his
expulsion in 1988 - after three years he had only completed 25 % of the scheduled works. The remaining
works were split into three smaller contracts, retendered and awarded in 1989. These smaller contracts
were completed in 1991, about six months behind schedule. Considering that without completion of the
surface drains, the effluent from the subsurface drains could not be evacuated, this aspect should have
been given priority. It is not clear why the first contractor was allowed to continue for three years when
it was evident that his performance was inadequate'. Overall, surface drain remodelling that could
have been completed in 2-3 years was completed over a six-year period. This variance could, in
retrospect, have been avoided by better project preparation before appraisal and better contract sizing and
selection procedures.
5.12        Canal remodelling work was carried out under two major subheadings: LSC and its
structures; and (ii) distributory canals and their structures. LSC remodelling was carried out through two
relatively trouble-free contracts (delayed by about one year). The contractor remodelling distributaries
was expelled after about 18 months, having completed only 10% of the scheduled work. The remaining
works were split into two contracts, retendered and awarded in 1989. The work was completed in 1992
with about one year delay. Again, this completion delay could have been avoided by proper contract
sizing and selection procedures. The delay meant that increased irrigation supplies could not be delivered
until the 1992 cropping season.
5.13        Even though contracts were completed late, the quality of construction appears to be good
in general. However, there were some technical problems in the construction of the Jindai aqueduct. At
the upstream end of the aqueduct, foundation failures were experienced. Investigations carried out so far
indicate that improper or inadequate placement of clay blanket aprons might have contributed to the
failures. This is a critical aqueduct in the LSC and the failures led to delayed supply of increased
irrigation deliveries to the system. During its field visit, the PCR mission noticed several leaks along
the joints in the aqueduct. It appears that waterstops have not been constructed properly. These leaks
should be monitored and remedial action taken if necessary.
I/  See Appendix 1, Comments by CIDA, fourth paragraph.
21  End of Year 1 - 3% completed compared to a target of 18%; end of Year 2 - 18% completed
compared to a target of 56 %.



6
5.14        On-farm works were carried out successfully under the responsibility of the Agriculture
Department. Water Users' Associations were formed as required during the implementation period.
However, these associations have so far not been performing as expected in maintaining the renovated
watercourses. The T&V system of agricultural extension was introduced in 1981 covering the Mardan,
Charsadda and Swabi districts. Staffing and equipment purchase were based on SAR proposals. Two
international consultants were assigned to the Agriculture Department. For the purpose of monitoring
cropped areas and yields, a District Statistical Officer and 12 crop recorders were provided by the
project. However, the impact of the extension service on agricultural production appears to be fairly
limited so far. CIDA conducted an extensive review of the performance of the T&V system in 1985 as
part of the agro-economic survey. The review concluded that the system was not being effective, with
only about 5 % of the farmers benefitting from it. The PCR mission conducted spot-check interviews with
project beneficiaries which confirm the findings of the CIDA review. Land reclamation using gypsum
and precision land levelling have been carried out by the Agricultural Research Institute at Tarnab as
originally envisaged.
5.15        Project Costs and Financing. In mid-1992, total project cost was reported to be PRs 3.18
billion (US$168.8 million), which translates to PRs 25,753 per acre, compared to the 1981 revised cost
estimate of PRs 1.30 billion (US$131.3 million), which translates to PRs 10,526 per acre. This
represents a cost overrun of 144% in Rupee terms. Expressed in US dollars, which reflects the
devaluation of the Rupee, project costs increased by only 29%. The cost overrun was partly due to
quantity increases and partly to unit cost increases. The major part of the cost increase was attributable
to civil works which now account for 58% of total project costs compared to 38% in the 1981 revision.
Of the total cost, 35% was financed by IDA, 15% by CIDA and the balance of 50% by Government,
compared to 46%, 19% and 35%, respectively, anticipated in 1981.
6. Project Results
6.1         Crop Production. Most of the increased production from the project will result from
higher yields of the major crops due to improved drainage conditions, reclamation of waterlogged or salt-
affected land and, to a limited extent, from improved agricultural services provided under the project.
Full development yields of all crops except maize and rabi fodder are now estimated to exceed those
projected in the 1981 revision, with sugar beet and sugarcane exceeding the earlier estimates by 46% and
21% respectively (see Part IIt/6A). The PCR crop yield estimates are based on data collected by the
project's Statistical Unit and the Agricultural Department, and were confirmed by farmer interviews in
the field. Additional irrigation deliveries have just started to materialize, which may assist in increasing
yields further.
6.2         Overall cropping intensities are expected to increase from 156% (without project) to 180%
at full development, as projected at appraisal. However, there are differences in the cropping patterns
of the individual farm models used by the PCR mission as compared with the SAR models. A 3%
increase in cropping intensity over SAR estimates is assumed in maize, vegetables, sugarcane and
orchards, whereas the area under kharif fodder is decreased by 5% more than was assumed in the SAR.
The increase in cropped area concerns, above all, the main cash crops (vegetables, sugarcane and
orchards). The expected stronger decrease in fodder relative to the SAR estimate is due to widespread
farm mechanization over the last decade, which replaced draft animals by tractors.



7
6.3         The project will be successful in achieving its major objectives of increasing crop
production by bringing abandoned or marginally productive land into production", raising crop yields
by providing adequate drainage, improving the irrigation system, increasing irrigation water supply,
providing land levelling, and watercourse improvement. However, the impact of the agricultural
extension system has been well below expectations so far. Attainment of physical targets though delayed
has been largely achieved in the implementation of the project's major components. At full development,
the project would generate higher agricultural production than estimated at appraisal and project revision,
including sugarcane, sugar beet, vegetables and fruit (see Part III/6A).
6.4         Through drainage improvements and construction of irrigation structures, the project has
improved water security, facilitated double-cropping and increased yields. Although the irrigated land
under the project remained the same (123,600 ac), the amount of water supplied year-round has
increased. As a result, farmers are able to plant a second crop of vegetables.
6.5        Income Effects and Employment. Due to the project, farm incomes in the LSC area have
increased and will increase further. Farm budget analysis shows that net incremental income, expressed
in 1992 prices, would be about PRs 19,180 (2.0 ac farm), PRs 71,920 (7.5 ac farm) and PRs 206,110
(21.5 ac farm) at full development, representing a real increase of 139%, 157% and 182%, respectively,
over appraisal estimates. With a farm family size of seven persons, per capita incremental income for
the smallest farm size would be about US$109 equivalent at full development. The project directly
benefits some 23,000 farm families (the same as envisaged in 1981).
6.6         Landowners have benefitted more than tenants. In some areas, land values doubled and
even trebled after project works were completed. Some owners were reported to have increased land
rents charged to their tenants. Since productivity also increased, both landowners and tenants realized
a net gain.
6.7         Economic Rate of Return. As presented in Part III/6B, the project's economic rate of
return (ERR), re-estimated following the SAR, is about 13%, 5% lower than the appraisal estimate and
9% lower than the 1981 estimate. This result is mainly due to higher investment costs per unit area than
estimated at appraisal or project revision, delayed benefits due to the prolonged implementation period
and a lower ratio of output to input prices than anticipated earlier, which are not fully offset by the higher
crop yields now projected at full development. However, because of the substantial change in the scope
of the project (exclusion of USC covering 30,580 ha), the recalculated ERR is not strictly comparable
with the appraisal estimate.
6.8         Sensitivity tests show that a reduction in benefits by 10% or 20% or an increase in costs
by 10% or 20% will lower the ERR to about 12% and 11%, respectively. The project is thus not very
sensitive to variations in either costs or benefits.
6.9         Environmental Impact. In the project area, groundwater levels had risen significantly
since irrigation was first initiated near the end of the last century, and low-lying land without adequate
drainage had become waterlogged. Standing water bodies had developed in several areas, providing a
habitat for mosquitoes. The project has effectively drained the marshy waterlogged areas and generally
" See Appendix 1, Comments by CIDA, sixth paragraph. The farm models prepared for the agro-economic
analysis (para 6.5 and Annex 1) include the land that was marginal or out of production, but do not show the
estimated output separately.



8
lowered groundwater levels, thus reducing the breeding grounds for mosquitoes. Abandoned or
unproductive land has been reclaimed. Adequate water supply for sustained crop production is being
provided, allowing higher incomes for participating farmers. The overall impact of the project on the
natural and social environment is, therefore, generally positive.
7. Project Sustainability
7.1         Project sustainability, i.e., continuity of production benefits derived from the project, will
depend on: (a) availability of trained staff with adequate equipment to maintain the system; (b)
availability of funds to meet full O&M costs; and (c) not only local acceptance but active local support
for the project, to minimize the risk of neglect or deterioration.
7.2         Although it is too early to judge whether the above has been achieved, some preliminary
observations can be made. Adequate equipment such as trenchers and draglines has been transferred to
the Irrigation Department. The mechanical workshop constructed under the project would continue to
provide necessary repair and maintenance facilities for the O&M equipment. The Asian Development
Bank is financing the Swabi SCARP covering the USC command, and the same WAPDA personnel who
carried out SCARP Mardan are involved in this project. Therefore, required expertise would be available
for the Irrigation Department to draw from over the next few years. Assurance of adequate O&M funds,
however, still remains an issue. While there is consensus on the need to increase the level of water rates
to meet funding requirements -- rates have been increased by 25% for FY94 - its continued political and
social acceptability is critical. For the sustainability of the project's irrigation and drainage system, and
given the limitations on the Government's ability to meet O&M costs flly, it is important that farmers
contribute more towards meeting these costs. While recovery of O&M costs is vital, consideration should
also be given to the issue of obtaining a contribution towards investment costs (as envisaged at appraisal).
7.3         Cost Recovery. Currently, O&M costs of irrigation projects and construction costs of
OFWM projects (and components) are partially recovered through water charges and payment of a share
of the costs, respectively. Irrigation water charges are levied according to the area and the type of crops
grown. Water rates for the main crops at appraisal and credit closing are as follows:
Appraisa  (199)79          Credt Closiang (OM2)
0: :         i  .(PRsItac) ...
Sug"YArMa                                41.00                         82.40
Sugar beet                               26.00                         53.60
Wheo                                     12.00                         24.00
Mi                                       12.00,                        24.00
Orcad                                    26.00                        106.40
Vegetables                               26.00                         53.60
Between 1979 and 1992, the rates have doubled in nominal terms (except for orchards where the rate has
increased fourfold), but still represent on average PRs 51/ac/yr taking into account cropped areas and
cropping intensities.



9
7.4         At appraisal, it was agreed that water charges would be raised in three stages - by July 1,
1981, July 1, 1986, and July 1, 1991 - so that they would be sufficient to recover the full cost of O&M
plus a reasonable portion of the investment cost of irrigation and drainage facilities in NWFP. Revenue
from water charges, at present levels (PRs 6.3 million), covers only 38% of the estimated O&M costs
at full development (PRs 16.7 million), and an annual subsidy of PRs 10.4 million will be required.
7.5        The level of charges needed to recover O&M costs would have no significant impact on net
farm income. For example, a rate covering estimated O&M costs only would imply an annual payment
of PRs 270 for a small farm of 2.0 ac. This is equivalent to 0.8% of gross farm income, 1.2% of net
farm income, and 2.9% of total production costs.
7.6         As shown above, irrigation water charges do not fully cover the estimated cost of effective
O&M, but it will be difficult to increase them substantially in the short term. A Nationwide Study for
Improving Procedures for Assessment and Collection of Water Charges and Drainage Cess (1990)
recommended that water rates be increased by 25% in 1990-91 in all provinces and then by 10.54%
compounded annually, assuming that correct water rates are applied to the actual areas under cultivation.
If this recommendation were applied in NWFP, water charges would average about PRs 63/ac in the LSC
command area initially (rising from the 1992 level of PRs 51/ac by 25%) and would reach PRs 135/ac
in eight years at 10% compounded annually, which would be adequate to recover the estimated O&M
costs of PRs 16.7 million. While such increases are not insignificant, they appear feasible from the
perspective of farmers' ability to pay, especially considering that at full development real net farm income
would have risen considerably even for the smallest farm (2 ac).
8. Donor Performance
8.1        The performance of IDA was generally satisfactory throughout the implementation of the
project. Twenty supervision missions (18 jointly with CIDA, the co-financier) were mounted between
March 1979 and October 1991. IDA and CIDA adopted a flexible approach in the provision of
equipment and technical assistance, and the extension of the project implementation period. The
provision of a five-member Canadian drainage team (para 4.2) greatly assisted in the design of the
subsurface and surface drainage works, and in training WAPDA and local consultant staff. Similarly,
by allowing contractors to purchase equipment they considered necessary for executing their contracts
against a mobilization advance, rather than procuring the equipment listed in the SAR, IDA enabled the
Borrower to save some costs.
8.2        The procedures approved by the Bank for pre- or post-qualification of contractors, however,
need to be reviewed further by both Borrower and Bank. As said in paras 5.11 and 5.12, poor
performance of contractors led to serious implementation delays and deferral of benefits resulting in lower
than anticipated economic results. The Bank Group should perhaps in the future encourage a thorough
review by relevant Borrower agencies of both technical and financial capability of potential contractors
prior to contract award.
8.3         Lack of attention to financial constraints led to delay in ECNEC approval of the project
which delayed start-up by about 2% years. To prevent reoccurrence of such situation, the Bank Group
has made ECNEC approval a condition of credit effectiveness since 1981.
8.4        Lessons learned can be summarized as follows:



10
investment in irrigation and drainage is economically sound. Efficient agricultural support
services should be provided to make such investment effective;
a meaningful agro-economic evaluation becomes possible only when the baseline survey
carried out prior to project start is supplemented by regular follow-up surveys during and
after project implementation (see para 12.2);
financial capability and willingness of the Borrower to execute the project should be
ascertained carefully before credit approval. Consequently, ECNEC approval has been
made a condition of credit effectiveness in lending to Pakistan (para 8.3);
technical capability of the Borrower and resultant TA requirements should be examined
carefully during project preparation;
specific agreement should be obtained from the Borrower regarding annual budgetary
provision for regular maintenance of project facilities;
it is important that final designs of canals and drains are prepared for the first project year
prior to loan negotiations.
9. Borrower Performance
9.1         The performance of the Borrower throughout project implementation was below
expectations. Problem areas were project approval and contract packaging, selection, award and
management, which led to considerable implementation delays. The chief implementing agency,
WAPDA, executed the project through its consultants. Day-to-day activities were under the direct control
of the consultants. Decision-making by WAPDA was bureaucratic and contributed to delays in selecting
and awarding contracts. Similarly, right-of-way acquisition was not always carried out in time resulting
in contractor claims.
9.2         Lessons learned can be summarized as follows:
adequate time should be allowed in the implementation schedule for preparation of final
designs, if this has not been done prior to project approval;
management skills and procedures of the implementing agency should be reviewed and
improved, if necessary. More decentralized decision-making may prove benefical;
-           right-of-way acquisition should be carried out in time based on design requirements;
-           selection procedures for the award of contracts may require improvement, or existing
procedures more careful application than under the project;
capability of local contractors (both financial and technical) should be analyzed prior to
determining contract packages;
-           timely release of funds is necessary for smooth project implementation;



11
monitoring and evaluation surveys should be carried out regularly to obtain reliable data
on project impact.
10. Project Relationship
10.1       Even though the project was the first in the subsector assisted by IDA in NWFP, the chief
implementing agency had already established a good working relationship with IDA under other projects.
This relationship continued throughout implementation. Documentation on file indicates the frustration
shared by senior management of WAPDA and IDA regarding the poor performance of contractors. IDA,
CIDA and the consultants worked in good harmony to eventually resolve most of the project-specific
problems.
11. Consulting and Contractor Services
11.1       The consulting services provided by a Pakistani-US joint venture and the technical assistance
provided by the Canadian drainage team were appropriate. The consultants monitored the performance
of the contractors and kept IDA advised on a weekly basis of delays, bottlenecks and remedial action
needed. The Canadian drainage team assisted in the preparation of designs for Unit I and Unit n1
subsurface drains, trained counterpart staff, and prepared a drainage manual."
11.2       As stated in Section 5, the performance of contractors was varied. An, international
contractor responsible for subsurface drainage works and some of the local contractors responsible for
remodelling of surface drains and distributaries performed below expectations.
11.3       The contractors supplying gravel envelope material and PVC pipes performed well and
delivered on schedule. The gravel contractor corrected his initially poor performance by following the
excellent advice given by the project consultants. The Nowshera PVC pipe factory was assisted by CIDA
and IDA through timely provision of needed equipment, including a second extruder line capable of
producing up to 12-inch PVC pipes.
12. Project Documentation and Data
12.1       The SAR and the Credit and Project Agreements (including amendments) provided a basic
framework for IDA, the Borrower and the project implementing agencies. The Memorandum of
Understanding between CIDA, GOP and IDA provided the necessary framework for implementing the
components cofinanced by CIDA.
12.2       Information for the preparation of the PCR, except for the evaluation of agricultural impact,
was readily available. A good system of monitoring physical progress of works was put in place by the
consultants. However, there was no follow-up to the baseline survey on agriculture carried out in 1985.
The CIDA follow-up survey is planned for 1995. The draft PCR prepared for the Borrower by the
consultants (February 1993) was confined to physical facilities (irrigation and drainage). On these aspects
it provided useful information. Information available at WAPDA was used in calculating actual project
cost and in estimating O&M expenses.
I/ Original text changed in response to CIDA's comments; see Appendix 1, fifth paragraph.



12
PART II
1.        Mardan Salinity Control and Reclamation Project (SCARP) (Cr 877-PAX)
aimed mainly at control of waterlogging and salinity, increasing water
availability in the irrigation system (123,600 acres of CCA), conserving and
maximizing use of the available water resources through remodelling the existing
irrigation system, surface drains and laying of sub-surface (tile) drains in the
area.
2.        Financial assistance to the project was provided by the World Bank
(IDA) and Canadian International Development Agency (CIDA) (US$60 million and
Can$30 million respectively). Commenced in 1979, the project was completed by
31 December 1992.
3.        The project was initially scheduled to be completed in 1986-87.
However, its completion was delayed due to default of three main contractors,
increase in the scope of work and insufficient release of funds from the
Government of Pakistan (GOP) against the demands.
Maiotr Chanaes
4.        There were no major changes made in the original design except some
increase in the scope of civil works including
a.   Increase in the length of drains.
b.   Construction of 21 railway bridges.
c.   Increase in the number of culverts and bridges across
irrigation and drainage channels.
d.   Conversion of 156 water courses into minors and construction
of additional gated inlet structures for minors.
e.   Construction of a mechanical workshop for maintenance of
heavy equipment.
Rates of Return
5.        With the implementation, the project incremental benefits will be Rs.
628.477 million at full development.  The BC rate is 1.2:1 while net present
worth (NPW) is Re. 978.516 million. The calculated EIRR is 14%.
Proiect uonitorino
6.        WAPDA's SCARP Monitoring Organization is responsible for regular
benefit monitoring and evaluation of:-
a.   Intensities, yields and agriculture production of various crops,
i.e. rabi and kharif.
b.   Depth of water table at least biannually.
c.   Salinity and sodicity status at proper intervals.
d.   Quality of effluent from the tile drains and surface drains.
e.   Economic activities in the project area.



13
f.   Functioning of tile drainage laterals/collectors.
g.   Quantity of effluent from the tile drainage units.
h.   Rainfall data and flow of surface drains.
Overall Impact
7.         The  statistical  data  collected  by  Pakistan  Academy  for  Rural
Development, Peshawar revealed that substantial increase in crop yield has taken
place in the project area as shown in the table below, from the commencement in
1979-80 till completion of the project.
Increase
Yield/Acre         Yield/Acre         in Yield
During             During             1980-81 to
Sr.No.     Name of Crop         1980-81            1991-92            1991-92
XHARIF CROP YIELD PER ACRE
a.         Maize                0.83  M.Ton         1.25  M.Ton        0.42  M.Ton
b.         Paddy                 1.10    n          1.40    n          0.30
c.         Sugarcane           21.25    "          33.90    n         12.65
d.         Sunflower            0.50    n           1.00    n          0.50
e.         Soyabean             0.60    "           1.00    "          0.40
RABI CROP YIELD PER ACRE
a.         Wheat                0.58    "           1.00               0 0.42
b.         Rape and Mustard    0.15    "            0.40    "          0.25
c.         Sugar Beet          20.00    "          30.00    "         10.00
d.         Potato               6.25    "           8.75    "          2.50
e.         Tobacco Virginia    0.90    "            1.25    "          0.35
f.         Sunflower            0.60    "           1.25    "          0.65
g.         Soyabean Spring       0.50    "          0.90    n          0.40    n
8.         From the above statistics  it is clear that  improvement  in the
irrigation and drainage system has had very significant and positive impact on
productivity of the area. Specifically, the maize and tobacco crops, which used
to be frequently destroyed in heavy rainstorms, are now safe from flood hazards.
The cropping pattern in the newly-drained area is changing fast; more and more
land is converted into fruit orchards. The price of land has also gone up. In
a nutshell, one can say that the inhabitants are very happy with the drainage
measures taken in the area.
Bank's Performance
9.         The Bank's performance remained excellent throughout the project
implementation period. Except during the Gulf War, no significant problem in
transfer and flow of funds was encountered. The half-yearly visiting missions
of the Bank, for appraisal of the progress of the project, have been very
productive; problems, if any, were solved jointly by the borrowers, donors and



14
allied agencies.  The Bank's selection of the personnel for the missions was
excellent - there was mutual understanding and effective communication.
10.       However, the Bank's pre-qualification guidelines for construction
contractors and equipment vendors need to be rigidly enforced to ensure that no
incompetent bidder is included in the tender process. In Mardan SCARP there were
several contractors who were not technically and financially sound; some
contractors had to be replaced, others required long extensions of time for
completing their assigned works. This was one of the main reasons leading to
delayed completion of the project by some seven years.



15
PART III
1. Related Bank Loans and/or Credits
Lan/Credit                                     Prpoe                  Yewr of        Credi         status     C      _auents
Tide                                                                  Approval      Amont
Khairpur Groundwater and Salinity    Control of waterlogging and alinity  1962    US$21.15 M.   Conpleted  No PCR listed
Control Project (Cr. 22-PAK)                                                                                    in OED
Directory
Khairpur rtile Drainage and Irrigated  Tile drainge and irrigation      1976       US$14 M.    Comnpleted   PCR issued
Farmniig Developmnent Project     developmnent                                                                 June 1989
(Cr. 648-PAK)
Salinity Control and Reclnamtion  Control of alinity nd water-logging   1977       US$70 M.    Completed    Draft PCR
Project (SCARP) VI (Cr. 754-PAK)                                                                              issued Dec.
1993
On-Farmn Water Management         To increaae agricultural production by  1981   SDR 33.4 M.   Complted   PCR iuued
(OFWM) Project (Cr. 1163-PAK)    improved management of water saved                                           June 1988
through watercourse renovation and
cleaning and related nmasures in the
four provinces.
ConumAnd Water Managemnent Project To increase agricultural production  1984     SDR 43.7 M.   Conpleted    Draft PCR
(Cr. 1457-PAK)                    through improved water mnage-                                                 under
ment, along with supplying                                                  preparation
agriculturil services and non-water
inputs in even sub-project areas
totalling 510,000 ac located in all four
provinces.
Left Bank Outfall Drain - Stage I  To provide an ultimate outlet to the  1984    SDR147.6 M.    Ongoing
Project (Cr. 1532-PAK)            sea for drainage effluent from
irrigated areea of the Lower Indus
Basin.
Second On-Farm Water Management To consolidate gaina achieved under     1985     SDR 34.8 M.   Completd   PCR issued
Poject (Cr. 1603-PAK)             Cr.  1163-PAK  nd improve OFWM                                              May1993
programs in the four provinces to
enable them to realize their potential.
SCARP Transition Pilot Project    Testing trnsfer modes of public       1986      SDR 8.7 M.   Completed   PCR issued
(Cr. 1693-PAK)                    tubewell operation in fresh                                                 June 1993
groundwater areas to private
ownership nd operation.
Third On-Farm Water Management   To increase agricultural production by  1991     US$36.3 M.,    Ongoing
Project (Ln. 3327-PAK, Cr. 2245-    effective use of water sved through           SDR 33.4M.
PAK)                              renovation of watercourec and
related measures in irrigated as well
as kbani areas of the four provinces,
FATA and FANA.
Fordwah Eastern Sadiqia Project   Increase agricultural productivity and  1992   SDR 39.6 M.    Ongoing
(Cr. 2410-PAK)                    income by improving reliability of
water supplies and surface drainaep
and reduce the need for subsurface
drainage.
Second SCARP Transition Project    Follow-up on SCARP Trnsition Pilot    1991     SDR 14.8 M.    Ongoing           -
(Cr. 2257-PAK)                    Project to transfer public SCARP
tubewelbs to private ownership and
operation in fresh groundwater are".



16
2. Project Timetable
Iten                        Date Planned           Date Revised           Date Actual
Identification                                          -                  Nov. 1976
Preparation                                             -                  Dec. 1977
Appraisal                    Feb. 1978                  -                Feb./Mar. 1978
Negotiations             Start Nov. 27, 1978            -                  Dec. 1978*
Board Approval              Jan. 23, 1979               -                 Jan. 23, 1979
Credit Signature            Feb. 6, 1979                -                 Feb. 7, 1979
Credit Effectiveness        May 8, 1979           Oct. 16, 1979"          Oct. 16, 1979
ECNEC Approval                   -                      -                Feb. 23, 1982
Credit Closing              June 30, 1986         June 30, 19882i        June 30, 1992
Credit Completion                -                      -                 Sept. 3, 1992
* Nov. 27 - Dec. 4, 1978.
" Last of three extensions.
v Agreed in October 1981; followed by four one-year extensions.



3. Credit Disbursements
Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbursements
(in US$ milCion)
FY7    FY8   FFWY8    FY8Z    FY83    FY84    FY85    FY86  | FY87    FY88    FY89    FY90    FY91    FY92    FY93
ApprsTsal Estimste1'          0      1.5    8.5    22.5    39.5        51.5    60.0        -        -        .             -             -        -
Actual                        0     0.32   0.82    1.37    2.27        5.48     9.31    14.20    18.74   25.32   30.05    40.33    49.95    58.16    60.00
Actual as X of Appraisal      0       21      10       6        6        11      16        24       31       42       50       67       83       97        100
Date of Final Disbursement: Septeber 3, 1992.
Appears to be Inconsistent with DCA which shows (original) closing date as 6/30/86.
Note: At project revision in 1981 no revised disbursement schedule was prepared.



18
4. Project Implementation
A. Physical Targets and Achievements
Item                                   Unit                SAR           Revised late     Actual     Actual a % of
1981                       Revied
Land acquisition                        ac                 15,800            11,000          -              -
Lower Swat Canal remotdeing             ac                134,500           123,600       123,600          100
Benton Tunnel Upper Swat                ac                 75,500             -
Command
Surface drainage                        ac                185,000           101,600       101,600          100
Subsurfacedrainage                      ac                110,000            73,000        71,500           98
Watercourse remodelling                 ac                143,000           123,600       123,600          100
Land reclamtion                         ac                25,000             14,600        14,600          100
Land levelling                          ac                35,000             20,000        20,000          100
Rural mnarket roads                     mi                   100               -             -
Agricultural extension                  ac                185,000           123,600       123,600          100
Monitoring                              ec                185,000           123,600       123,600          100
Equipment procurement"                Per list               - 
Consulting services                 stff-monthe            461               420           1,038          247
Training programs                   saff-months      Generally pecified   Same as at        3/            N.A.
apprmisal
" Equipment for subsurface and surface drainage was procured by contractors against advance payment.
2 Equipment procured under the project, transferred to the Irrigation Deprtment nd the Swabi SCARP upon completion of
SCARP Mardan and to be written off, as given in Annex 2.
Trmining courses (as shown by WAPDA and supervisory consultants):
Training/Localion */                           Disciplie (and Number) Trned
Drainage Pipe Testing in Canada                                EN (1)
Installation of Subsurface Drainage            SS (1)
Course in Canada and USBR
ditto                                               EN (1)
ditto                                               EN (1)
ditto                                               EN (1)
Installation of Subsurface Drainage            EN (1)
Course in Canada and USBR
ditto                                               EN (I)
ditto                                               EN (I)
Design of Subsurface Drainage Course                          EN (I)
at WAPDA Academy, Tarbela
ditto                                               EN (1)
ditto                                               VAR (28)
Note: EN = Engineer, SS - Soil Scientist; VAR = Various.
1 See Appendix 1, Comments by CIDA, last paragraph.



19
5. Project Cost and Flnandng
A. Project Cost
SARC,sta          Revisd Cost         Ac  I Cost>        Actml as % of
(Sept 1981)       (Jue 30, 1992)        Reuid Cosd
PRa      USs        PRi       usS       FRi       usS       PRs      uss
lud Acquiso and Crop Damage            73.2       7.4      38.0       3.8      62.3       3.4       165        39
Coipsation
Civil Works
Benton Tunnel                           7.9       0.3         -         -         -         -         -         -
Lower Swat Canal Renmodelling         12S.7      13.0     117.0      11.3     591.0       28.7      505       243
Open Drainage                          73.3       7.4      49.0       4.9     465.3       20.7      950       422
Subaurface Drainage                   314.3      31.3     267.0      27.0     500.9       27.2      138         I
Rood Inprovements                      14.9       1.5         -         -         -          -        -
ConsructionC arnp & Workshop            7.9       0.3      15.0       1.5      53.4        3.8      356       253
Engineering, Supervision &             65.3       6.6      50.0       5.1     232.3       12.4      466       243
Administmtion
Sub-Total                             612.3      61.9     493.0      50.3    1843.4       92.8      370       134
On-Fam lIproveneat.
Watercourse remnodelling               10.9       1.1      13.0       1.3      107.6       5.6      823       431
Land Reclanmation                      31.7       3.2      25.0       2.5       17.4       0.3       70        32
Land Levelling                         20.3       2.1      16.0       1.6      25.3        1.4      153        SS
Engineering, Superviaion &              6.9       0.7       6.0       0.6       16.1       0.3      263       133
Adminisnntion
Sub-Total                              70.3       7.1      60.0       6.0      149.0       7.8      248       130
Agricultrl DevelopLut
Extension                              11.4       1.2      11.0       1.2      44.7        2.1      406       175
Maize Seed Production                   1.5       0.1       2.0       0.1         -         -         -         -
Sub-Total                              12.9       1.3      13.0       1.3      62.1       2.9       478      223
Monitoring                              6.9       0.7       3.0       0.3      11.2       0.6       140       75
Equipment & Vehicles                  241.6      24.4    205.0"      20.7     291.7       19.3      142       93
Technical Assstance                    40.6       4.1      66.0       6.7     266.8       15.3      404      228
O&M during C       enstrim             26.7       2.7      23.0       2.3       3.6        0.2       16        9
Interest during Construction              -         -         -         -     490.3       26.5        -
Bae Cost                             1035.0    109.6      911.0      91.9
Physical Contingencies                115.3      11.7      70.0       7.1         -
Price Contingencies                   284.2      28.7     320.0      32.3         -         -         -         -
Total Project Cost                   1485.0    1S0.0    1301.0    131.3    3130.9        168.8      244       129
" January 1979 prices.
v Mid-1981 prices.
"Annual expenditures in PIs fromn FY80 to FY92 converted to US dollars uing average annual exchange rate presnted in MP
International Financial Statistics.
" Includes taxes and duties of FRe 75 nillion, past of which on item under oder components.
" Not part of ba cost in SAR (pae 30.



20
Comments
(a)       The project scope was revised in 1981. This revision led to the dropping of the works on
Upper Swat Canal command (Benton Tunnel), road improvements, and investments in
maize production. As noted in (d) below, Abazai gated weir and mechanical workshop
were added.
(b)       Total project cost at completion was PRs 3.18 billion (US$168.8 million) compared to the
1981 revised cost of PRs 1.30 billion (US$131.3 million), a cost overrun of 144%.
Expressed in US dollars the overrun was 29%.
(c)       The major share of total cost was civil works, which increased by 270% accounting for
58% of the total, compared to an estimate of 38%. Of civil works cost, surface drainage
increased by 850% absorbing 25% of the total, followed by Lower Swat Canal remodelling
which increased by 405% absorbing 32% of the total.
(d)       The cost overrun was due to both quantity increases and price escalation. The quantity
increases included land acquisition (increase from 1,320 to 1,370 ac), earthwork for surface
drains (from 4.7 to 7.46 million cubic yards due to increase in the length of drains and their
carrying capacity), increased number of structures such as bridges (from 120 to 561),
watercourse crossings (from 50 to 370), drainage outlets (from nil to 1,561), gabion outfall
structures and other structures (from nil to 201), earthworks (increase from 3 to 3.4 million
cubic yards), inclusion of Abazai gated weir remodelling, mechanical workshop and
conversion of 159 watercourses into minors, land acquisition for construction of camps
(increase from 22 to 30 ac), and increase of technical assistance (from 420 to 1,038 staff-
months). The subsurface drainage area was reduced by 1,523 ac (from 73,000 to 71,477
acres) due to the resistance of farmers.
(e)       The average cost per acre envisaged at revision (1981) - 123,600 ac project area to be
developed at a total cost of PRs 1.3 billion (US$131 million) - was PRs 10,526
(US$1,062). The completed area of 123,600 ac at a total cost of PRs 3.18 billion (US$169
million) gives an average of PRs 25,735 (US$1,366) per acre.



21
B. Project Financing
Expenditure Categories          Original         Revised           Final           Final %
.............. .US$ million.
IDA Credit "
Civil Works                       45.0            42.0             46.4              27
Vehicles, Equipment and            9.0             9.0              5.8               3
Materials
Consultants and Training           4.8             6.2              7.8              5
Unallocated                        1.2             2.8               -                -
Sub-Total                      60.0            60.0             60.0              35
CIDA Grant                        25.0 2          25.0             25.0              15
Domestic Funds                    65.0            46.3             83.8              50
Total                         150.0           131.3            168.8             100
" Original - Development Credit Agreement of Febmary 7, 1979; Revised - Amendment of April 29,
1982.
21 Equivalent to Can$30 million - utilized for civil works (Can$8.85), equipment (Can$7.77), drains
and TA (Can$11.72), agro-economic survey (Can$0.84) and reserved balance (Can$0.82).



22
6. Project Results
A. Direct Benefits
Indicators                                     Units                Appraisa           Revised    PCR Edimate
Estimate        Edimate  (Fug Devdopnent)
Area Developed
- LSC                                           ha                     54,470           50,040              50,040
- USC                                           ha                     30,5S0                -
Cropping qItensiy
- LSC                                            %                        180              180                180
- USC                                            %                        175                -
Production (future with project)
Maize                                        tons                    S6,700           55,500              56,000
Fodder                                                              440,200          281,700            252,300
Vegetables                                                           40,700           26,000              54,600
Wheat                                                                76,100           48,700              44,272
Tobacco                                                              13,800                -                 (*)
Sugar beet                                                          229,000          146,600             177,100
Sugarcane                                                          1,388,000         888,300           2,368,400
Orchard                                                              37,700           24,100              88,500
Yied (future with project)
Maize                                        tonsh                      3.0              3.4                3.2
Fodder - Kharif                                                        30.0             32.2                34.6
Fodder- Rabi                                   *                       45.6             46.9                44.5
Vegetables                                                             16.0             16.6                18.2
Wheat                                                                   2.6              2.7                 3.0
Tobacco                                                                 1.6                -                 (*i)
Sugar beet                                                             39.3             40.5               59.3
Sugarcane                                      *                       50.1             52.9               64.2
Orchard                                                                13.5             13.8               14.8
Incremental Fan Income - LSC
Size of Farrn
2.0 ac                                      PRs                     3,600            3,600              19,180
7.5 ac                                      PRa                    12,560           12,560              71,920
21.5 ac                                      PRa                    32,740           32,740            206,110
Inremntal Farm Income - USC
Size of Farm
2.0 ac                                      PRE                     1,525                -                  -
7.5 ac                                      PRs                     4,780
21.5 ac                                      PRs                    11,210               -                   -
Beneficiary Famrilies                         Nunber                   39,000           23,000             23,000
Employment Creation                          Work-days              3,100,000        1,825,000           2,700,000
LSC - Lower Swat Cansl; USC - Upper Swat Canal.
(*) Tobacco not grown on large aras now because it in labor-intensive.



23
Comments
(a)        The area to be developed envisaged at appraisal was 85,050 ha, comprising LSC with
54,470 ha and USC with 30,580 ha. The project revision in late 1981 led to the deletion
of USC and a small part of LSC. Thus the revised estimate, based on LSC, is 50,040 ha.
(b)        The estimate of cropped area was based on data collected by the Irrigation Department,
Mardan during 1981-1992; crop yield estimates were based on data collected by the
Statistical Officer and the Deputy Director Agriculture, Mardan during 1984-1992,
supplemented by PCR mission estimates and the baseline survey carried out in 1985 with
CIDA financing. A final survey is planned by CIDA in 1995.
(c)        Restated in 1992 prices, incremental farm incomes estimated at appraisal are PRs 8,024 (2
ac farm), PRs 27,996 (7.5 ac farm) and PRs 72,977 (21.5 ac farm).
(d)        The number of beneficiary households is derived by dividing the cultivable command area
by the average farm size (5.4 ac).
B. Economic Impact
Appraisal Estimate    Revised      Actual (at Full
Estimate      Development)
Economic Rate of Return                              18% "            22%21             13%
Underlying Assunptions
Project Life                                     30 years                          30 years
Full Development 3'                         1996 (46,370 ha) &                2000 (44,130 ha) &
2001 (8,100ha)                   2005 (5,910 ha)
Valuation of Traded Component                   CF of 1.00                        CF of 1.00
Valuation of Civil Works                        CF of 0.88                        CF of 0.88
Valuation of Non-Traded Component               CF of 0.85                        CF of 0.85
Valuation of Unskilled Labor                    CF of 0.70                        CF of 0.70
Sensitivity tets showed ERRs raqing from 18% in the base cane to 13 % (assumiin construction coAs up I 5, benefits down IS%,
contuction delayed 2 years, and fuU developmant reached in 20 insad of 15 years). See SAR, paras 6.08, 6.09.
2/ Memo dated October 23, 1981, provides ERR but no mippoting calculations.
3v First line - area already under production; econd line - are to be reclaimed (SAR, Annex 1, Table 25).



24
Comments
The lower ERR is attributed to a combination of higher investment costs than estimated at
appraisal, prolonged implementation period resulting in delayed accrual of benefits, and a lower ratio of
output to input prices than envisaged at appraisal or revision which is not fully offset by higher crop
yields now expected at full development. However, because of the change in project scope, the
reestimated ERR is not strictly comparable with the appraisal estimate.
C. Flnancial Impact
Not Applicable
D. Studies
Study lTid               7rpse   Deried at Appraisal                  Status                  Impct of Study
Agfo-conornic       To monitor performance of the project in  Carried out in 1985.    The study has provided basline
Survey              improving agricultural production.       Report isaued in 1986.   data that would be used in the
follow-up evaluation cheduled
for 1995.
Drainage Manual     Not anticipated at apprail.              Completed in 1986.       Provided guidance for design of
subsurface drainage in Unit 1.
O&M Maal            Not anticipated at apprisal.             Completed in 1988.       Provided adequate guidance for
staff of NWFP Irrigation
Department.
Feuibility Study for  To determine feasibility of rehabilitation and  Completed in 1988.  The Swabi SCARP hb  been
Swabi SCARP         development works in the USC command                              appraised by the Adan
area.                                                             Developnent Bank and financing
has been approved. The project
commenced in 1992.



25
7. Status of Covenants
Coveant                      Deadl_e for                      sto
Cemplane
Deelepmat Credit
Agmmeat
3.05               Extablishment of Project Steering and          Unspecified                 In compliane.
Coordination Committes.
3.07               Adequate quantities of cettified seed available  Unspecified          Subiazlsily in compliane.
for sae to farmers upon completion of each
part of the project.
3.08(I)            Establishment of progrm for monitorng of       Unspecified                  In compliane.
imgation deliveries, drainaes flows, water
table depths, land reclamation and agricultural
production in the project area at least untlj
Dec. 31, 1992.
3.08(ui)           Esablishment of a program to evaluate the      Unpecified               Parally in compliance.
socio-economic asects and benefits of the
project at least until Dec. 31, 1992.
3.09               Borrower to discuss with IDA prices of soil    Sept. 30, 1932 (04/32         Unkown.
amendments.                                   atmeme)
4.01(b)            Audited financial statements to IDA within six  Unspecifed    Subsaully in compliane. Audit repors
months of the end of each FY.                                 wee ubmittd as required but oftn late.
Project Agreemet
NWFP
2.01               Provide neceary fundr, facilities etc.,        Unspcified                  In compliae.
required for parts of the project under its
esponsibility.
2.02               Make timely budgetary allocations and make     Unpecified                   In compliance.
staff available to operate and maintain
equipment transferred.
2.03(a)            Present insurance plans with budgetary         Unpecified                   In compliance.
estimates to IDA.
2.04               Introduce T&V methodology and release daff    June 1982 (04/82              In compince.
from non-extension duties                     amendment)
2.05(a)            Provision of vehicles to extension workers in  June 1982 (04/32             In compliae.
project are.                                  amendment)
2.05(b)            Payment of compensation to extension workers   June 19U2 (4/32                Unkwn.
for expenditures incurred during duty travel,  amendment)
2.06               Allocation of water from Swat river to LSC     Unspecified                  In complince.
command area.
2.07               Water channelled through Benton tunnel to be   Unspecified           Debted in 04182 amendmnt.
allocated to USC command area and land
reclamation to have priority.
2.08 (orig.)       Establishment of Farmers Group for each        Unspecified                  In compliance.
project watercourse.
3.01               Revision to the structure and level of water  On or before                    Unknown.
charges.                                      July 1, 1981
(orig.)
3.02               Periodic increase in level of water charges.   Unpecified     Patil compliae. One increa  of 25X
was made in 1985. Anothr 25 % ince
has been made for FY94.



26
Project Agrem
WAPDA
2.02               Employ consultants to aseist in implemention.  May 8, 1979        Effectiveness condition. Debayed
complhance (i.e., Oct. 1979)
2.03               Submission of an annual project inIple-                              Substantially in compliance.
mentation plan together with budgeary
estinates for the following fiscal year not later
than March 31 of each year.
2.04(a)            Insurance for imported goods.                 Unpecified                  In compliance.
2.06               Furnish IDA with a survey of requirements for  Unspecified   Delted in 04/82 amendment (rual roads
rural market roads.                                          component was drepped).
2.07 (orig.)       Study depths to water table nd furnish reports. June 30, 19S7 (04182      In compliance.
amendment)
2.09(orig.)        Establishment of Reclamation Unit.        July 1, 1983 (D4/82             In compliance.
amendment)



27
8. Use of Bank Resourcs
A. Staff Inputs (staff weeks)
Year             Prespprisal      Apprasl        Negotiatim      Supmnion           Totl
Pre-FY81             23.3            108.0           11.7            27.7           170.7
FY81                   -              -               -              16.7            16.7
FY82                   -               -              -              34.9            34.9
FY83                   -               -              -              19.9            19.9
FY84                   -              -               -             40.2             40.2
FY85                   -              -               -              35.4            35.4
FY86                   -              --                             33.3            33.3
FY87                   -              --                            20.6             20.6
FY88                   -              --                            21.1            21.1
FY89                   -              -               -              15.7            15.7
FY90                   -              -               -              16.3            16.3
FY91                   -              -               -              4.5             4.5
FY92                   -              -               -              4.3             4.3
FY93                   -              --                             17.4            17.4
FY94                   -              -                              2.3             2.3
Total                23.3           108.0            11.7          310.6"          453.3
"Including 19.7 gaff weekb fr PCM, of which 14 sps_ by FAOICP.



B. Missions
Pedonunce Ratnge
Sue Of Pruct        MontbYea           No. Of    Days In ReWd        Speczatons           Status" 3    Twed 4'      Type et
Cyde                                  Poe.                          Repepeented"                                   Poblsm  W
IentIcatIon     Cand out by GOP Consuktan
Preparmion)
Appraisal            Ma h 78             7            25"        AG(3), DE. EC, EN, S              -                   -
Supervison I         Mach 79             1             7               AG, JM                -                         -
Superv on2            Jun 79             1             7               EN, JM                2                         -4'
Supervision 3         Feb. 80            3            10            AG. DE, EN, JM           2            2          F, M
Superviion 4          Nov. 80            3            141           DC, EC, EN, JM           3            2         F. P, M
SuperAsion 5          Sept. 81           4            15          EC, EN. E, 00, JM          3            1           F, P
Supervison            Feb. 82            1             4                E, JM                2            1          M, T
Supervsion 7          June 82            3             7             DE, EN. E, JM           2            1            M
Supersion 8           May 83             4             7          DE, EC. EN. E, JM          2            1          T, M
Supervision 9         Nov. 84            3            10            AG. DE. EN, JM           2            1          M. F
Supervilon 10         Aprl 8             2             9              AG. E. JM              2            1          M. F
O0rl Statue  Dev. Inpmt Conpi. w. Cov.      Proect Mg           Av_. Funds
Super4s 1on1I          Oct.85            3             10          AG, EN, E. JM            3            2            -                3                    2 7@
Supervision 12        Aprl 80            3             11           DE, EN E. JM             2            1            -                 2                   1
Suprvbsion 13         Nov.86             1             6                  EN                 2            1                              2                   1
Supetvbion 14         Aug. 87            2            10             ADMI.E, JM              2            2            -                3                    1
Supervion 16          June 88            3            16             AG. E(2) JM             2            2            -                 3                   1
Supervalon 10         Feb. 89            2             8              EN E. JM               3            2            -                 3                   1
Supervlon 17          Oct 89             1             9                E, JM                2            2            2                 2                   2
SupdvigonIS           may 90             2            11              AE, IE, JM             2            2            2                 2                   2
Supevlon 19           July 81            1             4                  E                  -            -            -                 -                   .- 
Supervison 20         Oct 91             1            10                E. JM                2            1            2                 2                   2
PCR                   Feb. 93            3            14              AG, FA, E              --
D"D   in field pertly esdmated by PCR misson hsice supervision miskion worked on more than on. project nd did not always specify tim spent on each.
I Two perona part-time 113 and 1 days);  " Two persons part-time (5 days);     On. person part-time;      One person pat-time observ.
"ADM - Adminitrative otficer AE - AgHcultwal economist; AG - Agriculturaist DC - Division chief. DE - Drainage *ngner; EC = Economidt. EN = Engineer FA = Fincial analyst; E =
Irigation   eineear 00 a Operations officr SS ;   Soils Spedalat  JM = Joint mission ncluding CIDA nd Canadian embassy staff.
3 1 = Problem-free or minor probisms; 2 = Moderate problems; 3 a Major Problems.
4 1 - improving; 2 = Stationary.
4 F = Fwancial; M a Mangrial  P = Politicd; T = Techndcal.
4 Credit not yet effectit but difficultes beng experienced with prospective consult on provWion of servics for the project
7/ 1 = No sinificnt problems; 2 - Moderate problems; 3 - Major problms, but appopriaot ections am being taken to address these problems.
IL Lked supervision, no Form 590 prepared.



29
ANNEX 1
ECONOMIC EVALUATION
A. IMPACT ON FARM INCOMES
1.         The SAR estimated increases in farm income based on changes in net agricultural income,
including wage income from off-farm work in agriculture, for three different farm sizes as follows
(Lower Swat Canal command; SAR, Annex 1, Table 19).
Net Farm Income (PRs)
Size of Fann
iuture without    Future with - i crental    -% Cange            l
(ac)                            P*jc 
2.0                                              .3 10  17,  12,     2460
21.5            17,465           50,205           32,4 0 2            8
Restated in 1992 prices, incremental incomes would have been PRs 8,024 for the 2.0 ac farm,
PRs 27,996 for the 7.5 ac farm and PRs 72,977 for the 21.5 ac farm.
2.         A baseline survey was carried out in 1985 on behalf of CIDA to ascertain current conditions
and levels of inputs and production. Surveys were to be repeated annually to measure the benefits
resulting from drainage and irrigation works, but this was not done. A final survey is now planned by
CIDA for 1995. Therefore, the estimates of crop development which has taken place in the project area
over the past ten years are largely based on data collected by the Irrigation Department (cropped area),
the statistical officer of the Agriculture Department, Mardan (crop yields), and on PCR mission estimates.
3.         Following appraisal assumptions, the overall cropping intensity is projected to increase to
180% at full development (project year 21 and 26, respectively; see para 5 below). This increase is
mainly due to the increased area under sugarcane and orchards. As shown in Part III/6A, the PCR
estimates of full development crop yields are higher than those estimated at project revision, with the
exception of maize and rabi fodder.
4.         The effect of the project on farm income has been recalculated by preparing farm budgets
for the three different farm sizes. The results show that incremental farm incomes at full development
in 1992 prices are PRs 19,180 for the 2.0 ac farm, PRs 71,920 for the 7.5 ac farm and PRs 206,110 for
the 21.5 ac farm, representing real increases of 139%, 157% and 182%, respectively, over the appraisal
estimates. Project-financed irrigation and drainage facilities and land reclamation, no doubt, provide an
improved base for agricultural production. The project directly benefits some 23,000 farm families (as
targeted at project revision) and will generate additional employment of about 2,700,000 work-days per
year (about 150% of the number expected at project revision).



30
Project Completion Report
PAKISTAN: Salinity Control and Reclamation Project (SCARP) Mardan (Cr. S77-PAK)
Annex 1: Economic Evaluation
B. ECONOMIC ANALYSIS
Appraisal Estimates
5.          At appraisal, the project's economic rate of return (ERR) was estimated to be 18% "
based on the following assumptions:
-        project life of 30 years, including an implementation period of 6 years;
-        full development reached about 8 years after completion of works, and in areas to be
reclaimed about 13 years after completion of works (Annex 1, Table 25);
-        prices of wheat, maize, sugarcane and beets, tobacco, oilseeds, and fertilizer based on
projected 1985 world market prices expressed in 1978 terms;
-        all farm labor valued at 70% of market wage rates;
-        specific conversion factors of 1.15, 0.88 and 0.82 used to convert cost of land acquisition,
civil works and on-farm improvements, and the SCF of 0.85 to convert all other local costs
into border prices;
-        consideration only of incremental crop production in the area scheduled for irrigation,
drainage and land development Oand reclamation).
The scope of the project was revised in 1981 and the ERR reestimated at 22%.
PCR Estimates
6.          The recalculation of the project's ERR follows the SAR. The main differences are:
-        actual costs are used for FY79-80 to FY92-93 (Table 1); past costs have been restated in
1992 prices, using the GDP deflator for local and the MUV index for foreign exchange
costs (Table 2);
-        consideration of incremental production includes wheat, maize, sugarcane and beets, fodder,
vegetables and orchards;
-        all values are expressed in 1992 terms, the project's final disbursement year;
Ban case.



31
Project Completion Report
PAKISTAN: Saliniqt Contrl ad Reclamation Project (SCAlP) Mardan (Cr. 877-PAK)
Annex 1: Econonmic Evaluation
-        prices of internationally traded goods are based on the SAR for the Fordwah Eastern Sadiqia
(South) Irrigation and Drainage Project (Report No. 10461-Pak, June 11, 1992) (Table 3).
The recalculated ERR is 12.7%  (Table 4), about 5% lower than the appraisal estimate and about 9%
lower than the revised (1981) estimate. The principal factors which have contributed to this result are
higher investment costs per unit area than estimated at appraisal, delayed benefits due to implementation
delays, and a lower ratio of output to input prices than projected at appraisal, which are not fully offset
by the higher crop yields now expected at full development. However, because of the substantial change
in the scope of the project (exclusion of USC, covering 30,580 ha), the recalculated ERR is not strictly
comparable with the appraisal estimate.



32
Project Completion Report
PAKISTAN: Salinity Control & Reclamation Project (SCARP) Mardan (Cr. 877-PAK)
Annex 1: Economic Evaluation
Table 1. Investinent Cost in Financial and Economic Tenns (PRs Million)
FY80      FY81      FY82       FY83      FY84       FY85      FY86
1. Land Acquistion/Crop Damage Compens.  2.350    (0.220)    0.527       5.850      0.196      5.497     7.244
Cost with CF of 1.15 1/              2.702    (0.253)    0.606      6.727      0.225     6.321      8.331
2. Equipment                              0.155      3.140     0.776   101.778    78.818    13.701    27.321
Less Duties and Taxes                      -                0.574     2.622    41.251      3.647    22.579
Net Equipment                          0.155      3.140     0.202    99.156    37.567    10.054       4.742
3. Civil Works - Drainage                 0.139      2.598    15.921    15.864    24.132    86.801   133.794
Cost with CF of 0.88 1/              0.122      2.286    14.010    13.960    21.236    76.385   117.738
4. CiviL Works - Canal Remodelling             -         -                1.988     3.875    17.568    30.117
Cost with CF of 0.88 1/                             -         -     1.749      3.410    14.460    26.503
5. Engineering, Supervision I Admin.      0.746      2.312     2.711      8.314    12.390    15.691    18.751
Cost with CF of 0.85 1/              0.634      1.965     2.304     7.067    10.532    13.337    15.938
6. Monitoring and Evaluation                   -         -         -          -                    -         -
Cost with CF of 0.85 1/                  -          -         -          -         -          -         -
7. Technical Assistance                   3.931     9.679      7.678    28.051    14.270    14.415    17.049
8. Operation and Maintenance                   -         -         -          -         -          -         -
Cost with CF of 0.85 1/                  -          -         -          -         -          -         -
9. Agricultural Extension                      -     4.651     5.334     3.188      3.115     2.815      4.853
Cost with CF of 0.85 1/                  -     3.953      4.534     2.710      2.648     2.393      4.125
10. Watercourse Remodelling                    -          -         -          -    22.633    13.767    21.000
Cost with CF of 0.82 1/                  -          -         -               18.559    11.289    17.220
11. Interest                               0.327      1.757     5.177    11.553    16.128    30.026    49.815
...-    -----     ------    -------  . -------   ....... . . -------....... .
Total Financial Cost                   7.648    23.917    38.124   176.586   175.557   200.281   309.944
Total Economic Cost 2/                13.755    36.618    55.519   257.244   181.039   247.748   339.111
1/  As in the SAR (Annex 1, Table 23).
2/  ExcLudes interest, duties and taxes.  Past expenditures restated in 1992 terms using GDP deflator for
local and MUV index for foreign exchange conponents (equipment, technical assistance); see Table 2.



33
Project Comphtion Report
PAKISTAN: Salinity Conl & Reclamation Project (SCARP) Mardan (Cr. 877-PAK)
Annex 1: Economic Evaluation
Table 1. Investanent Cost in Financial and Economic Tenms (PRs Million)
(Continued)
FY87      fY8       FY89       FY90      FY91       FY92      UY29
1. Land Acquistion/Crop Darmge Copens.  6.000        4.070     1.499      0.776    17.650    11.195    35.861
Cost with CF of 1.15 1/              6.900      4.680     1.724     0.892    20.297    12.874    41.240
2. Equipment                              7.376      1.966    (0.100)   32.095    19.550       4.801
Less Duties and Taxes                  1.741      0.823         -    11.861      0.048     0.592
Net Equipment                          5.635      1.143    (0.100)   20.234    19.502      4.209          -
3. CiviL Works - Drainage               123.104    47.239    26.629   151.135   191.040   196.040    93.524
Cost with CF of 0.88 1/            108.332    41.570    23.433   132.999   168.115   172.515    82.301
4. Civil Works - Canal RemodellIng       40.692    87.186   125.457    92.701    72.710   118.700
Cost with CF of 0.88 1/             35.809    76.724   110.402    81.577    63.985   104.456            -
5. Engineering, Supervisfon & Adnin.    23.731    31.277    22.210    32.129    26.657    35.919         3.104
Cost with CF of 0.85 1/             20.171    26.585    18.878    27.310    22.658    30.531        2.638
6. MonitorIng and Evaluation                   -     8.792         -          -         -      2.424         -
Cost with CF of 0.85 I/                  -      7.473         -          -         -     2.060
7. Technical Assistance                  25.453    21.525    24.327    27.415    51.378    21.730        2.970
8. Operation and Maintenance                   -         -     3.245      0.309         -          -
Cost with CF of 0.85 1/                  -          -     2.758     0.263          -          -
9. Agricultural Extension                 2.777      3.729     6.430      3.722    21.534          -         -
Cost with CF of 0.85 1/              2.360     3.170      5.465     3.162    18.304           -         -
10. Watercourse RemodeLLing                5.935    10.258    14.200    14.074    16.920    30.214
Cost with CF of 0.82 1/              4.867     8.412    11.644    11.541    13.874    24.775
11. Interest                              69.865    88.817   105.739    53.267    47.319    10.500        8.232
Total Financial Cost                 304.933   304.859   329.636   407.621   464.758   431.523   143.691
Total Economic Cost 2/               316.353   265.954   255.528   368.802   409.119   373.150   129.149
1/  As in the SAR (Annex 1, Table 23).
2/ Excludes interest, duties and taxes. Past expenditures restated in 1992 terms using GDP deflator for
local and MUV index for foreign exchange components (equipment, technical assistance); see Table 2.



I.   I        -   -  -   -   -   -     -    t.  sJ  lg  
I  ~.                                                  Id  3    
[-~~~ - - -      
a:                                              ~~~~~~0
w                                    x 



35
Pret ConpbUon Repor
PAKIS4N: Salinity Conrol & Raclkmatin Project (SCARP) Mardan (Cr. 877-PAK)
Anex 1: Economic Evaluation
Table 3. Prices Used in Financial and Economic Analysis"
I       |                  |~~~ FhmeW Ire |                       Ec eemi Ik
Ct l99-92  I         1M1-92             199-99         Fum 2006w07
out"                                 ............... ...........                             .    ..
Wheat                     kg              3.94              4.73               6.09              5.52
Paddy (IRRI)              kg              2.50              3.09               2.53              2.54
Fodder:                   kg
- Kharif                                  0.35              0.30               0.30              0.30
- Rabi                                    0.40              0.34               0.34              0.34
Sugrcane                  kS              0.39              0.33               0.56              0.60
Vegetables:              k4
- IQharif                                 3.37              3.29               3.29              3.29
- Rabi                                    3.87              3.29               3.29              3.29
Orchards                  kS              3.75              3.19              3.19               3.19
Maize                    k4               4.25              3.7S2v             4.87              4.42
Sugar beet               k4               0.36              0.31               0.31              0.31
Seeds
Wheat                    kg             5.14               5.57              7.1S               6.51
Paddy (IRRI)             k              3.32               3.36              3.54               3.1S
Fodder:                 kg
-  bharif                               5.53               4.70              4.70               4.70
- Rabi                                  20.00             17.00              17.00             17.00
Sugarcane                kg              0.49              0.33              0.56               0.60
Vegetablea               ac            130.00             110.00            110.00            110.00
Orchards                 ac            106.00             90.00              90.00             90.00
Maize                    kg              5.53              4.97               4.97              4.97
Sugarbeet                kg              1.75              1.49               1.49              1.49
Nitrogen fertilizer       kg              8.75              12.89             13.12             12.25
Phosphate fertilizer      kg              9.04              9.39              10.65             10.48
LAbor                     hr              4.00              2.30               2.30              2.80
Bullock                   hr              3.00              6.30               6.80              6.30
Fiancial prices based on data provided by WAPDA, Peshawar, ecornoic prices basd on SAR for Fordwah Eastern Sadiqia
(South) Irrigation and Drainage Project - June 1992. Cost of labor converted to economic cost using a specific conversion factor
of 0.70, al other local coss by using the standard converion hftor of 0.35.
Using wheat price less discount of 20%.
Usally demands a premium over output price.



36
P-ject Co-ple    Reo
PAKUTAN: Saliniy Coarl & Recl_mm  Proje  (SCARP) Mardan (Cr. 877-PAR)
Anx 1: Economic Evauaion
Table 4. Economic P essinent
I                     I                        I            fib
........................ (Pts..        li)........ )..................I
1 (79-)                 13.755                                                                 (13.755)
2                       36.618                                                                 (36.61S)
3                       55.519                                                                 (55.519)
4                       257.244                                                               C257.244)
5                       181.039                                                               (181.039)
6                       247.748                                                               (247.748)
7                       339.111                                                               (339.111)
8                       316353                                                                (316.353)
9                       265.954                                                               (265.954)
10                     255.528                                                                (255.528)
11 (9-(                368.102                                                                (368.802)
12                     409.119                                                                (409.119)
13                     373.150                                                                (373.150)
14293)                  129.149                                        113.019                 (16.130)
15                                              14.2                  226.225                  212.025
16                                              14.2                  339.304                  325.104
17                                              14.2                  452.325                  438.12S
13                                              14.2                  565.175                  550.975
19                                              14.2                  935.504                  921.304
20                                              14.2                  1091.365                 1077.165
21  9-0                                         14.2                  1242.810                 1228.610
22                                              14.2                  1260.889                 1246.689
23                                              14.2                  1279.140                 1264.940
24                                              14.2                  1297.159                 1282.959
25                                              14.2                  1315.237                 1301.037
26                                              14.2                  1243.563                1229.363
27 and lar                                      14.2                  1244.755                1230.555
ERR -  12.7%
u S Table 1.
ased on daa provided by WAPDA, Pr:awa  PR& 16.7 muiLion converted to border pices using SCF of 0.85.
Te pojsc con   rIa  a mo e of diffea but ierreatod components. For example, lad reclamation in cetain panrs of tie
proc ame (14,600 a) cm only be caried out if drinSe ha been provided. Incremenael producdon is therefore a*rumed to
occur ae completo of all pjec worb. IcremWal producwto generated prior to project year 14 is difficult to quantify
reliably and is dtefore ot included in th ERR comwuttion.



Project Compiction Rcport
PAKISTAN: Salinity Control & Reclamnalion Project (SCARP) Mardan (Cr. 877-PAK)
Annex 2: Equipment List
-'                                                                    .*...................................................... (Page  1)
TabLe  1.          k                                              . -
S.Not   lupo:td items:                     I JIport Frif.e      :   Duties:        I Otbor Charges: I Local Cost         Crund Tvtal:   1 u;.t Cost           : Dot. o(
Foreign Cost                                                             :,-                                       Inport
,   -   2                   ,           s                4        J    ;  s J .t ~         (4+5)74 (S53)                            0          t _
IDA   l.    Ir.mp 'ruc Is -  s tos:                    6,740,544.00        6,598,128.00        7e3,900.35    7,382,030.35    14,122,814.35              D41,524.-6    1-12-83:
-do-  2.    Crccrote 11ixer Trucbs: 4 Non:             2,239,046.00        2,191,041.00        260,331.95    2,052,022.85         4,091,000.85        1,172,7G7.21       -do-
-do-  3.    1ront End Loader - 4 Nos:                  3,102,500.00        2,360,239.00        103,136.01    2,523,425.81         5,685,925.81        1,421,481.45      4-17-83:
-do-  4.    .elf Propelled vibratory floller-2 llcs3,318,537.37            5,30l,200.00        227,230.29      5,Cl1,490.29       8,93G,027.66        4,465,013.83       4-3-b4:
-do-  5<.   iluol Trucke - 2 Nos:                      1,305,212.00        1,378,102.00        121,738.41      1,499,920.41       2,805,132.41        1,402,5CO.21       -do-
-do-  6,    flaint. Service Trucks - 2 ltos:           1,304,470.00        1,377,389.00        121,000.03      1,499,079.03       2,803,558.03        1,401,779.02       -do-
-do-  7.      .uter Trucks: - 3 Ilos,                  1,098,847.00        1,149,704.00        101,574.52    1,251,278.52         2,340,125.52          780,041.84       -do-
-do-  g.    :.ump Trucks (6CY)  -  6 l1os              1,787,127.00        1,887,013.00        106,7i4.47    2,CS3,727.47         3,640,854.47          040,143.41       -do-
do-  g.     bozero (105 lip) 5 Hos:                   4.146,144.00        2,C08,137.00        336,209.59    2,244,340.59 ,a 0;0,490.59               1,416,008.12       S-3-64:
-do-  10.   D'wers (140 bp) 3 Nos:                     2,959,409.00        1,861,677.00        239,s94.90    2,IU1,861.90         5,061.160.90        1,687,053.63        o -.-Jo
-do- .11.   .beeps-foot RollersS oie:                 1,220,447.00          767,723.00          98,905.08      8s6,6s8.68   . 2,087,135.68             417,427.14       -do- ~
-do- .12.   Vans - S Nos:                                472,465.00          513,7D4.00        537,956.11    1,071,780.11         1,544,245.11          308a4s9.02      14-3-84:
-do-  13.   Lov Bea Truck-Truilors - 2 Nos:            3.161,820.00        1,001,477.00        185,254.15    2,176,731.15         5,338i5S1.15        2,G69,23.sa    11-4-14:
-do-  14.   -ack H1oe/Loaders - 6 NoJ:                 3,109,010.00        2,014,904.00        275,540.94      2,290,524.94       5,400,134.94          900,022.40    21-5-84:
15.   Corrugator iquJoment (YPws.ehr  PVC,  3,059,593.68             4,810,350.00         531,008.72     5,341,953.72    5,401,552.40:          XDwshera 8VC      21-2-84:
1 :'o    ractory)   )                                                                                                 Factory:
S   16.   lotor Graders - 3 Nos:                2,562,334.50              -              820,001.93        820,001.93      3,382,336.43        1,127,145.48      20-5-84:
-do-.  27.   Crans/Dragline -lUnit: tS- L         <t    41.J132,227.55     32,245,679.00    9,B30,127.57.  42,075,806.57          83,203,034.12    83,208,034.12         10-5-94
-do-  .1.  'I'l   eau=er 1qulkinent (ille ['river)  2,118,245.93                  -               48,701.30         48,101.30      2,166,947.23        2,166,947.23      13-5-84:
I Nos! -
-do-   19.   Osewtering Sct(500 G:9)- 5 Nos:              475,747.72              -               45,705.46         45,.05.48         521,453.20         104,290.64    19-G-94:
-   - 0 0.   Coicrete Prtch  lant- 3 Nos:               5,696,128,.60         851,236.00        129,107.40        980,043.4.0      6,676,532.20        2,225,510,73    20-6-94:
CrDA   21.   Ai-56(21- din) Compressed
Air so9er Vibrators: - 12 Nos:.              65,831.95          721,130.32         30,263.99        751,400.3i         817,232.26           68,102.69       1-1-95:
-do-  22.   A'-7M(31dia) Coapressed             -
Air Poker Ylbrator,  -  12 Nos:              72,119.23          790,008.89         33,154.38        923,103.27         895,282.55           74,606.08       -do-
-d   AI-95 (lb' dit) Compressod          ,
Air  c ,er Yibrators:  -  12 Kos,            88,702.18          972,318.03         40,805.39    1,013,124.02         1,101,880.20           91;8,3.85       -6o-
-d'.-  _4.   :c--*-- ss for Item Ho:21.22 h 23
a) -' lilons 50ft length: for PSI Serv-
lea   -  36 tlos:                     22,930023          251,102.31         10,541.39        261,723.70         284,653.93           7,907.05        -do-
b) '  llose Clav Coupling - 721.              7,507.80           82,241.95          3,451.40         83,G93.41          93,201.21            1,294.46       -eo-
C) ilubber Sqols    3604                      1,294.45           14,179.65            595.03         14,774.73          16,C09.18               44.04       -do-
d) nand lype Claups: 724                        628.74            C,887.25            289.03          7,170.28           7,805.02              10a.40       -do-
( Contd ....... l/2 ..     )



Project Completion Rcport
PAKISTAN: Salinity Control & Reclamation Project (SCARP) Mardan (Cr. 877-PAK)
Annex 2: Equipment List
TabLe  1.   List of Equipment - MARDAN  SCARP                                                          (Page 2)
IL           liported Items:2                             3             -4                   a5                (4+5)          7 (3+0)             8                 9
CIDA. 25.  Air Conroasaors (350 CDI)
vithout Concrete Vibrators
1 air boes:  -  6 fos:                        1,765,000.00           35,290.00         3n,672.70        74,962.70    1,839,982.70           304,66n.45   1-3-85
-do-  26.  Generators (50 Kw) 4 Nos "            -        1,000,00n.00               -             22,a89.8n         22,899.80    1,022,89D.80           255,724.95  12-1-85:
IDA . .27.  Laboratory Equipments (Tarnab Faru,                                                                                                         Turnnb Fm
Otbor Component):                             1.348,674.06          514,052.00         54,489.59       568,541.59    1,917,215.65           other coop- 14-3-85:
onent Co,
-o-  29.  Elevating Scrnpers(ll Cy) vith  Agric-   4,932,910.00               2,037,533.00        468,062.20    3,406,395.28 .        39,30             Other coapo-18-4-S5
Loser Control:  -  4 Nos:-        Lulture                                                                                                   nnt fi.O. .
1 Yibratirg Plate compactor         other                                                                                                   N.V..P: 
16 Hos:                            Womponeat 
-do-  29.  PiT.C. P)Dstint Tubing                        10,357,004.30       10,608,C58.00    1,G70,201.29   12,'78,059.29   22,6u5,863.59              Nvsbwra    30-6-85:
iixtrudsr - 1 No (Hoah-ara                                                                                                                  P -pVC Factory
PVC, Factory):                                                                                                                              Nov herto
-do-  30.  Troncber(Drainega Tubing                       2,7S1,545.20        2,465,456.00        370,5800    2,856,01e.80    5,Q7,562.00            v,837,5G2.Co      -d
laying Equipment)  1 No:
-do-  31.  Gravtl Trailers:   2 tics:                        f3i4,085.00        D90,775.00         77,279.,0        076,054.20    1.3'0,139.29          t55,CG*eo    -do-
-do-  3-.  Piv  Clerners:   1 N0os:                          101,127.10         179,C68.00         10,507.79        189,575.79        291,102.8S        25;,102.89    -do-
*.. 33.  Corrugator Equi)ment (Nowshere PVu            2,918,970.00        4,503,906. *o       112,915.66    4,616,824.5p    7,535,794,66          7,535,794.65   1-6-S8
Factory):
CIDA  34.  CJ-7 J',op:u  25 IIOS:                         2,s.0,Coo.00          2'',C00.00        21i,712.00        462.-1-.00    2,9G2,712.00          116,508.48   1-1-61:
IDA/6 35. Trencher Machine 2 Nos
36. Cravel Trailer    5 Nos
- .                                   Total:-           119,659,245.84       94,942,686.00   18,204,897.31  113,147,563.31  232,606,829.15



Project Completion Report
PAKISTAN: Salinity Control & Reclamation Project (SCARP) Mardan (Cr. 877-PAK)
Annex 2: Equipment List
TabLe  1.   List of Equipment - MARDAN SCARP                                                            (Page  3)
MASr"sollltg llo 17
~~ of ltm  Pod?U~ntm
S.So:       lportd lte=:                    ,lprted Price:         Dut:-s:         Other Charces:       Local Coott       Grand Total:        nit Cost:        Date f
*    .                                    *                   ,                  *                  * ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Im~~~~~~~~eprt:
i   i                  2                 *          3                 4        e        S                o(4*5)             i (3.0)      *        5         '   9
ITMA It (CraftleDrerllno)
CIDA   17(n)  Draglno/Cr.z(D0  Tons) 2 Nos:    1,30,96,961.70    94,a3,433.48              28,91,034.20       1,33,71,471.fS    2,44,71,429.21   1,22,35,714.69   10-5-84.
i40   17(b)  Drazline/Cren.(60 Taou) 5 llo:    2,2t,7e,922.27  i,81,06,341.41             5G,21.191.63       2,40,17,533.04   4,74,90,456.31         94,99,291.26    -do-
-do-   17(c)  Truck Croeas (75 Tas)   I NO:            55.56,342.5e    43,55,904.11        13,27,901.74         56,113,S05.85   1,12,40,148.43   1,12,4O,148.43    -do-
Totali-              4,11,32,227.55  3,22,45,079.00         95,30,127.57      4,20,75,50.57   8,32,03,034.12
Total Nos 190
of Equipment



Project Completion Report
PAKISTAN: Salinity Control & Reclamation Project (SCARP) Mardan (Cr. 877-PAK)
Annex 2: Equipment List
TabLe 2.     LIST OF MACHINERY TRANSFERRED TO IRRIGATION DEFARTIENT
S.No. DLSCI11PTION                                QUANTITY            DONUL AGENCY                    AMOUNT                 R!FMARKS
1. Dump Truck (Mitsubishi) 10 CY                    5 Nos                IDA                       Rs. 4707624.80
2.  Dump Truck (Isuzu) 6 CY                         5 Nos                IDA                       Rs. 3200712.05
3.  Transit Mixture (Mit) 5 CY                      1 No.                IDA                       Rs. 1172767.21
4.  Mobile Workshop Truck (Isuzu)                   1 No.                IDA                       Rs. 1401779.21
5.  Fuel Service Truck (Isuzu) 2950 Lit:            1 No.                IDA            '          Rs. 1402566.21
6.  Water Tanker (Isuzu) 7000 Liters                1 No.                IDA                       Rs.  780041.84
7.  Dozer D53A (Komatsu) 105 HP                     2 Nos                IDA                       Rs. 2836196.20
8.          -do-          140 HP                    1 No.                IDA                       Rs. 1687053.63
9.  F.E.Loader (Kawasaki) Bucket 3 CY               2 Nos                IDA                       Rs. 2842962.90
1O. Backhoe (Palazani) Bucket 6 CY                  4 Nos                IDA                       Rs. 3600089.96
11. Lowbed Trailer (Renault) 70 Tons                1 No.                IDA                       Rs. 2669275.58
12. Motor Grader (Champion) 125 HP                  2 Nos                CIDA                      Rs. 2254890.96
13. Air Compressor (Atlascopco) 350 CFT             1 1o.                CIDA                      Rs.  306660.45
14. Generator (Blackwooihodge) 50 KW                I No.                CIDA                      Rns.  170483.30
15. Concrete Batch Plant (Equifab) 0.5 CM/Bag       I No.                CIDA                      Rs. 2225510.73
16. S.P.V. Roller(Ingresollrand)50000 Ibs           1 No.                IDA                       Rs. 4465013.83
17. Sheepfoot Roller (Komatau)10000 lbs             4 Nos                IDA                      Rs. 1670908.50
18. Flushing Machine 26 GPM                         1 No.                IDA                      Rs.  291102.89



41
Project Completion Report
PAKISTAN: Salinity Control & Reclamation Project (SCARP) Mardan (Cr. 877-PAK)
Annex 2: Equipment List
TabLe 3.   LIST OF EQUIPMENT TRANSFERRED TO
SWABI SCARP PROJWCT
S.NO.  DESCRIPTION                                            QUANTITY
1.      Dump Truck (Mitsubishi) 10 CY                          10 Nos
2.      Dump Truck (Isuzu) 6 CY                                 2 Nos
3.      Fuel Service Truck                                      1 Nos
4.      IlIaintenance Workshop Truck                            1 Nos
5.      Water Tanrker                                           2 Nos
6.      Transit Mixer                                           3 Nos
7.     Lctwbed Trailer                                          1 No.
8.      Truck Crane                                             1 No.
9.      Frontend Loader                                         2 Nos
10.     Backhoe                                                 2 Nos
11.    SPV Roller                                               I No.
12.     Sheepfoot Roller                                        1 No.
13.     Dozer (105 HP)                                          2 Nos
14.     Dozer (140 HP)                                          2 Nos
15.     Batching Plant                                          2 Nos
16.     Air Compressor                                          4 Nos
17.    Gravel Trailers                                          7 Nos
18.    Generator                                                3 Nos
19.    Trencher Machine                                         2 Nos
-49 Nos



Project Completion Report
PAKISTAN: Salinity Control & Reclamation Project (SCARP) Mardan (Cr. 877-PAK)
Annex 2: Equipment List
TabLe 4.   LIST OF EQUIPMENT TO BE SURVEYED OFF
S.NO.   DESCRIPTION                    MAKE            MODEL/TYPE          CAPACITY                 MACHINE SERIAL    NO.
1.      Dragline                    FMC Linkbelt       LS - 318           80 Tons                    21CH3-227
2.      Dragline                       -do-            LS-118              60 Tons                    9LV-20470
3.      Dragline                       -do-            LS-118              60 Tons                    9LV-20471
4.      Dragline                       -do-            LS-118              60 Tons                   9LV-20472
5.      Dragline                       -do-            LS-118              60 Tons                    9LV-20473
4-C
6.      Dragline                       -do-            LS-318              80 Tons                   21CH3-228
7.      Motor Grader               Champion            710A                129 HP                     15651
8.      Dewatering Set              Monarch            PH20                500 GPM                   974
9.           -do-                     -do-                                                            979
10.          -do-                     -do-                                                            980
11.          -do-                     -do-                                                           981
12.          -do-                     -do-              "                                            982
13.     Pile Hammer Unit           Berming Hammer    B225                  29000 ft: Ibs/Blow        42752
Dragline                    FMC Linkbelt       LS-118               60 Tons                   9LV-2^469



43
Appendix 1
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PAKISTAN
SALINITY CONTROL AND RECLAMATION PROJECT (SCARP) MARDAN
(Cr. 877-PAK)
COMMENTS BY CIDA



JPt 21 '94 1 I: 12M            44                                  P. 
de        C    D_!i a.
CANADA
20i            grC^yAD c2
Ei1i l P     EA OG4       lull, Qc   KA OG4
TgL*COPIE B             rAX                            NO de/of pages 1 + 2
A l' i    de                 Vt  n'p de ;;Dw    N. de
~~~~~~~~~Yaz rw                     n.          no r.
A   Mr. Pet  S
TO   Agriculture Ceation Div.      Letter Dec.23, 1993    (202) 522-1778
-g     _t    -
The World Bank
                             Nte  N- de    r
ID    Jmbn Jackan
E5BF0309              JhM.y 21, 1994
Dixectaz gb*Ise/Division     N' Gs tr de tf1flr
Bwdh/Dixuiticx                Tq         .          FhXno.
S8Uth Asia 714/10602          (819) 997-4747        (819) 953-0956
Enclosed please find the corments on the draft Project Completion
Report for Scarp Mardan Project from CIDA's Technical Services
Division.  We apologize for the delay.
oo- a2 
, v John Jackc i
Senior Devi opment Officer
South Asia
Attch.



JGtl tZ1  ' 9-    1 1: 1 3f1                                     P
45                                P.2
Diroction gfz&ale de l'axie
Asia Branch                                   XUUNRANDWX       NOTZ DE SVI1CK
7        Security-Class.-de s6curitl
JOHN JACKSON
TO     OPERATIONS
A      SOUTH ASIA                               Our File/Notre r6f6rence
J       7714/14*  to Go7_
7  7    t  Your file/Votre r6f6renoe
FWX   COLIN LOVEGROVE
DB     TECHNICAL SERVICES    p                  Date
C,       JJanuary 19, 1994
OB311!   P20jZCT CXIPLNflWI REPORT
As per your request I have reviewed the World Banks completion
report for Bcarp Mardan.
In para 1 there should be a mention of the roadB as these were
included in the original, although as mentioned in para 2 they
were later dropped.
It is nice to see that for the sub-surface drainage that "Unit
1 subsurface drains covering about 24,000 ac were installed
over a period of two years on schedule by a Canadian contractor
utilizing CIDA grant funds. Unit 11 subsurface drains covering
about 49,000 ac were installed over a period of four years by
another international contractor with actual completion always
lagging behind target because of cash flow and equipment
problems." - a recognition that CIDA"s portion went well' and
the Bank's didn't. We actually can get things right at times!
I disagree with the statement that more frequent flushing of
drains constructed using trenchleas ploughs as compared to
trencher-installed drains. There is no evidence to support
this. (page 5)
The Canadian Drainage Team assisted in the preparation on Unit
1 and Unit 11, not just in Unit 1 as reported. (page 11)
I cannot find any references in the economic analyses to the
value of the crops now grown on the 25,000 acres of land that
was marginal or out of production. The report does not make it
clear if this area was rolled in with the crop yields preented
or whether this large increase in production in the area has
been accounted for.



JAN P1 '9J 1 1: 13$          46                                P. 3
On page 18 the number trained is not correct. In most of the
courses given in Canada there were sveral involved aach time.
There were more than 1 involved in the first course at Wapda
Academy. All told, since r do not have this information at
hand I would guesstimate that some 75 or more received some
type of formal training either in Canada or in Pakistan. There
was also a course given in Pakistan on Drainage Pipe Testing,
which has not been mentioned in the report. The course was
given at the Nowshera Pipe factory.



