Document of
The World Bank                F E              W'
Report No. P-2446-PAK
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
rNTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
TO
THE ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
FOR THE
SALINITY CONTROL AND RECLAMATION PROJECT (SCARP) MARDAN
January 11, 1979
This report may not be published nor may It be quoted as representing the views of the World Bank.
The World Bank does not accept responsibility for the accuracy or completeness of the report.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$1    =  Rs 9.9
Rs 1    =  US$0.10
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
English/US Units                                   Metric Units
1 foot (ft                                  30.5 centimeters (cm)
1 yard (yd)                   =             0.915 meters (m)
1 mile (mi)                   =             1.609 kilometers (km)
1 canal mile                  =             1.524 kilometers
1 acre (ac)                   =             0.405 hectare (ha)
1 square mile (sq mi)                       259 ha                3
1 cubic ft (cu ft)            =             0.028 cibic meters (m )
1 cubic yd (cu yd)            =             0.765 m
1 acre-foot (ac-ft)           -             1,233 m3
1 cu ft/sec (cusec-)          =             0.028 m /sec
1 pound (lb)                  =             0.454 kilograms (kg)
1 long ton (lg ton)           =             1,016 kg (1.016 metric tons)
Pakistani Units                  English Units              Metric Units
1 maund (mn)       =         82.3 lb (.0367 lg ton)   =   37.3 kg (.0373 m tons)
26.8 mds           =         2,205 lbs                  =   1.0 metric ton
27.2 mds           =         1.0 lg ton (2,240 lbs)   =   1,016 kg



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PAKISTAN
SALINITY CONTROL AND RECLAMATION PROJECT (SCARP) MARDAN
Credit and Project Summary
Borrower:            Islamic Republic of Pakistan.
Beneficiary:         North West Frontier Province (NWFP)
Amount:              US$60.0 million.
Terms:               Standard.
Project
Description:       The project is designed to increase agricultural produc-
tion by providing additional irrigation water and irriga-
tion improvements for the entire Lower Swat Canal (LSC)
area (134,500 ac) and additional water for part of the
Upper Swat Canal (USC) area (75,500 ac). It includes:
(a) installing tile drains in areas with a water table
depth of less than 5 feet, altogether in about 110,000
ac; (b) remodeling existing surface drains to carry storm
water and tile drainage flows in about 185,000 ac; (c) mod-
ifying the 2.1 mile long Benton Tunnel to increase USC
discharge capacity; (d) remodeling the LSC system to pro-
vide increased capacity and improve canal operational
efficiencies; (e) reclaiming about 25,000 ac of abandoned
and/or marginally productive saline-alkaline land; (f)
improving on-farm water management efficiency through
watercourse improvements on 143,000 ac and precision
land leveling on 35,000 ac; (g) improving the rural market
road network; (h) improving agricultural extension serv-
ices and instituting the training and visit (T&V) system;
(i) improving the quality and quantity of maize seed for
the Mardan area; (j) monitoring irrigation deliveries,
drainage flows, water table depths and agricultural pro-
duction; (k) providing equipment and vehicles for con-
struction, O&M, agricultural extension, seed production,
project support and monitoring programs; and (1) providing
technical assistance (consultants) for the preparation of
detailed designs, specifications, tender documents and
construction drawings for civil works and feasibility
studies of a project in the remainder of the USC command
area, and for the improvement of agricultural production
programs. There is a risk that expected yield increases
may not materialize, due mainly to shortcomings in exten-
sion services. However, projected yields are conservative
and, even under the least favorable conditions envisaged,
the rate of return would not be less than 13%.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Estimated Cost:
Foreign
Local    Foreign    Total   Exchange
--------US$ million------         %
Land Acquisition              7.4       0         7.4        0
and Crop Compen-
sation
Civil Works /a
Benton Tunnel              0.7      0.1        0.8       13
Lower Swat Canal           9.7      3.3        13.0      25
Open Drainage              5.6      1.8         7.4      24
Subsurface Drainge        11.1    20.7        31.8       65
Road Improvements          1.5         0       1.5        0
Construction Camp          0.7      0.1        0.8       13
On-Farm
Improvements /a
Watercourse
Remodeling                1.1        0        1.1        0
Land Reclamation           2.8      0.4        3.2       13
Land Leveling              1.2      0.9        2.1       43
Engineering, Supervision
and Administration         7.3        0        7.3        0
Equipment and Vehicles        7.2    17.2       24.4       70
Monitoring Programs           0.7        0        0.7        0
Technical Assistance
Consultants               0.2      3.7        3.9       95
Training                    0      0.2        0.2      100
Agricultural Development   1.3           0       1.3        0
Base Cost                58.5    48.4       106.9       45
Physical Contingencies       6.4      5.3       11.7       45
Price Escalation            15.4    13.3        28.7       46
O&M During Project
Implementation             2.7        0        2.7        0
Total Project Cost       83.0    67.0       150.0       45
/a Not including the cost of equipment depreciation, since
all equipment would be provided under the project.
Financing Plan:
Local    Foreign    Total
US$ million
IDA                    12          48         60
CIDA                    6          19         25
GOP                    65          -          65
83          67        150



- iii -
Disbursements:
FY80 FY81 FY82 FY83 FY84 FY85 FY86
US$ million
Annual         0.5   4.5   10.5  15.5  14.5  10.5   4.0
Cumulative    0.5   5.0   15.5  31.0  45.5  56.0  60.0
Technical
Assistance:         (a)  Consulting services for project design and
construction supervision (420-450 man-months).
Includes Project Manager, Planning Engineers,
Design Engineers, Drainage Engineer, Contracts
Administration Engineer, Construction Inspector
and Soil Scientist.
(b) Agricultural Extension and Training Specialist
(20 man-months).
(c) Sugar Beet Agronomist (21 man-months).
The overall cost of 39 man-years of consultants'
time for SCARP Mardan is estimated to be US$3.9
million, inclusive of travel and other expenses.
The billing rate for the consultants is estimated
at about US$8,500 per man-month inclusive of travel
and other expenses. A training program for Govern-
ment staff would also be provided with a cost esti-
mated at about US$200,000.
Rate of Return:       18% (Economic).
Appraisal Report:   Report No. 2179a-PAK, January 11, 1979.
Maps:                 IBRD 13706R and IBRD 13707R.






INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT TO THE ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
FOR A SALINITY CONTROL AND RECLAMATION PROJECT (SCARP-MARDAN)
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
development credit to the Islamic Republic of Pakistan for the equivalent
of US$60.0 million on standard IDA terms to help finance a salinity control
and reclamation project in the Mardan District (SCARP-Mardan) of North West
Frontier Province (NWFP). The Canadian International Development Agency
(CIDA) is also participating with a grant of US$25 million equivalent.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
2.        The most recent economic report "Pakistan:  Development Issues and
Policies" (No. 1924-PAK, dated April 7, 1978) was distributed to the Executive
Directors on April 11, 1978.
3.        Economic performance during the 1970s compares unfavorably with the
record of rapid growth of output and exports during the 1960s. GDP has grown
at about 3% per annum in real terms, compared to more than 6% during the 1960s,
and rapid population growth has meant that there has been virtually no increase
in per capita incomes. Output in the major productive sectors (agriculture and
industry) has risen even more slowly than GDP - at about 2% per annum - and GDP
itself only achieved a growth rate of 3% as a result of expansion in construc-
tion, government and service industries.
4.        To a considerable degree this disappointing performance has been due
to factors outside the Government's immediate or direct control. The 1970s
began in crisis with the war with India and the separation of Bangladesh, and
there followed a series of economic and climatic misfortunes which undermined
the basis for growth. These included a poor monsoon in 1974/75 and serious
floods in 1972/73 and 1975/76, as well as the petroleum crisis and the subse-
quent world recession. Moreover, political instability and uncertainty have
had serious economic implications. It is also, however, true that the policy
response to these problems has in many respects been inadequate and has con-
tributed to the economy's disappointing performance. Changing attitudes to
the private sector, illustrated by a series of nationalizations that began in
1972, had a depressing effect on private investment, while legislation served
to increase real wages in the industrial sector at a time of other cost in-
creases and increasingly difficult export markets. Major increases in public
investment have more than offset declining private investment, but new invest-
ment has been concentrated in capital-intensive, long-gestation projects which
in many cases have yet to result in increased production. This investment
contributed to a massive deterioration in the trade account. To finance
1/   Parts I and II are substantially the same as Parts I and II of the
President's Report on the Toot Oil and Gas Development Project
(No. P-2427-PAK, dated December 6, 1978).



- 2 -
imports, and to cover serious shortfalls in public saving, the Government
resorted to heavy borrowing from abroad, including a major increase from OPEC
countries. Workers' remittances have increased very substantially over the
last two years, but stagnant exports and rising debt repayments still impose
a serious strain on the balance of payments while the problem of domestic
resource mobilization continues to constrain economic development.
5.        A start has been made in the process of policy adjustment and mea-
sures have been implemented which go some way towards solving the country's
serious resource management problems. The new Government has shown that it
attaches importance to the private sector. The agricultural processing
industries (except the vegetable ghee industry) have been denationalized, the
area open to private investment has been greatly extended, credit and tax
incentives (especially for export) have been improved and considerable
improvements have been recorded in the labor situation. Agricultural sup-
port prices have been maintained, and in some cases increased, and an effort
is being made to improve input availability to the farmer. Finally, a review
of Government investment and related priorities was undertaken in the context
of the preparation of the revised Fifth Plan, which recognizes the limitations
of overall resources and the need to redirect the pattern of economic develop-
ment away from large public industrial and other long gestation projects and
towards the agricultural and social sectors.
6.        To date the impact of these measures has been limited.  While GDP,
according to preliminary estimates, grew by around 6% during FY78, compared
to only 1.7% in FY77, this represents in large measure a recovery in agricul-
ture, especially in the cotton crop which fell sharply in the previous year.
In contrast, while there has been some indication of a recovery in private
investment and exports, the budget deficit is likely to remain large in FY79
and inflationary pressures and the external balance continue to give cause
for concern. In addition, the 1977/78 wheat crop was a major disappointment,
with production well below, and thus import requirements considerably above,
the Government's target.
7.        While the overall economic situation provides little room for ma-
neuver, and the policy changes that have already taken place are in the right
direction, further measures which face basic issues limiting economic growth
in the longer term are needed. These issues include the farm-level factors
affecting low productivity in agriculture; the structure and competitiveness
of the industrial sector; the factors lying behind continued rapid growth in
population; the need to redirect social service expenditures; the deteriora-
tion in the performance of public sector enterprises and the administrative
machinery generally; the low elasticity of tax revenues and the problems of
public resource mobilization; and the large trade deficit and the continued
dependence on capital inflows from abroad.
8.        Agriculture remains the economy's mainstay, accounting directly for
roughly a third of GDP, employing about 60% of the labor force and, directly
or indirectly, providing nearly two thirds of total exports. Much of agricul-
ture's disappointing performance in recent years is attributable to the decline
in cotton output since other crops (with the notable exception of wheat last



- 3 -
year) have generally fared better. Nevertheless, even for these (wheat, rice,
sugar) there was a major setback in the early 1970s to the 'green revolution'
initiated during the 1960s. While a deceleration in the introduction of new
technologies after several years of rapid growth is not surprising, yields
still remain well below those achieved under comparable conditions elsewhere,
even for the new varieties. Since cropped areas have also failed to respond
to the opportunities created by increases in water availability (e.g., from
Tarbela) production has been well below the potential implied by the resources
and technologies available. Considerable potential still exists for the
additional use of fertilizer and other inputs, but it appears also essential
to give greater priority to evolving complementary policies and programs which
have a direct impact at the farm level. Major improvements are possible in
the water delivery system and in the general level of agricultural practices.
High priority therefore needs to be given to water course improvement programs,
to investments designed to reverse water-logging and salinity and to projects
designed to establish a systematic and effective research and extension
service. Without such initiatives, agricultural growth in the longer term
will suffer and the benefits from the available inputs and resources will
remain well below their technical potential.
9.        Industry contributes about 16% of GDP and during much of the 1950s
and 1960s provided a major stimulus to growth. Growth rates in industrial
production have, however, declined from about 10% per year during the 1960s
to only 2% in recent years. The major structural change in the industrial
sector since 1973 has been the expansion of the public sector from about 10%
to about 25% of industrial assets. Private investment has declined markedly
as a result of nationalization fears, rapid cost inflation, labor problems,
adverse export market conditions and problems in raw material supply. The
textile industry, in particular, which accounts for about 40% of value added
in large-scale industry, has suffered from problems of inefficiency, excess
capacity and a lack of competitiveness in foreign markets, while manufacturing
growth generally has been affected by the poor performance of public sector
enterprises. A revival in the industrial investment climate depends on a
period of reasonably prolonged stability and a shift in the overall balance
of production towards higher value added products which are responsive to
market opportunities and preferences. Also important will be progress in,
and results from, oil exploration for which there appears to be considerable
potential.
10.       While it is clearly vital to re-establish a base for more rapid
growth in the commodity-producing sectors, it is also true that rapid growth
in population, currently running at about 3% per annum, has seriously handi-
capped the country's ability to improve living standards. Family planning
programs have unfortunately had little effect and there have been few changes
in the socio-economic environment of a type that usually accompany declines
in fertility. Rapid population growth places severe burdens on Government
resources simply to maintain education and health programs at their current
inadequate standards. However, without higher literacy rates, improved health
facilities and a reduction in child mortality, it is doubtful that population
growth rates can be much reduced. Expenditures on social services remain
comparatively low and undue emphasis has been given to such elements as higher



- 4 -
education and urban health facilities. High priority therefore needs to be
given not only to increased allocations for family planning and social service
expenditure but also to its redirection to serve the wider interests of the
population and the economy.
11.       Policies that face the longer term issues in both the productive
and the social sectors will take time to have an appreciable effect and will
have to be implemented in the context of continued domestic and external
resource constraints. Domestic resource mobilization has become a major prob-
lem area in the economy. Public sector development expenditures increased
from 5.5% of GDP in FY71 to 11.2% in FY77 while non-development expenditures
more than trebled. Public sector savings declined, and indeed were negative
from FY72 to FY75, although they recovered slightly during the next three
years. The scope for non-inflationary domestic borrowing has been limited by
declining private savings, so that financing public expenditures has become
heavily dependent on external and domestic bank borrowing, with foreign
assistance financing no less than 70% of development expenditures in FY76,
and an even higher proportion of public investment. The share of development
expenditures financed through foreign assistance fell to 48% in FY77 aad to
46% in FY78 because of a decline in aid receipts. To improve domestic re-
source mobilization, additional taxation and improvements in tax administra-
tion are needed; non-development expenditures must be restrained, possibly
through selective reductions in subsidies; and the contribution of public
enterprises should be enhanced, for instance through tariff increases. Given
the limits to domestic and external borrowing, and the constraints on increas-
ing revenues and decreasing current expenditures, it remains essential to limit
the size and adjust the content of the public investment program. Emphasis
needs to be given to providing adequate resources for agriculture and other
areas where substantial and rapid increases in production and exports appear
possible, as well as to the social sectors, which have been neglected in
recent years. Conversely, the proportion of resources devoted to capital-
intensive industrial and long gestation projects should be reduced.
12.       The external position has been greatly assisted by rapidly rising
workers' remittances from abroad, notably from the Middle East; these have
risen from US$130 million in FY73 to US$578 million in FY77 and to an esti-
mated US$1,100 million in FY78. This increase has, however, been more than
offset by a massive deterioration in the trade balance with the result that
the current account deficit increased from about US$130 million in FY73 to
more than US$1,000 million in FY75. It remained at roughly this level in
FY76 and FY77, with rising remittances offsetting further increases in the
trade deficit, but declined in FY78, due mainly to the massive increase in
remittances. Allowing for debt repayments, however, external financing
requirements amounted to about US$1,100 million in FY78. Long-term capital
inflows on concessional terms have been insufficient to cover this amount
and - even after suspending debt payments to Iran - substantial recourse to
short-term borrowing proved necessary. The major uncertainty for FY79 and
beyond relates to remittances but, assuming a relatively conservative estimate
for these, external financing requirements are likely to remain well above
US$1,000 million in nominal terms, even allowing for fairly optimistic trade
projections. While financing in the range of US$1,100-US$1,300 million was



- 5 -
obtained during the mid-1970s, funds from OPEC sources may be more difficult
to arrange in the future while assistance from traditional donors is only
likely to be forthcoming in the required amounts if appropriate development
policies are implemented. Unless workers' remittances rise more rapidly than
is now expected, therefore, the external position is likely to cor inue tight.
13.       Total external debt outstanding at the beginning of FY78 amounted
to about US$6.27 billion of which US$3.76 billion was due to Consortium
bilateral donors, US$1.04 billion to OPEC, US$1.08 billion to multilateral
agencies and the balance to other bilateral and private lenders. Contractual
debt service to official agencies rose from US$313 million in FY73 to US$394
in FY77 although the burden of these payments was eased to US$200 and US$310
million respectively as a result of debt relief arrangements. The four-year
debt relief agreement with bilateral Consortium members expired on June 30,
1978, and if no further agreement is reached, debt service payments will rise
steeply, greatly increased by repayments under relatively short-term OPEC bor-
rowing. In FY79, contractual payments are expected to amount to around US$535
million and considerably more in subsequent years. As a proportion of exports,
non-factor service payments and workers' remittances, debt service can be
expected to rise from about 15% in the FY75-77 period to around 17.5% in FY79,
assuming substantial growth in both exports and workers' remittances. Pakistan
obviously needs to exercise care in protecting its ability to borrow to meet
future requirements, and to restrict commercial borrowing to a minimum. For
this reason, Bank Group lending to Pakistan is currently confined to IDA
credits. Pakistan's debt to the Bank and IDA at the end of FY77 was about
15% of its external public indebtedness; by 1980 this ratio is likely to fall
to about 11%. The share of the Bank Group in total debt service (after taking
into account debt relief from other creditors) is now about 20%, but this is
expected to decrease to about 9% in 1980.
14.       Pakistan's resource endowment, especially in the Indus Basin system,
is substantial and during the 1960s the economy demonstrated a considerable
capacity for growth. Rough estimates suggest that the economy could grow at
perhaps 5-6% per annum over the next five years, and that this could be accom-
panied by a wider distribution of the benefits of growth than was achieved
during the 1960s. A start has been made in the process of policy adjustment,
but it is clearly evident that a wide range of further initiatives are neces-
sary to deal with the causes underlying the economy's disappointing performance
in recent years. Only if these new policies and programs are pursued consist-
ently over a number of years will the basis for longer-term improvements in
living standards for the population as a whole be established.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN PAKISTAN
15.       The cumulative total of Bank/IDA commitments to Pakistan (exclusive
of loans and credits or portions thereof which were disbursed in the former
East Pakistan) now amounts to approximately US$1.7 billion. During its long
association with Pakistan, the Bank Group has been involved in almost all sec-
tors of the economy. Through FY78, 38% of total commitments were for public



services, 30% for agriculture, 31% for industry (of which 9% was for indus-
trial imports) and 2% for education. Lending for public services has amounted
to almost US$700 million and has included loans and credits for railways,
electric power, gas pipelines, Karachi Port, highways, telecommunications and
water supplies. A large part of past lending for agriculture was for Indus
Basin projects. Lending for industry has been mainly through the Pakistan
Industrial Credit and Investment Corporation (PICIC). For most projects for
which loans and credits are being disbursed, construction is now going ahead
satisfactorily. The principal problems being encountered are that the rates
charged by some of the public services have not kept pace with inflation and,
hence, some utilities are not earning adequate returns. Annex II contains a
summary statement of Bank loans and IDA credits as of November 30, 1978 and
notes on the execution of ongoing projects.
16.       Lending operations in Pakistan have three main objectives.  One of
these is to support the directly productive sectors of the economy and, in
particular, to increase production of import substitutes such as foodgrains,
edible oils, fertilizer and engineering goods and to sustain export growth
in cotton yarn and textiles, rice and a large number of other industrial and
agricultural products. The main part of Bank Group assistance for industry
will continue to be through financial intermediaries. The most important
part of future lending for agriculture is expected to be for the Government's
program to increase productivity in the Indus Basin by controlling salinity
and improving the utilization of surface irrigation and groundwater. The
Bank is the Executing Agency for a UNDP technical assistance grant for
improving agriculture and water planning in the Indus Basin.
17.       Another objective is to support the necessary expansion of, and
to improve the institutions which are responsible for, the principal public
services which have benefitted from Bank Group lending in the past, namely,
the Telegraph and Telephone Department, Karachi Port, Water and Power Devel-
opment Authority, Pakistan Railways, Sui Northern Gas Pipelines Company and
the Lahore Water and Sanitation Agency. A number of these agencies are beset
by institutional weaknesses. In some cases, improvements are being made with
technical assistance financed under loans and credits. In other cases, where
the problems are of such a nature that action by government is required, the
Bank Group is encouraging GOP to take remedial measures.
18.       A third objective is to extend lending operations into areas which
will help to bring economic development to the poorest strata of the popula-
tion. This shift implies increased lending for agriculture and rural develop-
ment and will involve significant lending for projects complementary to the
Indus/Tarbela works. In the urban sector, Bank missions have worked with
municipal authorities on the plans for the urban development of Karachi,
whose population now exceeds 4 million, and Lahore, Pakistan's second largest
city. A Karachi master plan was completed in 1974 with the assistance of
consultants financed by UNDP. Within the framework of the plan, a project
was proposed and appraised for urban upgrading in the Lyari section of the
city. This project, however, has been deferred indefinitely due to Government
reconsideration of the project cost and financial arrangements. Planning in
Lahore is at a much earlier stage than in Karachi and the immediate need is



-7-
for technical assistance. Accordingly, the IDA credit for the second Lahore
water supply, sewerage and drainage project includes provision for the financ-
ing of urban studies in Lahore. The emphasis being given to agriculture and
other projects with a low foreign exchange component justifies the financing
of some local e penditures in specific cases.
19.       A number of projects for Bank Group financing are currently under
appraisal or being prepared in Pakistan. Appraisal missions have completed
field reviews of a third power project, a primary education project, a fourth
agricultural credit project, a third highways project and an agricultural ex-
tension project in Sind. Preparatory work is proceeding on a Karachi bulk
water supply project, a grain storage project, a vocational training project
and a small industries project.
20.       IFC has made investments in nine Pakistan enterprises for a total
of US$30.2 million, of which US$22.9 million was by way of loans and US$7.3
million by equity participations (these are shown in Annex II). About US$11
million remains outstanding. The enterprises assisted by IFC include three
in the field of pulp and paper products, two in textiles and one each in
cement, steel and fertilizers. IFC is also a shareholder of PICIC.
PART III - THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR AND THE SCARP PROGRAM
The Agricultural Sector
21.       Agriculture is the mainstay of Pakistan's economy.  It accounts
for about one-third of GDP, employs about 60% of the labor force and, directly
or indirectly, provides nearly two-thirds of Pakistan's exports (principally
cotton and rice). The country's irrigated area accounts for about 90% of farm
output. The complex irrigation system based on the Indus and its tributaries
covers an area of about 33.6 million acres and constitutes the largest such
system in the world. The rainfed areas lie largely to the north and northwest,
being concentrated in regions where rainfall averages more than 16 in per
year.
22.       Agricultural growth during the 1960s was relatively rapid, due main-
ly to the introduction of high yielding varieties of rice and wheat, increased
use of fertilizer and the spread of private tubewells. Since the early 1970s,
however, the rate of growth has been disappointing and has failed to keep pace
with population. While certain minor crops have performed well, value added
in the major crops was only 8% higher in 1976 than in 1971 and only 5% up on
the exceptionally good year of 1969. This disappointing outturn can in part
be attributed to a series of years of unfavorable weather and to exceptional
factors such as political disturbances within the country and delays in the
availability of water from the Tarbela Dam. However, it is clear that there
are also more fundamental factors which have restricted growth in olutput. It
is of concern that yields of the new varieties are well below those achieved
under comparable conditions in other countries. Indeed, although average
yields have risen through the introduction of HYVs, the yields of the HYVs
themselves are in some cases lower than those achieved in the late 1960s.



- 8 -
23.       In addition to the benefits of the water now available from the
Tarbela Dam, there is a large potential for raising production through better
agronomic practices such as increased and better balanced fertilizer applica-
tion rates, use of more pesticides and better seed varieties, as well as
by further expansion of groundwater use by additional tubewell development,
particularly in the private sector, and better enforcement of regulations
concerning water use and watercourse maintenance. The exploitation of the
potential of the Indus system will also require that pricing policies are such
that farmers have adequate incentives, that inputs and credit are available
in adequate quantities and in timely fashion and that agricultural agencies
are strengthened with respect to finances, personnel and organization.
24.       Over the long term, Pakistan's ability to sustain a faster growth in
agricultural production than in population depends essentially on fundamental
improvements in the management of land and water resources. This will require
substantial investments and improvements in agricultural institutions. As such
measures take time to become effective, the necessary changes have to be ini-
tiated now. There is a general need to improve the efficiency of the canal
system and the use of water by farmers. Up to 30-40% of canal water is lost
before reaching the farm turnouts owing to the inefficiencies of the system
and 20-30% of the remainder is lost due to poor water management practices
on the farm. Institutional and financial arrangements need to be modified
to ensure proper canal and watercourses maintenance and improvement. In
addition, existing laws and regulations on water management require stricter
enforcement.
25.       Without improvements in land and water management, Pakistan faces
the danger of further loss of arable land due to waterlogging and salinity.
The technology for reducing waterlogging and salinity is well known, but in-
vestment in projects for this purpose has been lagging. This trend must be
reversed to prevent further loss of cropping potential. The full benefit of
investments in land and drainage improvement will not be realized, however,
unless supporting services are substantially improved. These include agri-
cultural research, extension services, the availability of agricultural credit
for inputs and other services designed to improve the productivity of the
farmer.
26.       Small farmers having less than 7.5 acres constitute over 40% of the
farmers in Pakistan - although they account for only 12% of the total farm area.
Steps need to be taken to ensure that the long-term development programs for
agriculture include not only measures to augment production in general, but
also activities which are specifically designed to increase the productivity
of these smaller cultivators. Improvements in research and extension are vital
to generating appropriate technological improvements and to spreading know-
ledge to smallholders.
27.       The need to broaden agricultural strategies to include farm level
and related programs was identified by the Bank and discussed in a Special
Agriculture Sector Review, distributed to the Executive Directors in March
1976.  Since then, a number of projects have been initiated in Pakistan or are
under active consideration which take this need into account. They include the
Seed Project and the Khairpur Tile Drainage and Irrigated Farming Development



- 9 -
Project, approved by the Executive Directors in FY76; the Punjab LiLvestock
Project and the Third Education Project (which includes an importanlt component
for agricultural training), approved in FY77; and the Salinity Conitrol and
Reclamation (SCARP VI) Project and the Punjab Extension and Agricultural
Development Project, approved in FY78. These projects include programs de-
signed to achieve on-farm improvements in an effort to complement the
installation of major capital facilities and to utilize irrigation water
more effectively.
28.       Following on from the Sector Review, and in order to assist the
Pakistan Government further in carrying out the new strategy for agricultural
development, the Bank has identified further projects in the fields of agricul-
tural extension and research; irrigation drainage and salinity control; agri-
cultural credit; foodgrain storage; and the integrated development of live-
stock and forestry. Funds for project preparation are being provided under
some on-going Bank projects. In addition, the UNDP is financing the prepara-
tion of a Revised Action Plan for the Indus Basin (see paragraph 31) and has
indicated its willingness to support the strengthening of project preparation
capacity in the Federal Ministry and Provincial Departments of Agriculture.
The SCARP Program
29.       Beginning in the 1870s, barrages were constructed on the Indus
tributaries enabling diversion of water throughout the year. During the past
decade, with the construction of Mangla Dam on the Jhelum River and Tarbela
Dam on the Indus, a substantial storage capacity (nearly 15 million ac ft) has
been added to the system. The Basin is now irrigated by a canal system with
a culturable command area (CCA) of about 33 million acres--one of the largest
in the world.
30.       The construction of the barrages and canals was not accompanied by
the installation of adequate drainage systems, and waterlogging and salinity
have become a major problem in large areas. Subsurface drainage was not
installed on a significant scale until the early 1960s and the water table
has risen in many areas to levels at which it interferes with crop growth.
Under the GOP's Salinity Control and Reclamation Projects (SCARPs), the Water
and Power Development Authority (WAPDA) has installed 11,000 tubewells in
over 5 million acres and individual farmers have installed over 150,000 tube-
wells which contribute in varying degrees to controlling the water table.
In saline groundwater areas, however, where the wells must discharge into
disposal drains, the benefits of this method of groundwater control are limited
unless additional canal water is provided to permit the reclamation of the
saline soils by leaching once the groundwater has been lowered. Similarly, in
fresh groundwater areas where the water table is high, provision must be made
for the removal of excess water.
31.       To ensure effective use of available irrigation water supplies, the
Indus Basin Special Study was carried out by the Bank between 1964 and 1967.
The study recommended an Action Program of projects for implementation during
the period 1967-75. The Action Program was geared to effective distribution
and use of available irrigation water, soil reclamation and control of water-
logging and salinity through public and private groundwater development and



- 10 -
surface drainage schemes, as well as improved and intensified agricultural
supporting services. The Bank is currently Executing Agency for a UNDP-
financed study and planning project which will lead to preparation of a
Revised Action Program and National Investment Schedule for Irrigated Farming
Development an-d Land Reclamation in the Indus Basin. The revised action
program is due for completion this year.
32.        The Bank Group first provided assistance for the SCARP program
in 1962 with a US$18 million credit for the Khairpur Groundwater and Salinity
Control Project, located in the northern part of Sind Province. This project
included installation of nearly 600 tubewells spaced over 355,000 ac and the
construction of a surface disposal system, including pumping stations. Pro-
ject works were completed in 1970. Aided by the introduction of high-yielding
varieties of wheat and the general improvement in crop husbandry practices,
crop yields in the project area increased by 70% to 90%, and the cropped area
has expanded significantly. Two further SCARP projects, the Khairpur Tile
Drainage and Irrigated Farming Development Project and the SCARP VI Project,
are currently under implementation with IDA assistance. These projects have
been delayed by about nine months by the late appointment of consultants and
are still in the early stages of execution.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Project Origin
33.       Groundwater investigations in the Mardan area were carried out by
the former Pakistan Water and Salinity Investigation Department (WASID) during
1967-71. In 1973 the Water and Power Development Authority (WAPDA) engaged
consultants for the purpose of preparing a planning report on Mardan SCARP.
In 1975 WAPDA continued the planning work and identified the salinity and
waterlogged areas in the Mardan SCARP area. During November 1976 a Bank mis-
sion visited the project area to discuss the studies and the possibility of
the Bank's participation in financing the project. A second Bank mission
visited the area during February 1977 to assist WAPDA in the initial identi-
fication and preparation of the project. WAPDA engaged the Harza Engineering
Company to assist with the feasibility study and the preparation of the report.
In September 1977, a Bank preparation mission visited the project area to
review the status of the project feasibility report. The Government of
Pakistan submitted its final preparation report to the Bank in January 1978
and the project was appraised in February-March 1978. Negotiations for the
proposed credit took place in Washington from November 27 to December 4, 1978.
The Pakistan Delegation was headed by Mr. Aftab Ahmad Khan, Secretary of
Finance and Economic Affairs. A Staff Appraisal Report, entitled "Pakistan:
Salinity Control and Reclamation Project (SCARP) Mardan" (Report No. 2179a-PAK,
dated January 11, 1979) is being circulated separately to the Executive
Directors.



- 11 -
Project Area
34.       North West Frontier Province (NWFP) is the smallest of the four
provinces of Pakistan. It extends over some 39,000 sq mi, much of which is
mountainous and uninhabitable. On the west, NWFP is bounded by Afghanistan,
in the north by Gilgit, to the northeast by Azad Kashmir and the southeast
and east by the provinces of Punjab and Baluchistan. Land elevations vary
from 500 ft in the southern plains to 26,000 ft in the mountainous north.
The well-forested hill areas provide summer grazing for vast herds of sheep,
goats and cattle from the lowlands, which during winter return to the already
over-grazed low-lying rangelands. The cultivated area, about 3.7 M ac, is
mostly rainfed and is confined to the many valleys and lowland plains along
the Indus, Kabul and Kurram rivers. The population in 1977 was 12.6 M and
the cultivated areas are very densely populated. In the cooler, less arid
northern region, the main crops are sugarcane, maize (summer), wheat (winter),
sugar beets, tobacco, vegetables and orchards. In the hot, arid southern
region, the main summer crops are millets, maize fodder and some cotton and
the main winter crops are wheat and fodder.
35.       The proposed project is located on the left bank of the Kabul River
in the Vale of Peshawar, NWFP. The project area has been intensively culti-
vated and irrigated since before the turn of the century but, due to the lack
of adequate drainage, waterlogging and saline-alkaline conditions have devel-
oped in much of the project area.
Project Description
36.       The project basically is an agriculture intensification and land
reclamation project and would be the first irrigated agricultural project
assisted by IDA in NWFP. It would provide irrigation improvements and drain-
age relief for about one-half (210,000 ac) of the cultivable command area,
reclaim lands in this area which have been abandoned and thereby increase the
agricultural productivity of the region. These steps to increase agricultural
yields would be supplemented by major improvements to agricultural extension
services and the strengthening of research. Agricultural credit facilities
within the SCARP-Mardan area are adequate for the needs of the project. The
main focus of the project is to improve irrigation efficiencies in the project
area, provide a full supply of irrigation water for both rabi (winter) and
kharif (summer) crops, provide adequate drainage, improve the operation and
maintenance of the irrigation and drainage systems and reclaim non-productive
areas as a means of increasing agricultural production and creating employment
opportunities in NWFP.
37.       The proposed project would provide additional irrigation water and
irrigation and drainage improvements for the entire Lower Swat Canal (LSC)
command area (134,500 ac) and some additional water and drainage for 75,500
acres of the Upper Swat Canal (USC) command area. Specific project components
include:
(a) Installing tile drains in areas with a water table depth
of less than 5 ft, altogether in about 110,000 ac;



- 12 -
(b) Remodeling existing surface drains in about 185,000 ac
to carry storm water and to provide a gravity outlet for
the tile drainage effluent;
(c) Modifying the 2.1 mi long Benton Tunnel, near the head )f
the USC, to increase its discharge capacity from 1,800
cusecs to about 2,060 cusecs;
(d) Remodeling the Munda headworks and the LSC system to
provide increased capacity and improve canal operational
efficiencies;
(e) Reclaiming about 25,000 ac of abandoned and/or marginally
productive saline-alkaline land, and precision land
leveling on 35,000 ac;
(f) Improving on-farm water management through watercourse
improvements on 143,000 ac;
(g) Improving the rural market road network to handle increased
inputs and output expected with project development;
(h) Improving agricultural extension services through the
establishment in the project area of the training and
visit (T&V) system, and strengthening local research
activities;
Ci) Improving the quality and quantity of maize seed for the
Mardan area;
(j) Monitoring of irrigation deliveries, drainage flows, water
table depths, land reclamation progress and agricultural
yields and production;
(k) Providing equipment and vehicles for construction, O&M,
agricultural extension, seed production, project support
and monitoring programs; and
(1) Providing technical assistance (consultants) for the prepa-
ration of detailed designs, specifications, tender documents
and construction drawings for civil works; for feasibility
studies of a subsequent project to provide for the rehabili-
tation of the remainder of the USC command area; to advise and
assist in reorganizing the agricultural extension program in
line with the T&V system; and to advise and develop local
expertise in sugarbeet agronomy.
Implementation
38.       The project is scheduled for completion within six years.  The first
year would be spent mainly in preparing final design, procuring equipment and



- 13 -
vehicles, preparing tender documents for civil works and in organizing and
training staff. The construction camp and O&M warehouses and repair shops
would be started in the first year and completed within two years. The T&V
agricultural extension system would also be started in the first year. Most
of the equipment would arrive in the second year and construction of the
various civil works components would then be initiated. The project: is ex-
pected to be completed in 1985. Schedules for project implementation and
budget requirements would be prepared annually by all agencies involved. The
Association would have the opportunity to review the implementation schedules
and annual budget estimates well in advance of the start of the year to which
they apply (Section 2.03 of the draft WAPDA Project Agreement).
39.       Consultants would be required at an early date to assist WAPDA in
preparing specifications, designs, tender documents and the detailed drawings
required for construction, as well as for construction supervision. The con-
sultants, whose qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of employ-
ment would be satisfactory to GOP, WAPDA and the Association (Section 2.02 of
the draft WAPDA Project Agreement), would also assist in preparing a feasibil-
ity report for a follow-up project in the USC area. Estimates of consultant
requirements total about 39 man-years.
40.       WAPDA would be responsible for most aspects of project implementa-
tion, ranging from field investigations, planning and design to procurement
and construction. A Project Steering Committee would be established in WAPDA
comprising the Member-Water (Chairman), General Manager-North and the Chief
Engineer-Peshawar. Under the Steering Committee, direct responsibility on
behalf of WAPDA for project management would be assigned to a Project Director
appointed by WAPDA, assisted by the Project Manager of the consultant team.
Consultant staff would assume the lead in most of the planning, design and
construction supervision activities and be responsible for the technical qual-
ity of the work. A Project Coordination Committee composed of the Additional
Chief Secretary, Planning and Development, NWFP (Chairman), the Secretaries
of Agriculture and Irrigation, NWFP and the Project Director as member-
secretary would coordinate the efforts of all agencies involved in the project
(Section 3.05 of the draft Development Credit Agreement). WAPDA would also be
responsible for coordinating the on-farm improvement programs and the monitor-
ing programs. The specific programs would be carried out as follows:
(a) The NWFP Irrigation Department, assisted by representatives of
farmers, would be responsible for remodeling watercourses in
the project area.
(b) WAPDA would undertake the land leveling work, in line with
the USAID-assisted land leveling program currently in opera-
tion in Pakistan. Land leveling equipment would be provided
for this work.
(c)  WAPDA's Reclamation Unit, headed by a WAPDA senior soi'
scientist assisted by the consultants' soil scientist,
would be responsible for the land reclamation program.



- 14 -
(d) WAPDA would be responsible for monitoring drainage flows,
water table depths and reclamation progress; the NWFP Irri-
gation Department would monitor irrigation deliveries; and
the Faculty of Agriculture of the University of Peshawar
would monitor socio-economic aspects and the use of agri-
cultural inputs, yields and production in the project area.
(e) The NWFP Department of Agriculture would have respons-
ibility for agricultural extension, with the Director
of Agricultural Extension (DA) in charge.
(f) GONWFP would be responsible for the strengthening of seed
research and production necessary to ensure the supply of
adequate certified maize seed to the project area.
41.       WAPDA would be responsible for operating and maintaining the con-
structed works for the first two years after project completion to ensure
that the works function as designed and to establish adequate operational and
monitoring procedures. Following formal acceptance by WAPDA, the project-
furnished equipment and completed irrigation and drainage works would be
handed over to the Irrigation Department, NWFP, for continued O&M. The O&M
of the project-constructed and improved rural roads, with the exception of
roads along the project canals which would be the responsibility of the
Irrigation Department, would become the responsibility of the NWFP Public
Works Department. NWFP has undertaken to operate and maintain the irrigation,
drainage and road systems constructed under the project in accordance with
sound engineering standards and to provide adequate funds and staff for this
work. The Province will inform the Association of its proposed budgetary
provisions for O&M of project facilities by March 31 each year (Section 2.02
of the draft NWFP Project Agreement).
42.       The method and staffing of the agricultural extension services in
the project area would be organized on the lines of the T&V system which has
proved successful in neighboring countries and which has recently been adopted
in Punjab and Sind. Since it is considered essential for the success of the
project that the agricultural extension services be improved and operated
more effectively, an assurance has been obtained from GONWFP that it would
(i) introduce the T&V agricultural extension system in the project area by
June 30, 1980 and thereafter maintain and continue to operate this system
efficiently; (ii) release all staff directly involved in agricultural exten-
sion from all non-extension activities, including the sale and application
of pesticides; and (iii) provide vehicles to staff to be used in connection
with their work, and traveling and daily allowances (Sections 2.04 and 2.05
of the draft NWFP Project Agreement).
43.       Watercourse remodeling, farm drain construction and land reclama-
tion would be undertaken principally by the farmers, with technical assistance
and materials provided by the project. NWFP has agreed to establish a farmers'
group for each watercourse (Section 2.08 of the draft NWFP Project Agreement).
These groups would plan and implement work programs for watercourse remodeling
and field drains on a watercourse basis. Experience gained on an ongoing



- 15 -
USAID-assisted water management program would be taken into account in devel-
oping this component of the project.
Costs and Financing
44.       The total cost of the project is estimated at US$150 M, including
US$7.0 M import duties and taxes and US$28.7 M for price escalation. Foreign
exchange costs would be about US$67.0 M or 45% of total costs. Expected
expenditures for major project components, net of price contingencies, are:
modification to Benton Tunnel, US$1.1 M; LSC irrigation system improvements,
US$17.2 M; open drains, US$9.8 M; subsurface drains, US$42.0 M; road improve-
ments, US$2.0 M; watercourse remodeling, US$1.3 M; land reclamation, US$3.9 M;
land leveling, US$2.5 M; agricultural development, US$1.3 M; monitoring pro-
grams, US$0.7 M; equipment and vehicles, US$24.4 M; and technical assistance
and training, US$4.1 M.
45.       The proposed IDA credit of US$60 M, together with a grant of US$25 M
equivalent from Canada through the Canadian International Development Agency
(CIDA), would finance about 60% of total project costs net of taxes and duties.
This would cover the full foreign exchange costs of the project and about 24%
of the local costs. Other funds required for the project would be provided by
GOP (US$65 M equivalent, including taxes and duties).
Recovery of Costs
46.       NWFP presently has a system of fixed water charges for major crops
grown in the province and assesses and collects these charges on a regular
basis. Water rates presently in effect on major crops average about Rs 25 per
ac in the LSC command area and Rs 23 per ac in the USC command area. With the
present rates and with future cropping patterns, the water charges would aver-
age about Rs 33 per ac and Rs 27 per ac in the LSC and USC command areas,
respectively. Upon completion of the project, the O&M costs of the irrigation
and drainage systems would require an annual expenditure of about Rs 50 per
ac. The annuity required to recover the full project investment and O&M cost
at a 10% discount rate would amount to about Rs 750 per ac.
47.       Farm budget analyses and estimates of the value of water to farmers
indicate that substantially increased water charges could be borne by the pro-
ject beneficiaries. However, the appropriate level and structure of water
charges cannot be treated satisfactorily on a project specific basis. Any
examination of water charges or proposals for changing them must take into
account incremental agricultural taxes due to the project, including receipts
from the agricultural income tax, excise taxes on sugar and tobacco and the
sugarcane development tax which together would cover about one-third of the
total annual project cost.
48.       Under the ongoing IDA-supported SCARP-VI Project (Credit 754-PAK)
GOP agreed to carry out and furnish to IDA for discussion by September 30,
1979, a study on agricultural pricing, taxation and water charges. This study,
taking into consideration the effect of water charges on farmer incentives,
efficiency of water use, income distribution and general revenue requirements,



- 16 -
will review: (a) the costs of effective O&M and the extent to which these
should be met by irrigation water users through direct water charges; (b) the
extent to which GOP should capture part of the increases in net benefits gene-
rated by new investments in irrigation for funding future investment in agri-
culture and elsewhere and to what extent this should be through direct water
charges; and (c) the appropriateness of overall agricultural taxation and of
the share contributed by direct water charges. Without prejudging the results
of the study, it is evident that a general increase in water charges would
be in order in NWFP, and that specific increases would be desirable in the
project area upon completion of project works. Assurances have been obtained
from GOP and GONWFP that water charges in NWFP will be raised so that by 1991
total water revenue collected throughout NWFP will cover annual O&M costs of
irrigation and drainage facilities plus a reasonable proportion of the capital
costs of these facilities. The increase would take place in three steps, in
1981, 1986 and 1991, unless other arrangements are agreed with IDA in the
light of the conclusions of the study. In addition, water charges in the
project area would be increased to the maximum levels under prevailing regula-
tions in NWFP within one year of project completion (Section 3.02 of the draft
NWFP Project Agreement).
Procurement and Disbursement
49.       Procurement of a large portion of the equipment and vehicles--to
be financed under tied aid by CIDA--would be from Canada. The remaining
equipment would be procured through international competitive bidding (ICB)
in accordance with Bank Group guidelines. All construction contracts would
specify the use of project-furnished equipment and contractors would be
required to take all necessary steps to operate and maintain the equipment
in a satisfactory manner during the period of its use. Terms and conditions
under which the equipment would be made available to contractors would be
mutually agreed between WAPDA, CIDA and IDA.
50.       Contracts for construction of subsurface tile drainage facilities
would be let through ICB. In order to encourage the participation of local
contractors, the tenders would be divided into contracts of not less than
US$5 M each and tenderers would be permitted to bid on one or more contracts.
Local contractors would be entitled to a 7.5% preference. The other civil
works would not be suitable for ICB and contracts would be let through local
competitive bidding under normal Government procedures, which are aceptable to
IDA. These works would be phased with ongoing canal operation activities and
delivery schedules, as well as with seasonal agricultural activities, so as to
minimize crop damage and disruptions to water deliveries. Due to the scattered
and intermittent nature of these works, contracts would tend to be small and
localized and of interest only to domestic contractors.
51.       Disbursements would be made for:  (a) 100% of the foreign expendi-
tures for directly imported project equipment, vehicles and materials; (b) 50%
of the costs of imported items and materials procured locally; (c) 100% of the
ex-factory price of items manufactured locally; (d) 100% of total expenditures
for consultant services; (e) 100% of foreign expenditures for training; and
(f) 50% of civil works. It is expected that disbursements would be completed
by June 1986, about one year after completion of the project.



- 17 -
Benefits and Risks
52.       The project area is significantly affected by high water table and
saline-alkaline conditions and about 12% of the area has been abandoned or
is only marginally productive. Water requirements are about 50% ;reater than
present diversions and the shortage of water directly affects crop yields.
Although most farmers use cash inputs, cultural practices generally are
deficient and there is an enormous difference between the productivity of
progressive and average farmers. With the project, the cropped area would
be increased by putting into full production the abandoned or marginally
productive lands. Yields would be increased by providing adequate drainage,
improving the irrigation system, increasing the irrigation water supply,
providing land leveling, watercourse and field drain improvements, and by
improving the agricultural extension system. As a consequence, farm incomes
would increase considerably.
53.       The project would assist GOP in achieving two of its priority devel-
opment objectives--increased foodgrain production and reduced unemployment.
At full development annual production increases are estimated at 90,000 metric
tons of foodgrains, 740,000 metric tons of sugarcane and beet (equivalent to
about 66,000 metric tons of sugar), 5,400 metric tons of tobacco, 28,000
metric tons of fruit and 14,500 metric tons of vegetables. The incremental
value added at full development would be about Rs 425 M/yr. Overall, direct
employment effects of the project at full development would be an increase
in on-farm employment of about 3.1 M man days per year. The value added in
agriculture plus the increase in input requirements would generate additional
employment and additional income to the non-farm sectors. Lack of reliable
data on present non-farm employment in the project area precludes accurately
projecting future non-farm employment effects. The economic rate of return
on the project is estimated at about 18%.
54.       The per capita income in Pakistan in 1977 was about US$190, while
that of the project area was about US$73, about 38% of the national average.
About 60% of the farm families (farmers with holdings less than 5 ac) have
a per capita income of only about US$35/yr, less than 20% of the national
average; another 20% (farmers with holdings more than 5 ac but less than
12.5 ac) have a per capita income of about US$85. These farmers, whose per
capita income is lower than the poverty income level (estimated at about US$90
for Pakistan), operate about 50% of the project area. With the project, farm
incomes are expected to double; average per capita income within the project
area would advance to about US$135. It is estimated that about 60% of total
project benefits would accrue relatively evenly to farmers whose incomes are
now below the poverty line.
55.       A risk of the project is that expected yield increases may not
materialize, due in particular to the possibility that extension services,
and therefore cultivation practices, may not improve to the extent envisaged.
However, the projected yields are conservative. The project investigations
showed that yields presently are significantly affected by waterlogging and
saline-alkaline conditions in the lower areas of the project, as well as by
water shortage during certain periods in the whole project area. The project



- 18 -
would correct or improve these problems.  In addition, the improved extension
system which would be introduced in the project area, although relatively new
to Pakistan, has already demonstrated its effectiveness elsewhere in the
region. The sensitivity analysis indicates that, under the least favorable
conditions envisaged, the rate of return would not drop below 13%. The project
would have no adverse environmental impacts.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS
56.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between the Islamic Republic
of Pakistan and the Association, the draft Project Agreements between WAPDA
and the Association and between NWFP and the Association and the Recommendation
of the Committee provided for in Article V, Section l(d) of the Articles of
Agreement are being distributed to the Executive Directors separately. Special
Conditions of the Project are listed in Section III of Annex III. Additional
conditions of effectiveness (Section 6.01 of the draft Development Credit
Agreement) include fulfillment of all conditions for the disbursement of the
CIDA grant; appointment of consultants to assist WAPDA in carrying out the
Project; and establishment of the Project Steering and Coordination Committees.
57.       I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
58.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
Development Credit.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
January 11, 1979



- 19 -
ANNEX I
TABLE 3A
PAKISTAN - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
REFERENCE GROUPS (ADJUSTED AVERAGES
PARISTAN                                                  Ia
LAND AREA (THOUSAND SQ. KM.)                                                    - MOST RECENT ESTIMATE:.
TOTAL             803.9                                                     SAME         SAME      NEXT HIGHER
AGRICULTURAL      244.5                                  MOST RECENT      GEOGRAPHIC    INCOME        INCOME
1960  Lb    1970 Lb ESTIMATE Lb        REGION /c   GROUP /d    GROUP /e
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                    60.0        120.0      190.0            167.4       182.9       432.3
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOCRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)        61.0        98.0      183.0             65.7        88.9        251.7
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
TOTAL POPULATION, MID-YEAR
(MILLIONS)                         45.3         59.8       73.4
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 22.5           24.8      26.5              12.8       15.0         24.2
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. KM.                         56.0        74.0       91.0             85.2        46.8         42.7
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND    198.0         246.0      300.0            322.6       254.1         95.0
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                           41.8        43.4       46.5             44.0        43.6         44.9
15-64 YRS.                           51.8        52.7       50.5             52.9        53.3         52.8
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                     4.6          3.9       3.0              2.9         2.9          3.0
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                2.3          2.9       3.0              2.2         2.4          2.7
URBAN                                5.0          4.0       3.9              4.2         4.0          8.8
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)       49.2         4'.6      47.4              45.1       44.3         42.2
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)       26.3         20.1      16.5              17.3       19.7         12.4
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                3.2          3.7       3.6               3.2         2.9         3.2
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)         ..       1908.1    2085.0
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)    ..             ..        ..              13.7       14.6         14.2
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1970-100)               81.0        100.0      96.6 /f          95.6        96.4        104.3
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                     84.0        94.0       93.0             91.1        92.3         99.5
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)            48.5        59.4       54.0             49.6        50.0         56.8
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE         16.0 /g,h   14.0       14.3             12.6        13.9         17.5
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE         ..         17.4        ..               ..          ..          7.5
HEALrH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)    42.1           47.4      49.8             43.1        45.8         53.3
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                            142.0 /g.i  124.3      113.0             99.5       102.7         82.5
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                                 ..        21.0       25.0             30.0        26.4         31.1
URBAN                                 ..        77.0       75.0             66.3        63.5        68.5
RURAL                                 *-         4.0        5.0             17.2        14.1         18.2
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                 ..         3.0        6.0             15.7        16.1         37.5
URBAN                                 ..         12.0      21.0             66.9        65.9        69.5
RURAL                                 ..          ..         ..              2.5         3.4        25.4
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN            7450.0 /1   4310.0 /I 3910.0 /i         8830.8    13432.7       9359.2
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON    14860.0        8440.0 /1 7180.0 .          8479.3      6983.3      2762.5
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                             2070.0      1870.0    1870.0            1624.5      1157.6       786.5
URBAN                              370.0       500.0      560.0               ..       183.3       278.4
RURAL                           22850.0      12390.0   12360.0                ..      1348.8      1358.4
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED             ..           ..        ..               ..        19.5         19.2
HOUS INC
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
T'OTAL                               5.4         5 3         ..               ..         5.2
DRBAN                                5.6         5.5         ..               ..         4.8
RURAL                                5.4          5.2        ..               ..         5.3
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                                3.1                        ..         ..
URBAN                                3.1          ..         ..               ..         1.8         2.3
RURAL                                3.1          ..         ..
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                                ..           ..         ..               ..       25.9         28.3
URBAN                                 ..          ..         ..
RURAL                                ..           ..         ..               ..        8.7         10.3



- 20 -
TABLE 3A                                               ANNEX  I
PAKISTAN - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
REFERENCE GROUPS (ADJUSTED AVERAGES
PAKI STAN                                                 /a
- MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)
SAME        SAME      NEXT HIGHER
MOST RECENT      GEOGRAPHIC   INCOME         INCOME
1960 Lb     1970 /b ESTIMATE Lb        REGION /c   GROUP /d    GROUP /e
EDUCAT ION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                  30.0         44.0      51.0              59.1       62.9         75.8
FEMALE                13.0         24.0       31.0             38.4        45.9         67.9
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                  11.0         14.0      15.0              19.9        14.4         17.7
FEMALE                 3.0          6.0        7.0              9.9         8.8         12.9
VOCATIONAL (PERCENT OF SECONDARY)  1.0            1.5        1.5              1.5         6.6          7.4
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                             39.0         41.0      42.0              38.2        38.5         34.3
SECONDARY                           24.0         20.0       19.0             23.5        19.8        23.5
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)         16.0         20.0       21.0             35.6        36.7         63.7
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           1.0          3.0       3.0               2.2         3.1          7.2
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           3.0         14.0      15.0              14.9       31.1         71.1
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                            ..          0.7        1.8               ..         2.8        14.1
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTERE'ST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                    7.0           ..        5.0              6.4         6.0         16.3
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA  0.8             ..        3.0 /k            ..         1.4          1.6
EMPLOYMENT
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)    13000.0        18100.0   20400.0
FEMALE (PERCENT)                     8.7          9.3       9.9              21.3        24.2        28.0
AGRECULTURE (PERCENT)               59.0         57.0      54.8              62.8        60.7        54.1
INDIJSTRY (PERCENT)                 17.9         18.7
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                 31.5         28.7       27.9             35.8        39.8         37.8
MALE                                  55.2         50.4       48.6             52.4        53.3         50.3
FEMALE                                 5.7          5.5        5.7             15.6        19.6         20.9
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                1.6          1.6        1.7              1.3         1.3          1.3
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCEtNT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEI'IED BY
HIGHlEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   20.3 /l       17.8       17.3             18.6        20.3         19.5
HIGIIEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS  45.3 /1       41.8      41.5              42.8        45.1        48.9
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    6.4 /1         8.0        8.4              7.3         5.7          5.9
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   17.5 /1        20.2      20.6              19.3        16.8         15.7
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 ..           ..      65.0              80.2        88.5        155.9
RURAL                                 ..           ..      83.0              67.2        71.9         97.9
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 ..           ..         ..               ..       100.8        143.7
RURAL                                 ..            .      48.0              39.8        42.0         87.3
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW POVERTY
INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                 ''           '        48.0             50.3        46.0         22.9
RURL P- J-                                                  31.0             44.6        48.0         36.7
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a    The adjusted group averages for each indicator are population-weighted geometric means, excluding the extreme
values of the indicator and the most populated country in each group. Coverage of countries among the
indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b    Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1973 and 1977.
/c    South Asia;  Id  Low Income ($280 or less per capita 1976);  /e  Lower Middle Income (S281-550 per capita,
1976);   /f  1977;  L/  Includes Bangladesh;   /h  1960-62;   /i  1962-65;   LI  Registered, not all
practising in the country;   /k  1972;  /L  1963-64.
September, 1978



- 21 -
DEFINITIONS OF SOCIAL INDICATORS                                                   ANNEX   I
bfgg: The adjusted group averages for each indicator are population-weighted geometric means, excluding the extreme values of the indicator and the most
populated country in each group. Coverage of countries among the indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform. Due to lack of data,
group averuges for Capital Surplus Oil Exporters and indicators of access to water and excreta disposal, housing, income distribution and poverty are
simple population-weighted geometric means without the exclusion of extreme valu.s.
LAND AREA (thousand sq. ko)                                                             Population per hospital bed - total, urban, and rural - Population (total,
Total - Total surface area comprising land ares and inland waters,                       urb-n, and rural) divided by their respective number of hospital bedo
Ari-culturl - Most receut estimate of agrIcultural area used temporarily                 available in public and private general and specialized hospital and re-
yr permanently for crops, pastures, market and kitchen gardens or to                   habilitati.n centers.  Hospitals are establishments permanently staffed by
lie fallow.                                                                            at least one physician.  Eitablishments providing principally cuorodia1
care are not included. Rural hospitals, howevor, include health and medl-
GNP PER CAPITA (US$) - GNP per capita estimates at current market prices,                 cal centers sot permanently staffed by a physir ian (but by a medical as-
calculated by same conversion method as World Bank Atlas (1975-77 basis);              sistant, nurse, midwife, etc.) which offer in-patient accommodation and
1960, 1970, and 1977 data.                                                             provide a limited range of medical facilities.
Admissions per hospital bed - Total nu=ber of admissions to or discharges
ENERGY CNSUllYPTION PER CAPITA - Annual consumption of co-mercial energy                  from hospitals divided by the number of beds.
(coal and lignite, petroleum, natural gas and hydro-, nuclear and geo-
rhcrmai electricity) in kilograms of coal equivalent per capita.                  HOUDINi
Average sine of household (pernona por household) - total, urban, and rural-
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS                                                           A household consists of a group of individuals who share living quarters
Total population, mid-veer (millions) - As of July 1; if not available,                  and their main meals.   A boarder or lodger may or may not be included in
average of  two end-year estimates; 1960, 1970, and 1977 datre                         the hoosehold for statistical purposes.  Statistical definitions  of house-
Urban population (percent of total) - Ratio of urban to total popula-                    hold very.
tion; dlffereqt definitions of urban areas may affect comparability                 Average number of persons per room - total, urbarn, and rural - Average nun-
cf data among countries.                                                               bee of persons per room in all, urbas, and rural occupied conventional
Popuo tcs density                                                                        dwellings, respectively.  Dwellings exclude nov-permanent stroctures and
fer   q. kh. - Mid-ye.r population per square kilometer (100 hectares)                  unoccupied prts.
of total area.                                                                      Access to electricity (percent of dwellin.g) - total, urban, and rural -
Pr sq. k. agri-citure land - Computed as above for agricultural lnd                    Conveotiooal dwellings with electricity in living quarters as percentage
only,                                                                                  of total, urban, and rural dwellings rempectivoi.
Pupulation age ocrurture (percent) - Children (0-14 years), working-age
(15-64 years), and retired (65 years and over) as percentages of mid-             EDUCATION
year population                                                                    Adjusted enrollment ratios
Pepulation growth rate (percent) - total, and urban - Compound annual                  Primary school - total, and female - Total and female enrollment of all ages
growth rates of total and urban mid-year populations for 1950-60,                      at the primary level as percentages of respectively primary school-age
1960-70, and 1970-75.                                                                  populations; normally includes children aged 6-11 years but adjusted for
Crude birth rate (per thousand) - Annual live births per thousand of                     different lengths of primary education; for cou.ntries with universal ode-
mid-year population; ten-year arithmetic averages ending in 1960 and                   cation enrollment may euceed 100 percent since ovine pupils are below or
1970 cod live-year average ending in 1975 for most recent estimate                     above the official school age
Crude death rate  (par thousand) - Annual deaths per thousand of mid-                  Secondary school - total, and female - Computed us above; secondary edoca-
year population; ten-year arithmetic averages ending in 1960 and 1970                  tion requires at least four yearn of approved primary instruction; pro-
and five-year average ending in 1975 for most racent estimate.                          ides general vocational, or teacher training Lnstructions for pupils
irons reprodoction crae - Average number of daughters a woman will bear                  usually of 12 to 17 years of age; correspondence courses are generally
in her normal seproductive period if she experiences present age-                      ecluded.
opecific fertility rates; usually five-year averages ending in 1960,                Vocational enrollment (percent of secondary) - Vocational institutions In-
1970, and 197.                                                                         clude technical, industrial, or other progtams which operate independently
Family planning - acceptors, annual (thousands) - Annual number of                       or as departeents of secondary institutions.
acceptoro of birth-control devices under auspices of national family               Pupil-teacher ratio - primarv, and secondary - Total students enrolled in
planning program.                                                                      primary end secondary levels divided by numbers of teachers in the corre-
Pamily planning - users jpArcent of married woman) - Percentage of                       spending levels
married women of child-bearing age (15-44 years) who use birth-control             Adult literacy rate (percent) - Literate adults (a,ble to read and write) as
devices to all married women in same age group.                                        a percentage of total adult population aged 15 years and over.
FOOD AND NUTRITION                                                                    CONSUMPTION
Inden of food production per capita (1970-100) - Index nuber of per                  Passenger cars (per thousand population) - Passenger camr  coprise motor cars
capita annusl production of  all food commodities,                                   seating less than eight persons; eocludes ambulasnes, hearses and military
yer capita supply of calories (percent of requirements) - Computed from                vehicles.
energy equivalent of net food supplies available in country per capita             Radio receivers (per thousand populetion) - All tropes of receivers for radio
per day.  AvailabLe supplies comprise domestic production, imports less              broadcasto to general public per thounand of popu)lation; excludes unlicensed
exports, and changes in  tock.  Net supplies exclude animal feed, seeds,             recivers in countries and in years when registrution of radio sets was in
quantities used in, food processing, and losses in distribstion.  Re-                effect; data for recent years nay not be comparable since most countries
quirenents were eatimated by FAO based on physiological needs for nor-               abolished licensing.
=al activity and h ealth considering environmental temperature, body                TV receivers (per thousand population) - TV receivers for broadcast to genera
weights, age and ceo distributions of population, and allowing 10 per-                 public per thousand population; eocludes unlice!nsed TV receivers in coon-
cent for waste at household level,                                                     tries and in years when registration of TV sets was in effect.
Per capita supply or? protein (grams per day) - Protein content of per                Newspaper circulation (per thousand population) - Shows the average circula-
capita net supply of food per day.  list supply of food is defined as                  ticn of "daily general interest newspaper", delined as a periodical publi-
above.  Requirmereot for all countries established by USDA provide for                 cation devoted primarily to recording general sews   It is considered to
a minimum allowance of 60 grams of total protein per day and 20 grams                  be "daily" if it appears at least four times a week.
of animal and pulse protein, of which 10 grams should be animal protein.           Cinema annual attendance per capita per year - Based on the number of tickets
These otandards are lower than those of 75 grams of total protein and                  mold during the year, including ad=issio.s  to drive-in cinemas and mobile
23 grano of onimal protein as an average for the world, proposed by                    units.
FA0 in the Third World Food Survey.
Per capita protein  -upply from animal and pulse - Protein supply of food            EMPLOYMENT
derived from animals and pulses in grams  per d-y                                  Total labor force  (thousands) - Econonically active persons, including armed
Child (ages 1-4) mortality rate (per thousand) - Annual deaths per thous-                forces and unemployed bht excluding bousewivs, stodents, etc.  Defini-
and in age groop 1-4 years., to children in this age group.                            tions is various countries are not comparable.
Female (Percent) - Female labor force as percentage of total labor force.
HEALTH                                                                                 Agriculture (percent) - Labor force in farming, forestry, honting and f tuhing
Life expectanvy at birth (years)  - Average number of years of life                      as percentage of total labor force.
remaining at birth; usually five-year averages ending in 1960, 1970,                Industry (percent) - Labor force in mining, constructios, =anufacturing and
and 1975.                                                                              electricity, water and gas as percentage of toal labor torce.
Insant mortality rate (per thousand) - Annual deaths of infants under                 Participation rate (percent) - total, male, and finale - Total, male, and
one year of age per thousand live birhts.                                              coale labor for-e us percentages of their respective populations
Access to safe water  (percent of population) - total, urban, and rural -                These are ILO's adjusred participation rotes reflecting ice-to>
Number of people (total, urban, and rural) with reasonable access to                   structure of the popylatin. and leep tine trend.
safe water supply (includes treated surface waters or untreated but                 Economic dependency ratio - Ratic of population u-d-r 15 and 65 and o-ec tu
uncocntainated water such as that from protected boreholes, springs,                   the labor force in age group or 15-64 years.
and sanitary wells) us percentages of their respective populations.
In as urhan area a public fountain or standposc located sot mare                   INCOME DISTRIBUTION
than 201 meters from a house may be considered as being within rea-                 Percentage of private income (both in cash and ki,nd) received by richest 5
.snable access ot that house   In rural areas reasonable access would                  percent, richest 20 percent, poorest 20 percent, and poorest 40 percent
imply that the housewife or members of the houehold do nor bars to                     of household.
speed a disproportionate part of the day in fetching the family's
water needs.                                                                       POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
Access to excreta disposal (percent of population) - total, urban, and                Estimated absoluJte poverty income level (USI per capita) - urban and rural -
rural - Number of psople (total, urban, and rural) served by eocreta                     Absolute poverty income level is that income level below which a  ini=al
disposal as perce.rtages of their respective populations.  Emcreta                     nutritionally adequate diet plus essential non-food requirements is not
dispcoal nay inclLde the collection and disposal, with or without                      affordable.
creitmeet, of human socrete and waste-water by water-borne systems                  Estinsted relative poverty income level (USI per capita) - crban and rural  -
or the use of pit privies and similar installations.                                    Relative poverty inco=e level is that income level less than one-third
Population per physician - Population divided by number of practicing                     per capita peroonal Income of the country.
physicians qualified from a medical school at usiversity level.                     Etimated population below poverty income level (percent) - urban and rural -
Population per nursing person - Population divided by number of                           Percent of population (urban and rural) who are either "absolute poor" or
practicing male and female graduate nurses, practical nurses, and                       "relative poor" whichever is greater.
assistant nurses.
tcnono ic and Socl iota e    cti toc
Economic Analysis and frojectises Department



2 22 
ANNEX 2
J.sunsI  millions of U.S. D.In -r)
Act-l                           I...iIo sitetd               1975         19 77.        1978-          1983-
1975         19 76    -1977               197          1                1977          1978          1983           1988             1977          1978         1980
At _1977 Poi..e and InehnAe. Re teeere  Annual Groth Rates                                                                     A. Percen  of Gn,
* noos Oonsssrfc  Erodoot                             ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~14,227  14,452  14,709      15,710       20,729              1.7          6.8            5. 7          4.4             100.0        100.2          99.9
sin, 1,-n Tines o I rrudr                                        -300          -294         -                 -306          i                                                             
rose Ounnsiio  Lorosne                               ~~~~~~~      ~~~~~~~      ~~~~~13,927  14,189  14,709  15,674  20,740        2.8          6.6            5.8           4.4             130.0        100.0        100.0
Irponts tool. SF0                                      ~~~~~~       ~~~~~~       ~~~~~~          ~~~2,430  2,1599  2,933  3,405  3,488  9.8   16.91           0,5            3.99                          21.7         16.o
tol.iS   lpotspoio                                          .12         1,439        1 405           1 656         2.299              9.5          79            6.             5.0               9.6         10.6         01.1
Ornorro   np                                           ~~~~~~       ~~~~~~       ~~~~~~          ~~~~~~~1,239  1,160  1,529  0, 749  1,169  11.1  14.5        7.5            0. 8             10.7         11.7          5.9
<osoupt too Fepsrdttorss                             ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~13,0496  1~3,333  13,497  14,00        1,235               1.7          6. 7           4.8           4,2              91.8         91.9         97.9
..orsisrol Cnr-di--s  (too,  snoks)                                       1929         2642         2740            3,011        3,683             19.2         1 .9            3.8            3.9             16.6          19,5         12.8
boorsilo  Oeotn8e                                        690~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I  1:,155  1,012  1,30,6     2,556             1 7.3         7.9          13.9            0'.4              87          1,2.1         12.0
tori ..oullsrtogs                                        ~~~~      ~~~~~~       ~~~~~~          ~ ~~~~~~991  1,45  1,6134  0,03  3,063  28.3  25.6            9.0           3.5              11.:1        15.          15.3
.16Luo000    tUt                                                                     A-oost  lae-  Currens Sine,                                           A-eteg  Aira-l  r-nh. Rate                               As -erso  of Iota
pticl  ioo.dc                                                            621          723          684           1 076        1,660             19.3          21.7           9.1          111                73.4         24.4         34.5
lotrrsdi-i  loods  (o1. tosle)                                            79,9         651          799              813        1,208              0.3          1.8           8.2           12.10             30.2         26.          0 5.2
h. Oth, froIt.- irs97                                                               58           63             142           35            -20.0        125.5         -24.0             -                2.4          4.5          0.7
<0.                                                   ~~~~         ~~~~         ~~~~             ~~~~         ~~~~           ~ ~~~~       ~~~335  357  411  486  612  10.8  18.2  4.7  10.2  13.5       05.5          212,
ooao -ooods                                                       437          399          232              379          605            -29.0         63.4            9.           14.198                         0.           02.
'tOrn toporosi'                                       ~~~~         ~~~~         ~~~~             ~~~~         ~~~             ~~~130  209  319  35 685  55.0  17,6  192,9  9.0            12.1          12'.0        14.4'
4to -hrctcdieo  lo-r-   1o.i,.f.                                   2,322         7,340        2,645           3 129        4, 762             6.9          19.3           B. 7         II1,7            100.0        1000.0        7010.0)
Oun toito                                              ~~~~          ~~~          ~~~             ~~~~         ~~~~         ~~~~~~ ~~159  99  30  11  302  43.0  268. 7  30.0  6.9          2.0          5. 2        10,,.
0    044          123              IO           047           -19.6          .4.1          15,9          13.4              10.            8   
Cotto   Cli.S                                                             133          10           162              1            296             10.4          3.           120            1.74.                           26          1.
a tcr                                                  ~~~~         ~~~~         ~~~~             ~~~~         ~~~~            ~~~~        ~~~~233  250  250  230  398  3.6 890  21.0  9.1  219         172          2.
rotors                                                 ~~~~         ~~~~         ~~~~             ~~~~      ~     ~           ~~~~ ~ ~~~~36 7  538  576  7.2 91  21.0 2.  14.3  16.2       00.5         03.2         49.
- otul  'lrrol,odl Sr Koporte(fioOl                               9 78       1,162        1,241            1,3(6        0,932             05.7         17,2          06,2           04,1            100.0         100.0        10.2,
n,-ohsodltr loads  bOlos.                                           Aoe~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~r-e  1977 -100
Luprt   rio   lodso                                                  83.          63.9        100.             106.0       151.:7              9. 2         6.0           7.46.
nrtnts odo                                                    105.0,         99.         1,00.0          109,5        15.               -.            9,             8.            7.0
mn -trdr                                                           79.9         84.3        1DO000           9.          100.              11.9         -2.3            0.           -7.1
Unonoiol,n -      n                                               105,4         120.3       100.0            1193.9       164'.8'           -2.0         13.9            70            0.0 1
Aorttoltonr                                           4,~~~ ~~~~~~~             ~~~~~~         ~ ~~~~~~1211  4,9306  4,440  4,83  5,999  7.9  6.4           46             4 2             03.3:         7~3,t        '1-5
nso,,fuoionloo                                       2,~~~ ~~~~~~~             ~~~~~~             ~~~~~841  2,60  2,29  0,9  4,33  1,        55             70            8.0              2.            17          2,
tsrh-  Oroto-                                                          5,604        5,974        5.985            6. 3 77      8 374              1 5          6.5            5.6           5.9             4's.8         44.8         4.
Ion1                                                                  12,765       13,240        03 ,360         14,050       18,696              2.3          8.1            0,6           5.0             730.2        100.0        1020.
,-0B001F0    NC -140)                                                           Ina  Det-        1977 PrIJe  so  Eoh-ons frie                              A..ru.s A .no.l Groeth Odes-                            Os Fr-o  of GDo
Ort-t Rerps2,058                                                                     2 ,221       2,264                 ..         .-4.9                                                                     I   .  .1 I4
C-r-t  Eproditorr-                                                      2 451        2 00.2       2.39                .                           -2 8           .              ..                            77         ___
Ood8etuno  Scoings                                    .~~~            ~          ~~~        ~       ~~~        ~~       ~       ~       ~     ~       ~~392  II .44.. ss....03
Iublio Srorlosot,70                                                                  159           .74.                            ..13.1                        ...                          ..1.
RE0I0 EX0  ND6110IT   DEAILS                                                     A-Ius  DOatsI                                 DETAI0L00 F OP  .lOO     SECOOR       s   1877 Pr lo-  sod Eocheo-  Rsos                          4  f Ontal
(A. 5 Totl-1     ro   sen'os                                             1975         1976         1977          9197              INV617S0T F184GRA                   1 975           1976                           1977            85. 77
Odocettot                            '.0          0,8          9.6          9,9              Soils1 Seotors                       232              308               2t5                         17.3~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~323230
thrSos1l 5noo..r                                                   18.7         12.0O         8.'2          7. 4             Agrir-l-oa)                          36                6               390                          23.   7
grEulns33                                                                        4.1          4.4          4.1               Lidotry 4Idoo                        238              30 7             4902.
Othe    oouo  s         rs3. 2                                                       30           33           4.0              I=ne                                 190              260               21                           213.2
Onf-os                                                                 39.7         41.6i        41,4         39.1              Or-oe. 4 C-snois-lo..                26               260               344                          1.
sstloisoretiot                                        7.5    9.3    9.3                      9.6              Other                                  87              24                19                           2.7~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  832
Utter47                                             ~~~~~        ~~~~~        ~~~~~        ~~~~~~~~~~~20.6  23.2  24.9  26'.9                                    ___
T-1 C--b E.1-d1--                                  100.0                                        T-1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~lca  Inrendil--e  1,370            1,539            0, 754                        1300,0
Total Corpses  Oupeoditorse                         130~~ ~~~~~~~~~~.0    10.0  100.0      100.0
PoDt  OsiI    r Selo sR             -83              102               21t 
lonensli BorrowIng        ~~~~             ~~~       ~      ~~356  3 76  672              3.
F-rsgo  onri                       ..2   I ,0       .06                                             t3.2
T-tt  Flosoolo                    1,370            1,539             1, 704                       120.0
iEee Al 01 -er   lon-  to this tabs~ refr,t  ttl  iklsa   ft-ol   -ce  July  1 - Joo  30.  OTh  fl-ie   i5    i de-nifted to  the ol-oder  -re  to ulo,h io rods,
1)  R-sIduet be tisr  totl iJnor is-  recorded 68 the S-et  esok cod bn nte Stun-rio   i   nt-o  of sI.  -ttir-  of   onr
4/   C_notod-s lote     ..e I rsdo F-enis.
5!Adjustd  fo          --tscso   io  ---pt budet, transfer o- f sur.luses end s-lf-fln--ilg  by poblIt~ secor
Sooh AsI  D.rr, rt-
May 12, 1979



- 23 -                                                                         AMiEX I
PAKISTAN bALANCE OF PA7ENT  EXTERNAL A515UTA8CY. AND DEBT
(coots in oillios. of U.S. dollar. at current prices
1973/74   AtOl                       .Eetilmt.d                                      Protcted                              Ah Rar
1974/75     1975/76      1976/77             1977178                1978/79     1979/80      19 0/81      1981t82     1987/83        i977t78 _       t 1982t
SLtMr Y I 5ALANCE IF PAYMLNT50-
Exports (tool. NFS)                                 1,202       1,252        1,433       1,404                1,679                  1,997       2,317        2,675       3,044        3,488                 15.7
lporots (tori. NFl)                                 1829        2            2,533       2.877               3.516                  3.779        4.041       4,349        4 695        5,266                  8.4
Resource  ala/ane  I-_M)                             -627      -1,299       -1,100        _tI                -1,837                -1,782       -1,724      -1,674       -1,647       -1, /76
lororoso  (nor)                                       -80          -93        -109        -141                 -141L                  -218        -244         -260        -277         -392                 15.7
Diret I Is,I.teno Iroome (not /                         8            4         -36          -28                 -68                    -66         -64          -62          -62          -58
Workers 'semitta-.e. (gross)                          138          213         335          578               1,020                  1,100       1,285        1,350       1,350        1,350                  5.8
(Or/sr Factor Sr-ices (rot)                            I2            7         -37          -12                  -2                     -3           -2          -3            -           -1
Corrent forofoot (ocr)                                       ...         .        .. .  ...           ...                   ...               .      ..    ..
raioroo or Cuorren  Acoount                          -549      -1.16P         -947      -5                  -1.02S                    969         -74949-649                634          177                 -5.5
frioatr Diroot Iroosootro  (o, t)                      ..            -          41           45                  50                     55          60           66           73          80                  8.2
n/lob1ial Capital Grooro cost:                         6/          104         120          149                 100                    100         100          100          100          L0 
lob/to 8447LTloans
Dlsborsosrrto-                                      446         91S        1,047         649               1,099                     989       1,052       1,074        1,148        1,704
R.payoen.t                                         -107        -132         -144        -169                 -258                  -344         -400         -424        -476        -398
NrI Ditortentt                                        339          786         903          480                 041                    645         652          650          672         9306
Other R61T Lo-oo
Dithr--ot                       .                   ...         ...          .                                 15                    30           30           30          30           30
ttorar,roors                                        ...        ....          ...         ...                   -6                    -3           -2           -2          -2           -2
r,rl Dootrorororoato                                                                                             11                     27          28           26           28          28
Copiralt'ora ionor, 00 n.0e. i.-I                      40          371          49         180
Ch-nr t- Not R-tero er  (-ioot-ro)                   103          -93        -166          198
0RAI4 / AND L1AN C00MMITKENTS                                                                                                   DEBT   DEET SERVICE                               193/74      1974//75    1975176    1976/77
t)ff-Irra  Crorro                                       ;           39          24          164                  . .           Poblir Debt o.to. & Disbhrs-d                     4,521       4,881        5,755       r,264
lotorrot pn Poblie Dsbt4/                          81          93          109         141
- ublic M&7T Loams                                                                                                               Peymots 00 Poblic Dsbti/                          106         135          144         169
I 'PD                                                65          t0           50           70                                 Total Publit Debt S.roito                          167         220          253          310
1I LA                                                 3          62          108          94                                  Othsr Debt Strobe  (ot),:..... 
(0th0r 'tolro(atorol                                 823          1 7        01           94                                   ToOai Debt 3srvLrs (ott)                          167          29          213         317
Unvrsrtoooo231                                      973         572          679         443
Sopplioro                                            13            9          42           _                                Durden on Export iaroioga
P onrncia   I motorutiors                            57          12           18            -                                 Poblio  oDbt Servics                             13.8         15-4         14.3        15.1
Dord.                                                 -           -            -           -                                  Total lobs Seonoos                                 ..                        ..          ..
('u/ito Loats r.o. 0.                                 -            -        _1 _                                              TD     l iroot booest. lot.                         .                         ..
I-t1l Inbilt  044-  Lo.s                        1,241           845       1,540          865                                Ao-ragr Te.-s of Poblio Dobt
Actual Deht Sntotaodtoo on Jono 30. 1971                                      Dot. L s T. Prior Yrr DO&D                        1.9          2.0         2.2          2.9
Disborsod Only              Peroeor                                      A-ort. os 7. Prior Y-st DO&D                      2.5          3.0         3.0          2.9
EXTtdNAL D041                                                                                                                   188R .obt. . Ott. & Ditb-rssd                        299         257          305          334
16RD as /. Pobt0  Dobt 04D                           4.6         3.3          5.4         5.3
330                      5                                     IBRD Dblt Srovioe                                   52.5        44.9         39.o         5r.5
ID                                                          s597                     10                                     iRD as7. Poblit Dsbt S-rvicn                        28.1         09.7        15.5         1d.2
Ott/or to/til-t-.ro                                           162                      3
1;novrootrnro                                               4,91'S                    79                                     OtA Drbt Uuts. 4 Diebo-sod                            415         471          506         <7
Sopplit-R                                                     105                      2                                     IDA as % Pblic Dlbot 04                              10.3         9.t          8.9         3.5
Fi-tnial Inortntots                                            97                      1                                     ID4 Dobt S irvicr                                     4.2         5.1          5.7         3.t
Pobds                                                           -                      -                                     IDA  - % Public Dobt Sernu-o                          2.2         2.5          2.2         5.3
Pn/ito Dolts n.oe..
Total Publit  M&LI Dblt                                     6,264                    100
lOtbhr 047T Dobto
Short-noro Dolt (diOb. 00/).
.  tot aratin/to.                                                                            o  Staff esttn,eitl
t. oo aratiolto.                                                                            -  Nit or nogligihis.
- .  tot eraii ' lo speprotoolot bto nludod 10 total.                        _         _           bros Oben half istohe smlost orit slno.D
I'  Tho ftguro, for 1977/768  oiocldo ioputod dts/nrooreoo, oraeotnuot ni debt reltof sIroady agotod cirhl the Ollietat Aid Corooroino.
2/  lNyl-dLog eroors and onsostoro -
3/  /tlodtogooosnttenotsnmadoe for debr rolief no/alwhen at/ rood through oof9noioing oroylte.
4/ Sot of dobt tol et.
5/  lorden or earDLDgs fr rm iport - Ortlding 5t4 atyd onrkrr- roi-tan-es.
Su0h  la Dopar--or
lay 12, 197d



- 24 -
ANNEX II
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN PAKISTAN
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS
(as of November 30, 1978)
Loan or                                                                      US$ Million
Credit                                                               Amount (less cancellations)
Number      Year       Borrower      Purpose                      Bank      TW     IDA    Undisbursed
Seventy-one loans and credits
fully disbursedLa                                              572.0           478.3
621         1969       Pakistan      Railways                     14.5            --            1.1
206         1970       Pakistan      Engineering Education         --              4.0          0.6
213         1970       Pakistan      Power Distribution            --             23.0          0.7
422         1973       Pakistan      Karachi Port III              --             18.0          2.5
961         1974       Pakistan      Industrial Investment        25.0             --           3.2
492         1974       Pakistan      Karachi Port IV               --             16.0          8.5
510         1974       Pakistan      Telecommunications III        --             36.0          3.7
1107        1'975      SNGPL         Gas Pipeline IV              60.0             --          11.3
546         1975       Pakistan      Industrial Development
(NDFC)                     --             30.0          5.2
1208        1976       Pakistan      Power Transmission            --    50.0      --          40.6
620         1976       Pakistan      Seed                          --             23.0         22.0
1326        1976       PICIC         Industrial Development       25.0             --          11.9
630         1976       Pakistan      Lahore Water II               --             26.6         20.4
648         1976       Pakistan      Irrigation & Drainage         --             14.0         12.8
1366        1977       Pakistan      Livestock                     --    10.0      --          10.0
1372/684    1977       Pakistan      Railways                     35.0            25.0         52.8
678         1977       Pakistan      Education                     --             15.0         14.7
683         1977       Pakistan      Flood Rehabilitation          --             40.0          9.9
751         1977       Pakistan      Hill Farming                  --              3.0          3.0
754         1978       Pakistan      SCARP-V/b                     --            (70.0)       (70.0)
755         1978       Pakistan      Hazara Forestry               --              1.7          1.7
771         1978       Pakistan      Tarbela II                                   35.0         32.5
813         1978       Pakistan      Punjab Extension                             12.5         12.5
846         1978       Pakistan      Fauji Fertilizer]                           (55.0)       (55.0)
Total                                                       731.5   60.0   801.1
of which has been repaid                                    346.1    -0-    16.7
Total now outstanding                                       385.4   60.0   784.4
Amount sold                           23.3
of which has been repaid              22.3                    1.0    --       --
Total now held by Bank
and IDA/c                                                 384.4   60.0   784.4         _
Total undisbursed                                            62.4   50.6   168.6         281.6
/a Excludes the disbursed portion of loans and credits wholly or partly for projects in the
former East Pakistan which have now been taken over by Bangladesh.
/b Not yet effective and not included in totals.
Ic Prior to exchange adjustments.



- 25 -
ANNEX II
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS (as of November 30, 1978)
Fiscal                                                        Amount in US$ Million
Year     Obligor                  Type of Business           Loan    Equity    Total
1958     Steel Corp. of
Pakistan Ltd.           Rolled Steel Products       0.63       -       0.63
1959     Adamjee Industries
Ltd.                    Textiles                    0.75       -       0.75
1962-    Gharibwal Cement                                    5.25      0.42     5.67
1965     Industries Ltd.          Cement
1963-
1969-                            Development                  -        0.52     0.52
1975     PICIC                   Financing
1965     Crescent Jute
Products                Textiles                    1.84     0.11      1.95
1965     Packages Ltd.           Paper Products              2.31      0.84     3.15
1967-    Pakistan Paper
1976     Corp. Ltd.              Paper                       5.38      2.02     7.40
1969     Dawood Hercules
Chemicals Ltd.          Fertilizers                 1.00     2.92      3.92
1969     Karnaphuli Paper
Mills Ltd.              Pulp and Paper              5.60     0.63      6.23
Total Gross Commitments                            22.76     7.46    30.22
Less: Cancellations, Terminations
Repayments and Sales                       18.25      1.01    19.26
Total Commitments Now Held by IFC                   4.51     6.45    10.96
Undisbursed



- 26 -
ANNEX II
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/
Credit No. 771       Tarbela Dam:  US$35.0 Million Credit of March 10, 1978;
Effective Date: April 4, 1978; Closing Date:
June 30, 1982
This credit, together with other additional contributions arranged
in 1978, is intended to help finance the repairs and additional works required
to complete the project. In September 1973, the Indus River was diverted
through tunnels on schedule to enable the final stage -- the construction of
the closure section of the dam -- to be undertaken. By end-June 1974, the main
embankment had been completed to full height, and the first impoundment began
on schedule in July 1974. In early August, difficulties were encountered in
the operation of the tunnel gates and damage to one of the tunnels necessitated
the emptying of the reservoir and repair of the tunnels and outlet structure.
Agreement was reached with the parties of the Indus Basin and Tarbela Develop-
ment Funds whereby special contributions were made by a number of parties,
including IDA (Credit 581-PAK), to help with the cost of repairs and additional
remedial works. The stilling basins suffered further damage in August 1975
and again in April 1976. Stilling Basin 3 has now been repaired and operated
satisfactorily during the 1977/78 irrigation season. Serious erosion in the
plunge pool below the service spillway during 1977 necessitated additional
protection works. A first phase of these was successfully completed during
the 1977/78 construction season. From 1975 through mid-1978, irrigation
requirements have generally been met. Power generation by the first four
units began in 1977.
Loan No. 621         Ninth Railway:  US$14.5 Million Loan of June 26, 1969;
Effective Date:  August 28, 1969; Closing Date:
March 31, 1979
Loan No. 1372        Tenth Railway:  US$35 Million Loan and US$25 Million
and              Credit of March 8, 1977; Effective Date:  May 9, 1977;
Credit No. 684       Closing Date: June 30, 1982
The Ninth Railway Project is nearly complete; disbursements amount
to about US$13.5 million. The main outstanding item is construction of the
first stage of a new marshalling yard at Pipri, near Karachi. The Tenth Rail-
way Project is proceeding satisfactorily. PR's 1976/77 traffic level and
financial results were adversely affected by the severe flooding in August
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report
any problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken
to remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the
understanding that they do not purport to present a balanced evalua-
tion of strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



- 27 -
ANNEX II
1976, a sharp drop in wheat imports and political unrest in the first half of
1977. Revised estimates show an improved financial performance for 1977/78
as a result of a 20% increase in passenger fares and a 12.5% increase in
freight rates effective July 1, 1977 and efforts to hold down working ex-
penses. PR's performance of covenants is generally satisfactory.
Credit No. 206       Engineering Education:  US$4.0 Million Credit of
June 29, 1970; Effective Date:  July 14, 1971; Closing
Date: December 31, 1978
The Credit provides US$4.0 million to finance the relocation of
the NED University of Engineering and Technology, Karachi (formerly NED
Engineering College) and technical assistance for the upgrading of University
staff. Most of the new physical facilities are now in use. An extension of
the Closing Date has been requested to allow for execution of technical
assistance and other qualitative improvement programs.
Credit No. 213       Power Transmission and Distribution:  US$23.0 Million
Credit of August 13, 1970; Effective Date: December 11,
1970; Closing Date:  December 31, 1978
This project is now largely completed and final disbursements of
retention payments are being made.
Credit No. 422       Third Karachi Port:  US$18.0 Million Credit of July 19,
1973; Effective Date: December 14, 1973; Closing
Date: June 30, 1979
Credit No. 492       Fourth Karachi Port:  US$16.0 Million Credit of July 8,
1974; Effective Date:  September 18, 1974; Closing
Date: December 31, 1979
Construction work on the Juna Bunder Berths is currently about
15 months behind schedule. Quay piling was substantially completed in June
1978 and shed construction is now scheduled for completion by September 1979.
The initial and subsequent delays in construction of the Napier Mole Bridge
will mean that completion is likely to be delayed until late 1979 - about
18 months behind schedule. About US$15.5 million (86%) of Credit 422 has
been disbursed. Construction of the oil berth has been substantially com-
pleted. Bids from prequalified contractors for channel dredging works and
dredger procurement have been evaluated and formal recommendations are
awaited. Disbursements total about US$7.5 million (47%) from Credit 492.
Although agreed improvements to KPT's management and finances have been de-
layed, a number of actions have recently been initiated by KPT which address
these problems. Cargo handling and other mechanical equipment has been con-
tracted out for urgent repairs and new equipment is being obtained. Steps
are being taken to modify the priority system of ship berthing to promote
improved berth utilization.



- 28 -
ANNEX II
Loan No. 961         Industrial Investment:  US$25.0 Million Loan of
January 31, 1974; Effective Date: April 3, 1974;
Closing Date: June 30, 1979
The Loan was made to the Government and is administered by PICIC.
It has been fully committed and disbursements amounted to $21.8 million on
November 30, 1978. The Closing Date has been extended by one year to June 30,
1979, to accommodate three subprojects.
Loan No. 1326        Development Finance Company - PICIC:  US$25.0 Million
Loan of September 14, 1976; Effective Date:
November 29, 1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1980
As of November 30, 1978, subprojects for US$21.4 million had been
approved by the Bank and disbursements amounted to US$13.1 million. PICIC
remains a capable institution, but its operations and collections have been
adversely affected by general economic and political difficulties. Its pros-
pects will depend largely on developments in the textile sector, which
accounts for a large portion of its portfolio.
Loan No. 988         Multan Fertilizer:  US$35.0 Million Loan of May 24,
1974; Effective Date: July 30, 1974; Closing Date:
September 30, 1978
Delays and escalating prices for civil works and, to a lesser extent,
for foreign equipment have raised the total project cost above the appraisal
estimate by about 102% (US$109 million). Construction delays have been due to
a shortage of civil contractors' capacity in Pakistan and to late deliveries
of critical equipment. Ammonia production started in September 1978 and
guarantee tests of the ammonia plant were satisfactorily completed in November
1978. It is expected that the plant will be fully operational in early 1979,
about two years later than the appraisal estimate. The project's economic
return is still close to 28%, because of higher forecast international fertil-
izer prices. The company has obtained the extra financing required, in equity
from the Government and the foreign partner, and in debt from the OPEC Special
Fund and commercial banks. The project's corporate and field management has
been strengthened.
Credit No. 510       Third Telecommunications:  US$36.0 Million Credit of
September 12, 1974; Effective Date: October 25, 1974;
Closing Date: December 31, 1979
The project covered by this Credit is proceeding reasonably satis-
factorily, but is about 12 months behind schedule. Procurement action for
all the main equipment items has been substantially completed, installation of
plant and equipment is making good progress, and about 70% of the additional
subscribers' lines are in service. As part of the project, T&T was to have
been reorganized so as to function more effectively along commercial lines
and to have been given a greater degree of autonomy. This reorganization,



- 29 -
ANNEX II
important to improving the efficiency of operation of the sector, was delayed
but has now been initiated. The Association has agreed to extend the Closing
Date by one year to December 31, 1979 to permit the project to be completed.
Credit No. 546       National Development Finance Corporation (NDFC):
US$30.0 Million Credit of May 15, 1975: Effective
Date July 17, 1975; Closing Date: September 30, 1979
The Credit has been fully committed and US$24.8 million had been
disbursed as of November 30, 1978. It is anticipated that the Credit will be
fully disbursed by next March. Although NDFC is currently a profitable insti-
tution, the orientation of its' activities has been toward commercial banking
and its development impact would be improved if it redirected its efforts to-
ward analyzing and helping to resolve sector problems in the public industrial
sector. Its rapid expansion has also placed strain upon its limited manpower
resources and newly established systems.
Loan No. 1107        Fourth Sui Northern Gas:  US$60.0 Million Loan of
May 15, 1975; Effective Date: July 5, 1975; Closing
Date: December 31, 1979
Project activities are generally on schedule. A recent re--estimate
of final project costs (including the additional pipelines and distr-ibution
systems authorized by the Bank) indicates savings in foreign exchange expendi-
tures of about US$7.3 million. The Borrower has applied to the Bank for
permission to apply these savings towards equipment and facilities needed for
handling additional gas supplies from the Potwar basin as well as toward
several other items that are required.
Credit No. 620       Seed Project:  US$23.0 Million Credit of March 29, 1976;
Effective Date: November 29, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1980
Civil works and equipment contracts have been awarded for the three
processing plants for the Punjab Seed Corporation (PSC). The first processed
seed from the project should be available early in 1980. Bids for a similar
plant in Sind are under evaluation and an award is expected in January/February
1979. Development of the Corporations' seed farms is proceeding; PSC has now
started - and Sind Seed Corporation will start next year - their registered
growers' schemes. Pilot projects for vegetables and potatoes in Baluchistan
and NWFP and for potatoes in Punjab have started. Progress of the S,eed Certi-
fication Agency and the National Seed Registration Agency has been slower; GOP
is still in the process of nominating the Directors of these agencies.



- 30 -
ANNEX II
Credit No. 630       Second Lahore Water Supply, Sewerage and Drainage:
US$26.6 Million Credit of June 8, 1976; Effective
Date: September 21, 1976; Closing Date: December 31,
1980
The detailed design of the project, though now nearing completion,
has been delayed and construction is about one year behind schedule. UNDP is
financing engineering consultants who are advising and assisting WASA staff
and local consultants to carry out the engineering work. Experts provided by
UK are assisting with engineering management, leak detection and training.
Loan No. 1208-T      Second WAPDA Power:  US$50 Million Third Window Loan
of February 19, 1976; Effective Date: April 30, 1976;
Closing Date: December 31, 1980
Physical construction of the 336-mile transmission line between
Faisalabad (formerly Lyallpur) and Guddu and associated equipment has started
with completion scheduled for December 1980. Virtually all bidding documents
for equipment and materials have been issued and awards made on the major items.
Due to lower-than-expected prices, savings estimated at about $14 million are
expected on this loan.
Credit No. 648       Khairpur Tile Drainage and Irrigated Farming Development
Project: US$14.0 Million Credit of July 22, 1976;
Effective Date: March 14, 1977; Closing Date: July 31,
1982
Overall progress is about ten months behind schedule due to delays
of about six months in appointing consultants and of a further four months
as a result of political disturbances in 1977. Tenders for the supply of a
major part of the construction equipment were invited in May 1978, bid open-
ings took place in September and are still being evaluated. The Water and
Power Development Authority is completing construction of housing and offices
for the construction colony and is preparing to start construction early in
1979. Agricultural extension activity has begun and program staff are being
mobilized. Aerial surveys have been completed and arrangements have been made
to carry out field work for the Landsat Imagery component in April 1979. The
National Bank of Pakistan plans to provide credit to farmers for leveling
beginning early in 1979.
Credit No. 678      Third Education:  US$15.0 Million Credit of February 18,
1977; Effective Date: July 6, 1977; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982
The project, which became effective in July 1977, provides facilities
for: (a) primary teacher training and experiment on adult functional liter-
acy program and related studies; and (b) agricultural education to assist in
developing higher and middle level agricultural manpower, farmer training and
related studies. Project implementation is about five months behind schedule



- 31 -
ANNEX II
because of: (a) delays by the Government in confirming the appointment of
consultant architects in the Province of Sind; (b) delays in contracting
technical assistance for the project; and (c) disputes over ownership of
project sites. The Government is addressing these problems and the project
is making reasonable progress.
Loan No. 1366-T    Punjab Livestock:  US$10.0 Million Loan of February 18,
1977; Effective Date: August 3, 1977; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982
Project implementation has been slower than expected with delays
being experienced in the appointment of consultants and the formation of
Village Livestock Associations (VLA's). The Government has given assurances
that project implementation will be speeded up. Milk collection from the
first VLA's commenced in August 1978 and it is expected that consultants
will be in place by January 1979.
Credit No. 683       Flood Damage Restoration:  US$40 Million Credit of
March 8, 1977; Effective Date: April 27, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1978
The December 31, 1978, Closing Date for this Credit has been met
and the entire US$40 million utilized. All of the civil works restoration
work for the project has been completed and orders placed for the equipment,
materials and assemblies. Credit disbursements are expected to be completed
in the early part of 1979.
Credit No. 751       Hill Farming:  US$3.0 Million Credit of December 1,
1977; Effective Date: March 7, 1978; Closing Date:
September 30, 1981
This project is proceeding satisfactorily. The aerial survey has
been carried out; demonstration farms have been established; and the pilot
vegetable and apple schemes and the forestry activities have commenced.
Credit No. 754       SCARP-VI:  US$70 Million Credit of January 19, 1978;
Closing Date: June 30, 1985
This credit became effective on December 28, 1978. The project
is about nine months behind schedule due to the late appointment of
consultants.
Credit No. 775       Hazara Forestry:  US$1.7 Million Credit of January 29,
1978; Effective Date: July 14, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1983
This Credit became effective on July 14, 1978. Short-lists of
consultants for the feasibility study, and for forestry and inventory spe-
cialists have been prepared. There has been good progress in land acquisition,
building construction and local staff appointments.



- 32 -
ANNEX II
Credit No. 846       Fauji Fertilizer:  US$55.0 Million Credit of September 14,
1978; Closing Date: June 30, 1982
This Credit became effective on December 19, 1978.
Credit No.           Toot Oil and Gas Development:  US$30.0 Million Credit of
, 1979; Closing Date: December 31, 1981
This Credit is not yet effective.



- 33 -
ANNEX III
PAKISTAN
SALINITY CONTROL AND RECLAMATION PROJECT (SCARP) MARDAN
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I:   Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken to prepare the project
November 1976 to December 1977
(b) Agency which has prepared the project
Water and Power Development Authority (WAPDA)
with the assistance of consultants.
(c) Date of first presentation to the Bank and Date
of first Bank Mission to consider the project
First presented: November 1976
Pre-appraisal Mission: February 1977
(d) Date of departure of Appraisal Mission
February 18, 1978
(e) Date of completion of negotiations
December 4, 1978
(f) Planned date of effectiveness
April 30, 1979
Section II:  Special Bank Implementation Actions
None.
Section III: Special Conditions
(a) GONWFP would introduce the T&V agriculture exten-
sion system in the project area by June 30, 1980
(paragrah 42).



- 34 -
ANNEX III
(b) GONWFP would raise water charges in the project area
to the maximum permissible rate within one year of
project completion; and by July 1, 1981, would revise
the structure of water charges with a view toward
increasing their level in three stages so that by
July 1, 1991 they would be sufficient to cover the
full cost of O&M, plus a reasonable proportion of the
capital cost of the Provinces' irrigation and drainage
facilities (paragraph 48).
(c) WAPDA would submit to IDA for review annual budget
estimates and implementation schedules for the
project (paragraph 38);
(d) NWFP would inform the Association by March 31 each
year of its proposed annual budget allocation for
O&M of project works (paragraph 41);
(e) NWFP would establish a farmers' group for each water-
course to plan and implement watercourse remodeling
(paragraph 43);
(f) the following are additional conditions of credit
effectiveness:
(i) Conditions for the disbursement of the CIDA
grant have been fulfilled (paragraph 56);
(ii) Consultants have been appointed to assist
in the preparation of specifications, designs,
tender documents and the detailed drawings
required for construction, as well as for
construction supervision (paragraph 39); and
(iii) The Project Steering and Coordination Com-
mittees have been established (paragraph 40).



IBRD-13706R
7 '0O'                                                                                                                                72-30'                                         SEPTEMBER 197
PAKISTAN
AFGHANISTAN   r)2fLfor--llonls --  |  1l                                                                                                                           v;<    SALINITY  CONTROL AND RECLAMATION  PROJECT
rGA ITN f       - 1                                                                                                                                                                                                  MARDAN
AMANDARA                                                                             ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Drainage  and  Reclamation
.2            -                                                                                                                                               -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~Areas to be Recl-insd
\    ._   J   M   z   |   8   t2~,   , O L T            ____                                                                ALA S to be Bnefited by Open Drains
*1 PA K STl   r ,4 N                                                                                                                                                                                                         .. ;: i A,eos to be Beefited by Closed Droins
IRANL                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Op'. Dai,,S to b:  t  ..  /  ..   ...- Mc dnt eRhobbilitoned OF p-oved
Malakood                                                                                                          -.- ~~.....M.o,Railwa s
) /0 * MalokondW . .... ... .                                                                              #     0   Cities o nd Towns
n.oss.os sev k r-aX '; (.~~ .                                                                              WateFsb......... Wate,shed Bo,ndory
............ ..                                                                                                                                                       RiS.R s and Streans
E,i-t--g Dam.
34'30'-
KILOMETERS 0    2    4        6          10   12   14  IA
\   .  ,  p  )  t  \  /' .  yX  ;,  MILES O 7 4 e i lo~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ILS                                                                                                                     2         4                 8        l
H or,chond                                        LLudk hr ,                                                                       41|
HEDWRK                                        '''\                              \                                                    .t, 
MUN1DA t(X<~   r   
2415 ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-
p~~~ifib,O~~~~~dr9~~~~..km ~~              ~hd,hr
34-15'                            V'                                                                                                                                                                                                                             7
Xi),,, n-._.//( >'-.R-' ~       ~         ~         ~         ~        ~ ~ ARBLA,
I  hs    m  m    has  ww  preRered   by  the  W odd   aW mk   s   s awf  esc/ul    wtv   f  w   the   s    m ve:    mce  6   ;  a  pD                                                                                               A-
ot  m wmd s   o    f   m    m mt    wd1st I   m a/1e  mr  rh  de f  m msa dnd R mi  a    L                                                                                L N/ 
8fFLEI8S aerlvdUmentontL #eLa! mnenrenrtnmowyr7nrewdorwmenget ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~      ~     ~      ~     ~     ~     ~     ~      ~    ~     ~     ~     ~    ~     ~    ~     ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~T
accmLm:est mchbondmes                                                                       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~72aD01                                                                                                              72, 30'






IBRD 13707R
7272'3
P\  R~La_ms, l                                                     72'0D                                                                                                   PAKISTAN
DEORAI REUBI                                                                                                                                                  SALINITY CONTROL AND RECLAMATION PROJEC
2MC^L  E                      O.AO'                                                              AMANDARA                                                                                                   MARDAN
Irrigation
Lower Soot Cenol. Com -end Are)
P A K I S T AtN'  r   >    )    i~    2    Ex    sting   Con                                                              Is                   be  Enl=rged or Parol lel CRsiCiteiroPreCscte
RAN                                                                                                                                                                                                     E-ong ,C'  /   //-1<, t,  - I .- 4 ' E,,I-ig,  C...C ,cd E  Nor o e  Improved under Proec
r th << / ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~......'..... ;;s;'' 2 ''  eedok
%   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0 HEodoorkt
Major Goods
a   Cties, Towns
34  StiLESii  2      4 - 
HEDWRK   Nu 0 'X                                                                                                                                                                      
dsn'i,w bninE                                       ,  D
J5500  i  d
_os    0 50  55 sinS  S   sioiirinisirwsi,r.,id'iowio                                                                                               I        .72.                                               .d



