Document of
The World Bank                   FILE  COPY
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 217 9a-PAK
STAEF APPRAISAL REPORT
PAKISTAN
SALINITY CONTROL AND RECLAMATION PROJECT (SCARP) MARDAN
January ll, 1979
South Asia Projects Department
Agriculture Division A
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performanc2 of
their oflicial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
.US$1    =      Rs 9.9
Rs 1     =      US$0.10
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
English/US Units                               Metric Units
1 foot (ft)                   =            30.5 centimeters (cm)
1 yard (yd)                   =            0.915 meters (m)
1 mile (mi)                   =            1.609 kilometers (km)
1 canal mile                  =            1.524 kilometers
1 acre (ac)                   =           0.405 hectare (ha)
1 square mile (sq mi)         =            259 ha                3
1 cubic ft (cu ft)            =           0.028 cjbic meters (m )
1 cubic yd (cu yd)            =           0.765 m
1 acre-foot (ac-ft)           =            1,233 mn3
1 cu ft/sec (cusec)           =            0.028 m /sec
1 pound (lb)                 =            0.454 kilograms (kg)
1 long ton (lg ton)           =            1,016 kg (1.016 metric tons)
Pakistani Units              English Units                 Metric Units
1 maund (md)      =    82.3 lb (.0367 lg ton)         37.3 kg (.0373 m tons)
26.8 mds               2,205 lbs                  -   1.0 metric ton
27.2 mds               1.0 lg ton (2,240 lbs)          1,016 kg



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PRINCIPAL ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS USED
AA        -    Agricultural Assistant
ADA       -    Agricultural Development Authority
ADBP      -    Agricultural Development Bank of Pakistan
AHO       -    Assistant Horticultural Officer
APPO      -    Assistant Plant Protection Officer
BCU       -    Basic Credit Units
CCA       -    Culturable Command Area
DA        -    Director of Agriculture
DDA       -    Deputy Director of Agriculture
DIK       -    Dera Ismail Khan
EADA      -    Extra Assistant Director of Agriculture
FA        -    Field Assistant
GCA       -    Gross Command Area
GONWFP    -    Government of the North West Frontier Province
GOP       -    Government of Pakistan
Kharif    -    summer season (May-October)
LSC       -    Lower Swat Canal
M ac-ft   -    Million acre-feet
NBP       -    National Bank of Pakistan
NWFP      -    Northwest Frontier Province
O&M       -    Operation and Maintenance
Rabi      -    winter season (November-April)
USC       -    Upper Swat Canal
WAPDA     -    Water and Power Development Authority
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






PAKISTAN
SALINITY CONTROL AND RECLAMATION PROJECT (SCARP) MARDAN
Table of Contents
Page No.
I.    PROJECT BACKGROUND ....1...............................                     I
Agriculture in Pakistan  ........................                     I
Irrigation in Pakistan .........................                     2
Agriculture and Irrigation in the NWFP                .........       3
Development  in the SCARP Mardan Area ....             .......        3
Project Formulation  ............................                     4
II.    THE PROJECT AREA  ....................................                      5
General  ........................................                     5
Climate  .......... . ....... ...I   ..............                   5
Topography and Drainage  ........................                     5
Soils  ..........................................6
Farm Size and Land Tenure  ......................                     6
Present Agricultural Situation .................                      7
Agricultural  Supporting Services  ....             ...........       8
Agricultural  Inputs  ............................                    9
Agricultural  Credit  ............................                  10
Marketing and Processing  .......................                   11
Transportation  .......           ..........................        12
III.    THE PROJECT .........................................                      13
General  ........................................                   13
Main Project Features  ..........................                   13
Description of Major Works to be Undertaken  ....                   14
On-Farm Improvements  ............        ..     .............      19
Status of Field Investigations, Surveys and
Designs  ...... ..............          ..................        21
Construction Methods and Materials  .............                   22
Agricultural Development  ..........        ..     ...........      24
Monitoring Program .............         ..     ..............      25
Water Supply, Demand and Quality  ........ .......                  27
Technical Assistance  ............        ..     .............      28
Cost Estimates  ...............       ..     ................       29
Implementation Schedule             .............                   30
Financing       .................... ..................             31
Procurement        ................... .................            31
Disbursements  .................. ................                  32
Accounts and Audits  .............        .. .............          33
Environmental Effects of the Project  ...........                   33
This report is based on the findings of a Bank mission comprised of Messrs. S.
Baker, C. P. Cheng, A. Seager (part-time) and Miss G. Lituma (Bank) and Messrs.
J. Christopher, W.E, Edwards and M. Fireman (consultants) who visited Pakistan
in March 1978.



-2-
Table of Contents (Cont'd)
Page No.
IV.    ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT .........................                    34
Civii Works  ....................................                  34
On-Farm Improvement  ............................                  35
Agricultural Supporting Services  ....             ...........     36
Monitoring and Evaluation  ......................                  37
Agricultural Extension  .........................                  38
Operation and Maintenance  ......................                  38
V.    PRODUCTION, PRICES, FARM INCOMES AND COST RECOVERY ..                    40
Production  .....................................                  40
Financial Prices  ...............................                 41
Farm Incomes  ...................................                 42
Cost Recovery ..................................                  43
Project Rent ...................................                  45
VI.    BENEFITS, JUSTIFICATION AND RISKS ...................                    45
General  ........................................                 45
Employment and Income Effects  ....             ..............    46
Basic Assumptions  for Economic Analysis  ........                46
Economic Rate of Return ........................                  48
Sensitivity Analysis and Project Risks  .........                 48
V.   AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS ....                ..........     49



- 3 -
LIST OF ANNEXES
ANNEX 1   TABLES AND CHARTS
Tables
1      Climatological Factors Relating to Estimating Crop Water
Requirements
2      Land Tenure Structure
3      Land Tenure in Mardan and Peshawar Districts
4      Description of Project Sub-areas
5      Present and Future Cropping Patterns by Sub-Areas
6      Present and Future Yields (md/ac) by Sub-Areas
7      List of Equipment and Vehicles
8      Laboratory Equipment for Land Reclamation Program
9      LSC Command Area - (Sub-Areas I, II & III) - 134,500 ac -
Water Requirements at Canal Head
10      Summary - Water Supply and Demand at Munda Headworks
11      Detailed Cost Estimates
12      Schedule of Expenditures
13      ;roposed Allocation of the Aid Package
14      Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
15      Crop Area, Yield, Production and Economic Value of Production -
Total Project
16      Prices Used for Financial and Economic Analysis
17      Present and Future Cropping Patterns (%) Considered in the Farm
Budget Models
18      Present and Future Yield (md/ac) Considered in the Farm Budget Models
19      Financial Analysis - Lower Swat
20      Financial Analysis - Upper Swat
21      Economic Prices
22      Economic Cost of Labor
23      Conversion Factor Used for Estimating the Economic Cost
24      Economic Cost Stream
25      Value of Production - Total Project
Charts
1      Future Water Diversion Requirements, Existing Diversion and Swat
River Discharge at the Munda Headworks
2      Cropping Pattern of Lower Swat Canal Command Area - Future at Full
Development
3      Cropping Pattern of Upper Swat Canal Command Area - Future at Full
Development
4      Summary Implementation Schedule
5      Procurement Schedule for Equipment and Vehicles
6      Proposed Organization Chart - Design & Construction
7      Organization Chart:  Operation and Maintenance of the Irrigation
and Drainage Systems
8      Cropping Calendar



- 4-
ANNEX 2         AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT
ANNEX 3         TERMS OF REFERENCE FOR CONSULTING SERVICES
Project Design and Construction
Agricultural Extension and Training Specialist
Sugar Beet Agronomist
ANNEX 4         LIST OF SELECTED DOCUMENTS AVAILABLE IN PROJECT FILE
Maps
IBRD 13706 R   Salinity Control and Reclamation Project.  Drainage
and Reclamation
IBRD 13707 R   Salinity Control and Reclamation Project.  Irrigation



PAKISTAN
SALINITY CONTROL AND RECLAMATION PROJECT (SCARP) MARDAN
I. PROJECT BACKGROUND
Agriculture in Pakistan
1.01      The Islamic Republic of Pakistan covers an area of some 197 M ac
(80 M ha). Only 47 M ac are cultivable, of which 33.6 M ac are irrigated,
mainly from the Indus River system, the biggest single irrigation system in
the world. The current population of about 76 M is growing at an annual rate
of about 3%. Since 1947, per capita output has risen at about 1.5% per year,
reaching about US$190 (at 1975-77 prices) but still leaving Pakistan (as of
1978) one of the poorest countries in the world. Thus, the Government of
Pakistan's (GOP's) development plans in recent years have been geared to
increasing production in order to create additional employment opportunities
and to alleviate widespread poverty.
1.02      Agriculture is the mainstay of Pakistan's economy.  It accounts
for about 35% of GNP, employs about 60% of the labor force and, directly and
indirectly, provides nearly two-thirds of Pakistan's export earnings (prin-
cipally cotton and rice). In the last two decades, GOP has endeavored to
stimulate agricultural production by accelerating the development of irri-
gation; reclaiming saline and waterlogged areas; introducing high yield-
ing varieties of wheat and rice; increasing the use of fertilizers through
both importing and expanding local production; extending the use of pesticides;
and, currently, under a Bank Group financed project, developing a seed indus-
try. Agricultural, short-term credit to farmers has been expanded mainly
through commercial banks.
1.03      Despite these efforts and the doubling of wheat production in the
last decade, cereal production has not kept pace with population growth, thus
necessitating an average annual wheat import of over one million metric tons
during 1972-78. Moreover, the 1977/78 wheat crop was a major disappointment,
with production well below, and resulting import requirements for 1978/79
considerably above, the Government's target. Overall agricultural annual
growth during 1974-77 was only about 1.9%, contrasting with the 3% annual
growth reached during 1971-74 and the nearly 6% in the 1960s. Furthar expan-
sion of agricultural production will require more sustained effort by GOP to
overcome the following major constraints: lack of water, waterlogging and
saline-alkaline soils; adverse pricing policies; inadequate supply of farm
inputs such as seeds, fertilizers and pesticides; shortage of power for
cultivation; lack of coordination among departments responsible for water
development and usage; the current share-out burden faced by tenants; and the
largely ineffective agricultural extension program.
1.04      Programs to increase the supply of fertilizer, certified seed,
pesticides and equipment are being given priority. An increased role for the
private sector in input supply is required, although selective public sector
involvement in this, as in marketing and processing, may be warranted. To



-2-
exploit the longer-term potential for agricultural growth, greater commitment
by the Government must be given to programs which seek to change the way that
crops are grown at the farm level. This involves changing the physical environ-
ment through watercourse and associated improvements and raising the technical
competence with which physical resources and inputs are used, principally
through redirection and revitalization of the extension services.
1.05      In an effort to assist the agricultural sector, the Government re-
cently revised the agricultural pricing policy. The support price for cotton
was increased by nearly 50% early in FY77 and a further 10% by April 1977;
the support price for paddy was raised by nearly 35% in FY77 and is being
maintained for FY78; and, for the first time, support prices were also estab-
lished for maize, onions, potatoes and certain oil seeds, however the price
of wheat has been maintained since FY75. As a result of these actions, and
falling world prices for wheat, sugar and rice, procurement prices for major
crops as of July 1978 are much closer to world prices than before, and differ-
entials reflect more fully relative values to the national economy.
Irrigation in Pakistan
1.06      In Pakistan, there are some 42 canal commands, with a total length
of about 36,000 mi. These systems embrace a gross command area (GCA) of
38 M ac, with a culturable command area (CCA) of 33.6 M ac. The great bulk
of these lands, 33 M ac, are in the Indus plains and the remaining 0.6 M ac
are in the Vale of Peshawar or Kabul plain. The canal commands vary from
40,000 ac to 3 M ac in size and receive supplies diverted by 20 barrages and
weirs located along the three western rivers (Indus, Jhelum and Chenab), two
Eastern rivers that reach Pakistan (Sutlej and Ravi) and along the Kabul and
Swat rivers in the Northwest Frontier Province (NWFP). Many of the canals
are large by world standards; 15 carry discharges greater than 10,000 cusecs
each. About two-thirds of the CCA receives perennial supplies and the remain-
ing one-third receives supplies only in summer, when river flows are generally
plentiful. Annual canal withdrawals have averaged 64 M ac-ft in summer and
31 M ac-ft in winter, and it is estimated that about 41 M ac-ft in summer and
20 M ac-ft in winter have been available at the farm gate, the rest having been
lost in transit through seepage, percolation, evaporation and drainage to the
major rivers and canals. Additional irrigation supplies from both private and
publicly-owned tubewells and from Persian wheels are estimated to total about
32 M ac-ft, mostly in the Punjab province. The Mangla and Tarbela reservoirs,
with respective live storage capacities of 5.4 M ac-ft and 9.3 M ac-ft, supple-
ment irrigation supplies during winter when river flows are low, as well as
provide large quantities of electricity for industry and agriculture.
1.07      When irrigation was introduced in Pakistan in the last century, the
need for drainage was not apparent. However, many years of irrigation and high
seepage losses from the vast network of canals and inadequate drainage resulted
in rapidly rising water table levels in most of the irrigated areas and many
have become waterlogged. In the same areas, salinity and alkalinity problems
have developed as a consequence of the poor drainage. GOP's Salinity Control
and Reclamation Project (SCARP) program was established to resolve these
problems and reclaim areas no longer productive.



- 3-
Agriculture and Irrigation in the NWFP
1.08      The NWFP is the smallest of the four provinces of Pakistan.  It
extends over some 39,000 sq mi, much of which is mountainous and uninhabit-
able.  On the west, the NWFP is bounded by Afghanistan, in the north by Gilgit,
to the northeast by the semi autonomous province of Azad Kashmir and the south-
east and east by the provinces of Punjab and Baluchistan. Land elevations
vary from 500 ft in the southern plains to 26,000 ft in the mountainous north.
Rainfall, shared about equally between summer and winter, varies from ten
inches in the glains to 30 inches in the foothill areas. Day temperatures
range from 110 F in summer to around 65 0F in winter, making year round culti-
vation possible. The well-forested hill areas provide summer grazing for vast
herds of sheep, goats and cattle from the lowlands, which during winter return
to the already over-grazed low-lying rangelands which cover some 14 to 15 M
ac. The cultivated area, about 3.7 M ac, is mostly rainfed and is confined to
the many valleys and lowland plains along the Indus, Kabul and Kurram rivers.
The population in 1977 was 12.6 M and the cultivated areas are very densely
populated. In the cooler, less arid northern region, the main crops are
sugarcane, maize (summer), wheat (winter), sugar beets, tobacco, vegetables
and orchards. In the hot, arid southern region, the main summer crops are
millets, maize fodder and some cotton and the main winter crops are wheat and
fodder.
1.09      The irrigated areas in NWFP are located in two very different eco-
logical regions: the northern Kabul plain, locally called the Vale of Peshawar,
with a CCA of 698,000 ac lying about 1,200 ft above sea level, which is irri-
gated by diversions from the Kabul and Swat rivers; and the Dera Ismail Khan
(DIK) area, or Indus Plain, with a CCA of 105,000 ac at an elevation of about
600 ft above sea level, which receives water from the Indus. There are plans
for increasing irrigation in the DIK area to 320,000 ac by utilizing the
greater amount of the 5,000 cusecs diverted from the Indus River (including
Tarbela storage waters), and for providing an additional 750 cusecs from the
Tarbela storage to irrigate a further 43,000 ac in the eastern area of the
Vale of Peshawar. Most of the Kabul plain has slopes of less than 0.3% and,
after many years of cultivation, its fields are virtually leveled. Due to
inadequate drainage, waterlogging problems have developed throughout the area.
The existence of thick underlying clay layers makes vertical drainage by means
of tubewells infeasible. Thus, in high water table areas, sub-surface tile
drains are the only practical means to provide drainage relief.
Development in the SCARP Mardan Area
1.10      SCARP Mardan is located in the northwestern part of the Vale of
Peshawar, on the left bank of the Kabul River plain, which skirts the foothills
of the Himalayas. Irrigation pre-dates the existing Lower Swat Canal (LSC)
and Upper Swat Canal (USC) irrigation systems which now serve the area. Nearly
100 cuts (diversions) were made from the Swat River before these canals were
constructed, principally serving some 43,500 ac of land in the Sholgara and
Doaba areas. The LSC scheme was first conceived in 1870 and became operational
in 1885. It was improved during 1915-18 when a gated diversion weir was in-
stalled at Munda. The LSC conveys water to the Sholgara Canal serving some



- 4 -
10,500 ac, as well as the LSC command area of 134,500 ac. In 1905, due to the
great success of the LSC, a diversion was proposed upstream on the Swat River
at Amandara to irrigate areas in Mardan that could not be served by the LSC.
The construction of the USC, started in 1908, was completed in 1918 and now
serves a CCA of 274,000 ac.
1.11      The LSC and USC projects were designed for an annual cropping inten-
sity of 100% and channel capacities were based on 5 to 6 cusecs per 1,000 ac
CCA to be served. During the years, additional areas adjacent to the canals
were brought under irrigation and the cropping intensities rose to about 175%.
This was achieved by deliberately under irrigating the existing irrigated
areas and spreading the water on the new lands, thereby sacrificing yields
in the interest of expanding the cropped area. As a consequence the canals
now can only provide about one-half of the peak optimal irrigation water
requirements of the enlarged command areas. As irrigation continued over
the years, the ground water table rose gradually throughout the irrigated area.
Increasingly, the lands became waterlogged and salinity-alkalinity problems
intensified, resulting in a sharp reduction in productivity, and many lands
were abandoned. Because of the deteriorating situation in the area, the
Government initiated several studies in the early 1960s to rehabilitate the
irrigation systems and alleviate the drainage problems. The last report, the
Project Planning Report of Mardan Salinity Control and Reclamation Project -
Phase one, prepared by Water and Power Development Authority (WAPDA) with the
assistance of Harza Engineering Company, Int., dated December 1977, is the
basis for this Appraisal Report.
Project Formulation
1.12      The proposed project is the most economically feasible plan to
improve irrigation efficiencies in the project area, provide a full irriga-
tion water supply for both rabi and kharif crops, provide adequate drainage
relief, and reclaim non-productive areas of the project. Alternatives
reviewed during plan formulation and later at appraisal included vertical
drainage, enlarging the existing system and lining the existing irrigation
system. These proved to be not viable. Because of the thick fine textured
soils overlaying the affected area, vertical drainage could not be employed
in lieu of subsurface tile drainage (para 2.05). Since the capacity of the
existing irrigation system would need to be about doubled to convey peak
irrigation requirements and since the canal closure period is limited to only
about one or two months each year, the construction of a parallel system is
the only practical solution to increasing conveyance capacity. Water savings
that could be realized by lining existing canals would not be sufficient to
meet the full needs of the project. Water losses normally are significantly
greater in the watercourses than in the larger canals and watercourse improve-
ments are provided as a project component. The components of the project
are described in detail in Chapter III.



- 5 -
II. THE PROJECT AREA
General
2.01       The project is located in the NWFP, in the Vale of Peshawar and
covers just 210,000 ac CCA of the overall 420,000 ac CCA in the Mardan area.
The proposed project would include the CCA of the entire LSC of 134,500 ac
and 75,500 ac of the USC. The present cropping intensities of 175% in the
LSC command area and 173% in the USC command area are higher than anywhere
else in Pakistan 1/. However, despite the high intensity of farming, shortages
of irrigation water and high water table levels have resulted in extremely low
productivity in the entire area; also, some 25,000 ac within the project area
have been idled or become only marginally productive due to waterlogging and
saline-alkalie conditions. The project area is expected to benefit greatly
from the provision of full irrigation supplies and adequate drainage, the
reclamation of the abandoned lands, on-farm improvements and improvement of
agricultural inputs and extension services. The project would reverse the
steadily deteriorating agricultural trend, which, unless checked, would
seriously affect the living standards of the more than 500,000 people living
in the project area.
Climate
2.02       The project area, situated at an elevation of about 1,200 ft above
sea level, has a cool, dry climate from November to the end February, with
day time temperatures averaging about 650F (18°C). During December and January
the temperature drops as low as 32°F (O0C) at night.  From May to September,
the climate is warmer and more humid, with day-time temperatures averaging
about 950F (350C).  Night temperatures are seldom below 70°F (21°C) during
this period.  Occasionally in June, temperatures reach 105°F (41°C).  The rain-
fall in the project area varies from an average of about 15 inches on the
western perimeter to about 32 inches in the east, being about equally divided
between winter (December through March) and summer (mid-July to September).
The winter rains are influenced by the cold fronts moving in from the Hindu
Kush Range, which flanks the area on the northwestern side, while the summer
monsoon rains result from the warm fronts moving in from the Indian Ocean.
The project area is suitable for year-round cultivation. However, the cold
nights from October onwards make the area unsuitable for cotton and adversely
affects sugarcane yields and its sugar content; the frosts during February-
March sometimes damage the winter crops, such as the earlier maturing wheat
which comes into head during that period.  Irrigation is essential for success-
ful year-round crop cultivation (Annex 1, Table 1).
Topography and Drainage
2.03       The project area is characterized by slightly rolling to almost flat
topography. The slope of the land ranges from 0 to 4% with an average slope
1/   Cropping intensities refer to the cropped area and do not include the
presently abandoned area, where the present cropping intensity is zero.



- 6 -
of about 1% towards natural drainageways flowing mostly to the south and south-
west. Some of the flatter areas with slopes of about 0.3% or less are severely
waterlogged and salt-affected.
2.04      There are about 340 mi of open drains in the natural drainage
basins serving the project area which, in the past, have removed storm and
irrigation return flows without widespread damage to crops or land resources.
However, lack of maintenance has reduced their effectiveness and the system
presently is not capable of evacuating storm water rapidly enough. Some minor
surface flooding occurs within the project area; major flooding and sedimenta-
tion occurs on lands bordering the project area.
2.05       Some subsurface drainage is provided incidentally by the deep open
drains and natural stream channels. However, about 93,000 ac of CCA are
underlain by water tables less than 3 ft deep and 190,000 ac less than 5 ft.
Detailed groundwater investigations show that the project area is not con-
ducive to shallow tubewell development for drainage or irrigation purposes.
Due to the existence of thick intermittent clay layers, deep groundwater
tubewells would not be effective in alleviating the waterlogged conditions.
Under the project, subsurface drainage would be installed in the more seriously
affected areas and open drains would be rehabilitated and deepened to provide
a gravity outlet for the subsurface drains.
Soils
2.06      Most of the soils in the project area were alluvially deposited and
were derived from shales, slates, sandstones and limestones; they are moder-
ately fertile. Although most of the parent materials of these soils are
calcareous, some soils have been leached sufficiently by rainwater to become
acidic, at least in the surface layers. Most of the soils are quite deep, low
in organic matter and coarse to moderately fine in texture. The subsoils are
commonly coarser than the topsoils. Soil structures are good in the non-alkali
areas, soil cultivation is not difficult and good seed beds can be prepared.
The soils are well drained close to rivers and drainageways, but are poorly
drained in the flatter, generally finer-textured areas, many of which are also
the alkali-affected areas. Field tests indicate that most of the soils are
moderately to highly permeable.
2.07      About 12% (25,000 ac CCA) of the soils are salt affected (alkali
and saline-alkali) and would require leaching and the application of an aver-
age of about six tons of gypsum/ac and 20 lb of zinc sulphate/ac for full
reclamation. None are solely saline, but are rather alkali or saline-alkali.
No alkali or saline-alkali problems are found in lands not subject to water-
logging.
Farm Size and Land Tenure
2.08      The project area is one of the most densely populated areas in
Pakistan with a rural population of about 2.4 persons per cultivated ac com-
pared with a rural population of about 1.3 persons per cultivated ac for the
whole of Pakistan. Hence the average farm size of 5.4 ac in the project area
is smaller while the 7.4 average household size is larger than the average in



- 7 -
Pakistan. About 60% of all agricultural households operate farms smaller than
5 ac, 30% operate farms from 5 ac to 12.5 ac, and 9% operate farms larger than
12.5 ac. Farms larger than 12.5 ac make up about 35% of the land. More than
70% of the farms are fragmented in up to 10 non-continguous fields. The average
field size in the project area is only about 1.8 ac with an average of three
fields per farm.
2.09      The farm size distribution for the project area, based upon the
weighted average of the Mardan and Peshawar districts (Annex 1, Tables 2
and 3), is estimated to be as follows:
% of             % of           Average         Average
Farm Size         Holding      Cultivated Area   Farm Size    Family Size
ac                                                 ac
Under 2.5           37                 8              1.2            6.1
2.5 to 5            24                15              3.4            7.0
5 to 12.5           30                42              7.4            8.3
12.5 to 25           7                21             15.9           10.1
over 25              2                14             44.7            13.5
About 45% of the holdings are owner operated, 20% are farmed by owners who
rent part of their land (owner-cum-tenant) and the remaining 35% are tenant
farmed. Share cropping, the most common type of lease, is usually based
on a 50-50 sharing. Under the 1972 land reform law, owners were made responsi-
ble for paying land revenue, water charges and housing. Tenants are responsi-
ble for the entire tillage costs, while the cost of fertilizers and agro-
chemicals are shared equally with the owner.
Present Agricultural Situation
2.10      All agricultural land in the project area is irrigated.  Cropping
intensities over the cropped area are about 175% in the LSC command area and
about 173% in the USC command area. However, crop productivity generally is
low; crop yields vary in areas according to water table depths and water
supply conditions. The higher yields come from areas in the LSC and USC com-
mand areas where no waterlogging problems exist. The lowest yields come from
areas in the LSC command with water table levels less than 5 ft deep. In both
canal command areas, about 12% of the land is lcft fallow as it is severely
affected by waterlogging and salinity-alkalinity conditions.
2.11      The main crops grown in the project area are sugarcane, maize,
wheat, sugar beets and tobacco.
Sugarcane: the main cash crop, with intensities averaging
about 34% in the LSC command area and 30% in the USC command
area. The planted cane matures in about 10-12 months and
the ratoon crop in around 9-10 months. Normally two ratoon
crops are taken, after which yields tend to drop. Most of
the cane is planted in early spring. The average yield of
about 12.5 metric tons/ac is low. The yield potential in
this area is about 30 metric tons/ac.



- 8 -
Maize: is the main kharif (summer) crop with a cropping
intensity of 33% in the LSC command area and 39% in the
USC command area. The crop is sown (broadcast) in a thick
stand and then thinned out for fodder as required, the
remaining plants being permitted to mature for grain.
Consequently, the yields average only about 0.5 metric
tons/ac against a potential of well in excess of two
metric tons/ac.
Wheat: is the main rabi (winter) crop, with cropping
intensities of 31% in the LSC command area and 41% in the
USC command areas. The high yielding dwarf varieties were
introduced in the late 1960s, yet yields average only about
0.6 metric ton/ac. This is largely due to cultural practices.
Yield potentials are known to be at least 1.5 metric tons/ac.
Sugar beets: were introduced on a commercial scale in the
late 1960s in order to enhance the working season of the
sugar mills. At present, cropping intensities have reached
8% in the LSC command area and 3% in the USC command area.
Sugar beets are harvested from May to June and yields are
generally low (about 11 metric ton/ac) but could be improved
by good extension work. Yields of 16-18 metric tons/ac
can be obtained with improved cultural and crop husbandry
practices.
Tobacco: an important rabi cash crop with cropping inten-
sities of 9% in the LSC command area and 10% in the USC
command area. The crop, mainly Virginia varieties, is
raised in nurseries and transplanted into the fields in
late February to March and harvested during June to early
July. Both the growing and curing of the crop is carefully
supervised by several tobacco companies operating in the
area and much of the best quality leaf is exported. The
average yield is around 0.5 metric ton/ac, which can be
readily increased to at least 0.7 metric tons/ac with
improved cutlural practices.
2.12      Cropping constraints vary considerably throughout the project area
and yield levels differ widely from one zone to another. Yield variances
would continue to exist without the project but near uniform yields would be
expected throughout the area with the project. Cropping patterns and average
yields under present and estimated future conditions are detailed in Annex 1,
Tables 4 to 6.
Agricultural Supporting Services
2.13      Agricultural Research.  Agricultural research at the provincial
level is under the Secretary for Agriculture, NWFP and at the Federal level
under the Agricultural Research Council. The main agricultural research
station is located at Tarnab, some 12 mi east of Peshawar and just outside the
project area. The research station has several sub-stations covering research



- 9 -
on most annual and perennial crops, including fruit.  The research is often
too academic to adapt to the basic needs of the farmers in the NWFP. For exam-
ple, although the station is located in a waterlogged area, no research has
been done on the effect of differing water levels on the yields of various
crops. The sub-station responsible for sugarcane and sugar beet research is
near the city of Mardan in the center of the project area. Not much progress
has been made in developing higher yielding cane for the cooler climate of
Mardan nor in breeding an earlier-maturing variety of sugar beets for harvest-
ing in April or soon after the sugarcane is off the ground.
2.14      A Maize and Millets Research Institute is located at Pir Sabak on
the left bank of the Kabul River. The head of the Institute reports directly
to the Secretary of Agriculture. Its research is better adapted to the basic
needs of the NWFP, with guidance from the Ford Foundation Maize and Millet
breeders based in Islamabad. The Institute's farm is being developed and
enlarged to 130 ac with financial and technical assistance from Australia
under the Colombo Plan. The Institute is also training a small team of exten-
sion personnel to assist progressive farmers in maize production.
2.15      Tobacco research is under the Pakistan Tobacco Board in conjunction
with the tobacco companies. The Pakistan Tobacco Board has a small staff for
advising farmers on growing and curing Virginia-type tobacco.
2.16      Agricultural Extension Service.  Agricultural extension is the
responsibility of the Department of Agriculture. The Field Assistants (FAs),
the lowest level of extension staff, operate in an area covering well over
1,000 farmers. They are supervised by Agricultural Assistants (AAs) who in
turn report to the Extra-Assistant Directors of Agriculture (EADA). Because
the project area includes the Mardan District and part of the Peshawar
District, extension activities in the project area are directed by the Mardan
and Peshawar EADAs under the overall supervision of the provincial Deputy
Director of Agriculture (DDA), Peshawar Division. He reports to the NWFP
Director of Agriculture (DA). Pest control support in each district comes
from the Assistant Plant Protection Officer (APPO), who usually is not an
entomologist. An Assistant Horticultural Officer (AHO) attached to the DDA's
office, covers the entire Peshawar Division. Liaison between extension and
research is very poor.
2.17      Extension staff are responsible for a wide range of developmental,
administrative and regulatory functions in addition to their regular exten-
sion duties. There is a shortage of adequate housing for such staff near
their working area and transportation is inadequate. As a result, extension
visits are infrequent, poorly planned and have little positive effect on
agricultural production.
Agricultural Inputs
2.18      Seed.  The multiplication of seeds of improved varieties of wheat,
maize and oilseeds is handled by the Agricultural Development Authority (ADA)
through contracts with progressive farmers. However, ADA seeds are generally
in short and irregular supply. Sugar beet seed is multiplied by the Mardan,
Charsadda and Takht Bhai sugar mills from the German-imported basic (polybeta)



- 10 -
seed. Because the sugar mills have the monopoly of both procuring and distri-
buting sugar beet seed, they control the acreage planted. Tobacco farmers
usually receive seeds from the tobacco companies.
2.19      Fertilizers.  Fertilizer application in the project area is high
in comparison with other parts of Pakistan. However, the N:P balance of about
4.5 to I is high for soils in the project area, which show a good response to
both nitrogenous and phosphorus applications. ADA has a monopoly for distri-
buting all imported fertilizers procured for NWFP by the Federal Government.
The fertilizers come by rail from Karachi and are then sent to the various ADA
depots, where they are collected by the appointed commission agents who sell
to farmers. Pakistan-produced fertilizers, like urea, ammonium sulphate and
ammonium nitrate, are sold through private dealers appointed by the manufac-
turers. All of the indigenous produced ammonium sulphate (about 285,000
tons/yr) is earmarked for distribution in the NWFP, where it is preferred for
tobacco growing. The local fertilizer factories have their own sales organi-
zation and outlets, so the farmers in the project area will be competitively
served by the producers.
2.20      Plant Protection.  The Department of Agriculture, NWFP is obliged
to procure the agro-chemicals required for seed dressing and plant protection
through the Federal Ministry of Supplies. Because the Government managed
agro-chemicals carry a 75% subsidy, the distribution is entrusted to the
Field Assistant (FA), who is responsible for proper storage and sale of the
chemicals. In addition, the FA carries stocks of both power and hand
sprayers for sale at 50% subsidy.
2.21      Aerial spraying is a free service undertaken by the Federal Govern-
ment Aerial Spraying Unit in the project area. This is done from the 25th of
May to the 30th of June and repeated from the 24th of August and through the
30th of September against pyrilla, white fly and mites on sugarcane; other
crops in the vicinity also benefit. Although the Department of Agriculture
claims a 100% coverage for aerial and ground spraying of sugarcane, orchards
and tobacco, the effectiveness of aerial spraying is doubtful. Three planes
are stationed at Peshawar for aerial spraying.
Agricultural Credit
2.22       Institutional agricultural credit in the project area is provided
by the following agencies: Agricultural Development Bank of Pakistan (ADBP);
Revenue Department of the Provincial Government (Taccavi Loans); The Frontier
Provincial Cooperative Bank; and the commercial banks. During 1976/77, the
credit disbursed by these institutions in the four tehsils partially included
in the project area amounted to about Rs 33 M; about 50% was given in short-
term loans and the other 50% in medium- and long-term loans. During 1974/75,
credit disbursed amounted to only about Rs 15 M. Most of the non-institutional
agricultural credit is provided by the sugar factories (mainly for fertilizers
for sugar beet production), and by the tobacco companies (mainly for fertilizer
and plant protection); some is also provided by land owners, commission agents,
and relatives.



- 11 -
2.23      The ADBP is the major agricultural lending agency in the area and
during 1976/77 provided about 50% of the total institutional credit to farmers.
ADBP extends three types of loans: short-term loans, repayable after harvest
up to a maximum period of 18 months, mostly granted to small farmers for
seasonal inputs; medium-term loans, repayable within a period of up to five
years; and long-term loans, repayable over a period of more than give years.
These last two types of loans are granted for farm improvement and/or farm
investment. In the past, ADBP recovery rates were low due to poor admin-
istration and lack of credit discipline. However, due to administrative
improvements and to the effects of GOP's strict credit controls, the recovery
rate has improved, reaching about 80% during 1977/78. ADBP charges a uniform
loan interest rate of 12%; a 2% recovery charge is also levied against
defaulters along with 1% additional interest in case of default. IDA is
presently studying a project to finance a new Pakistan Agricultural Credit
through this institution.
2.24      The Revenue Department's Taccavi loans are emergency loans for short-,
medium- and long-term financing. During 1976/77, the Department contributed
less than 2% of the total institutional credit sanction in the project area.
2.25      The Frontier Provincial Cooperative Bank provides funds to coopera-
tives in the project area which, in turn, relend on short and long terms to
their members. During 1976/77, the Cooperative Bank contributed about 18%
of all institutional credit in the project area, mainly for short-term loans.
It borrows money from the Federal Government at 8% and relends to its societies
at 11%.  The societies charge an additional 2% to their members.  Apart from
credit facilities, the cooperative societies also supply their members with
agricultural inputs and equipment on a discount basis.
2.26      Since 1972, the nationalized commercial banks have been directed
by the Government to lend for agriculture and they are taking active steps to
expand their activities. They provide short-term (production) loans and
long-term (development) loans. The National Bank of Pakistan (NBP) loaned
about 23% of the agricultural credit sanctioned in the area during 1976/77,
the United Bank about 4% and Habib Bank about 3%. NBP provides credit through
its Supervised Agricultural Credit Program. Mobile Basic Credit Units (BCU)
have been developed to cover about 40 villages each and are staffed with
trained agriculturists. Credit is provided only in kind and arrangements are
made to deliver the necessary inputs to the villages. Farmers are also advised
on the proper use of inputs. The NBP program is directed to financing farmers
owning less than 25 ac. At present, the recovery rate on production loans is
above 80%, and on development loans, nearly 100%. There are four BCUs in the
project area, and during 1976/77 loans increased by more than 4.5 times. The
main sources of funds for this program are through the rediscounting facilities
and the NBP's own funds. The NBP plans to maintain 1976/77 lending expansion
rate. Agricultural credit facilities within the SCARP Mardan area are ade-
quate for the needs of the project.
Marketing and Processing
2.27      Agricultural products in the project area are sold in nearby market
centers through commission agents. Market facilities for the main crops grown
in the area are reliable and fairly well developed. Three sugar mills operate



- 12 -
in the project area, while another outside the area draws cane and beets from
the project area. These mills buy about 40% of the cane produced in the area,
about 55% being used for gur production and the remainder for chewing and
seed. Prices of beet and cane are fixed by the Government; the price of gur
is governed by the price and supply of sugar. The mills schedule the timely
supply of cane and beets in their allocated zones through commission agents
and large farmers; however, one mill operates only through the cooperative
societies. Transportation is normally arranged by the agents and/or mills
and the cost is reduced from the price fixed by Government. Sugar produced
by the mills is taken by the Government for sale through its ration shops and
for allocation to the other provinces. The unutilized capacity of the mills
and the overall high demand for sugar and gur ensure a ready market for sugar-
cane and beets.
2.28      Maize is a staple food in the area and present production is in-
sufficient to meet demand for local consumption and for the local maize pro-
cessing plants. Maize is sold by farmers through commission agents operating
in the area. Normally the price of maize is similar to the price of wheat.
2.29      The Government has 14 procurement centers in the project area for
purchasing surplus wheat at the price fixed by the Federal Government, but,
because the area is deficient in wheat, only small quantities are brought to
these centers. Wheat procured is sold to the flour mills, which eventually
supply the ration shops. A large amount of the wheat produced in the area
is for the farmers' own consumption; some is sold locally by farmers to the
various commission agents operating in the market towns scattered throughout
the area and some finds its way to the adjacent tribal areas. Normally,
the free market price is much higher than the procurement price.
2.30      Tobacco, an important cash crop in the project area, is bought by
the various tobacco companies at eight buying locations. The price is fixed
by the Government according to leaf quality. Tobacco is processed locally
and cigarettes are exported to other parts of Pakistan and abroad. More than
40% of the Virginia tobacco is exported, mainly to the United Kingdom, Poland,
Italy, Bangladesh and to some Arab countries. In the late 1960s, industrial
capacity was expanded but, due to the separation of Bangladesh in 1971, demand
dropped dramatically and companies are now working below capacity.  Exports
to Bangladesh started recently and this country and some of the Arab countries
appear to be a promising potential market for Pakistan tobacco.
Transportation
2.31      Mardan is linked with Peshawar, the Provincial capital, and the rest
of Pakistan by railway and a good highway. Within the project area, there is
a network of metalled roads feeding the market towns. Farm roads and tracks,
however, are poor due to lack of maintenance. During the heavy winter rains,
many are virtually impassable. Sugarcane and beets bought by the sugar mills
are transported by lorries and tractor trailers from dumping points along the
main and farm roads. The feeder roads, farm roads and tracks have to with-
stand this heavy market traffic from October to June. The Premier Sugar Mill
at Mardan also utilizes the railway for transporting cane to its factory.
Other agricultural commodities are moved to the primary and secondary markets



- 13 -
in trucks, oxcarts and on camels. Exports to other parts of Pakistan, mainly
of sugar, sugar products and tobacco, are by rail.
III. THE PROJECT
General
3.01      The proposed project would be the first irrigated agricultural dev-
elopment project prepared for Bank Group financial assistance in the NWFP. It
would cover just half (210,000 ac) of the irrigated land in the Mardan area
(420,000 ac). It would provide: additional irrigation water and irrigation
improvements for the entire LSC command area (134,500 ac) and additional water
for part of the USC command area (75,500 ac) by improvements to Benton tunnel;
surface drainage improvements on 185,000 ac; tile drains on 110,000 ac; preci-
sion land leveling of about 35,000 ac; the reclamation of 25,000 ac of saline-
alkali lands; programs to monitor irrigation deliveries and losses, groundwater
levels, drainage flows and agricultural yields; and improved agricultural
extention services. The project would be implemented over a six-year period.
Technical assistance would be provided to assist WAPDA in the completion of
final designs and tender documents and the supervision of construction of
project works, as well as for the preparation of a feasibility report for
improving the remaining irrigated land in the Mardan area and the possible
inclusion of adjacent unirrigated areas.
3.02      Because all components of the project would not be implemented
throughout the project area, the project area has been divided into five sub-
areas according to the project components to be provided and existing agricul-
tural conditions. A description of each sub-area and the project components
to be provided in the sub-areas are presented in Annex 1, Table 4.
Main Project Features
3.03      The project works would include:
(a) Installing tile drains in areas with a water table dRepth
of less than 5 ft, altogether in about 110,000 ac;
(b) Remodeling existing surface drains in about 185,000 ac
to carry storm water and to provide a gravity outlet for
the tile drainage effluent;
(c) Modifying the 2.1 mi long Benton Tunnel, near the head
of the USC, to increase the discharge capacity from 1,800
cusecs to about 2,060 cusecs;
(d) Remodeling the Munda headworks and the LSC system to pro-
vide increased capacity and improve canal operational
efficiencies. Additional water from the Swat River would
be diverted through the enlarged and improved system to
provide full irrigation and reclamation requirements of
the LSC command area;



- 14 -
(e) Reclaiming about 25,000 ac of abandoned and/or marginally
productive saline-alkaline land;
(f) Improving on-farm water management efficiency through
watercourse improvements on 143,000 ac and precision land
leveling on 35,000 ac;
(g) Improving the rural market road network to handle increased
inputs and outputs expected with project development;
(h) Improving agricultural extension services and the institu-
tion of the training and visit (T&V) system over the
entire Administrative District and the Charadda Tehsil
of the Peshawar District, covering a total GCA of 670,000
ac;
(i) Improving the quality and quantity of maize seed for the
Mardan area;
(i) Monitoring irrigation deliveries, drainage flows, water
table depths, land reclamation progress and agricultural
yields and production;
(j) Providing equipment and vehicles for construction, O&M,
agricultural extension, monitoring programs, seed pro-
duction and distribution, and project support; and
(1) Providing technical assistance (consultants) for the prep-
aration of detailed designs, specifications, tender documents
and construction drawings for civil works; for feasibility
studies of a subsequent project to provide for the needs of
the remainder of the USC command area; and to advise and
assist in reorganizing the agricultural extension program
in line with the training and visit (T&V) system and to
advise and develop local expertise in sugar beet agronomy.
Description of Major Works to be Undertaken
3.04      LSC Irrigation System.  The LSC, completed in 1885, is supplied
from the Swat River at the Munda headworks and commands a CCA of 134,500 ac.
For the first 4 mi, the canal also conveys irrigation water to the Sholgara
Canal serving a CCA of 10,500 ac. The canal presently has an authorized
full supply of 830 cusecs for the LSC and 176 cusecs for the Sholgara Canal.
However, the peak month water delivery presently averages only about 940
cusecs.
3.05      The original design for the LSC system was based on providing
between 5 and 6 cusecs of channel capacity at the distributary head for each
1,000 ac of area served. About 10 to 12 cusecs per 1,000 ac, or about twice
the capacity of the existing system, is now required. The original cropping
intensity used in the design of the irrigation system was 100%; 60% in the
kharif and 40% in the rabi season. Present cropping intensities average 175%.



- 15 -
Estimated peak monthly water requirements (May) for the proposed project
cropping intensity of 180% at full development would be about 1,820 cusecs,
or 93% greater than the present peak deliveries. For the peak two-week
requirement period, design capacity requirements would exceed the existing
capacity by more than 100%. The existing regulator at the Munda headworks
would be remodeled to divert the additional water to the LSC. The field
cost of the modification work, estimated at US$1.0 M, is included in the
cost of the LSC.
3.06      Except for January, when all irrigation channels are closed for
maintenance, the LSC system is operated continuously. The main and branch
canals are operated to supply full releases to off-taking channels simul-
taneously. Because of perennial irrigation and the difficulty of enlarging
the present system with water in the canals, a parallel canal system of
equal capacity would be constructed. About 2,500 ac of additional right of
way would be required for constructing the parallel system. The acquisition
cost of this land is estimated at US$2.5 M.
3.07      The LSC irrigation system, excluding the Sholgara system, comprises
the 25 mi-long LSC, ten distributaries and branches totalling 70 mi in length
and 19 minors with a total length of 83 mi, as shown on the irrigation system
map (Map 13707). The type and number of structures in the combined LSC
and Sholgara systems, exclusive of the Munda headworks, are shown in the
following table. The same number of structures have been proposed for the new
parallel system and improvements would be made to structures in the existing
system where necessary.
Canal              Lower Swat Canal        Distributaries    Minors       Total
Fall                      10                    104              90        204
District Road Bridge       2                     13              21         36
Head Regulator            10                     16               2         28
Village Road
Bridge                   6                     48             67         121
Aqueduct                  10                       6              7          23
Outlet                    10                    108              98        216
Inlet                     4                       -              -           4
Syphon                    4                       8              25         37
Super Passage              4                      3               -           7
Foot Bridge                5                      12             23         40
Flume                      -                      -               2           2
Railway Bridge                                    4               4          8
3.08      Rehabilitation of Existing Open Drains.  A total of about 284 mi of
open drains would be rehabilitated or remodeled, benefitting 183,000 ac. The
work would consist of re-establishing alignments, channel deepening to provide
adequate depths for buried drains, and reshaping channel cross sections to
increase flow capacities. About 2,400 ac of right-of-way would be required
for this work at an estimated cost of US$2.4 M.
3.09      The lengths of all open drains were measured and checked in the
field. The Murdara drain was designed in detail, with construction grade



- 16 -
plan-profile sheets, to estimate earthwork quantities and structural require-
ments. Results from these studies were projected to the rest of the area for
estimating open drainage costs. Flow quantities were determined for five-year
storm frequencies with irrigation and subsurface returns added. Minimum cross-
sections of drains would have bottom widths of 4 ft, depths of 8 ft below
ground surface, and 1-1/2:1 side slopes. The average channel depth would be
about 9 ft.  An average of one arterial road bridge, one drop structure, 14
village road bridges and culverts, three aqueducts and six foot bridges would
be provided for each 10 mi of open drain. The following table summarizes the
estimated lengths of drain to be rehabilitated, the area benefitted, and the
estimated cost including structures:
Tota,
System                CCA ac    Drains mi    Cost/ac, US$        Cost- US$
('000)
Hisara
North                23,000        40              53            1,210
South                46,000        78              51            2,360
Subtotal             69,000       118              52            3,570
Murdara
North                18,000        22              37              670
South                28,000        36              39            1,090
Subtotal             46,000        58              38            1,760
Plato                  3,000        10             100              300
Bandai                10,000        26              79              790
Uch                   13,000        12              28              360
Ballar                42,000        60              43            1,820
Total              183,000       284              47            8,600
Physical contingencies                                              900
Total open drain cost                                             9,500
/a For comparative purposes, costs in this table include equipment
depreciation; however, in the cost table in para 3.58, equipment
depreciation is not included since equipment will be furnished
under the project.
3.10      Subsurface Drainage System.  Shallow water tables have developed
under about 110,000 ac CCA, and the varying saline-alkaline and water-
logging conditions resulting have significantly reduced agricultural yields.
About 25,000 ac have been abandonded or are only marginally productive because
of adverse drainage and saline-alkalie soil conditions. Subsurface drains
would be required (i) to lower and control the water table to depths at least
4 ft below ground surface and (ii) to remove the water required in the reclam-
ation of the abandoned and marginal lands. The subsurface drains would be
provided on all lands lying west of the Mardan-Nowshera road with water table
depths within 5 ft of the ground surface, on lands east of the Mardan-Nowshera



- 17 -
road in the Plato and Bandai watersheds with watertable depths less than 5 ft
and on lands in the Uch and Ballar watershed with watertable depths less than
3 ft. About 2,600 mi of tile drains would be required.
3.11      Subsurface drainage requirements were determined using US Bureau
of Reclamation transient state methods, which relate the groundwater recharge
rate with local irrigation practices. An average drain depth of 8 ft was
proposed because of greater economies associated with a drain of this depth
and the availability of sufficient outfall depths. The following table sum-
marizes drainage requirements, areas drained and subsurface drainage cost by
watersheds:
Drained    Lateral   Collector   Total  US$    Total Cost /a
System     area ac   Drains mi  Drains mi        mi   ac  /b   US$ '000
Hisara
North       29,400     578         98          676    300        8,900
South      15,500      338         45          383    330        5,100
Subtotal   44,900      916        143        1,059    310       14,000
Murdara
North       19,000      329        76          405    280        5,400
South      20,000      439         61          500    320        6,600
Subtotal   39,000      768        137          905    310       12,000
West of
Hisara      5,800     100         17          117    260        1,500
Plato         3,400       85        11           96    380        1,300
Bandai        8,500      227        30          257    400        3,400
Uch           3,000       77         9           86    370        1,100
Ballar        5,400     123         17          140    330        1,800
Total    110,000   2,296         364        2,660    320      35,100
Physical contingencies                                            3,500
Total Subsurface drainage cost                          390      38,600
/a  For comparative purposes, costs include equipment depreciation;
however, equipment depreciation is not included in the cost table
in para 3.58, since equipment will be furnished under the project.
Costs do not include price escalation or engineering and supervision
costs.
/b Rounded to nearest US$10/ac.
3.12      No land would be acquired for the construction of subsurface drains,
since no additional land would be taken permanently for these works; however,
payment for crops damaged, destroyed or foregone due to construction activities
would be paid at prevailing prices. The estimated weighted average crop value
is about Rs 1,600 per ac. Based on a 50-ft working easement width for the
2,600 mi of subsurface drains, crop damage compensation would total about
US$2.5 M.



- 18 -
3.13      Modifications to Benton Tunnel.  In order to supply water for the
reclamation (leaching) of project lands included in the USC command area,
minor modifications to the 2.1-mi long Benton Tunnel would be undertaken.
Although the tunnel was designed for a capacity of 2,400 cusecs, it was
able to pass only 1,800 cusecs after completion due to irregularities of
the surface of the tunnel. Engineering studies made by the Irrigation
Department, NWFP, have determined that with minor work on the inside surface
of the tunnel the capacity could be increased to 2,060 cusecs, more than
enough to provide the necessary water required for leaching. The work would
include removing constrictions and rock projections in the tunnel at several
locations and providing a 1-ft thick 18-ft wide concrete bed in the invert of
the tunnel throughout its length. Estimated construction quantities include
14,000 cu yd of hard rock excavation, 4,300 cu yd of lean concrete for filling
depressions (overcuts), and 7,500 cu yd of reinforced concrete in the invert
lining.
3.14      A maximum of about 80 to 90 cusecs would be required at the height
of the reclamation program to reclaim the 8,500 ac of land in need of reclama-
tion in the USC command area. The developed water not required for leaching
these lands, and the full quantity after the leaching process was completed,
would be allocated throughout the USC command area on the basis of equal water
rights for each ac of land.
3.15      Improvement of Rural Market Road Network.  The farm-to-market road
improvement program would be undertaken only in the LSC command area. Roads
in the USC command area would be undertaken in the future project. Most of
the existing village roads are narrow and unpaved, making them impassable,
even to animal-drawn vehicles, after heavy rains. During these periods, farm
products cannot be transported to markets. Also, nearly all crossing struc-
tures are built of temporary materials. Some villages have no access to the
rural road network other than by footpaths and agricultural products must be
transported manually.
3.16      Design criteria for the road network would be as follows (whenever
economically advantageous and technically acceptable to do so):
(a)  all parts of the LSC command area would be brought within
one mile distance of an all-weather road;
(b)  village roads would by-pass the villages to avoid congestion;
and
(c)  village roads would follow canal alignmerts so as to serve
both public and canal maintenance needs.
3.17      Road plans and detailed design would be prepared as part of the final
project designs. A lump sum of US$1.5 M has been estimated to be required to
cover the cost of improving or constructing about 100 mi of gravel or macadam-
surfaced roads. This cost would be in addition to about US$1.4 M of road
construction equipment provided under the project. An assurance was obtained
from WAPDA that prior to improving any portion of the rural market road
network, it would furnish to IDA for review, a survey of road requirements and
detailed designs for the road improvement works under the project.



- 19 -
On-Farm Improvements
3.18      Watercourse Remodeling.  Although there are no reliable measurements,
present water losses from watercourses in the NWFP are observed to be exces-
sive, about 40 to 50% of the water delivered to the watercourse head. Actual
field measurements of such losses in other areas confirm this amoun- and
indicate that the largest loss occurs in the first one-half of the watercourse.
Most of this loss is from poorly maintained watercourse banks. Watercourse
rehabilitation experiments carried out in Pakistan by Colorado State University,
USAID and others have shown that losses can be reduced by 25 to 50% simply by
re-establishing the cross-section of the watercourse, compacting the banks,
and installing permanent junction boxes and other control structures.
3.19      The USAID on-farm water management program in Pakistan is being
carried out by the Department of Agriculture. Farmers are motivated and
organized to be involved in the planning and execution of the remodelling work,
as well as to contribute free labor to complete the earthwork for watercourse
remodeling. The permanent junction boxes and other necessary structures are
provided and installed by the Department of Agriculture. The USAID program
started its field work in 1977 and as of July 1978 about 70 watercourses were
completely remodeled. The program is about one year behind schedule, as it
started one year later than originally planned. However, in the last six
months the rate of implementation has speeded up, since the staff needed for
the program has increased considerably and farmers are more receptive to the
program. In the Punjab area, the program is receiving more farm applications
for watercourse remodeling than it can handle at present.
3.20      Watercourse remodeling in the project area will be carried out by
the NWFP Irrigation Department, generally following the technical procedure
of the USAID water management program. The original rights-of-way for the
watercourses would be used where possible, the channels would be rebuilt
to the proper cross-section and shape, the embankments would be strengthened
and compacted and necessary control structures would be installed. These
works would increase the capacity of the watercourses and enable better
control of the water. By providing pipe outlets, the present practice of
cutting the watercourse embankment would be avoided and thus result in
stronger embankments with less water losses and crop damage from flooding or
waterlogging. The watercourses would have to be completely reconstructed in
areas which have been abandoned or are in need of reclamation. In conjunction
with the watercourse remodeling program, a review of field drainage require-
ments would be made and field drains would be constructed where necessary to
ensure that each watercourse area would have adequate field drainage.
3.21      The cost of watercourse remodeling is estimated at about Rs 100 per
ac, about equally divided between earthwork and permanent control structures.
With farmers contributing free labor, the cost of watercourse remodeling for
the 143,000 ac to be undertaken by the project would be about Rs 7.2 M. The
cost of constructing the necessary field drains in each watercourse area is
estimated to be about Rs 50 per ac. Again with farmers contributing the labor,
this work would cost about Rs 3.6 M, making the total cost of watercourses and
field drains about Rs 10.8 M.



- 20 -
3.22      Land Leveling.  The 25,000 ac of land to be reclaimed (paras 3.03(e)
and 3.23) would need to be leveled precisely to achieve uniform leaching with
a minimum amount of time and water. In addition, about 10,000 ac of uneven
land requires land leveling for better crop production and more efficient use
of water, making a total of 35,000 ac in need of land leveling. The GOP,
assisted by USAID, operates a program whereby mechanized land leveling equip-
ment and trained technical assistance are made available to farmers at rates
of about Rs 2.0 per cu yd of earth moved, which is about half of the total
cost of about Rs 4.0 per cu yd, net of equipment depreciation costs. Because
the land leveling work is essential for starting the land reclamation program,
land leveling in the project area would be carried out by WAPDA following
GOP's above policy of underwriting about half of the cost of the work. Based
on earlier studies in the Punjab and Sind, the volume of earth to be moved
in the leveling process averages about 340 cu yd per ac of CCA. Assuming 300
cu yd of soil per ac would be required to be moved in areas to be reclaimed
(due to better leveling presently existing in these areas) and a cost of
Rs 2.0 per cu yd, the unit-area cost would be about Rs 600 per ac. Based
on these figures, the cost of the land leveling work in the project area would
be Rs 21.0 M (US$2.1 M), not including US$0.7 M for equipment provided under
the project. The remaining cost of the land leveling work (Rs 2.0 per cu yd)
would be assessed to the owners of the land leveled.
3.23      Land Reclamation.  About 25,000 ac (CCA) of land with saline-
alkaline soils are interspersed throughout the lower-lying agricultural area
of the project arid would require reclamation to be fully productive.  All
of this land is privately owned and most is presently unproductive. Reclama-
tion would be dependent upon and would largely follow after drainage facilities
are provided. The reclamation procedure would involve: (1) land leveling,
bunding, and land preparation as required for a paddy crop; (2) application
to a depth of 10 to 12 inches of an average of six tons of gypsum per acre,
followed by leaching with about 4 to 6 inches of water; (3) addition of 20
pounds of zinc sulphate per acre plus the full recommended fertilizer dose for
paddy; (4) transplanting of rice seedlings or broadcasting of paddy seeds; (5)
normal crop management and harvesting; followed by (6) normal land preparation
and planting and management of a (salt or alkali tolerant) winter crop such as
wheat, barley or forage following the rice crop. This cycle of paddy followed
by a winter crop would be repeated yearly, but without further addition of
gypsum or zinc, until a satisfactory yield of the winter crop was obtained,
at which time the land would be considered to be reclaimed and fit for pro-
duction of any upland crop or paddy.
3.24       For completion of the reclamation program, it is estimated that a
total of about 150,000 tons of gypsum at about US$21 per ton ($3.15 M) and
about 250 tons of zinc sulphate at about US$200 per ton (US$0.05 M) would be
required in addition to land leveling, bunding, fertilizing, planting, etc.
The gypsum and zinc sulphate would be provided under the project. The land
leveling would be done as discussed in para 3.22. The bunding, fertilizing,
planting and leaching process would be the responsibility of the landowners.
An assurance was obtained from the Government that, by March 31, 1981, it
would discuss with IDA the price to be paid by farmers for soil amendments
applied during the land reclamation process and any subsidy to be granted for
its use. The reclamation program would begin in the third year of project
implementation but little or no crop production would be obtained the first



- 21 -
year; however, it should be able to obtain about 40% of normal production of
rice and somewhat less of the winter crop in the second year, 70% of normal
crop production in the third year, 90% the fourth year, and 100% of normal
crop production thereafter. Considering the fact that no soil reclamation
program of any sort has been carried out in the project area and that little
is known locally about the subject, experimental reclamation trials would be
initiated during the second and third years of the project. It is anticipated
that the reclamation program would proceed as follows:
Area Taken Up
Calendar Year             Project Year           For Reclamation
1979                         1                       0
1980                         2                       0
1981                         3                     2,000 ac
1982                         4                     5,000 ac
1983                         5                     8,000 ac
1984                         6                    10,000 ac
3.25      The reclamation program would be successful only if it is fully
supported by GONWFP and GOP and is promoted by a skilled group of local
technicians provided with the necessary inputs and support facilities. A
Reclamation Unit would be set up within the project organization to conduct
the reclamation program. The unit would be based at Peshawar and would have
no responsibilities other than the soil reclamation program. Support facil-
ities for the program would include a soils and water laboratory equipped
with the necessary equipment and transportation facilities (Annex 1, Table 8).
The Central Monitoring Organization of WAPDA has offices, a small laboratory,
and staff in Peshawar. These offices and facilities would be expanded to
carry out the reclamation function.
Status of Field Investigations, Surveys and Designs
3.26      Engineering surveys, topographic mapping, subsoil hydraulic conduc-
tivity measurements, open drain survey and base-flow discharge measurements,
geologic investigations, soil testing and surveys, and crop yield sample
surveys for areas with water table depths from 1 to 5 ft were carried out by
WAPDA, with consultant assistance, starting in 1975. Existing data on soils,
ground water, streamflow, agriculture, construction costs, and market prices
also were collected and analyzed.
3.27      Topographic Mapping.  Since 1976, over 140,000 ac have been mapped
at a scale of 1:4,800 with 1-ft contours. At the present rate, the mapping
will be completed in 1979.
3.28      Hydraulic Conductivities.  A total of 400 pump-out auger-hole tests
for permeability were conducted -- about one test per square mile of project
area. Most tests were made on composite profiles (consisting of more than
one layer). These tests are of little value for projecting permeability values
to other areas. Additional tests on individual soil layers will be made for
design of subsurface drains.



- 22 -
3.29      Exploratory Borings and Test Pits.  Soil profiles throughout the
project area were logged and reviewed by WAPDA using US Department of Agricul-
ture, Soil Conservation Service, methods and procedures. This work would be
continued using project-furnished drilling equipment to obtain undisturbed
samples to depths of 10 ft. Below 10 ft, carefully logged hand or power auger-
holes or would be used for design. About 25 holes per square T2ile would be
bored for design - 15 holes/mi to 10-ft depth and 10 holes/mi to an
identifiable barrier or a maximum depth of about 30 ft.
3.30      Subsurface Drain Design.  Detailed designs of subsurface drains
have not yet been undertaken and would be completed during the final design
of the project as the required subsurface data are obtained. Detailed soils
data, engineering requirements, and design criteria have yet to be developed.
Design parameters selected would provide adequate drainage at Least cost
for each drainage system. Generally, drains would be located in the most
permeable soil betwen 6 and 10 ft below ground surface. Pipe drain depths
would average about 8 ft over most of the system. This depth generally
would minimize the capital investment and O&M costs on the buried drains.
3.31      Open Drain Design.  All of the open drains have been surveyed for
alignment, cross section and stability. The Murdara Drain system was studied
in detail. The open drains would have 1-1/2:1 side slopes and would be deep
enough to receive the pipe drains entering the open drain at depths around
8 ft below ground surface. For unstable soils (saline-alkaline areas), a
flatter side slope would be used where necessary.
3.32      LSC Irrigation System.  A new parallel irrigation system of about
equal capacity to the existing system would be provided, since the existing
system was designed for, and can only supply, about half of the present maxi-
mum irrigation water demand requirements. The original construction drawings
were reviewed to obtain excavation quantities and the details on structures.
Final designs of the parallel system would be prepared during the project
implementation stage.
3.33      On-Farm Improvements.  A detailed evaluation of laboratory data
supporting reconnaissance soil surveys in the project area was made to
determine the amounts of salt-affected soils and the categories to which they
belonged. From this evaluation, the saline-alkali problem soils were deter-
mined and the areas in need of reclamation wpre identified   Field inspections
and review of available aerial photographs for different time periods further
delineated these areas. Detailed surveys and designs for watercourse re-
modeling, land leveling and land reclamation would be carried out during the
implementation stage.
Construction Methods and Materials
3.34      Existing office, housing and O&M facilities in the project area
are inadequate for the construction and O&M needs of the project. The field
cost of the construction and operation camp facilities and the additional
maintenance buildings and yards required during project implementation are
estimated at US$0.8 M.



- 23 -
3.35      Open Drains.  Labor-intensive methods would be used to remodel most
open drains (about 75% of the work), using both donkey and human labor.  About
3 M cu yd of earthwork would be required. Channel construction in drains with
water depths exceeding 2 ft would be remodeled using heavy machinery.  Numer-
ous contractors in the area are capable of executing large labor-intensive
contracts of the scale contemplated.  There are several contractors in Pakistan
that have capability in machine excavation but their present machinery is old
and should be replaced. Equipment required for open-channel work is included
under the project.
3.36      Subsurface Pipe Drains.  Latest pipe-laying techniques would be used
to construct the buried pipe drains, including the use of laser-directed equip-
ment. Trenching machines capable of laying plastic tubing with a minimum
four-inch gravel envelope at 8 to 10 ft below ground surface would be provided
under the project. About 75% of the drains would require a pipe size of 4-
to 6-inch diameter. Costs were estimated using corrugated PVC plastic tubing;
however, only three-in PVC tubing presently is manufactured in Pakistan
(Karachi) by Pakistan PVC Ltd. A new plant would be required and is included
in the equipment needs of the project, estimated to cost US$1.6 M, exclusive
of land costs. GOP agreed to inform IDA of arrangements for the construction
and operation of the new plant and to submit a detailed feasibility study for
the plant by March 31, 1979. The plant most likely would be located at
Islamabad or Rawalpindi to better serve the general area of northwest Pakistan
and to reduce transportation costs. Although plastic tubing could be obtained
from abroad, the cost would be 60 to 70% greater than the estimated cost of
locally-produced tubing. Gravel envelope material is considered better than
man-made fabric filter and is plentiful in the project area. A gravel process-
ing plant has been included in the equipment needs of the project.
3.37      Irrigation System.  The LSC irrigation system would be constructed
with both labor-intensive and equipment-oriented methods, using equipment
only for the construction of the larger canals. Equipment would be used in
the compaction of all canal banks and around all canal structures to obtain
required soil densities and minimize seepage losses. Equipment required
for constructing of the irrigation system is provided under the project.
3.38      Farm-to-Market Roads.  Rehabilitation and construction of the rural
road network would be done by local contractors using equipment provided by
the project. Adequate construction materials are available locally.
3.39      On-Farm Improvements.  Watercourse remodeling, farm drain construc-
tion and land reclamation would be done principally by the farmers with tech-
nical assistance and materials provided by the project, whereas land leveling
would be carried out by GOP, using equipment provided by the project. Work
programs for watercourse remodeling and field drains would be planned and
implemented on a watercourse basis, involving all of the farmers in the water-
course in the planning, layout and construction work. The existing USAID-
assisted land leveling program would be followed in the land leveling work.



- 24 -
Agricultural Development
3.40      Agricultural Extension.  It is essential to the success of the
project that the agricultural extension service be improved and operated
more effectively, thus the method and staffing of the extension service would
be organized on the lines of the T&V system which has proved successful in
neighboring countries and other areas of Pakistan. Its adaptation to condi-
tions in the NWFP and the job descriptions of the various staff grades are
found in the "Operating Manual of the Agricultural Extension Service in the
North-west Frontier Province." Assurances were obtained from GONWFP that (i)
it would introduce the T&V agricultural extension system in the project area
by June 30, 1980 in accordance with arrangements satisfactory to IDA and
thereafter maintain and continue to operate the system efficiently; (ii) all
staff directly involved in agricultural extension would be released from all
non-extension activities, including the sale and application of pesticides;
(iii) beginning not later than June 30, 1980, it would provide vehicles to
extension workers in the project area in accordance with arrangements satis-
factory to IDA; and (iv) it would compensate, in accordance with prevailing
NWFP rules and regulations, extension workers in the project area for expen-
ditures incurred during duty travel.
3.41      The details of additions or changes required in the present organ-
ization to enable the T&V system to be operated effectively are presented in
Annex 2. A summary of costs of the agricultural extension improvement program,
exclusive of equipment and technical assistance costs, which are included
separately in the project cost estimate (para 3.58), is shown in the following
table:
Item                             Cost /a
US$ M
Housing                              0.48
Stores and offices                   0.11
Vehicle operating costs              0.12
Incremental staff salaries           0.30
Staff traveling allowances           0.09
Building maintenance                 0.05
Total                              1.15
/a Exclusive of equipment and technical
assistance costs.
3.42      Maize Seed Multiplication and Distribution.  One of the factors
presently depressing yields of current crop varieties in Pakistan is the
lack of a rigid procedure for seed quality control. An IDA-supported Seeds
Project (Credit 620-PAK) is currently under implementation in the Sind and
Punjab Provinces to produce seeds in accordance with quality standards set
forth in the Seed Act of 1975. The Punjab Seeds Project has the capability
to meet NWFP's wheat seed needs until it organizes its own production. Wheat
seed produced in the Punjab would not be ideally adapted to the NWFP but
would be a great improvement over present quality. However, maize seed
requirements must be produced in the NWFP, since the ecological adaptability



- 25 -
of maize varieties is much narrower than that of wheat. A maize seed multi-
plication and distribution scheme would be provided under the project to meet
the needs for certified maize seed within the project area. The net opera-
tional cost are estimated at US$0.15 M. Details are given in Annex 2.
Monitoring Program
3.43      Assurances were obtained from GONWFP and WAPDA that irrigation
deliveries, drainage flows, water table depths, land reclamation progress and
agricultural inputs, yields and production would be monitored and the results
as well as the socio-economic aspects and benefits of the project evaluated
throughout the project implementation period and until December 31, 1989.
WAPDA agreed to produce a study based on an analysis of water table observa-
tion data to be used as a guide for future drainage design. A list of equip-
ment to be provided for the program is given in Annex 1, Table 7.
3.44      Irrigation Deliveries.  There is a great lack of useable data within
Pakistan concerning canal conveyance efficiencies which can be used reliably
in determining project diversion requirements and overall water use effi-
ciencies for irrigation systems. Efficient water use or equitable water
deliveries cannot be achieved unless canal flows in all sections of an irri-
gation delivery system can be determined with a fair degree of accuracy. A
water measurement program would provide this data for the USC and LSC systems.
Also, data would be obtained for use as a guide in planning or designing
irrigation projects in other areas of Pakistan and for future canal improvement
plans within the project area.
3.45      The water measurement program would be set up in both the USC and
LSC irrigation systems to determine more accurately irrigation deliveries
throughout each system and the areas or reaches of greatest seepage and/or
operational loss. At locations where accurate flow measurements cannot be
made under existing conditions, gauging stations with automatic recorders
would be established. Where existing structures are suitable for flow measure-
ment or can be modified at reasonable cost they would be rated and/or improved
and automatic recorders installed where necessary.
3.46      Drainage Flows.  A simple drainage flow measurement program would
be established for the first few drains installed to determine the effective-
ness of the subsurface drains, identify problems which occur and to obtain
data that would be used in the design and construction of the remaining tile
drains. Periodic flow measurements would be made at selected manholes and
measurement weirs and automatic recorders would be installed at about five
of these to monitor long-term flow conditions over several irrigation and
cultivation seasons.
3.47      Water Table Depths.  A grid or system of two-inch observation wells
would be installed within the first year of project implementation over
selected areas requiring subsurface drainage to monitor groundwater levels
both before and after the installation of the drains. The data obtained would
be used to determine the effectiveness of the buried drains in lowering water
table levels, identify areas where additional or closer drain spacing would
be required and to obtain design data for use in similar areas of Pakistan.



- 26 -
The observation wells would be installed to depths of 10 ft at the mid-point
between drains for 10 to 12 selected areas with drain spacings of 600 ft or
less. Three equally-spaced wells would be placed between drains greater than
600 ft apart. A total of about 40-50 wells would be installed. All wells
would be installed using hand augers or light duty power drill rigs, and
borings would be logged for soil texture, structure, and chemical properties.
The mid-point well at selected locations would be equipped with an automatic
water level recorder. Other wells would be read bimonthly to determine water
table levels.
3.48      Subsurface drainage conditions over the entire project area would
be monitored through a permanent net of observation wells located about every
3 mi. During installation, the wells would be carefully logged as to soil
characteristics. Water levels would be recorded monthly. Water quality samples
would be taken shortly after the wells are installed to establish baseline
data on groundwater chemistry. The wells would be pumped once a year and
the "fresh" inflows tested for chemical properties. Noting the changing
conditions of nearby crops and soils during this period would yield important
data for monitoring and evaluating the effects of drainage and reclamation
practices. The data gathered would be used to analyze:
(a)  responses of the water table to increased water supplies
in the areas where at present water table depths are over
5 ft. (Rising trends would indicate the need for future
subsurface drain installation);
(b)  the benefits of the drainage program in terms of increased
production; and
(c)  progress of soil reclamation.
The information would be used for planning similar projects in the future.
3.49      Land Reclamation.  The progress and effectiveness of land reclama-
tion undertaken by the project would be carefully monitored by the land
reclamation unit set up specifically to direct the land reclamation program
in the project area. The support facilities for the reclamation monitoring
program would include the soils and water laboratory in Peshawar, expanded
with project-furnished equipment, under the Central Monitoring Organization
of WAPDA. Sufficient soils and water tests would be taken for each field
during the reclamation process to determine when the land was fully reclaimed.
3.50      Agricultural Base Survey.  An agricultural and socio-economic
benchmark survey would be conducted over the entire Mardan area (670,000 ac)
to be covered by the agricultural extension program within the first year of
project implementation to ascertain current levels of production, farm incomes,
income distribution and other socio-economic aspects. Thereafter, the survey
would be made annually to evaluate the benefits of the project. Within the
210,000-ac project area, particular attention would be given to tailoring the
survey to areas of the various civil works and their rate of execution, as a
means of measuring benefits accruing to extension alone and those associated
with particular civil works components of the project. The monitoring and
evaluation work for these aspects would be done under the direction of the
Faculty of Agriculture, University of Peshawar.



- 27 -
3.51      Estimated costs of the monitoring programs are shown in the follow-
ing tables. Equipments for each program are shown in Annex 1, Table 7,
Section VII(b).
Program                               Cost- - US$'000
Water Measurement                                200
Drainage & Water Table Observations              200
Land Reclamation                                 200
Agricultural Base Survey                         100
Total                                         700
/a  Exclusive of vehicle costs and internationally
procured equipment and materials.
Water Supply, Demand and Quality
3.52      The project derives its irrigation water supply from the Swat River,
which rises and flows entirely.-within the NWFP, and from a limited amount of
groundwater pumped from small, localized groundwater development areas. The
USC, which supplies 274,000 ac of land (75,000 ac of which is located in the
project area) takes water directly from the Swat River at the Amandara head-
works, and the LSC, which supplies a command area of 134,500 ac as well as the
10,500 ac Sholgara Canal command area, diverts from the Swat River at the Munda
headworks, some 50 mi downstream. Also diverting from the Munda headworks, but
on the opposite bank of the river, the Doaba Canal supplies a command area of
27,000 ac. The Swat River joins the Kabul River at Charsadda, about 17 mi
below the Munda headworks. The Kabul River joins the Indus River about 35 mi
further downstream. The entire flow of the Swat River is under the control
and jurisdiction of the GONWFP, since it is classified as a provincial stream.
3.53      There is a surplus of water in the river at the diversion works even
though a serious water shortage presently exists in the project area, since
existing canal capacities are not sufficient to convey the quantity of water
needed. Estimates of canal diversion requirements for the LSC command area
and for the Sholgara and Doaba command areas (Annex 1, Table 9) on a monthly
basis for the design cropping pattern in the LSC and the existing cropping
pattern in the Sholgara & Doaba command areas, when compared to the historical
record of the Swat River at the Munda headworks, show that an ample supply of
water would be available during all but three months of the 21-year period of
record (1956 to 1976) when negligible shortages (1 to 9%) would occur.
Existing withdrawals are far less than the requirements shown. Comparisons of
future diversion requirements, existing withdrawals and river discharge are
shown in Table 10 and illustrated on Chart 1, Annex I.
3.54      Estimates of net irrigation requirements for the design cropping
pattern (Annex 1, Charts 2 and 3) were made using the modified Penman method
for determining evapotranspiration, taking into account effective rainfall
and available soil moisture at the end of the growing period. Gross diversion
requirements for the LSC were calculated using a canal conveyance efficiency
of 64% (85% main canal and 75% for distributaries) and 70% farm irrigation



- 28 -
efficiency, for an overall project water use efficiency of about 45%. Esti-
mates of potential future diversion requirements for the Sholgara and Doaba
Canals used canal conveyance efficiencies of 75% and 70%, respectively, since
these canals are shorter. The average annual diversion requirement for the
LSC, excluding Sholgara, was estimated to be 730,000 ac-ft. Historical
diversions for the LSC command area averaged 464,000 ac ft, or only 63% of
project requirements.  During May and June, the recorded diversions Pv^>oX
only 46% of estimated requirements. An assurance was obtained from GONWIP
that it would allocate to the LSC command area the full amount cf water
required from the Swat River for project use, estimated to average 730,000
ac-ft annually, or an increase of 266,000 ac-ft (57%) over the existing
withdrawal levels.
3.55      With the enlargement of the Benton Tunnel, an estimated 260 cusecs
of additional water would be diverted from the Swat River to the USC command
area during peak use periods. An assurance was obtained from the GONWFP
that this additional water would be allocated to the USC command area and
that the land reclamation program would have first allocation rights to this
water until the lands were fully reclaimed.
3.56      Surface Water Quality.  Based on the analysis of 204 water samples
taken at Chakdara over a period of ten years, the quality of Swat River water
diverted for irrigation is excellent. The waters of the Kalpani River, based
on 125 samples collected over a six-year period, are somewhat poorer in
quality but are still excellent for irrigation. On the basis of a few random
samples collected from the main surface drains (Murdara, Hisara, Bandai,
etc.), the salinity of the drainage water never reaches a level (1,100 ppm of
total salts) where it would be unsuitable for irrigation.
3.57      Groundwater Quality.  The average salt content of 39 deep and 23
shallow tubewells studied shows that most of the deeper groundwaters are of
excellent quality; a few are questionable, but none are definitely bad. The
water collected from 22 "dug wells" and a large number of shallow (6 to 13 ft
deep) observation wells was somewhat poorer in quality, but in most areas
still would be suitable for irrigation.
Technical Assistance
3.58      Consultants would be required at an early date to assist WAPDA in
the preparation of specifications, designs, tender documents and the detailed
drawings required for construction, as well as for construction supervision.
The consultants also would assist in the preparation of the feasibility report
for the remaining area (210,000 ac). Estimates of consultant requirements
total about 35 man years. Terms of reference for this work are included in
Annex 3; WAPDA intends to proceed as soon as possible with the engagement
of consultants. The cost of the consultants is estimated to be about US$3.5 M,
inclusive of travel and other expenses. The billing rate, which includes
salary and overhead and unforeseen expenditures, is estimated at about US$8,500
per man month. A training program for Government staff in the consultant's
home office and in other countries where specific training needs or programs
are available would be provided to develop expertise and experience in the
planning, design and execution of irrigation and drainage projects. The cost
of the training program is estimated at about US$200,000. The appointment
,.f cnsultants would be a condition of credit effectiveness.



- 29 -
3.59      In addition to the above technical assistance, the services of an
agricultural extension and training specialist for 20 months and a sugar beet
agronomist for 21 months would be provided to assist with the agricultural
extension and research programs. Terms of reference for these positions are
included in Annex 3. The costs of these specialists are estimated at about
US$8,000 per man month, including travel and other expenses, for a total of
about US$0.3 M.
Cost Estimates
3.60      Total costs of the project would amount to about US$150.0 M, includ-
ing US$7.0 M import duties and taxes and US$28.7 M for price escalation. The
foreign exchange cost would be about US$67.0 M or 45%. Costs were based on
prices prevailing in mid-1978 and were updated to January 1979 price levels.
The costs of civil works and on-farm improvements do not include the cost of
depreciation of construction equipment since the construction equipment would
be provided under the project. Subsurface drainage costs were based on bid
abstracts for recent drainage contracts in Iraq and experience in the USA.
WAPDA's costs for administration and engineering were estimated to be about
10% of construction costs. Physical contingency factors of 20% and 10% were
applied to costs of civil works and on-farm improvements, respectively. Price
contingencies are estimated to be about 24% of base costs in accordance with
inflation rates of 7.5% during 1979 and 7% thereafter for the foreign cost
of civil works and 8.5% during 1979 and 8% thereafter for local costs and 6.5%
for equipment and services during 1979 and 6% thereafter. O&M costs of the
irrigation and drainage system, to be provided under the project during the
construction period and for two years thereafter, are estimated at US$2.7 M.
Cost estimates are detailed in Annex 1, Table 11 and are summarized below:



- 30 -
SUMMARY COST ESTIMATE
Foreign
Local    Foreign    Total        Exchange
 ----  US$ Million------            %
Land Acquisition & Crop Damage    7.4           0          7.4           0
Civil Works /a
Benton Tunnel                    0.7        0.1        0.8          13
Lower Swat Canal                 9.7        3.3       13.0          25
Open Drainage                    5.6        1.8        7.4          24
Subsurface Drainge              11.1       20.7       31.8          65
Road Improvements                 1.5          0       1.5           0
Construction and O&M Camp        0.7        0.1        0.8          13
On-Farm Improvements /a
Watercourse Remodeling            1.1          0       1.1           0
Land Reclamation                 2.8        0.4        3.2          13
Land Leveling                    1.2        0.9        2.1          43
Engineering, Supervision and
Administration                     7.3          0       7.3           0
Equipment and Vehicles               7.2       17.2      24.4 /b        70
Monitoring Programs                  0.7          0        0.7           0
Technical Assistance
Consultants                      0.2        3.7        3.9          95
Training                            0       0.2        0.2         100
Agricultural Development             1.3          0        1.3           0
Base Cost                       58.5       48.4      106.9          45
Physical Contingencies               6.4        5.3      11.7          45
Price Escalation                    15.4       13.3      28.7          46
O&M During Project
Implementation                    2.7        0          2.7           0
Total Project Cost              83.0       67.0      150.0          45
/a   Not including the cost of equipment depreciation, since all equipment
would be provided under the project.
/b   Without taxes and duties but with price escalation this becomes
US$19.5 M.
Implementation Schedule
3.61      The project is scheduled for completion within six years, by June
1985 (Annex 1, Chart 4). The first year would be spent mainly in final
design, subsurface drainage investigations, procurement of equipment and
vehicles, preparation of tender documents for civil works and in organizing
and training staff. The construction camp and O&M warehouses and repair shops
would be constructed by late 1980. Construction of the new parallel LSC
irrigation system and the rehabilitation and improvement work for the open



- 31 -
drains would commence in mid 1980 and would be completed in 1984 and 1983
respectively. The modifications to Benton Tunnel would be completed during
three tunnel-closing periods of six weeks to two months each in January and
February of 1981 to 1983. The installation of subsurface drains would begin
early in 1981 and would be completed in 1985. Improvements to the rural road
system would be completed in 1983. The watercourse improvement program would
begin in 1981 and be completed in 1985. Land leveling would be completed in
1984. The land reclamation program would be initiated in 1981 and be com-
pleted by June 1985. Due to the time required to fully reclaim these lands,
the leaching process may extend beyond 1985; however, all soil ammendments
would have been applied and the necessary leveling and bunding work completed
by June 1985. The monitoring programs would extend to 1989. Consultants
would be engaged by mid 1979 to assist with design and supervision of the
project. The bulk of the equipment would arrive in 1981, with delivery of
some machines being delayed until 1982.
Financing
3.62      The proposed IDA credit of US$60 M, together with a grant of Cana-
dian dollars 30 M (US$25 M equivalent) from Canada through the Canadian
International Development Agency (CIDA), would finance 59% of total project
costs, net of taxes and duties. This would cover the full foreign exchange
costs of the project and approximately 24% of the local costs. An assurance
was obtained from GOP that adequate and timely funds for project implementa-
tion would be provided and that budgetary allocations would be adjusted in
line with the estimated financial requirements for the project. An estimated
schedule of expenditures and the proposed allocation of the aid package for
financing the project are shown in Annex 1, Tables 12 and 13. The remaining
funds required for the project (US$65 M equivalent including taxes and duties)
would be provided by GOP. A condition of credit effectiveness would be the
prior or simultaneous effectiveness of the CIDA grant.
Procurement
3.63      Civil Works.  The civil works would be procured as follows:
(a) ICB Contracts. The subsurface drains (US$31.8 M
equivalent 1/), would be procured through interna-
tional competitive bidding (ICB). In order to
encourage the participation of local contractors,
the tenders would be divided into five contracts of
not less than US$5 M each and tenderers would be
permitted to bid on one or more contracts. Local
contractors would be entitled to a 7.5% preference.
Tender documents would specify this preference.
1/   Base costs, net of physical and price contingencies and engineering and
administration costs.



- 32 -
(b) LCB Contracts. The modifications to the Benton Tunnel
(US$0.8 M 17), remodeling of the LSC irrigation system
(US$13.0 M 1/), rehabilitation and deepening of the open
drainage system (US$7.4 M 1/) and road improvements
(US$1.5 M 1/) would not be suitable for ICB and would
be provided through local competitive bidding (LCB)
under normal Government procedures, which are acceptable
to IDA. These works would be phased with ongoing canal
operation activities and delivery schedules and with
seasonal agricultural activities so as to minimize crop
damage and disruptions to water deliveries. Due to the
scattered and intermittent nature of these works, the
contracts would tend to be rather small and highly
localized.
(c) On-Farm Improvement Works. Watercourse remodeling
(US$1.1 M 1/) would be carried out by the NWFP Irri-
gation Department with farmer assistance. The necessary
equipment, materials and technical assistance would be
provided by the Government and farmers would furnish
most of the labor requirements (paras 3.18-3.21). Land
leveling (US$3.2 M) would be completed by WAPDA under
contract or with its own forces using equipment provided
under the project. The land reclamation program
(US$2.1 M 1/) would be carried out by WAPDA through its
reclamation unit.
3.64      Equipment and Vehicles (Annex 1, Table 7).  Because of the need for
co-financing, the equipment and vehicles for all works to be performed by
contract would be provided under the project and US$12.5 M (including price
escalation but net of taxes and duties) of the equipment would be allocated
to Canada for field procurement. The remaining equipment (US$7.0 M including
price escalation but net of taxes and duties) would be procured through ICB in
accordance with IDA procurement guidelines. All contracts would specify the
use of project furnished equipment and contractors would be required to take
all necessary steps to properly operate and maintain the equipment during the
period of its use. Ownership of the equipment would initially vest with
WAPDA. Terms and conditions under which the equipment would be made available
to contractors will be mutually agreed between WAPDA, CIDA and IDA. An
estimated equipment and vehicle procurement schedule is presented in Annex 1,
Chart 5.
Disbursements
3.65      Disbursements would be made for:  (a) 100% of the foreign expendi-
tures for directly imported project equipment, vehicles and spares; (b) 50%
of the costs of imported equipment and spares procured locally and locally
procured materials; (e) 100% of the ex-factory price of equipment manufactured
locally; (d) 100% of expenditures for approved consultant services; (e) 100%
of foreign expenditures for training; (f) 64% of civil works (which represent
1/   Base costs, net of physical and price contingencies and engineering and
administration costs.



- 33 -
100% of foreign costs and 33% of the local costs); and (g) 50% of the cost of
on-farm improvements. The works to be financed by the IDA credit and the CIDA
grant are shown in the proposed allocation of the aid package, Annex 1, Table
13. Disbursements for on-farm improvements would be made against certificates
of expenditure. Supporting documents for these payments would not be submitted
to IDA for review but would be retained by WAPDA and GONWFP and made available
for inspection during the course of supervision missions. All other disburse-
ments would be made against full documentation. It is expected that disburse-
ments would be completed by June 1986, about one year after completion of
the project.
Accounts and Audits
3.66      WAPDA would be subjected to normal Government control and auditing
procedures which are considered satisfactory. Project accounts would be
maintained separately by WAPDA and GONWFP in a readily identifiable form
to enable them to be audited separately from the overall accounts by an
independent external auditor on a timely basis. Assurances were obtained
from GOP that:
(i) separate accounts would be established and maintained
for project expenditures by WAPDA and other organizations
responsible for implementing the project;
(ii)  the accounts and financial statements would be audited
annually by an independent auditor acceptable to IDA;
(iii) certified copies of audited accounts and the auditor's
report would be submitted to IDA for review not later
than six months after the end of each fiscal year; and
(iv)  the audit report would include, inter alia, a statement
that funds disbursed against statements of expenditure
had been used for the purposes for which they were
provided.
Environmental Effects of the Project
3.67      Malaria in Pakistan is not serious but has worsened in recent years.
Within the project area, groundwater levels have risen significantly since
irrigation was first initiated near the end of the last century and the lower
lands without adequate drainage have become waterlogged. Standing water has
developed in several areas, making an excellent mosquitoe breeding habitat.
The project would effectively drain the marshy, waterlogged areas and gener-
ally lower groundwater levels throughout the project area, thus lessening the
breeding grounds for mosquitoes. The abandoned or unproductive lands would be
reclaimed, and the project would provide an adequate water supply for full,
sustained crop production as well as for domestic uses. Payment would be made
for crops damaged or foregone during construction of the tile drains and
income levels would be raised significantly in the project area after project
completion. The overall impact of the project on the environment and the
social climate of the project area would be favorable.



- 34 -
IV. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
4.01      WAPDA would be responsible for most aspects of project implementa-
tion, ranging from field investigations, planning and design to procurement
and construction. Overall responsibility for implementation of project civil
works would rest with a Project Steering Committee comprised of the Chairman,
Member-Water, General Manager-North and the Chief Engineer-Peshawar of WAPDA.
A Project Director (WAPDA) of Chief Engineer rank, assisted by the Project
Manager of the consultant team, would have direct responsibility for project
management, under the direction of the Steering Committee. A project Coor-
dination Committee, comprised of the Additional Chief Secretary, Planning and
Development (Chairman), the Secretaries of Agriculture and Irrigation, NWFP,
as members, and the Project Director (WAPDA) as member-secretary of the
Committee would coordinate the efforts of all agencies concerned. The estab-
lishment of the Steering Committee and the Coordination Committee would be a
condition of credit effectiveness. A proposed staffing chart is presented in
Annex I (Chart 6). Project management responsibilities would cover the
following activities:
(a) Preparation of a Project Definite Plan Report and annual
project implementation plans. Beginning on March 31,
1979 and not later than March 31 of each year thereafter,
WAPDA will prepare and submit to GOP and IDA for review
an annual implementation plan for each succeeding year.
(b) Preparation of specification and construction designs,
cost estimates, and tender documents for project works;
(c) Evaluation of tenders, supervision of construction, contract
administration, and the initial O&M of project works;
(d) Preparation and execution of a training program for
professional WAPDA staff assigned to the project; and
(e) Preparation of a feasibility report for rehabilitation
and development works in the remaining USC command area.
Civil Works
4.02      Planning.  Preparation of the project Definite Plan Report and the
feasibility report for the remainder of the SCARP Mardan area would include:
(a) Preparation and execution of a field data collection program
to provide the data necessary for preparation of the two
reports;
(b) Formulation of the definite project plan and preparation
of final designs and cost estimates; and
(c) Formulation of a plan of development, to the feasibility
level stage, for the remaining Mardan area.



- 35 -
4.03      Design.  The preparation of specification designs and tender docu-
ments and construction drawings would include:
(a) Preparation of final layouts, designs and tender documents
for remodeling or rehabilitating existing open drains and
irrigation canals. Open drainage requirements would include
the design and layout of field drains in each irrigation
outlet area. Irrigation system layout and design would
provide for a new parallel system, where more economically
and technically viable to do so, and would include design
and layout of main canals, branches, distributaries and
minors down to watercourses;
(b) Preparation of final design, layout and tender documents for
subsurface (tile) drains; and
(c) Preparation of final designs for a complete range of
standard drain and canal structures and for all other
structures.
4.04      Construction.  Construction management and supervision, contract
administration and initial operation of the project would include:
(a) Providing the necessary field surveys to accurately locate
all proposed structures;
(b) Maintaining records of the progress of construction and
administering the terms of the various contracts;
(c) Inspecting the work of each contractor to insure compliance
with designs and specifications; and
(d) Operating the completed works for a period of two years to
ensure the adequacy and successful functioning of the com-
pleted works.
On-Farm Improvement
4.05      Watercourse Remodeling.  The NWFP Irrigation Department would have
responsibility for remodeling watercourses in the project area. The water-
course rehabilitation work would be conducted by teams consisting of one
watercourse engineer, one agriculturist and an overseer, assisted by repre-
sentatives of the farmers' group in each watercourse area. The agriculturist's
task would be to motivate and organize farmers to contribute their labor for
the work. The watercourse engineer would design and lay out the work and
supervise the work together with the overseer. The teams would develop
standards and train the farmer groups in watercourse remodeling work and in
operation and maintenance of the completed works. Masons and other artisans
would be employed locally as required, and some precast structures would be
made on contract. Each team could organize the rehabilitation of five water-
courses a year or about 1,500 ac. For the total area of 143,000 ac proposed



- 36 -
for watercourse improvement, a total of about 95 team years would be required,
with a maximum of about 25 teams in a peak year. All farmers within each
watercourse would be involved in the planning and execution of the work.
Equipment and materials would be furnished under the project.
4.06      Watercourse Engineers are at present being trained at Peshawar
University.   Additional training would be provided by the Irrigation Depart-
ment. The Overseer would have a diploma from the Agricultural Training
Institute and special training from the Project Director's staff. The agri-
culturalist would be an AA seconded from the Department of Agriculture.
4.07      Land Leveling.  The USAID-assisted land leveling program currently
in operation in Pakistan is carried out by the Department of Agriculture in
each province. Inasmuch as the Department of Agriculture NWFP does not have
the capability for operating or maintaining the large earth moving machines
to be provided under the project, the land leveling program will be undertaken
by WAPDA. WAPDA will schedule and control the work, provide equipment opera-
tors and maintain the equipment. Priority for land leveling will be given
to lands in need of reclamation due to the time required to complete the
reclamation process.
4.08      Land Reclamation.  The land reclamation program would be the respons-
ibility of WAPDA's Reclamation and Operations Unit headed by a WAPDA Senior
Soil Scientist. Consultant assistance would be provided. The unit would
include an agronomist, a farm-planning specialist and an agricultural engineer
specializing in on-farm soils and water management, as well as by work crews
involved in the reclamation work. A soils and water laboratory, supplied with
the necessary supplies and equipment under the project, would be set up in
Peshawar to provide the soils and water testing support required. WAPDA
agreed to establish the reclamation Unit in the Peshawar/Mardan area by
July 1, 1980, at which time the unit director would have been appointed and
the field laboratory established, equipped and staffed. Two materials depots
would be set up at locations convenient to the lands requiring reclamation.
The soils and water laboratory staff would include one Research Officer, three
Research Assistants and four laboratory Attendants. The staff should be able
to analyze about 5,000 soils samples and 500 water samples per year. Equip-
ment, vehicles and materials (including gypsum and zinc sulphate) required in
the reclamation program would be provided under the project.
4.09      In order to provide information beneficial to future land reclama-
tion work programs in Pakistan, it is essential that the reclamation procedure
and the improvements in agricultural production capability achieved be fully
documented during the implementation of the land reclamation work. WAPDA
agreed to complete studies on the accomplishments of its reclamation unit
and to furnish reports to GOP and IDA by June 30, 1985.
Agricultural Supporting Services
4.10      Agricultural Research.  The research program would be adapted to
meet the needs of the extension service in solving specific field problems
in the project area. Senior Subject Matter Specialists (SSMSs) based at the



- 37 -
research stations at Tarnab, Pir Sabak and Mardan would support the agricul-
tural extension Subject Matter Specialist (SMS) at Mardan. The staff at
the Tarnab research station would provide support in matters relating to
wheat, tobacco, sugarcane and beet agronomy. The staff at Pir Sabak would
provide support for maize agronomy and pest control. Since there is no
sugar beet specialist in Pakistan, and the economic importance of the crop
is rapidly increasing, a sugar beet agronomist would be provided under the
project to train extension service SMSs in better sugar beet cultivation
practices.
4.11      Maize Seed Multiplication and Distribution System.  The production
and marketing of certified maize seed would be controlled by the province's
Agricultural Development Authority (ADA), which is the GONWFP marketing agency
for agricultural inputs in the project area. The pre-basic and basic seed
would be produced at the Maize and Millet Research Station (MMRS) in Pir
Sabak. The Certified Seed would be produced on private lands by selected
contract growers under the direction of a Product Development Officer of ADA,
who would organize the contracting of seed producers. The Federal Seed Cer-
tification Agency (SCA) would inspect the contract growers' fields before
planting and during the growing period, and would certify the seed before it
could be sold as certified seed. The seed processing plant would be located
at MMRS in Pir Sabak. The maize seed would be processed, shelled and stored
at the station. An assurance was obtained from GOP that adequate quantities
of certified seeds would be made available for sale to farmers in the project
area upon completion of each portion of the project.
Monitoring and Evaluation
4.12      WAPDA would have overall responsibility for programs to monitor
irrigation deliveries, drainage flows, water table depths, reclamation
progress and agricultural inputs, yields and production in the project area.
Works under the program would be undertaken and administered by other agencies
as follows:
(a)  The water measurement program to determine irrigation
deliveries and losses would be the responsibility of
the Irrigation Department, NWFP. Structure modifications
would be made and/or new gauging stations established
to accurately determine flows in the canals. Stream
gauging equipment, automatic water level recorders,
materials and transport vehicles would be provided
under the project.
(b)  The drainage flow measurement program would be undertaken
by WAPDA to determine designs for and the effectiveness of
the project drains. This program would be turned over to
the Irrigation Department, NWFP after project completion
to monitor selected drains on a continuous basis.
(c) The groundwater observation wells would be installed by
WAPDA. The data collected would be used in the design



- 38 -
of subsurface drains. This program also would be turned
over to the Irrigation Department after project implemen-
tation for continued monitoring of groundwater levels in
selected areas. The drilling equipment, materials and
transport vehicles required would be provided under the
project.
(d)  Land reclamation progress would be monitored and evaluated
by WAPDA's project Reclamation Unit. Each field requiring
reclamation would be tested intially to determine the soil
amendments needed, and a continuous monitoring of reclamation
progress would be made during the reclamation process.
(e)  Monitoring and evaluation of socio-economic aspects in the
project area and project agricultural benefits would be
undertaken by the Faculty of Agriculture of the University
of Peshawar. Their task would be to conduct a benchmark
survey of the entire agricultural area of the three tehsils
(670,000 ac) to ascertain current conditions and levels
of inputs and production. They would repeat the survey
annually to measure the benefits resulting from the exe-
cution of drainage and irrigation works. Since the area
over which civil works would be carried out under the
project is only about one-third (210,000 ac) of the total
area covered by the extension program, a measure of the
benefits due to extension alone as well as those due to
civil works combined with extension would be obtained.
Monitoring and evaluation procedures and techniques
would be based on Bank Working Paper No. 272, "A System
of Monitoring and Evaluating Agricultural Projects".
Agricultural Extension
4.13      Agricultural extension would remain under the control of the pro-
vincial Department of Agriculture. Consequently, the Director of Agricultural
Extension (DA) would retain overall charge. A Deputy DA (DDA) would be posted
to Mardan to head up the service. He would report to the Director of Agri-
culture, Extension and Soil Conservation Wing (DA Extension) and would maintain
a close liaison with the SCARP Mardan Project Director. Each of the project
tehsils would be headed by an EADA under the direction of the DDA. The EADA
would have 7 or 8 AAs and 50 to 60 FAs to administer and supervise. Crop
recorders would report to a Statistical Officer attached to the DDA. The SMS
team also would work out of the DDA's office. The SSMSs stationed at the
three main research stations would be supervised in their extension duties
by the DDA.
Operation and Maintenance
4.14      General.  WAPDA would be responsible for operating and maintaining
the constructed works during the project implementation period and for the
first two years after completion of the project to ensure that the works



- 39 -
function as designed and to establish adequate operational and monitoring
procedures. Funds would be included under the project for this work. Follow-
ing formal acceptance by WAPDA, all equipment and the completed irrigation and
drainge works, including tile drains, would be handed over to the Irrigation
Department, NWFP, for continued O&M. The agricultural extension program would
be the responsibility of the Agricultural Department, NWFP. The O&A of the
project-constructed and improved rural roads, with the exception of roads along
the project canals which are the responsibility of the Irrigation Department,
would become the responsibility of the Provincial Public Works Department.
The O&M of the existing LSC and USC irrigation projects presently rests with
the Northern Irrigation Circle, Office of Chief Engineer, Irrigation Department,
and would so continue after completion of project irrigation improvements and
drainage works (Annex 1, Chart 8). The Mardan Office, which operates and
maintains the LSC irrigation system, would be strengthened by the addition of
a Drainage Division and a Mechanical Division, in addition to the present
Irrigation Division, to handle the increased O&M requirements of the drainage
network and the project-supplied O&M equipment. The newly established Mardan-
West Sub-division would be responsible for drainage O&M requirements in the
area lying west of the Kalpani basin (principally the LSC command area) and
a proposed future Mardan-East Sub-division for requirements east of Kalpani
River. The O&M equipment provided under the project would be operated and
maintained by the Mechanical Division, which would supply equipment and
operators for maintaining both the irrigation and drainage works.
4.15      Main System.  The standard of O&M of the existing irrigation system
down to the outlet structures is inadequate, partly due to inadequate super-
visory control, but primarily because of insufficient funding and a lack of
equipment to perform maintenance work during the short (three to four weeks)
canal closure period in January. The main problems are siltation of canals,
erosion of banks, inoperable control structures, scour downstream of struc-
tures and deteriorated roadways. The open drainage system simply suffers from
benign neglect, since maintenance work has rarely been done on the existing
open drains, and stream meanders, channel siltation and extreme scouring have
developed.
4.16      To correct these deficiencies, funding levels should be adequate
for routine maintenance of the entire system. The present budgetary alloca-
tion, which averaged Rs 1.7/ac for the drainage system and Rs 6.6/ac for the
irrigation system in 1976, is totally inadequate. The annual cost of ade-
quate O&M for both irrigation and drainage has been tentatively estimated
at Rs 50/ac at current prices, including the operational costs of project-
furnished equipment. An assurance was obtained from GONWFP that it would
operate and maintain the equipment and facilities provided under the project
in accordance with sound engineering standards and agricultural practices
and that adequate funds and staff would be provided annually for this work.
4.17      On-Farm Works.  O&M of watercourses and farm drains below the
irrigation outlet is, and would continue to be, the joint responsibility
of all farmers in each outlet service unit. This work presently is done
on an ad hoc basis by individual farmers and, consequently, complete main-
tenance of the system is not undertaken. The watercourses generally are
in a bad state of repair and many would require complete rebuilding to be



- 40 -
effective. Water losses below the irrigation outlet are estimated to be as
as high as 40% or more.
4.18      Before each watercourse is improved, the NWFP Irrigation Department,
with the assistance of the agricultural extension service, would organize a
farmer group which would appoint a common irrigator, who would be responsible
for operating the watercourses and for ensuring that maintenance is carried
out by all water users or by hired labor. Routine maintenance should be
carried out twice a year, before each crop season. The cost of O&M of the
on-farm works is tentatively estimated at Rs 10/ac/yr. This amount would be
assessed, in cash or in kind, by the farmer groups on their members to pay the
wages of the common irrigator and for hired labor which may be employed. An
assurance was obtained from GONWFP that it would establish a farmer group for
each watercourse which would be responsible for watercourse remodeling work
and for the maintenance of the watercourses.
V. PRODUCTION, PRICES, FARM INCOMES AND COST RECOVERY
Production
5.01      Present cropping intensities in the cropped area have reached 175%
in the LSC command area and 173% in the USC command area. With the project,
cropping intensities are expected to increase only slightly, to 180% in the
LSC command area and 175% in the USC command area. About 25,000 ac (12% of
the project area) of waterlogged or salt-affected land would be reclaimed
and essentially brought from zero to full production. However, most of the
increased production from the project would result from higher yields of the
major crops over the entire project area.  Crop yield surveys conducted in
the present high water table areas indicated that significant yield increases
would result from the increased irrigation water supply, improved drainage
conditions and improved agricultural services provided under the project.
Since a full water supply would be provided to the LSC command area, appre-
ciable yield increases are expected in this area. However, since serious
water shortages would still exist in the USC command area, only moderate yield
increases are anticipated in this area. At full development, total production
from the 210,000 ac project area is estimated at about 160,000 metric tons of
grain and 1.6 M metric tons of sugarcane and beets. The present and future
cropping patterns and yields for the five project sub-areas are presented in
Annex 1, Tables 5 and 6. Total production is given in Table 17.
5.02      Wheat in winter (rabi) and maize in summer (kharif) are the main
food crops and the crops with the highest cropping intensities (32% and 41%
for wheat in the LSC and USC command areas, respectively, and 32% and 39% for
maize in these areas). The wheat yield is expected to increase from 0.6
metric tons/ac to about 1.05 metric tons/ac and total production from 37,000
metric tons to 76,000 metric tons. Proper fertilization and adequate plant
population would be the main cultural changes introduced. The present low
maize yield of 0.6 metric tons/ac, due principally to thinning for fodder,
would be raised to about 1.2 metric tons/ac, and total production would
increase from 39,000 metric tons to about 87,000 metric tons.



- 41 -
5.03      Sugarcane and sugar beets are the major cash crops.  The sugarcane
yield is expected to increase from 12.5 metric tons/ac to about 20.5 metric
tons/ac and total production from 763,000 metric tons to 1,390,000 metric tons.
The adoption of better planting techniques, improved selection of cuttings,
use of balanced fertilizers and effective plant protection measures would be
the main cultural changes. Sugar beet yield would increase from 11 metric
tons/ac to about 16 metric tons/ac and total production from 127,000 metric
tons to about 230,000 metric tons. Farmers would be encouraged to stop pick-
ing leaves for fodder and interplanting with maize and sugarcane, which in-
hibit the normal growth of sugar beets.
5.04      Tobacco is and still would be the most profitable crop.  A slight
increase in cropping intensity would likely occur but further expansion
would depend on whether local consumption and export demand increase. The
average yield is expected to increase from 0.5 metric ton/ac to about 0.65
metric ton/ac and total production from 9,000 metric tons to about 14,000
metric tons. The tobacco companies would continue handling improvements in
production work.
5.05      The switch from fodder/maize cultivation to pure fodder, together
with the introduction of high yielding varieties and improved cultural tech-
niques, would increase the yield on kharif fodder from 7.7 metric tons/ac
to about 12.5 metric tons/ac. The total production would raise from 66,000
metric tons to about 170,000 metric tons. This would alleviate the present
kharif fodder shortage in the project area. A yield increase from 12.5 metric
tons/ac to about 18.5 metric tons/ac is also expected for the rabi fodder crop
(Berseem). The total production would increase from 190,000 metric tons to
about 270,000 metric tons.
5.06      The climate and soils of the project area are ideal for growing
fruit trees such as citrus, pears, peaches, apricots, plums and persimmon, as
attested by a long history of fruit production before rising water table levels
destroyed many of the orchards. With improved drainage, a full water supply
and improved agricultural inputs and services, the average fruit yield would
raise from 3.4 metric tons/ac to about 5.5 metric tons/ac, and cropping in-
tensities would increase from 2% to 4% in LSC and from 1% to 2% in USC com-
mand areas. Total production would rise from 10,000 metric tons to about
38,000 metric tons.
Financial Prices
5.07      Farm inputs and outputs were evaluated at 1978 farm gate prices and
projected to 1985 farm gate prices expressed in December 1978 constant cur-
rency values. Given GOP's present intention to use prices as an incentive for
production, it is expected that GOP's agriculture price policy would tend to
maintain (or improve) the present agricultural input-output ratio and maintain
(or diminish) the present domestic-world price differential.
5.08      In projecting the financial farm gate prices, it is assumed that
the July 1978 ratio of domestic to world prices for traded commodities
(including inputs) will be maintained and that untraded crop prices will



- 42 -
move in parallel. Wage rates for human labor and animal power, in constant
terms, would be as present. Annex 1, Table 16 shows the present and future
prices used in the farm budgets.
Farm Incomes
5.09      The farm budget shows that farm income would increase considerably
as a result of the project. Six representative farm budget models have been
developed according to farm size distribution and project sub-area; two models
of 2.0 ac representing the average size of farms less than 5 ac (61% of the
farmers owning 23% of the area), two of 7.5 ac representing farm sizes from
5 to 12.5 ac (30% of the farmers owning 42% of the land), and two of 21.5 ac
representing farms larger than 12.5 ac (9% of the farmers owning 35% of the
land). Three of these models, one of each size, represent the LSC command
area and the remaining three represent the USC command area. Cropping patterns
and intensities differ by canal command but are the same for each size of farm.
At present, in both canal commands, about 12% of the farm area is abandoned.
If the abandoned land is taken into account, the cropping intensity over the
whole farm area is 156% for the LSC command area and 154% for the USC command
area; if the abandoned land is ignored, present cropping intensities are 175%
and 173%, respectively (para 5.01). With the project, the cropping intensi-
ties are expected to increase as the abandoned lands become fully productive.
Present and future farm cropping intensities and yields are shown in Annex 1,
Tables 17 and 18.
5.10      The number of family members and family workers varies with farm
size. Estimates for the 2.0 ac farm size are a family size of about 6.5 per-
sons per farm and about 1.8 family workers; for the 7.5 ac farm, a family size
of about 7.3 persons and 2.5 family workers; and for the 21.5 ac farm, a family
size of about 10.7 and 3.0 family workers. 1/ The future farm family labor
force was projected at 3% annual growth rate, assuming that 85% of the popula-
tion growth would remain on the farm and the remaining 15% would migrate else-
where. 2/ In the 2 and 7.5 ac farm models, farm family labor is sufficient
for all field work at present and in the future, without and with the project.
In the 21.5 ac farm model, without the project only about 6% of the labor
requirement would be hired but with the project nearly 22% of the labor
requirement would be hired labor.
5.11      For the farm budget analysis, non-farm income was derived by cal-
culating surplus/deficit labor by farm size and by month, based on the present
and future labor supply and demand. Deficit labor in one farm was assumed to
be provided, when possible, by farms with surplus labor, at the market wage
rate. Farm budgets, presented in Annex 1, Tables 19 and 20, show that with
the project farm income will experience a dramatic increase, especially for
farmers operating less than 5 ac. Estimated net farm incomes, after deducting
household subsistence food requirements, are shown below:
1/   Based on the 1972 Agricultural Census.
2/   Based on information given in 1971/72 and 1974/75 Labor Force Survey.



- 43 -
Net Farm Income
Future
Without      Future with
Farm Models      Farm Size      Present      Project       Project
ac            Rs          Rs            Rs
Lower Swat:
Farm I           2.0             825          155          3,755
Farm II          7.5           5,465        5,105         17,665
Farm III        21.5          15,235       17,465         50,205
Upper Swat:
Farm IV          2.0           1,310          955          2,480
Farm V           7.5           7,220        8,070         12,850
Farm VI         21.5          20,375       25,995         37,205
5.12      Without the project, net farm income of the 2-ac farms and of the
7.5-ac farm in the USC command area are estimated to be lower than at present,
as their incremental subsistence food requirement needs due to population
increase are estimated to be higher than their incremental total farm income.
However, without the project net farm income of the 21.5 ac farms and of the
7.5-ac farm in the USC command area are estimated to be higher than at pre-
sent. For these farmers, incremental subsistence food requirements are
estimated to be lower than incremental total income.
Cost Recovery
5.13      Direct Recovery.  Construction and O&M costs of irrigation and
drainage projects in Pakistan are partially effected through Provincial water
charges. Water charges vary between crops and are an insignificant proportion
of the value of crops. Present water rates for the main crops in the project
area are:
Crops                             Rs/ac
Sugarcane                                     41
Sugar beets, vegetable and orchard            26
Tobacco                                       21
Wheat, barley and maize                       12
Gram and pulses                               10
5.14      Based on present water rates and cropping patterns, water charges
average Rs 25/ac in the LSC command area and Rs 23/ac in the USC command area.
With the present rates and with future project cropping patterns, water charges
would average about Rs 33/ac in the LSC command area and Rs 27/ac in the
USC command area. As the project is expected to be implemented in six years
and benefits of the project would not be significant until project comple-
tion, the annuity required to recover the full project investment and O&M
cost at 10% discount rate, assuming recoveries to run from year 7 to year 30,



- 44 -
would amount to approximately Rs 157 M/yr. With the present level of water
charges, NWFP would recover about Rs 6.5 M, or about 50% of O&M costs.
5.15      Therefore there is a pressing need to increase taxation in Pakistan
not only to better maintain and improve existing infrastructure and services
but also to provide funds to develop new infrastructure (such as irrigation
and drainage systems). Water charges are the most important provincial revenue
for carrying out irrigation projects. However, the appropriate level and
structure of water charges cannot be treated satisfactorily on a project spe-
cific basis, since the irrigation and drainage system is highly integrated and
interdependent between areas and also because any examination of water charges
must take into account other agricultural taxes.
5.16      Under the ongoing IDA-supported SCARP VI Project, Cr. 754-PAK, GOP
agreed to carry out and furnish to IDA for discussion by September 30, 1979,
a study on Agricultural Pricing and Water Charges reviewing the following ele-
ments: (a) the costs of effective O&M and the extent to which these should
be met by irrigation water users through direct water charges; (b) the extent
to which GOP should capture part of the increases in net benefits generated by
new investments in irrigation for funding future investment in agriculture and
elsewhere and to what extent this should be through direct water charges; and
(c) the appropriateness of overall agricultural taxation and the appropriate-
ness of the share contributed by direct water charges.
5.17      Without prejudging the results of the study, the farm budget analy-
sis shows that in the project area a progressive increase in water charges
appears to be feasible and desirable. For the farm budget analysis, it was
assumed that in the future water charges would be increased uniformly to about
Rs 140/ac. This water charge level, together with other agricultural taxes,
would allow recovery of the full O&M cost plus 45% of the investment cost
and appears to be a feasible rate. However, the water charges to be assessed
will be determined after completion of the agricultural pricing and water
charges study (para 5.16). GOP and GONWFP agreed that by July 1, 1981, revi-
sions would be made to the structure and level of water charges taking into
account the conclusions of the study and the farmers' capacity to pay, and
that the level of water charges in the province would be raised in three
stages not later than July 1, 1981, July 1, 1986 and July 1, 1991 so that
by July 1, 1991 water charges in the NWFP would be sufficient to recover the
full cost of O&M plus a reasonable portion of the investment cost of irriga-
tion and drainage facilities in NWFP. GONWFP further agreed to collect water
charges from owners of land in the project area, within one year after comple-
tion of project works, at the maximum permissible rate under prevailing laws
and legislation.
5.18      Indirect Recovery.  Agricultural income tax was introduced at the
beginning of 1978 but is yet to be implemented. Based on the personal income
tax rate and the permitted deduction prevailing in Pakistan, the incremental
agricultural tax due to the project is estimated at about Rs 5.5 M/yr at full
development. It is important to note that without the project and with the
present deductions, none of the farmers would reach the taxable income level;
with the project, farmers with more than 12.5 ac would pay about 5% of the



- 45 -
project rent as agricultural income tax if this tax is to be implemented on
a scale similar to the personal income tax.
5.19      An additional agricultural tax important to cost recovery in the
project area is the excise tax on sugar, which at present is Rs 50/md of
sugar produced.  It is estimated that at full development the additional
sugar tax revenue would be Rs 33.3 M/yr. Also, the sugarcane development
cess, which is a tax on sugarcane bought by the sugar mills at a rate of
12 paisa/md of cane (6 paisa from growers and 6 paisa from sugar mills),
would allow the Government to recover an additional amount of about Rs 0.8
M/yr. Quite important also is the excise tax on tobacco used by the tobacco
companies; tax rates vary from Rs 1/lb to Rs 0.6/lb by type of tobacco and
by mode of consumption. It is estimated that at full development the addi-
tional tobacco tax revenue due to the project would be about Rs 7.9 M/yr.
Indirect annual cost recovery due to these taxes would amount to Rs 47.5 M/yr,
or about 30% of the total annual project cost, which should be taken into
account in fixing the water charge rate.
Project Rent
5.20      Project rent is the net incremental income after allowance for the
risk of crop production, the necessary rewards from family labor and entre-
preneurship. Project rent has been calculated for the six farm models and,
as shown in Annex 1, Tables 19 and 20, varies from Rs 1,600/ac in the case
of the LSC 2 ac farm to Rs 550/ac in the case of the USC 21.5 ac farm. To
recover 50% of the annual project cost (full O&M cost and about 45% of the
project investment cost), taking into account the indirect cost recovered,
future water charges would need to be increased to an average of Rs 140/ac.
The farm budget analysis shows that this level of water charges would be
feasible (an average of about 9% of the project rent would be paid as a
water charge). The recovery index would vary from about 8% in the case of
the LSC 2 ac farm to about 18% in the case of the USC 21.5 ac farm.
VI. BENEFITS, JUSTIFICATION AND RISKS
General
6.01      The various project components constitute an integrated investment
unit, thus the benefits have been developed for the project area as a whole.
However, for assessing the project impact, the project area has been divided
into five sub-areas based on present land conditions, proposed development and
expected production response to investments (para 3.02).
6.02      The project area is significantly affected by high water table and
saline-alkalinity conditions and about 12% of the CCA has been abandoned or
is only marginally productive. Present water availability during peak water-
use months is only about half of the present requirement and the shortage of
water directly affects crop yields as well as the quality of the land. Al-
though most farmers presently use cash inputs, cultural practices generally



- 46 -
are deficient and there is an enormous gap between the productivity of pro-
gressive and average farmers. With the project, the cropped area would be
increased by putting into full production the abandoned or marginally produc-
tive lands. Yields would be increased overall by providing adequate drainage,
improving the irrigation system, increasing the irrigation water supply, pro-
viding land leveling, watercourse and field drain improvements, and by improv-
ing and better organizing the agricultural extension system. As a consequence,
income from farms would increase considerably.
6.03      The project also would assist GOP in achieving two of its priority
development objectives--increased foodgrain production and reduced unemploy-
ment. At full development annual production increases are estimated at 90,000
metric tons of food grains, 740,000 metric tons of sugarcane and beet (about
66,000 metric tons of equivalent sugar), 5,400 metric tons of tobacco, 28,000
metric tons of fruit and 14,500 metric tons of vegetables. The incremental
value added at full development would be about Rs 425 M/yr.
Employment and Income Effects
6.04      Overall direct employment effects of the project at full development
would be an increase in on-farm employment of about 3.1 M man days per year.
The value added in agriculture plus the increase in input requirements would
generate additional employment and additional income to the non-farm sectors.
Lack of reliable data on present non-farm employment in the project area
precludes accurately projecting future non-farm employment effects.
6.05      The per capita income in Pakistan in 1977 was about US$190, while
that of the project area was about US$73, about 38% of the national average.
About 55% of the farm population (the farmers with holdings less than 5 ac)
have a per capita income of only about US$35/yr, less than 20% of the national
average; another 20% (LSC farmers with holdings more than 5 ac but less than
12.5 ac) have a per capita income of about US$85. These farmers, whose per
capita income is lower than the poverty income level (estimated at about
US$90 for Pakistan), operate about 50% of the project area. With the project,
farm incomes are expected to double. Average per capita income within the
project area would be about US$135.  It is estimated that about 60% of the
direct project benefits would accrue fairly evenly to farmers with a present
per capita income below the poverty income level (US$90 per annum).
Basic Assumptions for Economic Analysis
6.06      The components of the project are interdependent and benefits from
any component depends on whether and to what extent the other components are
implemented. Therefore they are evaluated as a package. Following the pre-
sent trends in the area, it was assumed that without the project present
yields would experience a slight decline in the shallower water table areas
(0 to 3 ft) and that the extent of the abandoned or marginal productive land
and the production in the rest of the project area would not change. With the
project, in the LSC command area yields are expected to increase to the maxi-
mum level projected for the project area. In the USC command area, yields
would be somewhat lower. Although more water would be supplied to the USC



- 47 -
command area through the Benton Tunnel expansion, this area still would have
a water shortage of about 35% for about five months. The present shortage
during these five months is about 50%.
6.07      For the economic analysis, the following assumptions were made:
(a) Standard Conversion Factor (SCF). To reflect the prevail-
ing regime of import/export taxes and duties and tariffs
and trade restrictions in Pakistan, a SCF of 0.85 1/ was
used to adjust the domestic cost component of various
inputs and outputs.
(b) Economic Prices of Agricultural Outputs and Inputs.
Economic prices of all of the major traded agricultural
products and inputs such as wheat, maize, sugarcane and
beets, tobacco, oilseed, rice and fertilizer were derived
from the Bank's projections of 1985 world market prices
expressed in 1978 currency values. Adjustments were made
to reflect the historical relationship between world market
prices and actual CIF or FOB prices for Pakistan plus hand-
ling and processing costs. Border prices were converted
into Rs at the official exchange rate and the domestic cost
components (i.e. local transportation and market charges)
were adjusted by the SCF. Economic prices for crops which
are not traded were based on local financial prices adjusted
by the ratio of economic prices to financial prices for
traded crops. Finally, the economic price of bullocks was
based on local financial prices adjusted by the SCF.
(Annex 1, Tables 16 and 21).
(c) Shadow Wage Rate for Farm Labor. In view of the underemploy-
ment situation prevailing in the project area and the sea-
sonal nature of much of the employment, market wage rates
have been adjusted to reflect season-specific opportunity
costs. Economic farm labor costs were estimated using
monthly shadow rates reflecting different opportunity costs
associated with various segments of the labor force and
slack and peak periods during the year. It is assumed that
the marginal opportunity cost of farm labor can be repre-
sented by an "S-shaped" curve. The marginal opportunity
cost of farm labor is positive at all levels of demand,
and increases when more labor is absorbed into fieldwork.
The estimated average shadow wage rate is Rs 5.3 at present
and would be about Rs 6.6 with the project (Annex 1, Table 24).
The average wage rate in the project area is about Rs 9.5.
(d) Economic Project Cost. The project includes irrigation,
drainage and road improvements, land leveling, watercourse
1/   Shadow pricing and economic analysis in Pakistan by Lyn Squire, Tan M.D.
Little and Mete Durdag.



- 48 -
improvements, land reclamation, monitoring programs, improve-
ment of the extension service system, and the provision of
equipment and vehicles for these works. The work would be
carried out using a mixture of equipment and skilled and
unskilled labor. For the econmic analysis, the project
financial cost was adjusted using the following different
conversion factors (Annex 1, Table 23);
(i)  Traded Component.  A conversion factors of one was
used for this component.
(ii) Non-traded Component. A conversion factor of 0.85 was
used to calculate the economic cost of this component.
(iii) Unskilled Labor. A conversion factor of 0.7 was used
to calculate the economic cost of this component.
(iv) Land Acquisition. The estimated opportunity cost of
this component is based on the per ac economic value
of production under the "Future Without" condition.
Economic Rate of Return
6.08      The total economic project cost is Rs 1,045 M.  It includes admin-
istrative overheads and physical contingencies but excludes both price es-
calation and taxes and duties. The total economic cost also includes about
Rs 10.9 M to be invested by farmers in watercourse remodeling and about
Rs 20.8 M in land levelling. The annual incremental economic cost of O&M is
estimated at Rs 6.2 M, of which about Rs 1.2 M is the O&M cost of the water
courses carried out at the farmers expense (Annex 1, Table 24). Project
benefits at full development are estimated at Rs 390 M per annum. The project
would be implemented in six years and full development would be reached in
about 15 years (Annex 1, Table 25). The economic rate of return would be
about 18%.
Sensitivity Analysis and Project Risk
6.09      The project would entail no special risks other than those normally
associated with irrigation projects. The projected yields are conservative.
The project investigations showed that yields presently are significantly
affected by waterlogging and saline-alkaline conditions in the lower areas
of the project as well as by water shortages during certain periods over the
whole project area. The project would correct or improve these problems,
hence risk to production would be minimized. The sensitivity analysis
illustrates the risk associated with other factors:



- 49 -
(a)  Basic case                                   18%
(b)  Assuming the SCF = 1.0                        17%
(c)  Construction cost increased by 15%            17%
(d)  Benefits decreased by 15%                    15%
(e) Construction delayed by 2 years
and full development reached
in twenty years                            16%
(f)  Combination of c and e                        15%
(g)  Combination of c, d and e                     13%
(h)  Shadow wage rate equal to the market
wage rate                                  17%
VII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
7.01      Assurances were obtained from GOP that:
(a)  adequate and timely funds for project implementation
would be provided (para 3.62);
(b)  separate accounts would be established and maintained
for project expenditures by WAPDA and other organizations
responsible for implementing the project (para 3.66);
(c)  the accounts and financial statements would be audited
annually by an independent auditor acceptable to IDA
(para 3.66);
(d)  certified copies of audited accounts and the auditor's
report would be submitted to IDA for review not later
than six months after the end of each fiscal year
(para 3.66);
(e)  the audit report would be of such scope and in such
detail as IDA shall request (para 3.66);
(f)  adequate quantities of certified seeds would be made
available for sale to farmers in the project area
upon completion of each portion of the project (para
4.11); and
(g)  it would inform IDA of arrangements for the construction
and operation of the new PVC pipe plant to be provided
under the project and that a detailed feasibility study
for the plant would be submitted by March 31, 1979
(para 3.36).
7.02      Assurances were obtained from GOP and GONWFP that by July 1, 1981,
revisions would be made to the structure and level of water charges taking
into account the conclusions of the study of agriculture pricing and water
charges being conducted by GOP and the farmers capacity to pay, and that the
level of water charges in the province would be raised in three stages not



- 50 -
later than July 1, 1981, July 1, 1986 and July 1, 1991 so that by July 1, 1991
water charges in the NWFP would be sufficient to recover the full cost of O&M
plus a reasonable portion of the investment cost of the irrigation and drainage
facilities in NWFP (para 5.17).
7.03      Assurances were obtained from GONWFP that:
(a)  it would introduce the T&V agricultural extension system
in the project area by June 30, 1980 in accordance with
arrangements satisfactory to IDA and thereafter maintain
and continue to operate the system efficiently (para 3.40);
(b)  all staff directly involved in agricultural extension
would be released from all non-extension activities,
including the sale and application of pesticides (para
3.40);
(c)  beginning not later than June 30, 1980, it would provide
vehicles to agricultural extension workers in the project
area in accordance with arrangements satisfactory to IDA
(para 3.40);
(d)  it would compensate extension workers in the project area
for expenditures incurred during duty travel in accord-
ance with prevailing NWFP rules and regulations (para
3.40);
(e)  it would allocate to the LSC command area the full amount
of water required from the Swat River for project use,
estimated to average 730,000 ac-ft annually, or an increase
of about 266,000 ac-ft (57%) over existing withdrawal levels
(para 3.54);
(f)  the additional 260 cusecs of water made possible by in-
creasing the capacity of Benton Tunnel would be allocated
to the USC command area and that land reclamation would
have first rights to this water until the lands were fully
reclaimed (para 3.55);
(g)  it would operate and maintain the equipment and facilities
provided under the project in accordance with sound engineer-
ing and agricultural practices and that adequate funds and
staff would be provided annually for this work (para 4.16);
(h)  it would establish for each watercourse, a farmers group which
would be responsible for watercourse remodelling work and for
the maintenance of the watercourses (para 4.18); and
(i)  it would collect water charges from owners of land in the
project area, within one year after completion of project
works, at the maximum permissible rate under prevailing
laws and legislation (para 5.17).



- 51 -
7.04      Assurances were obtained from GONWFP and WAPDA that:
(a)  irrigation deliveries, drainage flows, water table depths,
land reclamation progress and agricultural inputs, yields
and production would be monitored and the results as well
as the socio-economic aspects and benefits of the project
evaluated throughout the project implementation period and
until December 31, 1989 (para 3.43).
7.05      Assurances were obtained from WAPDA that:
(a)  prior to improving any portion of the rural market road
network, it would furnish to IDA for review a survey of
road requirements and detailed designs for the proposed
road improvement work under the project (para 3.17);
(b)  it would discuss with IDA by March 31, 1981 the prices to
be paid by farmers for the soil amendments applied during
the land reclamation process and any subsidy for its use
(para 3.24);
(c)  it would provide a study based on an analysis of water table
observation data to be used as a guide for future drainage
design (para 3.43);
(d)  it would complete a study on the accomplishments of its
Reclamation Unit during the land reclamation process and
that it would provide reports documenting this study to
GOP and IDA by June 30, 1985 for guidance in future reclam-
ation programs (para 4.09); and
(e)  it would establish a land reclamation unit in or near the
project area by July 1, 1980, at which time the unit
director would have been appointed and the field laboratory
established, equipped and staffed (para 4.08).
7.06       Conditions of credit effectiveness would be:
(a)  the appointment of consultants to assist WAPDA in the prep-
aration of specifications, designs, tender documents and
the detailed drawings required for construction, as well
as for construction supervision (para 3.58);
(b)  the establishment of a Steering Committee to be responsible
for project implementation and a Coordination Committee to
coordinate the efforts of all agencies concerned (para
4.01); and
(c) the fulfillment by GOP, GONWFP and WAPDA, of all conditions of
effectiveness of the grant from Canada (para 3.62).



- 52 -
7.07      With the above assurances and conditions, the the project would be
suitable for an IDA credit of US$60 M on standard IDA terms. The borrower
would be the Islamic Republic of Pakistan.
January 11, 1979



Latitude: 340 30'N
L,.JL itLLuI&I.   iJ) 7 U -iir
Elevation 366M
PAKISTAN
SCARP MARDAN PROJECT
Climatological Factors Relating to Estimating Crop Water Requirements
(at Mardan)
Item            Jan    Feb    Mar    Apr    May    Jun    Jul    Aug    Sep    Oct    Nov    Dec    Total
A. Measured Values
1. Temperature (°C)
Maximum Average    16.7  21.7  23.3   28.9    35.0   39.4   36.7   34.4   33.3   30.0   24.4   18.9
Minimum Average      0.0   3.3  11.7   13.9    17.8   22.2   25.0   24.4   20.6   12.8    4.4    1.1
2. Solar Radiation
Sunshine (hrs/day)   8.0   8.7   9.5   10.6    12.2   12.8   10.4   10.3    10.8  10.3    9.0    7.7
3. Relative Humidity (%)
8am                    76    75    80    72        56      55      66      76      76    78       83     83
5pm                    54    52    52    48        36       36     50      62      58    59       64     68
4.  Wind Movement (Km/day)±/16    25    25    27         29       36      54     42       24    13       9      10
5.  Rainfall (mm)            20    50    55    31        20       53    110    146        31    12       2      12     542
B. Calculated Value
6. Water use by Reference
Crop (ETo) mm/mo      2/ 38    57   101   139       184      207    200    194       141    96      49      32   1,438
1/ Measured at 10 meter height above ground
2/  Modified Penman computation
-n



PAKISTAN
SCARP MARDAN PROJECT
LAND TENURE STRUCTURE
North West Frontier             Scarp Mardan
Farm Size            Total Pakistan                   Province                     Area 1/
Acre                     No. of Farms    Area          No. of Farms    Area         No. of Farms    Area
%                    100%           100%          100%           100%          100%          100%
Under 2.5                     14              1            33              5            37             8
2.5 to  5                     14              4            23              8             24           15
5.0 to 1.2.5                  39             25            28             23             30           42
12.5 to 25.0                  21             27             9             17              7           21
over 25                       12             43              7            47              2           14
Average Farm Size ac                   13                            9.1                         5.4
Household Size per
farm                   7.0                          7.1                           7.4
1/ Based upon the weighted average of Mardan and Peshawar Districts.
-n
41~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I. 



PAKISTAN                                              Table 3
SCARP MARDAN PROJECT
Land Tenure in Mardan and Peshawar Districts
Iarm Size              Total                         Owner               Owner-cum-Tenant   1/                  Tenant
Acte                No. of Farms    Area         No. of Farms   Area       No. of Farms    Area-         No. of Farms       Area
acres                       acres                      acres                          acres
Tota. Project Area      171,368      929,589         76.892      383.052       34,421        254.908          60,052       291.629
Unde  2.5                62,291       73,168         36,345       40,037        5,720          9,005          20,226         24,126
2.5 :o 5                 41,657      141,967         16,896       56,721        9,328         33,160          15,433        52,086
5.0 :o 12.5              52,190      386,881         17,132      122,928       14,617        113,565          20,438       150,388
12.!. to 25              12,281      195,609          4,662       76,551        3,885         63,202           3,734        55,856
over 25                   2,949      131,964          1,857       86,815          871         35,976              221        9,173
Mard in District         77,845      449,727         31,757      169,287       16,830        136,004          29,255       144,436
Under 2.5                26,317       32,431         14,628       16,582        2,198          3,532            9,491        12,317
2.5 l: 5                 19,262       65,601          6,903       23,101        4,489         15,914           7,867        26,586
5.  : 12.5               24,861      186,935          7,313       53,407        7,453         58,381          10,095        75,147
12.  to 25                6,019       95,837          2,211       35,894        2,116         34,439           1,692        25,504
ovel 25                   1,386       68,923            702       40,303          574         23,738              110        4,882
Pesl Lwar District
Und,r 2.5                35,974       40,737         21,717       23,455        3,522          5,473          10,735         11,809
2.5 I:D 5                22,398       76,366          9,993       33,620        4,839         17,246           7,566        25,500
5 t, 12.5                27,326      199,946          9,819       69,521        7,164         55,184          10,343        75,241
12.  to 25                6,262       99,772          2,451       40,657        1,769         28,763           2,042        30,352
ove  25                   1,563       63,041          1,155       46,512          297         12,238              111        4,291
About 50% of these land is operated by the owner.
55



ANNEX 1
Table 4
Page 1
PAKISTAN
SCARP MARDAN PROJECT
Description of Project Sub-Areas
1.     Sub-Area I (CCA 16,500 ac).  Abandoned or marginally productive lands in
the lower extremities of the LSC command area due to waterlogging and/or saline-
alkaline conditions which require the full range of the project services. With
the project, cropping intensities and yields are expected to reach the maximum
levels projected for the project area, but at a Slower rate than expected in less
affected areas.
2.     Sub-Area II (CCA 75,700  ac).  Lands in the LSC command area with low
productivity due to high water table conditions and inadequate water supplies.
All project improvements except reclamation would be provided to these areas.
Yields are expected to reach the maximum levels predicted for the project area.
3.     Sub-Area III (CCA 42,300 ac).  Better drained lands of the LSC command
area with moderately low productivity due to inadequate water supplies.  All pro-
ject improvements except reclamation and sub-surface drainage would be provided to
these areas.  Yields are expected to reach the maximum levels predicted for the
LSC command area at a faster rate than expected in the more seriously affected
areas.
4.     Sub-Area IV (CCA 8,500 ac). Abandoned or marginally productive lands in
USC command area due to waterlogging and/or saline-alkaline conditions which
require the full range of project services. After reclamation the additional
irrigation water provided would be reduced to the amount sufficient to maintain
cropping intensities and yields at the levels predicted for Sub-Area V.
5.     Sub-Area V (CCA 67,000 ac).  Lands in the USC command area with low pro-
ductivity due to moderately high water table conditions and inadequate water
supplies. Open drains and improved extension services would be provided through-
out the entire area, whereas closed drains would be installed only in localized
areas. No irrigation system improvements would be made in this area. The water
supply would be increased only to the extent of improving the capacity of the
Benton Tunnel, which serves the total 274,000 ac USC command area. Although the
cropping intensity in this area is not expected to increase, moderate yield
improvements are anticipated.
6.     The following table shows the project improvements provided for each
sub-area:
56



ANNEX 1
Lable 4
Page 2
SCARP MARDAN PROJECT
Project Components by Sub-Areas
Reclamation        Drains        Addi-   Water-         Improved      Cropping Intensity
of Saline/                     tional    course
Sub-Area    CCA    Sodic Lands    Closed  Open    Water    Improvmts.    Extension    Present    W/Prolect
-------------------------------'000 ac ----------------- -----------------------------        ----
Lower Swat Canal (Mardan Irrigation Division)
I        16.5      16.5          16.5    16.5    16.5       16.5          16.5            01/      180
II        75.7         0          75.7    69.8    75.7       75.7          75.5           175       180
III        42.3         0             0    21.1    42.3       42.3          42.3           175        180
Sub-total  134.5      16.5          92.2   107.5   134.5      134.5         134.5
Upper Swat Canal (Malakand Irrigation Division)
IV         8.5       8.5           8.5     8.5      8.5-l     8.5           8.5            01/       175
V        67.0         03/         9.3    67.0        -/        0          67.0           173        175
Sub-total   75.2       8.5          17.8    75.5        3/      8.5          75.5
4/
Total      210.0      25.0         110.0   183.0        3/    143.0         210.0-/
1/ Productive capacity is essentially zero.
2/  Additional water would be provided by increasing the capacity of Benton Tunnel from 1,800 cusecs to about
2,060 cusecs. The water would be allocated primarily for reclamation until completed; thereafter it would
be allocated equally throughout the USC command area.
3/ Original designs of the irrigation system provided for a maximum capacity of 2,400 cusecs. The system there-
fore should be able to accomodate the additonal water to be provided through the Benton Tunnel expansion. About
15% more water would be provided during periods of maximum requirement.
4/ The extension program would extend over the entire Mardan Administrative District and the Charsadda Tehsil
of the Peshawar District, covering a total area of 670,000 ac, since the extension service program is operated
on a tehsil basis.



PAKISTAN
SCARP MARDAN PROJECT
Present and Future Cropping Patterns by Sub-Areas
Lower Swat Canal Command                                    Upper Swat Canal Command
I                   II                 III                      IV                       V
Ac                     16,500             75,700              42,300                   8,500                   67,000
Ha                      6,680             30,660              17,130                   3,440                   27,140
Kharif:                          P     R      W      P      R-     W      P     R      W           P      W_     W       P      W      W
Maize                                     32    33    33    32    33    33    32                -      -      39    39    39    39
Fodder                       -      -      8      5      5      8     5      5      8           -     -        4      4      4     4
Vegetable                    -      -      2      2      2      2     2      2      2           -      -       2      2      2      2
Misc.                        -      -      2      3      3      2      3     3      2           -      -       2      2      2      2
Total                       (44)  (43)  (43)  (44)  (43)  (43)  (44)                            (47)  (47)  (47)  (47)
Rabi::
Wheat                        -      -    31    31    31    31    31    31    31                 -      -      41    41    41    41
Tobacco                      -      -    10       9      9      9     9      9    10            -      -      10     10    10    10
Sugar Beet                   -      -      9      8      8      8     8      8      9           -     -        3      3      3     3
Fodder                       -      -      8    10    10    10    10    10          8           -      -       5      5      5      5
Vegetable                    -      -      1      1      1      1      1     1      1                  -       1      1      1      1
Misc.                        -      -      -      -      -      -     -      -      -           -      -       2      2      2      2
Oilseed                      -      -      1      1      1      1     1      1      1           -      -       2      2      2      2
Total                       (60)  (60)  (60)  (60)  (60)  (60)  (60)                            (64)  (64)  (64)  (64)
Sugarcane                    -      -    34    34    34    34    34    34    34                -      -      30    30    30    30
Orchard                      -      -      4      2      2      4     2      2      4           -      -       2      1      1      2
Total Perennial             (38)  (36)  (36)  (38)  (36)  (36)  (38)                            (32)  (31)   (31)  (32)
Total Annual                180   175   175   180   175   175   180                             175   173   173   175
Legend: I, II, III, IV, V are sub-areas of the project.
P - Present Situation; W -  Future Without Project; W - Future With Project
u,



SCARP MARDAN PROJECT
Present and Future Yields (md/ac) by Sub-Areas
Lower Swat Canal Command                                 Upper Swat Canal Command
I                  II                 III                     IV                  V
Ac                 16,500               75,700            42,300                    8,500              67,000
Ha                  6,680               30,660            17,130                    3,440              27,140
Kharif:               -~~ W         W      P     W      W     P      W     W           P     W      W     P      W    W
Kharif:                                                                                                                    
Maize                       -     -    35    12    10    35    18    18         35         -      -      25    18    18   25
Fodder                      -     -   350   190   180   350   220   220    350             -      -    280   220   220  280
Vegetable                   -     -   180   100   100   180   145   145    180             -      -    160   145   145  160
Misc.                       -     -    12       7     6    12      7      7     12         -      -       9     7      7    9
Rabi:
Wheat                       -     -    30    12    11    30    17    17         30         -      -      25    17    17   25
Tobacco                     -     -    18    12    10    18    15    15         18         -      -      16    15    15   16
Sugar Beet                  -     -   440   270   250   440   330   330    440             -      -    360   330   330  360
Fodder                      -     -   510   270   250   510   400   400    510             -      -    450   400   400  450
Vegetable                   -     -   180   100   100   180   145   145    180             -      -    160   145   145  160
Misc.                       -     -    -      -      -      -     -      -      -          -      -       9     7      7    9
Oilseed                     -     -    20       6     6    20      6      6     20         -      -      20     6      6   20
Sugarcane                   -     -   575   260   250   575   400   400    575             -      -    480   400   400  480
Orchard                     -     -   150    55    45   150   124   124    150             -      -    135   125   125  135
Legend: I,II, III, IV, V are the sub-areas of the project.
P - Present Situation; W - Future Without Project; W - Future With Project
t-3
'0
D~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



ANNEX 1
Table 7
PAKISTANTa
Page 1
SCARP MARDAN PROJECT
List of Equipment and Vehicles
c.i.f. Karachi
Item               Description               Quantity   Unit Price        Cost
-- U.S.$'000--
I.  Irrigation System and Open Drain Construction Equipment
1     Backhoe/loader, wheeled, 1/2 cu yd        6           84            504 IDA
2     Dragline, crawler, 2 cu yd                4          255          1,020 Canada
3     Graders, motor, 125-hp                    3           72            216 Canada
4     Roller, sheepsfoot, towed, 10-T,vibr. 3               17             51 IDA
5     Tractor, crawler, 200-hp, w/blade         3          132            396 IDA
6     Tractor, crawler, 105-hp, w/blade         3           77            231 IDA
7     Truck, tractor/trailer, 1-30T, 1-60T  2             1-62, 1-72      134 Canada
8     Truck, 4x4 pickup, 3/4-ton                6            9             54 IDA
9     Truck, service                            1           40             40 Canada
10     Truck, welding 2/accessories              1           40             40 Canada
11     Carryall, 4x4 6-12 passengers             6           10             60 IDA
12     Mixers, concrete, portable, 10 cu ft  8               12             96 Canada
13     Vibrators, concrete, hand held           16            2             32 IDA
14     Air compressors, 600 cfm                  4           47            188 Canada
15     Pneumatic drill T handle                 10            2             20 Canada
16     Truck,  w/l,200 gallon water tank         2           24             48 Canada
17     Drill Steel, bits, hoses, lubricators                 15             10 Canada
Subtotal                                                         3,140
Spares and parts (25%)                                             780
Total for Group 1                                                3,920
II. Pipe Drain Construction Equipment
1     Grader, motor, 125-hp                     3           72            216 Canada
2     Loader, crawler,and backhoe,l.5 cu yd 3              84             252 IDA
3.    Loader, wheeled, 1.5 cu yd              12           51             612 Canada
4     Tractor, crawler, 105-hp, w/blade         6           77            462 IDA
5     Trencher, crawler, 200-hp, 12' depth 10             200          2,000 Canada
6     Truck, dump, 5-6 cu yd                   9           22             198 Canada
7     Truck, dump, 8-10 cu yd                  8           30             240 Canada
8     Truck, 4x4 pickup, 3/4-T                 6            9              54 IDA
9     Truck, tractor/trailer, 30-T             2           62            124 Canada
10     Carryall, 4x4, 6 to 12 passenger         6           10              60 IDA
Subtotal                                                         4,218
Spares and parts (25%)                                           1,052
Total for Group II                                               5,270
60



ANNEX 1
Table 7
Page 2
List of Equipment and Vehicles (continued)
c.i.f. Karachi
Item             Description                  Quantity   Unit Price       Cost
-- U.S.$'000--
III. Road Construction Equipment
1     Backhoe, wheeled, 1 cu yd                 2           16              32 IDA
2     Grader, motor, 125-hp                     3           72            216 Canada
3     Loader, crawler, 2  cu yd                 1           78             78 IDA
4     Roller, road, 10-ton, vibratory           2           45             90 Canada
5     Scraper, elevating, 11 c.y.               2           93            186 IDA
6     Tractor, crawler w/blade, 200-hp          2          132            264 IDA
7     Truck, dump,  5-6  cu yd                  4           26            104 Canada
8     Truck, tractor/trailer, 30-ton            1           62             62 Canada
9     Truck, 4x4 pickup, 3/4-ton                3            9             27 IDA
10     Truck w/water tank, 1,200-gallons         1           24             24 Canada
11     Carryall, 4x4, 6 to 12 passengers         3           10              30 IDA
Subtotal                                                         1,113
Spares and parts (25%)                                              287
Total for Group III                                              1,400
IV. Land Leveling Equipment
1     Field car, 4x4, 4-passenger               2           9             18 Canada
2     Laser leveling equipment                             ls             30 IDA
3     Scraper, elevating, 11 cu yd              3         93             279 IDA
4     Tractor, crawler, 140-hp,  w/land
plane                                    1         186            186 Canada
5     Truck, 4x4 pickup, 3/4-ton                1           9              9IDA
Subtotal                                                          522
Spares and parts (25%)                                            168
Total for Group IV                                                650
61



ANNEX 1
Table 7
Page 3
List of Equipment and Vehicles (continued)
c.i.f. Karachi
Item               Description                Quantity    IJnit Price       Cost
--U.S.$'000--
V. Land Reclamation Equipment
1     Field car, 4x4, 4-passenger                   2      9              18 Canada
2     Crusher, rock, 10 to 15-T/hr, hammer type  2    35                 70 Canada
3     Hopper, elevated, 10-ton                      2    10              20 Canada
4     Truck, dump, 3-5 cu yd, w/Tail gate           2    22              44 Canada
Subtotal                                                          152
Spares and parts (25%)                                             38
Total for Group V                                                 190
VI. Project Support and Management Equipment
1     Reclamation laboratory 1/                            ls            50 IDA
2     Construction materials laboratory                    ls            50 IDA
3     Drill, foundation, rotary,
5,000-lb hoist capacity,
truck-mounted                      1               60            60 IDA
4     Drill, soil sampler, rotary,
mounted 4x4 pickup                2               15            30 IDA
5     Automobile, 4-door, 90-hp             6               7            42 IDA
6     Truck, fuel, 1,250-gallon             2              30            60 Canada
7     Truck, tractor/trailer, 30-ton        1              62            62 Canada
8     Truck, 4x4 pickup, 3/4-ton           10               9            90 IDA
9     Field wagon, 6-passenger, 180-hp,
4x4                               15               10           150 IDA
10     Field car, 4x4, 4-passenger          10                7            70 Canada
11     Motorcycles                          22               0.9          20 IDA
12     Maintenance shop equipment, light
duty vehicles                                         ls          100 IDA
13     Maintenance shop, heavy equipment                     ls           190 IDA
14     Radios, FM transceiver, single
side band                         8                2            16 Canada
Subtotal                                                          990
Spares and parts (25%)                                            250
Total for Group VI                                              1,240
- Table 8
62



ANNEX I
Table 7
Page 4
List of Equipment & Vehicles (continued)
c.i.f. Karachi
Item          Description                  Quantity                Unit Price  Cost
-US $ '000----
VII (a) Monitoring Equipment
1.      Stevens Type Water-level Recorders  40                     0.8          32 IDA
2.      Staff Gauges                                                ls           2 IDA
3.      Instrument Housing                                          ls          30 IDA
4.      Stream Gauging Equipment                                    ls          10 IDA
5.      Portable EC Meters                                          ls           2 IDA
6.      Bicycles                              20                   0.08          2 IDA
7.      Motorcycles                           10                   0.9           9 IDA
8.      Field Car, 4x4 4-Passenger              4                  7.0          28 Canada
9.      Carry-all, 4x4 6-12 Passenger           1                 10.0          10 IDA
Subtotal                                                              125
Spares and Parts                                                       35
Total for Group VII                                                   160
VII (b) List of Monitoring Equipment & Vehicles by Program
Water     Drainage         Land Re-
Meas-     & Water Table   clamal/    Agricultural
urement   Observations    tion -       Base Survey
Water Stage Recorders (No.)    25             15              0            0
Staff Gauges, Instr.
Housing & Str.Gauging Equip.   X              X               -            -
Portable EC Meters               -            X              -             -
Bicycles (No.)                   0             0             0            20
Motorcycles (No.)                3             2              0            0
Field Car 4x4 (No.)              2             2             0             0
Carry-all 4x4 (No.)              0            0              0             1
VIII. Processing Plants
1.      Gravel crushing and processing, 50 cu vd/hr, 1-1/2"
screen & shaker, diesel powered                          ls         120 Canada
~2.     PVC tubing plant,  4 to 12-inch diam,
2000 ft/hr capacity including building                     ls       1,600 Canada
Subtotal                                                            1,720
Spares and Parts                                                      430
Total for Group VIII                                                7,150
.L/ Equipment provided for reclamation (Annex 1, Table 7, Section V) to be used
for monitoring also.
63



ANNEX 1
Table 7
Page 5
List of Equipment and Vehicles (continued)
c.i.f. Karachi
Item            Description              Quantity        Unit Price     Cost
-- U.S.$'000--
IX.  Operation and Maintenance Equipment
1     Backhoe, crawler, 3/4 cu yd          4              84           336 Canada
2     Dragline, crawler, 2 cu yd           2             254           508 Canada
3     Grader, motor, 125-hp                2              72           144 Canada
4     Loader, crawler, 2 c.y.              2              78           156 IDA
5     Loader, wheeled, backhoe,l.5 cu yd 2                56           112 Canada
6     Pipe drain cleaner, high-pressure  1                20            20 IDA
7     Roller, sheepsfoot,towed,l0-T vibr 1                19            19 IDA
8     Tractor, crawler, 150-hp, w/blade  2                94           188 IDA
9     Truck, dump, 6-12cu yd               7              26           182 Canada
10     Truck, 4x4 pickup, 3/4-ton           4               9            36 IDA
11     Field car, 4x4, 4-passenger          4               7            28 Canada
Subtotal                                                       1,729
Spares and parts (25%)                                           431
Total for Group IX                                             2,160
X. Agricultural Extension Equipment
1     Bicycles                         175            0.08              14 IDA
2     Motorcycles                       27            0.9               24 IDA
3     Field car, 4x4, 4-passenger 1/   7              7                 4S Canada
4     Truck, 4x4 pickup, 3/4-ton         1            19 IDA
5     Training & Visual aid equipment                 ?s                 4_IDA
Subtotal                                                         100
Spares and parts (25%)                                            20
Total for Group X                                                120
64



ANNEX 1
Table 7
Page 6
List of Equipment and Vehicles (continued)
c.i.f. Karachi
Item             Description          Quantity            Unit Price    Cost
---- US$ 000----
XI.   Seed Production Equipment and Vehicles
1     Maize Crib                            5           2         10  IDA
2     Sheller and motor                     2           2          4  Canada
3     Pre-cleaner and conveyor              1          17         17  Canada
4     Grain silo                            2          10         20  Canada
5     Drying unit                           1          15         15  Canada
6     Bagging unit                          1           2          2  Canada
7     Bag sealer                            1           2          2  Canada
8     Field car, 4x4                        2           7         14  IDA
9     Truck, 7-8 T                          1          15        15  Canada
10     Market Development equipment          1          15         14  IDA
Subtotal                                       113
Spares and parts                                           27
Total for Group XI                                        140
Total equipment cost (all groups)/                     17,400
- Not including price escalation and taxes and duties.
65



ANNEX 1
Table 8
PAKISTAN
SCARP MARDAN PROJECT
LABORATORY EQUIPMENT FOR LAND RECLAMATION PROGRAM
ITEM                            QUANTITY              COST
1.  Flame Photometer, with filters for                                US$
Na, K, Ca and built-in or separate
air compressor                                   1               5,000
2.  Beckman pH meter                                 2               1,600
3.  Solubridge with Conductivity Cells               2                  700
4.  Vacuum Pump                                       1                 500
5.  Analytical Balance                                1              1,000
6.  Triple-beam Balance                               2                 250
7. Centrifuge, International Size 2 with
Speed Control                                 1               3,000
8. Water Distillation Apparatus, single
stage, electric (3 phase 220 V) with
spare heating elements                        1               1,500
9.  Glassware                                        -               2,000
10. Chemicals                                        -               2,000
11. Soil Moisture Extraction Apparatus with
Compressor & Manifold                         1               3,000
12. Soil Pulverizer                                  1                 500
13. Oven, small, forced air                          2               1,200
14. Furnace, Muffle                                  1                 500
15. Pressure Extractor                               1                 800
16. Shaker, equipoise type                            1                 750
17. Sieves                                           2                 100
18. Hydraulic Conductivity Rack & Tubes             60 Units         1,200
19. Colorimeter                                      1               1,000
20. Calculators                                       2                 400
21. Plasticware                                      -               2,000
22. Laboratory Furniture                           misc.             5,000
Contingencies                                                    6,000
Sub-total                                                    40,000
Spared and Parts (25%)                                          10,000
TOTAL                                                        50,000
66



PAKISTAN
SCARP MARDAN PROJECT
LSC Command Area (Sub-areas I, II& III)-134,500ac
Water Requirements at Canal Head
(Million M)
JAN         FEB        MAR         APR         MAY         JUN         LJUL        AUG         SEP         OCT         NOV         DEC   TOT
1    2    3    4    5    6    7    6    9   10   1 1    12  1t3   14    1 5   16    17   18   19   20   21    2 2   23   24
RAIN        20.         50.         55.         31.         20.         53.        110.        146.         31.         12.          2.         12. 542.
MIAIZE
0. 0  0. 0  0.0  0.-0  0 .0  0.0  0. 0  0.0  0.0  6.2 12.8 12.7  8. 8 1 2. 012.9 19.0 20 .4  9.4  1.4  0. 0  0 .0  0.0  0. 0  0. 0 115.6
FODDER 1KH
0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.7  0.9  1.6  2.9  3.2  3.0  2.1  0.5  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  15.1
FODDER 2NH
0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  1.0  1.3  1.5  1.3  1.4  0.4  0.7  0.9  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0    8.4
MISC KHAR
0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  1.6  2.8  1.8  3.0  3.9  4.0  2.9  1.6   1.9  0.8  0.6  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  24.9
WHEAT 1
0.9  1.1  1.0  1.3  2.0  2.9  2.6  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  5.8  0.6  0.7  0.7  0.6  0.6  20.8
WHEAT 2
2.4  3.5  3.5  4.7  7.4 11.6 11.8  4.9  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0 10.7 11.9   1.7   1.2  1.1  76.4
WHEAT 3
0.3  0.5  0.5  0.6  1.0  1.6  1.5  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  1.5  0.2  0.1  0.1    7.8
TOBACCO 
0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.1  1.5  3.4  6.3  9.3 11.3  5.5  7.4  3.t  0..c  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  9.7  0.0  0.0  57.8
SUGAR BEET
1.5  1.9  7.3  8.0  3.9  6.1  7.1  8.8  6.5  3.6  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.6   1.1  1.6   1.5  1.2  1.1  61.9
FODDER RAB
1.1  1.4  1.3  1.7  2.7  4.3  5.0  6.4  6.6  3.2  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  2.4  3.4  3.3  0.9  0.9  0.8  0.6  46.5
MISC RABI
0.1  0.2  0.1  0.1  0.1  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.2  0.4  0.5  0.2  0.1  0.1  0.1    2.4
SUGAR CANE
2.9  3.0  1.9  2.6  5.9 11.7 16.0 23.1 30.7 37.9 36.9 34.3 28.7 22.2 16.7 21.1 28.5 24.5 22.9 16.8 12.0  8.1  5.4  3.7 417.5
VEGETABLES
0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.1  0.3  0.5  0.8  1.0  1.3  1.2  1.1  0.9  0.6  0.4  0.6  0.9  0.7  0.6  0.4  0.3  0.2  0.1  0.0  12.2
ORCHARD
0.2  0.2  0.1  0.1  0.4  1.0  1.4  2.1  2.7  3.1  3.0  2.7  2.2   1.6  1.1  1.5  2.3  2.0  1.8  1.3  1.0  0.6  0.4  0.2  33.0
TOTAL    10.  12.  16.  19.  24.  43~-.  53.  56.  63.  75.  68.  65.  47.  40.  32.  43.- 53.  39.  37.  35.  30.  24   10.   8.- 90'.
r23
ZD
0',                                                                                                                   r4~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



PAKISTAN
SCARP MARDAN PROJECT
Summary - Water Supply and Demand at Munda Headworks
Water Supply          Available
Sholgara & Doaba Canals           Lower Swat Canal                                Swat River          Water Supply
Ave.                           Ave.                     Total
Est.      Monthly   % of         Est.    Monthly    % of          Diver-        Ave.        Min.
Future    Diver-    Reqmt.       Future  Diver-       Reqmt.      sion          Dis-   2/  Dis-   3/   Ave.  Min.
Month        Regmt.    sion 1/   Diverted   Regmt.  sion 1/    Diverted   Regmt.             charge -.  charge -.  Years  Years
---'000 ac ft --         %       ---'000 ac ft-           %        '000 ac      ---'O0O ac ft ---
ft
Jan            5          2          40         18         8         44         23             69          32         300    139
Feb            4        11         275         28        24          86         32             80          29         250      91
Mar.          13         18         138         54       34           63         67           270          95         403    142
Apr           21         20          95         88       41          46        109            663         244         609    224
May           27         24          89        112       49           44       139            879         424         632    305
Jun           27         25          92        108       52           48       135          1,190         651         881    482
Jul           19         24        126          70       49           70        89          1,268         492       1,425    553
Aug           15         20        133          61       44           71        77            872         397       1,132    516
Sep           21        20          95         75        47          64         95            392         210         413    221
Oct           19         22          86         58       51           88         77           193          76         251      99
Nov           10         19         190        44        38           86        54            102          52         189      96
Dec            4         15        375         15        27         180         19             88          54         463    284
TOTAL      185        220         119        731       464          63        916          6,066          -          662      -
1/  Monthly diversion record - 1967 to 1976
2/ Average monthly discharge of Swat River at Munda Headworks - 1956 to 1976
3/ Minimum monthly recorded discharge of Swat River at Munda Headworks - 1956 to 1976
o0



ANNEX 1
Table 11
PAKISTAN
SCARP MARDAN PROJECT
Detailed Cost Estimates
Rs Million!'                    us$ Million          Foreign
Local     Foreign    Total       Local    Foreign    Total       Exchange
I.   Land Acquisition
Additional ROW for Canal and Drain
Construction                            48.5         -        48.5         4.9        -         4.9         0
Crop Damage (Subsurface drains)              24.7       0          24.7        2.5       0           2.5        0
II.  Civil Works
Construction and 0&M Camp                     6.9       1.0         7.9        0.7-      0.1         0.8       13
Modifications to Benton Tunnel                6.9       1.0         7.9        0.7       0.1         0.8       13
Lower Swat Canal                             96.0      32.7       128.7        9.7       3.3        13.0       25
Open Drain Improvements:
Murdara Drainage System                  10.9       4.0        14.9        1.1       0.4        1.5        27
Hisara Drainage System                   22.8       7.9        30.7        2.3       0.8        3.1        26
Bandai Drainage System                   4.9        2.0         6.9        0.5       0.2        0.7        29
Uch Drainage System                       3.0         0         3.0        0.3         0        0.3         0
Ballar Drainage System                  11.9        3.9        15.8        1.2       0.4        1.6        25
Plato Drainage System                     2.0       0.0         2.0        0.2       0.0        0.2         0
Subsurface Drain Construction:
Murdara North                            16.8      30.7        47.5        1.7       3.1        4.8        65
Murdara South                            20.8      38.6        59.4        2.1       3.9        6.0        65
Hisara North                             27.7      52.5        80.2        2.8       5.3        8.1        65
Hisara South                             15.8      29.7        45.5        1.6       3.0        4.6        65
West of Hisara                            5.0       8.9        13.9        0.5       0.9        1.4        64
Bandai & Plato                          14.9       26.7       41.6         1.5       2.7        4.2        64
Ballar & Uch                             8.9       17.8        26.7        0.9       1.8        2.7        67
Road Improvements                            14.9       0.0        14.9        1.5       0.0        1.5         0
Subtotal                               290.1      257.4      547.5        29.3      26.0       55.3        47
Physical Contingencies                       58.4      51.5       109.9        5.9       5.2       11.1        51
Engineering Supervision & Management         65.3       0.0        65.3        6.6       0.0        6.6         0
Subtotal Civil Works                   413.8      308.9      722.7        41.8      31.2       73.0        43
TII. On-Farm Improvements
Watercourse Remodelling                      10.9       0.0        10.9        1.1       0.0        1.1         0
Land Reclamation                             27.7       4.0        31.7        2.8       0.4        3.2        13
Land Levelling                               11.9       8.9        20.8        1.2       0.9        2.1        43
Subtotal                                50.5       12.9       63.4         5.1      1.3         6.4       20
Physical Contingencies                        4.9       1.0         5.9        0.5       0.1        0.6        17
Engineering Supervision                       6.9       0.0         6.9        0.7       0.0        0.7         0
Subtotal On-Farm                        62.3       13.9       76.2         6.3      1.4         7.7       18
IV. Agricultural Development
Agricultural Extension                       11.4       0.0        11.4        1.15      0.0        1.15        -
Maize Seed Production                         1.5       0.0         1.5        0.15      0.0        0.15        -
Subtotal                                12.9        0.0       12.9         1.30     0.0         1.30       -
V.   Monitoring Program                            6.9       0.0         6.9        0.70      0.0        0.70        0
VI.  Equipment & Vehicles
Construction                                 0.0       91.0       91.0         0.0      9.19        9.19       0
O&M                                           0.0      21.4       21.4         0.0      2.16        2.16     100
Land Reclamation                              0.0       1.9         1.9        0.0      0.19        0.19     100
Land Levelling                                0.0       6.4         6.4        0.0      0.65        0.65     100
Monitoring                                    0.0       1.6         1.6        0.0      0.16        0.16     100
Agricultural Extension                        0.0       1.2         1.2        0.0      0.12        0.12     100
Processing Plants (gravel & pipe)             0.5      20':8      21.3         0.05     2.10        2.15      97
Road Improvement                             0.0       13.8       13.8         0.0      1.40        1.40     100
Project Support                               1.5      10.8       12.3         0.15     1.09        1.24      88
Seed Production                              0.0        1.4        1.4         0.0      0.14        0.14     100
Subtotal                                 2.0      170.3      172.3         0.20    17.20       17.40      99
Duties and Taxes                            69.3        0.0       69.3         7.00     0.0         7.00       0
Subtotal Equipment                      71.3      170.3      241.6         7.20    17.20       24.40      70
VII. Technical Assistance
Consultants                              2.0       36.6       38.6         0.20     3.70        3.90      95
Training                                 0.0        2.0        2.0         0.00     0.20       0.20      100
Subtotal                                 2.0       38.6       40.6         0.20     3.90       4.10       95
Project Subtotal                       642.5      531.6    1,174.1        64.90    53.70     118.60       45
VIII,Expected Price Increases                    152.5     131.6       284.2       15.40    13.30       28.70      46
IX.  0 & M During Project Implementation          26.7       0.0       26.7         2.70     0.0         2.7d       0
TOTAL                                  121.7      663.3    1.485.0        83.00    67.00     150.00       45
1/                                                                                                                   69
-   @ Official exchange rate of US$1.0 - Es 9.9



ANNEX 1
Table 12
PAKISTAN
SCARP MARDAN PROJECT
Schedule of Expenditures
(In Million US$)
Total    ---     Fiscal Years---------
Cost!/  79/80   80/81  81/82  82/83  83/84  84/85
Land Acquisition and Crop
Damage               7.40    0.60      1.40   1.50   1.60   1.60   0.70
Benton Tunnel             0.80    0.00      0.20   0.25   0.35    -       -
Lower Swat Canal         13.00    0.00      1.90   3.60   3.80   2.80   0.90
Open Drainage             7.40    0.10      2.10   2.30   2.30   0.60    -
Subsurface Drainage      31.80    0.00      2.85   5.35   7.20   8.20   8.20
Road Improvement          1.50      -        -     0.25   1.00   0.25    -
Construction and O&M Camp 0.80    0.45      0.35    -      -       -      -
On-Farm Improvements      6.40    0.00      0.15   1.40   1.80   1.70   1.35
Sub-total        69.10    1.15      8.95  14.65  18.05  15.15  11.15
Physical Contingencies   11.70    0.15      1.65   2.60   3.00   2.60   1.70
Engineering Supervision
and Administration   7.30    0.05      1.00   1.60   1.90   1.65   1.10
Sub-total        88.10    1.35    11.60  18.85  22.95  19.40  13.95
Price Escalation         23.70    0.10      1.40   3.75   6.20   6.85   5.40
Sub-total       111.80    1.45    13.00  22.60  29.15  26.25  19.35
Equipment                24.40    0.00      1.00  11.10  12.30    -       -
Monitoring Program        0.70    0.00      0.05   0.15   0.20   0.20   0.10
Technical Assistance      4.10    0.75      0.70   0.70   0.70   0.65   0.60
Sub-total        29.20    0.75      1.75  11.95  13.20   0.85   0.70
Price Escalation          4.70    0.05      0.15   1.60   2.50   0.20   0.20
Sub-total        33.90    0.80      1.90  13.55  15.70   1.05   0.90
Ag. Development           1.30    0.15      0.35   0.30   0.20   0.20   0.10
Price Escalation          0.30    0.00      0.05   0.05   0.05   0.10   0.05
Sub-total         1.60    0.15      0.40   0.35   0.25   0.30   0.15
O&M during I7plemen-                                                         2/
tationi              2.70    0.00      0.00   0.10   0.20   0.40   2.002
TOTAL           150.00    2.40    15.30  36.60  45.30  28.00  22.40
-. January 1979 Price Level.
2/  Includes O&M expenditure of FY's 1985/86 and 1986/87 of US$0.7 annually.
70



ANNEX 1
Table 13
PAKISTAN
SCARP MARDAN PROJECT
Proposed Allocation of the Aid Package
Amount Allocated          % of Expenditures
US$ M Equivalent-/         to be financed
Category                         IDA         CIDA         IDA           CIDA
J'ivil Works
Benton Tunnel               )
Lower Swat Canal                                        100% of Foreign; 33% of Local
Open Drainage               )
Subsurface Drainage         )  42.5         12.0         50%           14%
Road Improvements           )
Agr. Ext. Office & Housing 3
On-Farm Improvements
Watercourse Remodeling      )
Land Reclamation            )
Land Leveling               )   4.5                      50%
Equipment a Vehicles--            7.0         12.5         100% of Foreign Costs
Consultants                       4.8                      100%
Unallocated                       1.2          0.5
Expenditures Not Financed
Engineering, Superv. & Admin.
Duties and Taxes
Land Acquisition
TOTAL                   60.0        25.0
-: Including expected ptice increases
2J  Net of taxes and duties
71



ANNEX 1
Table 14
PAKISTAN
SCARP MARDAN PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
(US$ M Equivalent)
IDA Fiscal Year                                              Accumulated
and Semester                  Disbursements                  Disbursements
1979
2nd                          0                               0
1980
lst                          0.5                             0.5
2nd                          1.0                             1.5
1981
1st                          3.5                             5.0
2nd                          3.5                             8.5
1982
1st                          7.0                            15.5
2nd                          7.0                            22.5
1983
1st                          8.5                            31.0
2nd                          8.5                            39.5
1984
1st                          6.0                           45.5
2nd                          6.0                           51.5
1985
1st                          4.5                           56.0
2nd                          4.0                           60.0
72



P A K I S T A N
S C A RP  MARDAN  PRO J EC T
CROP AREA, YIELD, PRCDUCTION AND ECUNOMIC VALUE OF PRODUCTION - TOTAL PROJECT
CCJP                    PRESENT                            FUTURE WITHOUT PROJECT                      FUTURE WITH PROJECT
RAEA  YIELD   PROD  GROSS VALADD   NET  AREA  YIELD   PROD  GROSS VALADD   NET  AREA  YIELD   PROD  GROSS VALADD   NET
ITN.HHJA T/HA) (TH.T) -----(FIL fS )---- (TH.HA)IT/HA) (Th.T) -----(8IL RS )---- (TH.HA)(T/HA) (TH.T) ----- MIL RS )----
MAIZ        26.4   I.s   38.7   b7.1   57.6   45.3  26.4   1_4   36.7   63.6   54.1   41.8  29.4   3.0   86.7  150.2  127.7  109.3
FODDER       3.5  19.0   66.1    9.2    8.5    6.6   3.5  18.6   64.7    9.0    8.3    6.4   5.6  30.8  171.9   23.8   21.7   17.7
VEGETABLE    2.2  11.6   26.1   66.2   51.5   49.4   2.2  11.6   26.1   66.2   51.5   49.4   2.o  16.0   40.7  103.2   85.4   82.1
MISCEL       2.0   0.b    1.2    3.3    3.1    2.7   2.0   0.6    1.2    3.3    3.1    2.7   1.7   1.0    1.7    4.7    4.3    3.9
*iHEAT      25.9   1.4   30.8   72.0   oO.7   48.8  25.9   1.4   35.8   70.2   58.9   46.9  29.4   2.6   76.1  149.2  124.2  105.5
TA6ACCU      7.0   1.3    9.0  11.6  115.4  lC8.8   7.0   1.2    8.4  109.5  108.3  101.8   8.5   1.6   13.8  179.6  176.8  166.3
SUGAR 8EA    4.6  27.4  127.2   20.2   It.8   12.2   4.6  26.5  122.8   19.5   16.1   11.5   5.8  39.3  229.0   36.3   30.7   22.8
FODDER       6.1 033.d  189.3   29.9   28.5   24.5   6.1  29.9  1U3.5   29.1   28.0   24.0   5.9  45.6  268.3   42.5   40.0   34.6
MISCEL       0.5   0.6    C.3    C.9    C.8    C.7   0.5   0.6    0.3    0.9    0.8    0.7   0.6   0.8    0.5    1.4    1.2    1.1
OIL SEED     1.0   O.o    0.6    2.2    2.)    1.7   1.0   0.6    0.6    2.2    2.0    1.7   1.2   1.8 - 2.1    7.3    7.0    6.5
SUGAk CAN   24.4  31.3  763.1  12).9   97.6   7C.9  24.4  30.9  753.7  119.4   96.1   69.4  27.7  50.1 1388.0  219.9  186.9  149.2
ORCHARD      1.2   8.3   15.1   15.3   17.7   16.9   1.2   7.8    9.5   17.2   16.6   15.8   2.8  13.5   37.7   68.2   64.6   62.1
CROP INT   123.4                                      123.4                                      142.4
TGTAL.                  12b8.3  526.8  460.2  388.7                1243.4  509.9  443.9  372.3                2316.4  986; 2  870.5  761.1
fX
U,



ANNEX 1
Table 16
PAKISTAN
SCARP MARDAN PROJECT
(Rs/metric ton)
Prices Used for Financial and Economic Analysis
Financial Prices               Economic Prices
Crops                               Present         Future
Maize                                965             1,195                 1,730
Fodder K                              80                95                   139
Vegetables                         1,420             1,775                 2,535
Miscellaneous                      1,555             1,945                 2,770
Wheat                                935             1,155                 1,960
Tobacco                            8,200            10,375                12,970
Sugar Beet                           150               160-/                 160
Fodder R                              90               110                   160
Oils Seed                          2,295             2,820                 3,525
Sugarcane                            130               160-/                 160
Orchard                            1,015             1,270                 1,810
Fertilizers
Nitrogen                           2,960             3,770                 5,170
Phosphate                          2,000             2,120                 1,685
Potassium                          1,000             1,220                 1,880
1/
-   Future financial sugar price was assumed to be equal to the economic price.  At
present sugar price is more than 100%.higher than the economic price.
74



ANNEX 1
PAKISTAN                          Table 17
SCARP MARDAN PROJECT
Present and Future Cropping Patterns (%) Considered in the Farm
Budget Models
1/                            Canl!
Lower Swat Canal-/                  Upper Swat Canal-/
K1arif:                          P       W       W                    P      W       W
Maize                        30      30     32                   35      35      39
Fodder                        5       5       8                   4       4       4
Vegetables                    2       2       3                   2       2       3
Misc.                         2       2       2                   2       2       2
(39)   (39)   (45)                  (43)   (43)   (48)
Wheat                        28      28      31                  36      36      41
Tobacco                       8       8     10                    9       9      10
Sugar Beet                    8       8      9                    3       3       3
Fodder                        9       9       8                   4       4       5
Misc.                         0       0      0                    2       2       2
Oilseeds                      0       0      1                    1       1       2
(53)   (53)   (59)                  (55)   (55)   (63)
PErennial:
Sugarcane                    31      31     34                   27      27     30
Orchard                       1       1       4                   1       1       2
(32)   (32)   (38)                  (28)   (28)   (32)
Total            156    156    180                   154    154    175
N> :e:  Present cropping intensities include the abandoned areas.
jFor Farm Models I, II and III  weighted average of areas I, II and III.
For Farm Models IV, V and VI; weighted average of areas IV and VI.
75



ANNEX 1
Table 18
PAKISTAN
SCARP MARDAN PROJECT
Present and Future Yield (md/ac) Considered in the Farm Budget Models
Lower Swat Canal-/                Upper Swat Canal-/
Kharif:                           P      W      W                   P      W      W
Maize                        14.0    13.0   37.0               18.0    18.0   25.0
Fodder                      200.0   195.0  350.0              220.0   220.0  280.0
Vegetables                  116.0   116.0  180.0              144.0   144.0  160.0
Misc.                         6.5      6.5   12.0               6.5      6.5    9.0
Rabi:
Wheat                        14.0    13.0   30.0               17.0    17.0   25.0
Tobacco                      13.0    12.0   19.0               15.0    15.0   16.0
Sugar Beet                  292.0   280.0  440.0              330.0   -330.0  360.0
Fodder                      318.0   304.0  510.0              400.0   400.0  450.0
Misc.                        -         -      -                 6.5      6.5    9.0
Oilseed                      -         -     20.0               6.5      6.5   20.0
Perennials:
Sugarcane                   311.0   304.0  575.0              400.0   400.0  480.0
Orchard                      80.0    73.0  150.0              124.0   124.0  135.0
For Farm Models I, II and III; weighted average of areas I, II and III.
/ For Farm Models IV, V and VI; weighted average of areas IV and V.
76



PAKISTAN                                              Table 19
SCARP MARDAN PROJECT
Financial Analysis - Lower Swat
Farm Model I - 2,0 ac           Farm Model II - 7.5 ac          Farm Model III - 21.5 ac
arm Budget                       Present  Future W  Future W    Present  Future W  Future W  Present Future W  Future W
coss Income from crops             2,990    3,530      8,110       11,250   13,250      30,430    32,150  37,930    87,100
et Wage Income (expenditures)        200       60        350          175        60        200    (2,020)   (625)   (3,240)
Total Farm Income               3,190    3,590      8,460      11,425   13,310       30,630    30,130  37,305    83,860
:ertainty Equivalent-/             2,740    3,060      7,650        9,740   11,320       27,590    25,310  31,610    75,150
Ijerational Cost:
Seasonal Inputs!'                 440      570      1,025        1,640    2,130       3,840      4,865   6,280    11,315
Bullock Maintenance-              255      395        680          950    1,475       2,550      2,740   4,225      7,335
Water Charges                      50       50        300          190       190      1,115        540      540     3,195
Total Cost                        745    1,015      2,005        2,780    3,795       7,505      8,145  11,045    21,845
'arm Income                        1,995    2,045      5,645        6,960    7,525       2t),085    17;i65  20,565    53,305
Subsistance Food Requirement- 1,170    1,890        1,890       1,495    2,420        2,420      1,930   3,100      3,100
,et Farm Income                      825       155     3,755        5,465    5,105       17,665    15,235  17,465    50,205
roject Rent
.ertain Farm Gross Income                    3,060      7,650                11,320      27,590             31,610    75,150
Cost of Inputs (excluding water)           965      1,705                 3,605       6,390             10,505    18,650
Cost of Family Labor at market price       745      1,065                 2,790       4,010              7,360      8,230
5/
Management Fee-                            200        550                   750       2,000              2,100      5,300
implicit Land Rent                           1,150      4,330                 4,175      15,190             11,645    42,970
i'roject Rent:
Per Farm                                            3,180                            11,015                       31,325
Per Acre                                            1,590                             1,460                        1,450
ncremental Water Charge as a percent
of Project Farm Rent                                 8%                                8%                            8%
kgricultural Income Ta/                                                                                                2,420
as a precent of Project Farm Rent                                                                                     8%
- Variations in yields in the project area are about 15% of the average value.  It is assumed that with project, yield
would vary within 10% of average value.
Including interest on seasonal loan at 12% per annum.
-i Gross value of the fodder produced in each farm.
One hundred ninety kilograusof wheat/capita at farm gate price (present Rs 180/person; future 220/person).
- Equivalent to 10% of farm income.
SI Land rent less water charges. Based on Income Tax rate and deductions.
77



PAKISTAN                                                  ANNEX 1
SCARP MARDAN PROJECT                                            Table 20
Financial Analysis - Upper Swat
Farm Model I - 2.0 ac             Farm Model II - 7.5 ac           Farm Model III - 21.5 ac
Farm Budget                        Present  Future W  Future W    Present  Future W  Future W   Present  Future W  Future W
Gross Income from crops             3,495    4,365       6,215       13,120   16,380    23,320         37,550   46,880    66,700
Net Wage Incomes (expenditures)    200           60        350           170        60        200      (2,020)     (625)   (2,430)
Total Farm Income               3,695    4,425       6,565       13,290   16,440    23,520        35,530   46,255    64,270
1/
Certainity Equivalent-              3,170    3,770       5,945       11,320   13,980    21,190         29,900   39,220    57,600
Operational Cost:
Seasonal InputsV                  485       630        990        1,825    2,370       3,710       5,370    6,930    10,970
Bullock Maintenance-/             160       250        340          600       940      1,300       1,720    2,690        3,710
Water Charges                      45        45        245          180       180        910          505       505      2,615
Total Cost                        690       925      1,575        2,605    3,490       5,920       7,595   10,125    17,295
Farm Income                         2,480    2,845       4,370        8,715   10,490    15,270         22,305   29,095    40,305
Subs42 tance Food Require-
ment-                           1,170    1,890       1,890        1,495    2,420       2,420       1,930    3,100        3,100
Net Farm Income                     1,310       955      2,480        7,220    8,070    12,850         20,375   25,995    37,205
Project Rent
Certain Gross Income                          3,770      5,945                 13,980    21,190                  39,220    57,600
Cost of Inputs (excluding water)            880      1,330                  3,310      5,010                 9,620    14,680
Cost of Family Labor at market price    765            980                  2,860      3,685                 7,565      8,120
Management Fee-/                            300        450                  1,050      1,500                  2,950      4,000
Implicit Land Rent                            1,825      3,185                  6,760    10,995                  19,085    30,800
Project Rent:
Per Farm                                             1,360                             4,235                           11,715
Per Acre                                               680                               560                               545
Incremental Water Charge as a percent of
Project Farm Rent                                      15%                               17%                               18%
Agricultural Income Tall/                                                                                                     135
as a percent of Project Farm Rent                                                                                           1%
-   Variations in yields in the project area are about 15% of the average value.  It is assumed that with project,
yield would vary within 10% of average value.
-/ Including interest on seasonal loan at 12% per annum.
--  Gross value of the fodder produced in each farm.
-/ One hundred ninety kilogram of wheat/capita at farm gate price.
- Equivalent to 10% of farm income.
Land rent less water charges.  Based on Income Tax rate and deductions.
78



PAKISTAN
SCARP MARDAN PROJECT
Economic Prices
(In 1978 Currency)
Sugar    Oil                                             Sugar
Wheat   Maiz  Tobacco  Cane & Beet  Seed  Rice  Phosphate  Urea  Potassium  Beet Seed
World Market Prices US$/T.M.I/             174      150   2,025         364       346   426         41      203        77        4,226
Ad2ustment Ratio-/                         95%      95%      75%        100%      92%   68%        100%    100%       100%         100%
Adjsuted Price                             165      142   1,519         364       318   290         41      203        77        4,226
Handling and Transportation C gst
between the Port and the NVFP-              13       13       22         22        13    13         28       28        28            28
Processing, Handling and Transpor-
tation Cost b ween Wholesale Market
and Farm Gate-                              20       20      187        163        25    25          9        9          9            9
Farm Gate Price                            198      175   1,310         179       356   252         78      240       114         4,263
Processing Ratio                          100%      100%   100%           9%    100%   67%          46%    46%        60%          100%
Economic Price US$                         198      175   1,310          16       356   169        170      522       190         4,263
1/ World Bank's projection for 1985 expressed in 1978 currency.
-/ Historical relationship (1971-76) between world prices and CIF or FOB prices in Pakistan.
3/ 
3   Based on data collected from government institutions, sugar mills, tobacco and fertilizer companies.  A SCF of 0.85  
was used for elements having not traded goods and services.                                                                           x



P A K I S T A N
SC AR P  MAR DAN  PRO J EC T
ECbNOMIC COST rF LABOR
..................................................................................................................................
PRESENT                                FUTURE IIITHUUT PROJECT                          fJTJRE WITri PROJECT
DEMANsD        M COST      TCT CJST            DEMAND         M, COST      TGT COST            DEiAAND         M COST       TOT COST
1OCOC DAYS)           IRS I   (1000 RS 3    (1C0O JAYS)             (IS )   (1003  RS )        (1300 DAYS)           (RS )   (1300 RS )
............................................................................ ......................................................
JAN         d84.69            11.69       5218.60            Sd4.69          11.o9        5213.63           10o8.24           12.03        7 5  Sj
FEB          829.33           1).59       4tJI .88           829.33          10.59        4611.88          1E43.55            12.03        7123.79
MAR          648.23            6.96        3312.42           648.23           6.96        3312.42            849.13           IC.98        4815.47
APR          930.55           12.03        5766.b4           930.55          12.03        576i'.64          1368.47           12.03       11321.58
MAY           750.57           9.I1       3630.13            750.57           9.0!        3830.13           1144.1C           12.03        8329.25
JUN          400.26            5.00       16b1.28            4JO.2o           5.0d        1601.23            b 12.51           6.25        2776.64
JUL          562.72            5.81       2479.78            562.72           5.81        2479.78            777.81            9.5S        40 q'2.99
AUG          436.41            5.18       1765.35            436.41           5.18        1735.35            561.09            5.81        240. 33
SEP          545.91            5.73       2382.77            545.91           5.73        2382.77            782.13            S.64        412-+.45
OCT          916.28           12.30       5619.31            918.28           12.00       5619.31           132J.85           12.0D       10450.26
NUV           816.62          10.33       4468.92            816.62          13.33        4468.92          115.84            12.33        67WC.39
DEC          833.42           10.67       4c45.36            833.42          10.67        4645.36           1033.11           12.03        6961.29
TOTAL LA3OR   )E,4i A;:     85iu.94                                    8556.94                                      11593.94   (1333 DAYS)
TOTAL LA3UR  CCST  :    45412.44                                      45412.44                                      766C5.10  (1030  RS J
ECUNCAIC WAGE RATE :            5.31                                       5.31                                          6.61   (RS
.. . .. . ..........   .............. .. .. .. . .. .. .. ..... .. .. ... .. .. .. .. .                    .......... ,,,,,,.......... .. ... .. ... ..
INCREMENTAL LABuR  DEMANi3:                                                                     3-37.00   (1000 DAYS)
INCREMENTAL LABOR  COST  :                                                                     31192.66   (1000 RS
.................................................................................................................................,
The marginal opportunity cost of labor expressed as a function of the labor demand is based
on the following assumptions:
(i)  At minimum employment level, the marginal cost would be the value of
extra consumption needed for family members to undertake field work
(about 50% of average food grain consumption) plus the value of the
forgone activities (such as hunting and fishing). This marginal cost
was estimated at Rs 3 per day;
(ii)  At the employment level corresponding to about 35% of the total farm
C)              labor supply,  the marginal cost would be about Rs 6 per day; and
(iii)   At an employment level corresponding to the present peak level (about
56% of total farm labor supply), the marginal cost would be about Rs 12 per day.



ANNEX 1
Table 23
PAKISTAN
SCARP MARDAN PROJECT
Conversion Factor Used for Estimating the Economic Cost
Conversion           Weighted Average
% Structure          Factor            Conversion Factor
1.  Land Acquisition                   100               1.15                  1.15
Traded component                100
Non-traded component
Unskilled labor
2.  Civil Works                        100                                     0.88
Traded component                  42               1.00                  0.42
Non-traded component              38               0.85                  0.32
Unskilled labor                   20              0.70                   0.14
3.  On-Farm Improvements               100                                     0.82
Traded  component                 15               1.00                  0.15
Non-traded component              50              0.85                   0.43
Unskilled labor                   35              0.70                   0.24
4.  Agricultural Extension             100                                     0.85
Traded component                 -                 -                      -
Non-traded component            100               0.85                   0.85
Unskilled labor                  -                 -                      -
5.  Monitoring Program                 100                                     0.85
Traded component                 -                 -                     -
Non-traded component            100               0.85                  0.85
Unskilled labor                  -                 -                     -
6.  Equipment and Vehicles             100                                     1.00
Traded component                 99               1.00                  0.99
Non-traded component              1               0.85                  0.01
Unskilled labor                  -                 -                     _
7.  Technical Assistance               100                                    1.00
Traded component                 97               1.00                  0.97
Non-traded component              3               0.85                  0.03
Unskilled labor
81



ANNEX 1
Table 24
PAKISTAN
SCARP MARDAN PROJECT
Economic Cost Stream
Investment Cost                    O&M Cost
Financial   Economic             Financial   Economic
Fiscal                     4tem' Srem!______ ____
Year                       Stream___    __Stra_Streamm '   Stream_L'
1979/80                     22.3         20.5
1980/81                    133.2        122.5
1981/82                    282.2        259.6                 1.0          0.8
1982/83                    335.1        308.3                 2.1         1.8
1983/84                    210.9        194.0                 4.2          3.6
1984/85                    153.0        140.8                 6.2         5.3
1985/86 and on               -           -                    7.3          6.2
TOTAL        1,136.7      1,045.7
-/ Includes farmers contribution of about Rs 10.9 M to watercourse remodeling and
about Rs 20.8 to land leveling.
-/ Conversion factors shown in Table 23 are used in calculating the economic stream.
3/ Includes Rs 42/ac incremental cost to be spend by GOP and Rs 10/ac to be spend
by farmers, in the LSC area.
4/ A standard conversion factor of 0.85 is used.



ANNEX 1
Table 25
PAKISTAN
SCARP MARDAN PROJECT
Value of Production - Total Project
Future Without            Future With
Fiscal          Project                  Project            Increment
Year           (Mil. Rs)                (Mil. Rs)           (Mil. Rs)
1 (1981/82)       387.6                    389.7                  2.1
2                 386.5                    391.3                 4.8
3                 385.3                    403.3                18.0
4                 384.2                    433.7                49.4
5                 383.1                    479.7                96.6
6                 382.0                    545.2               163.2
7                 380.9                    595.4               214.5
8                 379.8                    638.5               258.7
9                 378.7                    674.5               295.8
10                 377.5                    703.8               326.2
11                 376.4                    725.7               349.3
12                 375.3                    740.3               365.0
13                 374.2                    749.9               375.7
14                 373.1                    757.4               384.3
15                 371.8                    761.1               389.3
Note: In areas already under production, full benefits will be
achieved about 8 yrs after completion of works in each
area and about 50% of benefits will be reached after 4 years.
In areas to be reclaimed, full benefits will be achieved
after about 13 years and about 50% after 7 years. Because
the project will be benefitted from extension service improve-
ments from the first project year, benefits will start soon
after the project is initiated.
83



ANNEX 1
Chart 1
PAK ISTAN
SALINITY CONTROL AND RECLAMATION PROJECT (SCARP) MARDAN
FUTURE WATER DIVERSION REQUIREMENTS, EXISTING DIVERSIONS
AND
SWAT RIVER DISCHARGE
AT THE
MUNDA HEADWORKS
DIVERSION
MONTHLY                                   AVERAGE VS REQUIREMENT
AVERAGES                              MINIMUM MONTHLY RIVER DISCHARGE
1,200-
600-
300-
<8150*
1002 
8                             -
i00 -                                          \
c) ~  ~       ~       ~       - 300  /  \
~~25- ,j -- >
1K~~~~~~~IJ I F I M I A I M I J I J I A I S IOINIDI
MONTH                                         MONTH
DIVERSION
AVERAGE VS REQUIREMENT
MAXIMUM MONTHLY RIVER DISCHARGE
2.400-
1,200-
600-
U-
L. 300-
0150-
100-
50- ~     ~        - 
MONTH
LEGEND
Swat River Discharge (average, minimum monthly and maximum monthly I
_____ Historical Lower Swat Canal Diversion
-   Lower Swat Canal Diversion Requirement Iwith the Project)
............  Combined Lower Swat Canal, Doaba & Sholgara Diversion Recluirement
World Bank -19247
84



ANNEX 1
PAKISTAN                                                                Chart 2
SALINITY CONTROL AND RECLAMATION PROJECT (SCARP) MARDAN
Cropping Pattern of Lower Swat Canal Command Area
Future at Full Development
0   N    D    J   F   M    A    M    J    j   A    S   0    N   D    J    F   M    A    M    J    J   A    S   0
Orchard 4%
Vegetables 2%                        _                       Vegetables 2%
Vegetables 1% .1                             K. Fodder 2%        f
Misc. 2%                                          Vegetables 1%
K. Fodder                       Sugarbeet
R. Fodder                        8%
8%
-i0 _    /                               /                 Oilseed 1%
Sugarbeet
9%
Maize
10                                                                                   Wheat                         32%
31%
Oilseed 1%
il) _V|V/ Wheat                                        Maize
31%                           32%
I /  /   I   | /   Interplanted Sugarcane
4% ~ ~ 4  
P:anted Sgarcan          /       Planted Sugarcane
7%           /                   7.3%
2d R    nnterplanted Sugarcane
10 _                           /
Planted /       ugacan            oPlanted Sugarcane
/                                 ~~~~~~~~~~7.3%
30  '2nd Rato,////                                                                                    Ms.2
/               /    ~~~~~~Tobacco                               R. /F°/oddFddr
/  /           /                 /                                   /         ~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~8% /
207                                                                                         //
lst Ratoon  //Sugarcane, 2nd Ratoon                             /                        Tobacco      /
/                 ~~~~      ~~11.3%        //                              10%      /
/~                  ~         ~                                      /
Sugarcane                                 11.3%/                                   Suacn,2dRto
I  1 /   I       I    I    t I  I  I  I   I              t  o I  I            I/  I  I  I  I     I
O    N   D    J   F   M    A    M    J    J   A    S   0    N    D    J    F   M    A    M    J    J   A    S   O
World Bank   19031
85



ANNEX 1
Chart 3
PAKISTAN
SALINITY CONTROL AND RECLAMATION PROJECT (SCARP) MARDAN
Cropping Pattern of Upper Swat Canal Command Area
Future at Full Development
0    N   D    J   F   M    A   M    J   J   A    S   0   N   D    J    F   M    A    M    J   J   A    S   0
100      I                   I              I I    I      I    I Orchard 2%   I         T I   I    I I           I    I
Vegetables 2%                                   ,   -       Vegetables 2%
Vegetables 1%               Misc.2%                        Vegetables 1%                  Misc.M2%is
Mi     dde.Ol2sed & Msc.I4
9Oilseed & Misc. 4%               4%
Sugarbeet 3%
R. Fodder
5%
80               Sugarbeet 3%
70                                                                                  Wheat                        Maize
l  l           l  l                     1/               ~~~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~41%            39%
60    l    l            Wheat            l    l       Maize
60 ~~~~~4%39%
50                                                                                   I |      nte-rplanted Sgrcn
41% ~ ~ ~ ~    ~    ~     ~    ~     ~    ~ ~ 4
50                                                                            I nt|rp      Planted Sug arcane
40                                                                                                       6%
/                  |               ~~~~~~~~~~Interplanted Sugarcane 4%
/                          ~~~~~~~~~Planted Sugarcane
/                                 ~~~~~~~~6%
30 _'                            ,,__
Tobacco
nd  7            /     ~~~~10%/ 
/2/0//                                                               R. Fodder 5%
20                       /                                           
lst Ratoon    /             Sugarcane, 2nd Ratoon                                        Tobacco
istRatoon  ~~~~~            10%                                                  10%
10
Planted                         Sugarcane, 1st Ratoon
Sugarcane                                10%                                        Sugarcane, 2nd Ratoon
I   1         I    I    I I                 I    I    I    I                        I    I    I    I    I    I    I
0    N    D    J   F   M    A   M    J    J   A    S   0   N    D   J    f   M    A    M    j   J   A    S   0
World Bank -19033
86



PAKISTAN
SALINITY CONTROL AND RECLAMATION PROJECT (SCARP) MARDAN
SUMMARY IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
CALENDAR YEARS                                                          o
<   .2   _    _    _         _    _    _    _   _  _   _        _    _   _                                            _   _    _
z                  PROGRAM ITEM                          QUANTITY         <1979                        1980               1981              1982             1983             1984               1985        W
z                                                                               iJ0lrt    1l              3rtL2.1   2n  3d F4th  I1drTt   ~fdr4t   st I2ndl 3rdj 4th   ~~7It 
1   LAND ACQUISITION        *20,600                                        7.4                                                                                                           2iiiim ..
2  BENTON TUNNEL                                         14,000 C. Y.      -1.1slglMllpi                                                                                  ... 
3   LOWER SWAT CANAL                                        700 m       -17.2                i?3PA F              . .....3
4  MURDARA WATERSHED OPEN DRAIN                              58 mt         2-0                                                                                                             a 1  U   U   11  
5 HISARA WATERSHED OPEN DRAIN                              lls m         4.11
6   BANDAI & PLATO WATERSHED OPEN DRAIN                      36 m          1.2  .LL....pt I     
7   BALLAR & UCH WATERSHED OPEN DRAIN                        72 Ft         2.5         ...           .              I    tti    
a   MURDARA NORTH SUBSURFACE DRAINS                       19,000 ac        6.4n1    lo A8
9   HISARA NORTH SUBSURFACE DRAINS                        29,000Oac       10.7               L9
10  MURDARA SOUTH SUBSURFACE DRAINS                       20,000Oac        7.9                                         'ott
11  HISARA SOUTH & WEST SUBSURFACE DRAINS                 22,000 ac        7.9                         i
1 2BANDAI & PLATO SUBSURFACE DRAINS                        12,000Oac       5.5                                                                                 .....
13  BALLAR & UAH SUBSURFACE DRAINS                         8,000 ac        3.6ItIIl ii13
1 4ROAD iMPROVEMErE--LmSu                                                    .                       II..l"lfimm                                                                                              4
151 WATERCOURSE REMODELING1400a                                              3...........
151 LAND RECLAMATION                                     25.000 ac         3.8                                                                      ...........I                                             1
171 LAND LEVE-LING                                        3,0    c1
181 AGRICULTURAL EXTENSIONLupSm                                             1                                                   ...             .. ........... 
19  MONITORING PROGRAMLupSm                                                07       1                                                                                                                         9
20  EQUIPMENT AND VEHICLES                                 Lm   u           74...                                                 .....2
21  CONSULTANTS                                            Lm   u            .
22  CONSTRUCTION AND 0 & M CAMPLupSm                                         .0                                                                                                                                2
23  TOTAL PROJECTij                                                      111.611                                                                                                                             2
25                                                                                         I ______tl                                                                                        li   l 
NOTES: !/Costs do not Include Expected Price Increases.,                                                                                                                        ROW REGMTS 4,900 xc
Government Taxes and Custom Fees, or 0 & M Costs                                            LEGEND.                                                                  CROP DAMAGE 15,700 ac
EEUUIIIUEI Preconstruction and Equipment Purchase
*Costs Credit Effectiveness                                                                             Construction and Implementation
WVorld Bank - 19835






PROCUREMENT SCHEDULE FOR EQUIPMENT AND VEHICLES
COURSES                                                                                                                          RRO~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ECT~~~~~~--  SCOOP MARDAN
TROOLNE-  O'TU,DZ            D                    ,-                  C ± 2  2 F -            z    IT 0  0                                D~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~--~b -0 -'Il  I0 1
_ODDSNCROCEDLCONSTR                                  1R-                                                               I
GBfA KHOCES     TROLLERS
4 DROAGLINDS     6 TRACTORS            ICC       DC50   RECIER
3ORODERS         2TRACTORITOL S
2WACTER TRUCKCS                        A
SIUBSURFACE DRAIN CONNIE.                                                                   -
UINIT # 1                                   AIINP-ROIROL
PITS GRAVEL PEOCOOSINCCQUIPMENT         ICR    2,000
3LOGADEERSR-
0 TRLDCK*SODME                             A
SLBSUORFACE DRAIN CONSTE            C         ,0     AIA-          -
UNIT#2IC                            1,0
SUBSURFACE DR"AIN CONOTR            ICE      1,700
UN IT 03L
ROAD CONSTROCTION                                  PECIO
2 DACKHETIE       SCRAPERS                                PRA
SORADERIS        2TRACTORS             IR        1,220    REIREDI 
I LOADERS        2 TRACCORITRLRS
4TRACK, DUMP
QLAND LEVKLING
OSRJODY EQUIPMENT                      lCB        020    REID
3 SCRAPERS
1 TRACTOR                                                A A
LAND RECLAMATION                                 AP1             
2RHOLKCRUOHRES-                        ICR        170    NPTIRR
DROPPERS
2 TRACKS, DUMP                                           A A
PROJECT SUPPORT & MONITORINGA
2 LARORATORICS    2 ROAINT SHOPSA-IAL                                         3
SHRILLEIOR    1 VRAELPLT        ICR       3,040    REID            -
1 TRATOR/ICL       M SC EQUIP, IA
OPERATIORN R AICTENOSGE
U OCEADK           1D OMINCLEANER                        AAP-AINL
HLRALNRE'S     IROLLER             IC         ,0      ESNO               -
2DRAD ERS         2TRACTORE2D 
,OLOADERS         UTRACES, DAMP                            TA
LI DUTY VEHICLESA   -                                                    1         8 I       I
R AUTOMOBILCS    27 MOTOCTCLESI
31 PCKUOPS       I175  ICYCLES         ICR       1,000   REIH             -
ISCCARRYALLS       25 FIELD CARS
iSVAGONCS          2 SERVICE TRUCLKSO.
TOTAL           512,4000
PNRAUOLIFITUTITN ATTIOCH                                   TEROLN~~~~~~~~1.-FEM-N ATRI-N                                                                                     GETO  OF P-ODIREM-N                               -ANORCEDRI HOS-RJT-I-A
UAINIRIARN P-SPAAEIDR UT-NE LOCLIIDA-ION  ODE-EDIRI INITATE PEEPAATI ONC  RPEIPCITITI.NN ADO.DIE.....EDRR                                              N INITIAL -DLTE- CDT 1ITE                 ,T-INTERNCFIP NAL-T -                            -
ADS ELILADRI.N CiDR,T EC TR-RR- SP-E-ARIT                                                          - INS OD RI   TLER -T ITA                       ID   CE     -HHI-EI-TC RSIRE                    TOREETITITV _10 DON N              HHEN       T- -DE 4DNCNS SNI ,IC,
J_T-IADD    C     U   MENTOR TRFITERIN  .ARO _ICTITCHN TOE U                                                                                                                                         HANIDOICT-                      4-LNA,D--YOACAOP-E
_LE RO_E OF  ODOR.-- -FA4                                                         V  T- -TPRUONO 4HPIOU TRA.TR.. CI
P-URE  HA-LIEIAOI- NOTIE                                                    C-DO RC                                                                                                          DEC NDO-ETID                        2-T1.ARPI TRADER  -
H-HRTD.PR AT THETRUTROR POEALALIPIOATION NATO              S ~~TRUESRITRT-LU IT- ODETO- CRC UH,RM. ETDCDCIT.HH  ICC.-
CEST--TD C-RR- FR CTE ORS ANC EA-E UAN P-IE IS TREASO






ANNEX 1
PAKISTAN                                                                  Chart 6
SALINITY CONTROL AND RECLAMATION PROJECT (SCARP) MARDAN
Proposed Organization Chart - Design & Construction
WAPDA
Notes:                                                               Steering Committee
1. Each organizational unit will be assigned the                       Chairman
necessary clerical and administrative personnel.                    Member(W)
2. The Junior Engineers shown in each unit may                         General Manager
shift to other unitsdependingon the workload.                       Chief Engineer IPash.)
3. Pakistani counterparts iCp) are shown for each
Expatriate lExp). The counterparts would re-                               |                                             Accounts
ceive training as part of their duty.                                      E
4. The Consultant's home office staff will provide                    Proj. Management                                 Pnoject Accountant
technical and administrative support to the
project.                                                         Proj. Director iCpj                              Assistant Accountant  8
Project                                Proj, Manager (Exp.)
Coordination
Committee
Project                                Project                                Project                                General
Planning                                Design                             Implementation                             Services
Planning Engineer (Exp.)               Design Engineer (Exp.)               Construction Engineer (Exp.)               Assistant Director
Superintending Enginer                 Superintending Engineer             Superintending Engineer (Cp)                Senior Administrator
Field Data                           Open Drains &                                                                   Personnel &
Collection                              Canals                                                                         Training
Senior Engineer                      Senior Engineer                         Seniorl Engineer                       Personnel Officer
Jr. Engineer         4                Jr. Engineer           4               Jr. Engineer           4               Jr. Officer            1
Sub Engineer (Ov.)    E               Draftsman             2                Sub Engineer (Ov)      8               Superintendent         2
Draftsman            2                                                                                              Assistant              4
Equipment Operator   2
Plan                                Tile Drains                             Contract                             Transportation
Formulation                             T   Drains                          Administration         laial
Planning Engineer (Exp.)              Drainage Engineer (Exp.)              Contract Admin. Eng. (Exp)                  Transort Officer
Senior Engineer (Cp)                  Senior Engineer (Cp)                  Senior Engineer (Cp)        l       lfl
Jr. Engineer          2               Jr. Engineer          4                Jr. Engineer           4             Asst. Transportation Off. 4
Draftsman             1               Draftsman             2                Draftsman             4              Foreman                 t
Mechanic                3
L-              Project                                                                     Construction
Evaluation                             Structures                             Inspection                          Housing & Stores
Senior Economist                                                         Construction Inspector (EXp)
Senior Agriculturist                     Senior Engineer                 Senior Engineer (Cp)                         Jurior Engineer
Jr. R.O,             4                Jr. Engineer          4                Jr. Engineer          8               SDO                    2
Draftsman             2                Sub. Engineer        16               Sub Engineer (Ov)     4
R.O. (Inspector)      3               Assistant             2
Laboratory Staff      a
PERSONNEL SUMMARY
Expartriates (Exp.)              9                                    Reclamation &
Project Director                 1                                      Operation
Superintending Engineer          3                                 Sr. Soils Scientist (Cp  |
Senior Engineer & Sr. Scientist    10                              Sril Scientist (Exp.)
Senior Economist                ,l                          j          S
Agronomist & Agricultural Eng.    2                              Agronomist            1
Farm Planning Specialist         1                               Agricultural Eng.     1
Laboratory Staff                 8                               Farm Planning Spec.   7
Junior Engineer & RDO.          45                               Jr. Engineers         4
Sub Engineer & Draftsman        49                              Assistants             4
Administrative Officers          4
Junior Officers                  3
Assistants                      32
TOTAL                          168                                                                              World Bank - 19215
89



PAK ISTAN
SALINITY CONTROL AND RECLAMATION PROJECT (SCARP) MARDAN
Organization Chart: Operation and Maintenance of the Irrigation and Drainage Systems
Chief Engineer
Irrigation Dept.
NW FP
-   I                       I                                           I                       |                I~~~~~~~I 
Techn ical       Administrative             Acons            Director, Planning,
Clector           Officer             Officer                 OfDe Je sign & Hydrology
M~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Northerni Irrigation Circle               Central Irrigation Circle                  Southern Irrigation Circle             Development Irrigation Circle
Mardan                                  Peshawar                                     Bannu                                   Peshawar
Superintending Engineer                  Superintending Engineer                    Superintending Engineer                   Superintending Engineer
Swabi Division                                  Malakand Division   |                       Mardan Irrigation
Svvab i                                         Malakand                               & Drainage Office
Executive Engineer                                Executive Engineer                               Mardan
0               C w  g,           C .
jcL                        w               c                                                a,>
cn~~~~~~~~n ~ ~
LLi~4                                                                                     A_ Er                                                                              X=8
-0 2                                     T LY        m m~~~~~~~~~~~~,> W  W>J WC
W                                                                       x~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
L~~~~~1                    VV~~orld Bank-19214
D~~~~~~~~~~0                                                                                       
LO



ANNEX 1
Cha rt  8
PAKISTAN
SALINITY CONTROL AND RECLAMATION PROJECT (SCARP) MARDAN
Cropping Calander
Oct.    Nov.      Dec.    Jan.      Feb.      Mar.    April     May      June      July     Aug.    Sept
Mai,                                                                                         u        !
K. F Adder         _                                                       IUM  LLIJ.LIs I. .LIUm   ULLI
Misi (Pulses)                                                         m-                                 _
Wh, it               XXs .
VVhr AZC uz, 11m..  amu....
ToL ,cco                                                     L!uau.           -
Sug; beets    *   *                
FocI er, R.        LLILAL  _
Mis, (Oilseeds)     U       _   _
Interplanting                               Planting
Sui wcane          J             .                           L   ULUU.L
Harveting & Ratooning
1EhhEEhIElEl Planting Period
Harveting Period
World Bank -19220
91



ANNEX 2
Page i
PAKISTAN
SALINITY CONTROL AND RECLAMATION PROJECT (SCARP) MARDAN
AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT
A. AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION
Present Organization
General
1.        Agricultural Extension in the NWFP is controlled by the Director
of Agriculture (Extension), Department of Agriculture, in Peshawar. Senior
staff include a Deputy Director of Agriculture (DDA) running an Economics
and Marketing Wing, a DDA responsible for liaison with the Research Directo-
rate, and senior officers responsible for statistics, publicity, horticulture,
plant protection and agronomy. Field operations are organized parallel to
the administration structure of the province. An Assistant Director is in
charge of Soil Conservation.
2.        The project lies within the Peshawar Division and extends over the
entire Mardan district and parts of the Charsadda tehsil of Peshawar district
(about 670,000 ac). Both districts come under the DDA Peshawar. Extension
responsibilities in each district fall under an Extra-Assistant Director of
Agriculture (EADA), supported by an Assistant Plant Protection Office (APPO).
Actual extension work is carried out by Field Assistants (FAs), who are
supervised by Agricultural Assistants (AAs). The territory covered by FAs
is determined by area and not by the number of farmers within the territory.
There are approximately 6 to 7 FAs for each AA. The EADA supervises as to 15
AAs.
Services and Training
3.        The principle duties of extension staff are to inform farmers about
the day-to-day market situation, to help them obtain loans and to provide
sprayers and pesticides. Demonstrations to the farmers center on the use of
implements, sprayers and pesticides and in fruit preservation. Other tasks
include collection of statistics, weather data, crop areas and yields, or-
ganizing and running major pest control compaigns, providing information
regarding water supplies and an elaborate program of organizing experimental
and demonstration plots.
4.        New FAs are given two years of pre-service training at the Agri-
cultural Training Institute in Peshawar. After they enter service, about
92



ANNEX 2
Page 2
20 FAs, are selected each season for a two-month's refresher course. Since
there are at present about 600 FAs in the province, each FA has a chance to
attend a refresher course about once in 15 years. The AAs have Bachelors'
or Masters' degrees from the Faculty of Agriculture, University of Peshawar.
Their in-service training consists of a twice-yearly briefing session at the
main research station in Tarnab. In turn, they run training courses for the
FAs in their area before each season.
Housing, Service Buildings and Transportation
5.        Housing and Service Buildings.  Most staff are expected to make
their own arrangements for housing. The FAs are usually posted to their
area of origin and reside with their families. The AAs usually live in
privately secured accommodations, however, some of the officers residing
at the district headquarters and some who live in tehsil centers are able to
secure Government-owned accommodations. Stores and offices are generally
available at the tehsil level, but usually only for one or two AAs. In the
villages, pesticides stores are rented. Many are unsage and unsuitable for
efficiently storing chemicals that are apt to deteriorate.
6.        Transportation.  Except for the EADA and the APPO, no transporta-
tion is provided by the Government at the district level. Staff are expected
to travel by public transport or bicycles. A system of traveling and daily
allowances exists for travel in excess of 10 miles from duty station, but
funds are rarely available to meet staff claims in full.
Limitations of the Present Extension Service System
7.        The following limitations are inherent in the present organization:
(a) Adequate technical support is not provided for field
staff. Specialists are too few in number and all dis-
ciplines are not available within the extension service
at the district level.
(b) The territory of each FA is determined by area and not
by the number of farmers he must service.
(c) The tasks field staff are expected to perform do not
differentiate between advice and demonstrations on
the one hand and services on the other. The two make
conflicting demands on staff time and disposition.
(d) The extention visits are infrequent, poorly planned and
therefore have little positive effect on crop yields.
(e) In-service Staff training is inadequate and relies too
much on pre-service knowledge. In most cases, the train-
ing is out of date and does not provide a base on which
to build background and perspective from advisory officers.
93



ANNEX 2
Page 3
(f) The housing situation for lower-grade staff is unsatis-
factory and is only marginally better for middle
management.
(g) There is a lack of staff mobility; full compensation for
absence from home on duty and for using vehicles owned
by staff members, which are essential for efficient opera-
tion, is not made.
(h) There is insufficient liaison between extension service
and the research service.
Proposed Improvements
8.        It is considered essential to the success of the SCARP Mardan
Project that the NWFP agricultural extension service be improved and operated
effectively. Under the project, the method and staff of the extension service
would be organized along the lines of a system that has proved successful in
neighboring countries and other areas of Pakistan. The system is described
in the World Bank publication "Agricultural Extension - Training and Visits
System," by Daniel Benor and J. Q. Harrison, May 1977. Its adaptation to
conditions in the NWFP and the job descriptions of the various staff grades
are found in the "Operating Manual of the Agricultural Extension Service in
the North-West Frontier Province of Pakistan." The following paragraphs out-
line the additions or changes required to the present organization to enable
the Training and Visits (T&V) system of agricultural extension to be operated
effectively.
9.        The major criteria to be followed in the improved program would
include:
(a) increasing staffing levels realistically to meet demands;
(b) relieving staff of non-extension duties essential to the
Agricultural Department presently performed by extension
staff;
(c) making provisions for housing and transport for field
staff, to enable them to perform their tasks efficiently; and
(d) providing the necessary technical backup to field staff
in the way of adequate research work and well qualified
specialists.
94



ANNEX 2
Page 4
Detailed Features of the Project
Staffing
10.       Field Staff.  Approximately 124,000 farm families would be covered
in the 670,000 ac included in the improved agricultural extension program,
80,000 in the Mardan and Swabi tehsils of Mardan District and 44,000 in the
Charsada tehsil. The cropping pattern is complicated and farming intensities
are high. A concentrated effort would be required by extension staff to
attain the levels of farm production expected with the project. It is pro-
posed to increase staffing density from one FA per about 1,000 farm families
to one FA per 800 farm families, which would increase the number of FAs from
137 to 160. One AA would supervise and suport 7 FAs, increasing the number
of AAs from the present 18 to 23. The AAs would be supervised by one EADA in
each tehsil, for a total of 3 EADAs. As a temporary measure, until the entire
extension service is organized on the T&V system, there would be a Deputy
Director of Agriculture responsible for the administration and operation of
the agricultural extension service in the three tehsils. He would be sta-
tioned in Mardan and part of his function would be liaison with the SCARP
Mardan Project Director.
11.       Specialist Staff.  The field staff would be supported by a team of
Subject Matter Specialists (SMSs), based in Mardan.  They would be supported
by a team of Senior SMSs (SSMSs) who would be based at the research stations
in Tarnab, Pir Sabak and Mardan. They would provide a continuous link between
the extension service and the Research Stations. The SMS team based in the
project area would consist of a plant protection specialist, an agronomist,
an animal husbandry specialist and a training officer. The SMS Animal Hus-
bandry would spend 50% of his time on extension work in connection with day-
to-day farm activities, and 50% on other activities for the Department of
Livestock Development.
12.       The staff of the main provincial research station at Tarnab would
support the extension service in matters relating to wheat, tobacco and sugar-
cane and sugar beet agronomy. The staff of the Maize and Millet Research
Station (MMRS) in Pir Sabak would support maize agronomy and pest control.
A Senior Training Officer would be provided to work as a staff member of the
station and of field staff. The staff at both the Tarnab and the MMRS re-
search stations would be required to provide 120 man-days of direct extension
support annully. Transportation would be provided under the project.
13.       Information on crop acreages is normally maintained by the Revenue
Department and by the Irrigation Department. The Department of Agriculture
conducts a series of crop cutting experiments to determine crop yields. Owing
to the diversity of crops and the fact that many are harvested over a consider-
able time, the proper selection of samples and their careful monitoring re-
quires attention over a considerable span of time. Under the project, 12 Crop
Recorders would be provided to collect the required data and relieve extension
staff of this work. A District Statistical Officer also would be provided,
reporting to the Assistant Statistical Officer in Peshawar.
95



ANNEX 2
Page 5
14.       Pesticides marketing under the project would take place from
eight stores to be provided in each tehsil. The 24 stores would be manned
by suitably qualified clerks and supervised by one specially designated
FA in each tehsil, who would not have regularly scheduled extension duties.
15.       Present and future staffing requirements are shown in Table 1.
Salary scales and incremental staff salaries are shown in Table 2.
Staff Housing, Offices and Service Buildings
16.       Housing.  The project would provide for the construction of suitable
housing for all FAs and for about 20% of the AAs and SMSs. The remaining AAs
and SMSs, as well as the EADAs and the DDA, who would all be operating out of
larger towns or villages, would be expected to find suitable accommodations
for rent. To enable them to pay the rentals asked, they would be given an
adequate allowance, estimated to be 20% of their salary. However, the SSMSs,
who would be stationed at the research stations (para 11), would require
project-constructed housing. Details are shown in Tables 3 and 5.
17.       Office and Service Building requirements are shown in Table 3.
These include 24 pesticide stores and a complex of offices in each of the
three tehsils.
Transportation
18.       Mobility is essential if staff are to perform duties properly and on
time, FAs and Crop Recorders would be provided bicycles. Motorcycles would be
provided to the AAs and three of the four SMSs. The SMS in charge of training
would be provided a pickup to enable him to carry training aids and other
items. The bicycles and motorcycles would be owned by their users, and pro-
visions would be made to enable them to purchase the vehicles in accordance
with Public Service Commission rules. Four-wheel drive vehicles would be pro-
vided for the three EADAs and the DDA and one each to the Tarnab and Pir Sabak
research stations to give mobility to SSMS staff.
19.       The costs of operating bicyclesand motorcycles owned by their users
were based on the following criteria:
(a) bicycles would be expected to last for five years and
one set of tires and tubes would be required each year;
(b) motorcycles would be expected to last five years if
used for official purposes only. A rate of Rs 0.25
per mi would cover maintenance, repair and operating
costs.
It was assumed that an AA would travel 450 miles per month on duty. The
operating costs of all extension vehicles, including pickups and 4WD vehicles,
are shown in Table 4.
96



ANNEX 2
Page 6
20.       Staff allowances for traveling and house rents (para 16) are
estimated in Table 5. All rent allowances and about 50% of the travel and
vehicle allowances of the augmented staff are additional to the present
budget and therefore treated as project costs.
Staff Salaries
21.       Incremental Staff Salaries have been computed on the present
National Pay Scale (NPS) for all staff except FAs, who are expected to be
advanced from NPS 5 to 9. The Crop Recorders, a new appointment, would be
appointed at NPS level 8. The rate for SMSs would be the same as for AAs
and SSMSs would be equivalent to DDAs. Staff salary details are shown in
Table 2.
Technical Assistance and Training
22.       A total of 20 months of consultant time would be included under the
project for the services of an agricultural extension and training specialist.
The specialist: would serve continuously for 18 months and return for two
visits of one month each, after a year's absence. A sugar beet agronomist
also would be provided under the project for 21 months to work at the sugar-
cane and sugar beet research station near Mardan. Apart from investifational
work, the agronomist would fill the role of an SSMS, supporting the SMSs and
the field statf as well as training the sugar beet botanist to fill this
position. Terms of Reference for these positions are included in Annex 3.
B. SEED MULTIPLICATION AND DISTRIBUTION
General
23.       Project benefits would be manifest almost entirely through yield
increases of the major crops. Increases in cropping intensity or changes in
cropping patterns are expected to be marginal (Annex 1, Tables 5 and 6).
24.       To achieve the projected yields it will be necessary to improve
agronomic practices and to ensure adequate supplies of planting material
(seeds, sugarcane sets) with the genetic potential to produce the expected
yields.
25.       At present, the Sind and Punjab Provinces are implementing an
IDA-supported seeds project (Cr. 620-PAK). The project operates within the
framework of the Seeds Act of 1975 and contains provisions and standards
for a federally controlled Seed Testing Agency (STA), complete with facil-
ities for field inspection and laboratory and ongrowing tests.
26.       Under the seeds project, it is planned to market certified wheat
seed from the Punjab in NWFP. Although NWFP must eventually set up its own
breeding and seed multiplication facilities, this would provide much better
97



ANNEX 2
Page  7
wheat seed for the project area than is available at present. Supplies of
sugar beet seed and sugarcane sets are satisfactory and would not limit the
attainment of projected yields. However, research evidence from the Pir
Sabak, Maize and Millet Research Station (MMRS) indicates that serious
attention must be paid to the production of good quality, vigorous maize
seed; the inbred varieties currently used, have not shown the required
genetic potential. It does not appear feasible to produce the prebasic and
basic seed of an open-pollinated crop in an environment different from the
NWFP's main maize-producing area, the Vale of Peshawar, which includes the
entire SCARP Mardan area.
The Potential Demand
27.       The total area under maize grown for grain in the Vale of Peshawar
is approximately 290,000 ac. The total annual seed requirement is about
2,600 tons, since it takes about 20 lb/ac of good seed to plant maize for
grain. A change of seed is recommended approximately once very five years.
Therefore, the theoretical demand is about 500 tons per annum. Since it is
most unlikely that every farmer will follow completely the recommended
practices - many will buy or exchange once-grown seeds with neighbors - not
more than about 300-350 tons of maize seed will be saleable in the next seven
to ten years. This is about the smallest economic size for a processing unit.
Seed Production
28.       Pre-Basic Seed (known in ISTA terminology as Brreder's Seed) is, by
definition, grown under the close supervision of the breeder, to ensure that
part of the crop can be re-selected to produce planting material for the fol-
lowing year's pre-basic seed. The most feasible location for growing this
seed is at the MMRS in Pir Sabak. The facilities of the station are adequate
for the purpose.
28.       Basic Seed (ISTA's Stock Seed) has to meet certain quality standards
and must also be grown under careful supervision. The MMRS has the area and
the capability to grow Basic Seed without additional investment.
29.       Certified Seed is the product of Basic Seed and is typically pro-
duced by selected contract growers and according to precautions and standards
laid down in the Seeds Act of 1975. The fields are frequently inspected,
starting before planting, and must be easily accessible.
30.       It is normal practice to make arrangements to produce seeds in ex-
cess of expected requirement at all stages of the process. This is necessary
to safeguard against accidental losses or weather factors. The area devoted
to each grade of seed and the expected production would be as follows:
98



ANNEX 2
Page 8
Required For   Safety
Area    Yield   Production    Next Stage    Margin
(Ac)  (Tons/ac)    (Tons)          (Tons)         (
Pre-Basic         2       1.0          2              0.5          300
Basic             4       1.5          6              2.5          140
Certified       285       1.6        460           350.0            30
Seed Production and Processing
31.       The Agricultural Development Authority (ADA) would take charge of
managing the maize seed production. ADA would appoint a Product Development
Officer, who would, in consultation with the DDA in Mardan, identify suitable
contract growers. He would arrange for these growers to receive the basic
seed, notify SCA to carry out the necessary pre-planting inspections of the
fields and administer the repurchase of crops that passed field inspection.
32.       MMRS would produce the Basic Seed and process it in seed processing
plant to be located at Pir Sabak. The Basic and Certified Seed would be
tested and supplied to ADA for sale to the growers of certified seed or to
farmers.
Seed Certification
33.       Certification is the task of the federally controlled Seed Certifi-
cation Agency, which would inspect the fields before planting and several times
during the growing period of the crop, supervise harvesting and analyze the
seed for purity, germination and seedling vigor. The Agency's laboratory
facilities wouLd be adequate for the relatively small amount of additional
testing required.
Marketing and Distribution
34.       ADA hnas a sufficient organization to market and distribute the maize
seed. The Prodiuct Development Officer would promote the sale of certified
maize seed to the farmers. Seed would be packed in sealed polyethylene bags
of 20 lb (the quantity required for planting 1 ac); the sealing, if sufficient-
ly published as a hallmark of quality, would largely obviate the chances of
adulteration.
Investment Requirements and Operating Costs
35.       The necessary equipment and operating costs for maize seed multipli-
cation and distribution requirements in the project area are shown in Table 6.
99



ANNEX 2
Table 1
PAKISTAN
SCARP XIARDAN AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROGRAM
Present and Future Staffing Requirements
Tehsils                Additional
Mardan    Swabi  Charsadda  Total Requirements
Extension Staff
Field Assistants
Present                            42        41        54       137        23
Future                             50        50        60       160
Agricultural Assistants
Present                             7         7        4         18         5
Future                              8         6         9        23
Extra Assistant Directors
=~~~~~~~~~l
Present                             1-       NA       NA          1         2
Future                              1         1        1          3
Deputy Directors
Present                            NA        NA       NA         NA
Future                              1        NA       NA          I1
Subject Matter Specialists
Present                             1        NA       NA          1         3
Future                              4        NA       NA          4
Senior Subject Matter Specialists
Present                            NA2/      NA       NA         NA         1
Future                              1-      NA        NA          I.
Total Extension Staff
Present                            S51       48       58        157        35
Future                             65        57       70        192
Support Staff Requirements (New)
Crop Recorders                        4         4        4          4         4
Statistical Officer                   1         -        -          -         -
Storekeepers                          8         8        8         24        24
FAs In Charge of Pesticide
Marketing                           1         1        1          3         3
Total Support Staff                  14        13       13         40        40
Total Future Staff Requirements    79          70       83        232        75
1/ For Mardan District.
2/ One new post under project but part-time requirements from six officers
in the present organization.
loo



PAKISTAN
SCARP MARDAN AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROGRAM
Incremental Staff Salaries
(Rs '000)
Anrrual         Year 1             Year 2             Year 3             Year 4              Year 5                     Total
Rates       No.      Cost   No.          Cost   No.         Cost   No.        Cost      No.        Cost            No.       Cost
Field Assistants                 6,660(9)       9       59       18         119     23         152               152                  152                       634
Agric. Assistants               13,000(16)    3         39        5          65      5          65                 65                  65                       299
SMS                             13,000(16)    3         39        3          39      3          39                39                   39                       195
SSMS                            18,000(18)                        2          36      2          36                36                   36                       144
Statistical Officer             13,000(16)                        1          13      1          13                13                   13                        52
Crop Recorders                   6,000(8)       4       24        8          48     12          72                72                   72                       288
EADA                            18,000(17)    2         36        2          36      2          36                36                   36                       180
DDA                             24,000(18)    1         24        1          24      1          24                24                   24                       120
Clerks                           6,000(8)       4       24        4          24      4          24                24                   24                       120
Sub-total                                              245                 404                 461               461                  461                    2,032
1/
Housing and Rent Allowance                             116                  130                145               145                  145                       681
Contingency 5Z                                          19                   26                 34                34                   34                       147
TOTAL                                                  380                  5601               640               640Q                 64Q                    2,86(1
l/
laZ for all staff, less 2aZ of staff for vhich housing Is provided.
I-.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~p
1_-  



PAKISTAN
SCARP MARDAN AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROGRAM
Cost of Staff Housing and Service Buildings
(Rs '000)
Unit    Year 1       Year 2      Year 3    Year  4   Year 5        Total
Costs  No.  Cost  No.   Cost  No.  Cost No. Cost No.  Cost No.   Cost
Housing
Agricultural Assistant
(Including Office)                    53,000   5    795    8    424                                       13  1,219
SMS (House Only)                         47,800   3    143    1       48                                      4    191
Subtotal                                                938          472                                         1,410
To Be Provided Under the Project 20%                    188          114                                           302
SSMS                                     72,800   -       -    2    146                                       2    146
FA (Including Store)                     22,600  70  1,582   70  1,582   23  520                            163  3,684
Crop Recorder                            21,600   4      86    4      86    4   86                           12    258
Contingency 10%                                         186          193                                            379
Subtotal                                              2,042        2,121        606                              4,769
Service Buildings
Stores                                   26,400  12    377   12    317                                             694
Tehsil Offices                           88,800   2    178    1       89                                           267
Contingency 10%                                          56           41                                             97
Subtotal                                                611          447                                         1,058    |
TOTAL BUILDING COSTS                                  2_65         2,568        606                              5,827  
Maintenance-/                                                         66        131        146         146          489
1/
Calculated @ 2 1/2% of value of all buildings completed and standing by end of previous year.
0)



PAKISTAN
3CARP MA.RDAN AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION ,PRDGRAM
Vehicle Operating Costs
(Rs '000)
Rate             Year 1          Year 2           Year 3           Year 4             Year 5            Total
Per Year        No.     Cost   No.       Cost    No.      Cost    No.      Cost      Uo.     Cost          Cost
Bicycles                      310         163     50      163      50      163       50     163      50       163      50             250
Motorcycles                 3,150          18     6n       27       85      27       85      27      85        27       85            400
Pickups                    12,240           1     lQ        1      10        1       10        1     10         1      10              50
4 WD                       16,560           2     3a        6     100        6      100       6    1O0          6     100             430
Sub-total                                   -    15Q        -     245        -      245       -    245          -     245          1,130
Contingency                                 -     10        -      15        -       15       -      15         -      15              70
Total                         -             -    160        -     260        -      260       -    260          -     260           1,200
Notes
Bicycles: (Rs(750:5) + 160 = 310
Motorcycles:  (Rs(9000:5) + (450 x 0.25 x 12)   3,150
Pickups: Rs 1.20 x 600 x 12 = 3600* - 12,240
4 WD: Rs 1.80 x 600 x 12 + 3600*= 16,560
*Driver's Salary
41
ui



PAKISTAN
SCARP MARDAN AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROGRAM
Staff Travelling and House Rent Allowance
(Rs '000)
Annual    Year 1        Year 2       Year 3       Year 4        Year  5
Rate   No.   Cost   No.   Cost   No.   Cost  No.   Cost  No.   Cost  Total
Travelling Allowances
FAs                           720   129    93   138    99   163   117   163   117   163   117             543
AAs and SMSs                5,400    24   130    26   140    26   140    26   140    26   140             690
SSMS and EADA               3,600      3    11      5    18      5    18       5    18      5    18        83
Statistical Officer         1,800      -     -      1      2     1      2      1     2      1      2        8
Crop Recorder               2,160      4      9     8    17    12    26    12    26    12    26           104
DDA                         4,800      1      5     1      5     1      5      1      5     1      5       25
Contingency 5%                              12            14           15           15            15       71
Subtotal                                   260           295          323          323          323   1,524
Absorbed by Project 50%                    130           147          162          162           162      763
House and Office Rent
Allowances (At 20% of
Salary of Eligible Staff)
I DDA                     NPS_/18      1     5      1      5     1      5      1     5      1      5       25
3 EADA                    NPS-117      3     4      3      4     3      4      3     4      3      4       20
3 SMS, AA and                1/
Statistical Officer-2/ NPS- 16       2     5      3     8      3      8     3      8      3     8       37
Contingency 5%                               1             1            1            1             1        5
Subtotal                                    15            18           18           18            18      87
TOTAL STAFF ALLOWANCES                     145           165          180          180          180      865
>    1/  National Pay Scale;  see Annex 2, Table 1.                                                                       (D@
2/  20% of total staff of this designation;  see Annex 2, Table 3.



ANNEX 2
Table 6
PAKISTAN
SCARP MARDAN PROJECT
Personnel Costs. Running Expenses and Expendables
(RKa 000)
Y e a r
2         3          4          5           6        Total
Plant Supervisor             18         18         18         18         18            90
Casual Labor   1/            20         30         50         50         50          200
Grain Purchas-               70        140        238        351        491        1,290
Bag Purchases-,              15         30         51         75        105          276
Market Development           20         20         25         25         30          120
Vehicle Operation            50         50         60         65         75          300
Certification Costs          10         15         20         25         30          100
Confingencies 10%            19         29         44         58         77          227
Subtotal        /1        212        317        486        642        846        2,603
Less: Seed Sales-          72        146        248        364        500        1.330
TOTAL RECURRENT           140        171        238        278        346        1.273
Investment Costs in Maize Seed Production
(Rs '000)
Total                                        Total
Seed Processing and Storage                            Transport and Auxiliary
5 Maize Cribs-/                       100            Equipment
2 Shellers With Electric Motors        40              2 4WD                       140
1 Precleaner and Conveyors            170              1 7-1/2 Ton Truck           150
2 Grain Siloa.       200                               1 Camera                      2
1 Drying Unit, Complete-              130              1 Projector                   2
Perforated Floors for Bins           24                 Sundries                  10
1 Bagging Unit21                       14                Spares and parts 25%    7fr
Polyethylene Bag Sealer              20                   Subtotal               380
Spares and parts   5%               172
Subtotal, Drying                 870
l/  Expected sales would be as follows:
Year 2       50                Year 4       170               Year 6       350
Year 3      100                Year 5       250
To produce material for such sales, purchases must be 10% higher.  Assuming
the consumption price of maize to be Rs 39/md (Rs 1,060/ton), purchase price
is taken at Rs 1,275/ton (20% premium) and selling price at Rs 1,380 (30%
premium), and the sale of 70% of the dross at 15% below market prices (Rs 900/ton).
2/  10 kg. polyethylene bags are aasumed to cost Rs 2 each; 100 bags are assumed
to be required per ton of seed sold. No bags are required for the purchased
grain which would be delivered loose, on the cob, in trucks.
3/  To store a total of 200 tons of unshelled maize;  built on plinths, wire
netting walls.
4/  24 ft diameter x 25 ft high, including independent roofing.
5/  Inclusive of alternator for conveyors and fans.
6/  Inclusive of hopper for volumetric bag filling.
NOTE: Total cost of seed component during project implementation - Rs 2.2 M.
105



ANNEX 2
PAKISTAN
SALINITY CONTRX)L AND RECLAMATION PROJECT (SCARP) MARDAN
AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION COMPONENTS
ORGANIZATION CHART OF THE EXTENSION SERVICE
Director of Agriculture (Extension)
Divisional DDA's (1 |                                         Agriculturai
and Soil ConservatonBrn                                          T raein
Wing                        Project                      Institute
FA                                                                                   SSA
Statistical Officer                                                                         Wheat        SugarCane
Maize       Sugarbeet
F  r                                                         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Tobacco    Plant Protection
|DCrop D iecorders                                                                            TrafA
EADA ExtenalAssitan Dirctorof  gricltuEAAED                                                                                             m
A          Aculra      A                           Sabi                                       Mards                                              Agronom
A          Field Assi*s*tant                                                                                         FA i/c                        Plant
]  l l      : ]    .    l l                             l l                    | |             9 r~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Makein  Training
tore LepWrldBak etrD
CF                                          CFl                                | Contact Farmer                                                              1
|   CF   l          l        CF        |                        |       i~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~530)
DOA        Deputy Director of Agriculture
EADA       External Assistant Directorof Agriculture
AA         Agricultural Assistant
FA         Field Assistant
VVorld Bank -19006
106



ANNEX 3
Page 1
PAKISTAN
SCARP MARDAN PROJECT
Terms of Reference for Consulting Services
A.  Consulting Services for Project Design and Construction Supervision
1.    Duty Station
Lahore aLnd Peshawar, Pakistan. Consulting staff providing planning
and design assistance and preparing tender documents for civil works
and equipment would be stationed in Lahore in order to be convenient
to WAPDA's headquarters office. Construction supervision and project
implementation personnel would be based in Peshawar.
2.    Date Recquired
Late 1978 or early 1979.
3.    Duration
Six years. The requirements for each particular technical discipline
would vary within the total contract time period.
4.    Function
The consulting firm (consultant) would directly assist WAPDA in the
preparation of specifications, designs, tender documents and detailed
drawings required for construction of the project, as well as in
construction supervision. The consultant also would assist in the
preparation of a feasibility report for the remaining 210,000 ac CCA
in the Mardan area not taken up by the present project.
The main project works to be designed and constructed and the programs
to be undertaken would include the following:
(a) The installation of tile drains in areas with water table depths
less than 5 ft, altogether in about 110,000 ac;
(b) Remodeling of existing surface drains to carry storm water and
tile drainage flows in about 185,000 ac;
(c) Modification of the 2.1 mi long Benton Tunnel, near the head of
the USC, to increase the discharge capacity from 1,800 cusecs
to about 2,060 cusecs;
107



ANNEX 3
Page 2
(d) Remodeling of the LSC irrigation system to provide increased
capacity and improve canal operational efficiencies;
(e) Reclamation of about 25,000 ac of abandoned and/or marginally
productive saline-alkaline land;
(f) Improvement of on-farm water management efficiency through
watercourse improvements on 143,000 ac and precision land
leveling on 35,000 ac;
(g) Improvement or construction of about 100 mi of rural roads
to handle increased inputs and outputs expected with project
development;
(h)  Monitoring of drainage flows, water table depths and land
reclamation progress;
(i) Provision of equipment and vehicles for construction, O&M,
agricultural extension, monitoring programs and consultants
use; and
(j) The preparation of a feasibility report for the remaining
210,000 ac CCA of the USC command area.
5.      Services Required
A total of about 420 - 450 man-months of technical assistance is
expected to be required during the six-year project implementation
period. The services to be provided by the consultant would be
as follows:
(a) Management:
(i)  Preparation of a project Definite Plan Report;
(ii) Preparation of specification and construction designs,
cost estimates and tender documents for project works;
(iii) Evaluation of tenders, supervision of construction,
contract administration and the initial O&M of project
works;
(iv) Preparation and execution of a training program for pro-
fessional WAPDA staff assigned to the project; and
(v)  Preparation of a feasibility report for rehabilitation
and development works in the remaining USC command area
(210,000 ac).
108



ANNEX 3
Page 3
(b) Planning:
(i) Preparation and execution of a field data collection
program to provide the data necessary for preparation
of the two reports;
(ii) Formulation of the definite project plan, its works and
costs; and
(iii)  Formulation of alternative plans of development  for
the remaining Mardan area.
(c) Design:
(i) Preparing final designs, layouts and tender documents for
remodeling or rehabilitating existing open drains
and irrigation canals. Open drainage requirements would
include the design and layout of field drains in each
irrigation outlet area. Irrigation system layout and
design would provide for a new parallel system, where
more economically and technically viable to do so, and
would include design and layout of main canals, branches,
distributaries and minors down to watercourses;
(ii)   Preparing final designs, layouts, and tender documents
for subsurface (tile) drains. The consultant would
assign an experienced drainage design engineer to super-
vise this work; and
(iii)   Preparing final designs for a complete range of standard
drain and canal structures and for all other structures.
(d) Construction:
(i) Providing the necessary field surveys to accurately
locate all proposed structures:
(ii) Maintaining records of the progress of construction
and administering the terms of the various contracts.
A Contracts Administration Engineer would be assigned
by the consultant to assist with this work;
(iii) Inspecting the work of each contractor to insure com-
pliance with designs and specifications. The consultant
would assign an experienced Construction Inspector to
this work; and
(iv) Reclaiming salt-affected lands through a reclamation
program (soil ammendments and leaching). An experienced
soil scientist would assist with this program.
109



ANNEX 3
Page 4
6.      Qualifications
The consultant shall assign senior, qualified personnel to the work
with the following minimum experience levels:
(a)  Project Manager:  a minimum of 15 years experience in develop-
ing large-scale irrigation and drainage projects, with at
least 5 years as Project Manager.
(b) Chief Planning Engineer: a minimum of 10 years experience in
planning large-scale irrigation and drainage projects, with at
least 5 years as Chief Planning Engineer.
(c) Planning Engineer: a minimum of 10 years experience in planning
water and land resource development projects.
(d) Chief Design Engineer: a minimum of 15 years experience in
designing irrigation and drainage systems, with at least 5
years as Chief Design Engineer.
(e) Drainage Engineer: a minimum of 10 years of recent experience
in the design and construction of closed drains.
(f) Chief Construction Engineer: at least 15 years experience in
constructing irrigation and drainage projects, with at least
5 years as Chief Construction Engineer.
(g) Contracts Administration Engineer: at least 10 years experience
in the preparation and administration of construction contracts.
(h) Construction Inspector: at least 10 years experience in
general construction work, with 5 years as a Construction
Inspector on irrigation and drainage works.
(i) Soil Scientist: a thorough knowledge of soils and reclamation
procedures with broad experience in soil reclamation work.
110



ANNEX 3
Page 5
B. Agricultural Extension and Training Specialist
1.     Duty Station
Peshawar, Pakistan, attached to the office of the Deputy Director
of Agriculture at Mardan.
2.     Date Required
July 1, 1979
3.     Duration
20 months, covering a period of 18 months from the date of appoint-
ment and two periods of one month each starting April 1, 1982 and
April 1, 1983.
4.     Function
(a)  l'o advise and assist in the preparation and organization of the
training program for staff at all levels;
(b)  To advise and assist in the organization and operation of the
extension service according to the T&V system; and
(c)  To coordinate the work program of the Sugar Beet Agronomist and
follow up on agreed actions.
5.     Duties
(a)  Training:  The specialist would be working primarily with the
Senior Training Officers in the project area and the SMS
(Training) at Peshawar and Mardan. He would also have frequent
contact with the FAs and their supervisors. His duties would
include but not be confined to the following:
(i)  advising and assisting in preparing the framework of the
training program for all regular training sessions
(fortnightly FA training and the bi-annual meetings for
all staff);
(ii)  training the trainers (SSMS, SMS, AO) in teaching methods
based on workshop and practical training as well as
lecturing;
(iii)  working with the ADAs, SSMS, and DDA identifying technical
training needs of SMSs and AOs as they arise, and organiz-
ing appropriate courses, either within the extension service
or through the Faculty of Agriculture of the University
of Peshawar.
13-1



ANNEX 3
Page 6
(iv) setting out the technique of farmer meetings and train-
ing the FAs and AOs in their effective execution; and
(v) preparing a training manual; the manual to focus on
teaching methods and a framework into which technical
details can be fitted.
(b) Extension Operation: In connection with the operation of the
extension service, the specialist would work with the Secretary
for Agriculture and the Deputy Director of Agriculture at Mardan.
His duties would include but not be confined to:
(vi) advising on the field-level operation of the service,
especially the detailed scope of work of the FAs and the AOs;
(vii) assisting the ADAs and DDA in organizing logistic support
of all their staff as regards housing, transport and other
support activities;
(viii)  reviewing reporting requirements to ensure their adequecy
yet prevent them from becoming a burden; and
(ix) using his best efforts to establish a good working relation-
ship between the SCARP Mardan Project staff, the extension
service staff and the research staff.
6.     Qualifications
He must have a degree in agriculture and have had at least 5 years direct
operating experience in an agricultural extension organization. Training
in and exposure to extension education is essential. He must have had
experience in an agricultural and cultural environment similar to Pakistan.
112



ANNEX 3
Page 7
C. Sugar Beet Agronomist
1.     Duty Station
Tarnab Agricultural Research Institute, NWFP, Pakistan
2.     Date Required
October 1, 1979
3.     Duration
21 months.
4.     Function
(a)  To provide technical advice on sugar beet production in the
project area;
(b) To develop local expertise in sugar beet agronomy; and
(c) To advise and assist in developing improved cultural and farm
management practices for increasing sugar beet yield.
5.     Duties
(a) Review the natural environment of sugar beet cultivation and
existing factors (varieties, cultural and field management prac-
tices, rotation, etc.) related to sugar beet production at the
farm level;
(b) Assist in formulating and conducting field trials and demonstra-
tions leading to more effective farming techniques; and
(c) Train local agronomists and extension workers in improved
techniques of sugar beet cultivation.
6.     Qualifications
The Sugar Beet Agronomist should have an advanced degree in agriculture
and at least five years of field experience in sugar beet production.
Working experience under social and climatic conditions similar to
those in the project area would be preferable.
113



PAKISTAN
SALINITY CONTROL AND RECLAMATION PROJECT (SCARP) MARDAN
PROPOSED MANPOWER SCHEDULE FOR PROJECT CONSULTANTS
1978                                1979                     1980                    1981                     1982                    1983                    1984                     1985
F  A  ~~~~l  ii   A              J.-    AP     J-              APinJ On?   a  ¶- Jan-  Apr- July- Oct- J.          W   oy      t    ..     w    uy    .t               Juy_c-J.     w     uyOt
Ex patring e
Personnel
Projet Manager
Chief Planning Ee.in1eer
Planning Engineer
Chief Design Engineer
Tile Drainage Engineer
Chief Conn. Engineer
Cnntracts Administration Engineer
Constretion Inspectors
Soil Scientist
Home Office & Short Termn
Field Assignments
World Bank - 19223



ANNEX 4
PAKISTAN
SCARP MARDAN PROJECT
List of Selected Documents Available in Project File
Selected reports and studies on the agricultural sector:
1. Pakistan Development Issues and Policies IBRD Report No. 1924-PAK,
April 7, 1978.
2.  Pakistan - Special Agricultural Sector Review IBRD Report on. 922a-PAK,
January 28, 1976.
3. Programme for the Development of Irrigation and Agriculture in West
Pakistan; Comprehensive Report: Vol. 18 "Peshawar and Swat Regional
Development, Vol. 10 "Watercourse Studies,"prepared by Sir Alexander
Gibb & Partners, Inter-Land Development Consultants, N.V. Hungting
Technical Services Limited, May 1966.
l!. Selected reports and studies relating to the project:
1. Project Planning Report of Mardan Salinity Control and Reclamation
Project Phase I, prepared by WAPDA with the assistance of Harza Engineering
Company Int., December 1977.
2. Scheme for Strengthening Agricultural Extension Staff in Mardan SCARP
area, Department of Agriculture, GONWFP, Peshawar.
C. Selected workirLg papers and manuals, including materials needed for project
implementation:
1. Appraisal of the Khairpur Tile Drainage and Irrigated Farming Development
Project (Khairpur II) Report No. 1062a-PAK, World Bank, June 14, 1976.
2. Appraisal of the Salinity Control and Reclamation Project (SCARP) VI,
Report No. 1540a-PAK, World Bank, November 10, 1977.
3. Agricultural Extension: The Training and Visit System, by Daniel Benor
and James Q. Harrison, World Bank, May 1977.
4. A system for Monitoring and Evaluation Agricultural Extension Projects.
World Bank Staff Working Paper 272, Michael M. Cenea and Benjamin J.
Tepping (adapted to conditions in Pakistan).
5.  Operational Manual for the Agricultural Extension Service in the NWFP.
6.  Detailed drainage design criteria.
7.  Production capacity of the sugar industry in the project area.
8.  Basic agricultural data for the crops grown in the project area.
9. Agricultural labor supply and demand.
10. Detailed financial crop budget analysis.
11. Basic data for estimating the economic cost of the project.
115






IBRD-13706R
,,,o ,-S  2-00                                                                                                             72'30'                                      SEPTEMBER 1978
-<7                            '1 a>,> ..... + fPAKISTAN
f. ,'.                                                                                                                         . H-,''.<-/ SALINITY CONTROL AND RECLAMATION PROJECT
AIG-IST-               r AN L s fAN   ) of F,ol       'MARDAN
HEADWORKS
r   =,  _    ,8                                           Hf ~~~~~AANDARAS b                                                                                         Dramnage and Reclamation
-_ C } y .                                         V                                 ,_-                                                                              _'cno _ ArAso to be Recliomed
I R A N L              ,   g           e      / /   f *                                                t                                   * P * P                                                                -      Open Dr.i.. t. be, R.b,leteoed or I-nproved
...........                                 i                                    '  .  Maio,,or Roods
l.k.                                                                                              "-'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ Cte ndTas
*   ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~.....Wote,shed Bo,,rdary
]   Marsh
arab;An Sso [~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.                                                                                                       rz-a,.,,. .  Rivers otd Streamns
p ~~~~~~~~... f.....                                                                                       .                                                                      Ri-, nd xStr-Dcs
R sE-fing Dent
i ,OMETERS 0    2    4    6    B   10   12   14  16
-,F  \ \   l  Hurlhved   /   i \  _    Lmdkhwor    -  //  ;-'  MltES 0  2 4 4     8       10
,EDOK :"''E                                                               'R             ff~C_                                                                                                                                   "
~ ~   >                                                                                                                                                           "\  t   ! '   \ g>\~~~~~~~~~~~~- ! tI ) .......... />KO : ............~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~. . . . . . . .
kht~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~\ Br.                                                                                                        "V- X, 
-3415'
N
PESHAWAR                                                                                                                                                                -         "~~~~~~  ~         C7~~~9~~z3(<4Y2 RIALPU4L00
oDWdOneJ ~ ~      .. ...... ...                                                                              726N/Pd s  -VVv trFdw h  o yBs N                                                                                          72 30'
s-eefl,  crosdhb<rF l3 iimec    6  ss5f4 emd ,ion,72ri,,,/ i






IBRD 13707R
72700                                                                                         72130                              DEEMDERIE
DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC                          (~PKSA
OFMOCRATIC REPUDLIC >-)ne           )                                                             ___.<<   SALINITY CONTROL AND RECLAMATION PROJECT
L  AFGHANIST                                                                     AMANDARA   C                                                                               MARDAN
HEADW                                        rq  tt75 =  =Irrigation
'1  P A K I b I,"   r   ,     /                                       ,/LWria  oawm'pcAe
R.N                           ..                          /                           \ ° D + WENTOPJ Esting Cons   to be Erlorged or Pa-1o e C-nons Co-Et.cted
1 , s, ~-q K \ /, J ' Ma wkandX'l ,i'ror.,                                                     * ' * - - - - * ' e  [vnsr ng Conals Not to be Improved under Project
...............>*   r:4>   t g   .-   r  .                                                                              R.....Y* n.   edoorks
5 A. 2 iN 1L ' X // , / 6 z lo AfS ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Major Rowds
Sq * < *---- *>tk --- ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Ro Iwots
0 ~~~~~~~~Cities Town
Do<t9/_ X                                                            s_ < de   , Woershed Bou.dB rrdono
-34;   ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~  _ ;/   I )    %                     rl                                                          /    E: Srl El D=ms~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A-     3'3'
NOWSHERA ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  Es sthngrrir o/ 
KLOMETEDE 0  2   4   0       I 10   2    I 
b01Rd shOILE                                2ntr               w      oAe >.ptor h 0  hl MoE 2  a  0l 
ioocorvnvrve.. DbviidOo.b~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.......
t O,e   b O Ots = h O t i b o inne m   Iy t   0 0   i, t o o ri o , c_or ,
btiivetNDAeii00   Miirbve,00    ,eOOO   i70                                                                                                                                        rD



