CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 877 PAK
Development Credit Agreement
(Salinity Control and Reclamation
SCARP Mardan Project)
between
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated February 7, 1979


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 877 PAK
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated February 7, 1979, between ISLAMIC REPUBLIC
OF PAKISTAN, acting by its President (hereinafter called the
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (herein-
after called the Association.)
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower has requested the Association
to assist in the financing of the Project described in Schedule 2
to this Agreement by extending the Credit as hereinafter provided;
(B) by an agreement, of even date herewith between the
Association and the Borrower's North West Frontier Province
(hereinafter referred to as NWFP), NWFP has agreed to undertake
certain obligations in respect of the Project;
(C) by an agreement of even date herewith between the
Association and the Water and Power Development Authority of
Pakistan (hereinafter referred to as WAPDA), WAPDA has agreed
to undertake certain obligations in respect of the Project;
(D) the Government of Canada acting through the Canadian
International Development Agency (hereinafter referred to as CIDA)
intends to make, subject to final approval, a grant (hereinafter
referred to as the CIDA Grant) to the Borrower in an aggregate
amount of thirty million Canadian dollars to assist in financing
the Project on terms and conditions set forth in an agreement to
be entered into between the Government of Canada and the Borrower
(hereinafter referred to as the CIDA Agreement); and
(E) the Association is willing, on the basis inter alia
of the foregoing, to make the Credit available upon the terms
and conditions set forth hereinafter, and in project agreements
of even date herewith between the Association and NWFP, and
between the Association and WAPDA;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all
the provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Development
Credit Agreements of the Association, dated March 15, 1974,


﻿- 2 -
with the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth
herein (said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit
Agreements of the Association being hereinafter called the
General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have
the respective meanings therein set forth and the following
additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)  "NWFP Project Agreement" means the agreement between
the Association and NWFP of even date herewith, as the same
may be amended from time to time, and such term includes all
schedules to the NWFP Project Agreement and all agreements supple-
mental to the NWFP Project Agreement;
(b) "WAPDA Project Agreement" means the agreement between
the Association and WAPDA of even date herewith, as the same
may be amended from time to time, and such term includes all.
schedules to the WAPDA Project Agreement and all agreements
supplemental to the WAPDA Project Agreement;
(c)  "Act" means the Pakistan Water and Power Development
Authority Act, 1958, as amended to the date of this Agreement
and all regulations framed thereunder;
(d) "WAPDA" means the Borrower's Water and Power Development
Authority established under the Act, and includes any successor
thereto;
(e)  "SCARP Mardan Area" means the Salinity Control and
Reclamation Project Mardan Area of about 420,000 acres mainly in
the Mardan and Peshawar Districts of NWFP;
(f)  "Project Area" means the area in the SCARP Mardan Area
in which the Project is to be carried out, and consists of the
Lower Swat Canal Command Area of about 134,500 acres, and 75,500
acres of the Upper Swat Canal Command Area;
(g) "Project Implementation Plan" means the plan referred
to in Section 2.03 of the WAPDA Project Agreement; and
(h) "Project Steering Committee" and "Project Coordination
Committee" mean the committees established pursuant to Section
3.05 of this Agreement.


﻿- 3 -
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement
set forth or referred to, an amount in various currencies equiva-
lent to sixty million dollars ($60,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from
time to time by agreement between the Borrower and the Associ-
ation, for extnditures made (or, if the Association shall so
agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and
services required for the Project and to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods and civil works to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Credit, shall be governed by the
provisions in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1986
or such later date as the Association shall establish. The
Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later
date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent
(3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semiannually
on April 1 and October 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each April 1
and October 1 commencing April 1, 1989, and ending October 1,
2028, each installment to and including the installment payable
on October 1, 1998, to be one-half of one per cent (1/2 of 1%) of
such principal amount, and each installment thereafter to be one
and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America
is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the
General Conditions.


﻿Section 2.09. The Chairman of WAPDA and the Additional Chief
Secretary, Planning and Development Department, Government of
North West Frontier Province, or their respective nominees, are
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of
taking any action in respect of the proceeds of the Credit made
available to WAPDA and NWFP, respectively, required or permitted
to be taken under the provisions of Section 2.02 of this Agreement
and Article V of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower shall carry out the Project
or cause the Project to be carried out with due diligence and
efficiency and in conformity with appropriate engineering, agri-
cultural and financial practices, and shall provide, promptly
as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources
required for the purposes. To that end, the Borrower shall make
adequate and timely budgetary provisions for the implementation
of the Project.
(b) Without any limitation or restriction upon any of
its other obligations under the Development Credit Agreement,
the Borrower shall cause NWFP and WAPDA to perform in accordance
with the provisions of the NWFP Project Agreement and the WAPDA
Project Agreement, respectively, all the obligations therein
set forth, shall take and cause to be taken all action, including
the provision of funds, facilities, services and other resources,
necessary or appropriate to enable NWFP and WAPDA to perform
such obligations, and shall not take or permit to be taken any
action which would prevent or interfere with such performance.
Section 3.02. The Borrower shall make available to WAPDA and
NWFP the proceeds of the Credit under terms and conditions which
shall have been approved by the Association.
Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower shall furnish or cause to be
furnished to the Association, promptly upon their preparation, the
plans, specifications, reports, contract documents and construc-
tion and procurement schedules for the Project, and any material
modifications thereof or additions thereto, in such detail as the
Association shall reasonably request.
(b) The Borrower: (i) shall maintain or cause to be main-
tained records and procedures adequate to record and monitor


﻿- 5 -
the progress of the Project (including its cost and the benefits
to be derived from it), to identify the goods and services
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, and to disclose their
use in the Project; (ii) shall enable the Association's accredited
representatives to visit the facilities and construction sites
included in the Project and to examine the goods financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit and any relevant records and documents;
and (iii) shall furnish or cause to be furnished to the Associa-
tion at regular intervals all such information as the Association
shall reasonably request concerning the Project, its cost and,
where appropriate, the benefits to be derived from it, the
expenditure of the proceeds of the Credit and the goods and
services financed out of such proceeds.
(c) Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower
and the Association, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the
Association a report, of such scope and in such detail as the
Association shall reasonably request, on the execution and initial
operation of the Project, its cost and the benefits derived and to
be derived from it, the performance by the Borrower and the
Association of their respective obligations under the Development
Credit Agreement and the accomplishment of the purposes of the
Credit,
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall take or cause to be taken
all such action as shall be necessary to acquire as and when
needed all such land and rights in respect of land as shall
be required for the construction and operation of the facilities
included in the Project.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall cause to be established
and maintained: (i) a Project Steering Committee responsible
for implementation of the Project; and (ii) a Project Coordination
Committee responsible for coordination among agencies which will
implement the Project, both with membership and staff satisfactory
to the Association.
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall carry out or cause to
be carried out, the measures referred to in Article III of the
NWFP Project Agreement.
Section 3.07. The Borrower shall ensure that adequate quan-
tities of certified seed are available for sale to farmers in the
Project Area upon completion of each portion of the Project.


﻿-6-
Section 3.08. The Borrower shall cause NWFP and WAPDA to
establish, and implement at least until December 31, 1989, a
program satisfactory to the Association for: (i) the monitoring of
irrigation deliveries, drainage flows, water-table depths, land
reclamation and agricultural production in the Project Area;
and (ii) the evaluation of the socio-economic aspects and benefits
of the Project.
Section 3.09. The Borrower shall, by March 31, 1981, discuss
with the Association, the prices to be paid by farmers for the
soil amendments applied during the land reclamation process and
any subsidy to be granted for its use.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained, separate records and accounts adequate to reflect in
accordance with consistently maintained appropriate accounting
practices the operations, resources and expenditures, in respect
of the Project, of the departments or agencies of the Borrower and
NWFP responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof,
and WAPDA.
(b) The Borrower shall cause the departments or agencies
of the Borrower and NWFP responsible for carrying out the Project
or any part thereof, and WAPDA, in respect of activities related
to the Project to: (i) have its accounts and financial statements
(balance sheets, statements of income and expenses and related
statements) for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with
appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, by inde-
pendent auditors acceptable to the Association; (ii) furnish to
the Association as soon as available, but in any case not later
than six months after the end of each such year, (A) certified
copies of its financial statements for such year as so audited and
(B) the report of such audit by said aitditors, of such scope and
in such detail as the Association shall have reasonably requested;
and (iii) furnish to the Association such other information
concerning the accounts and financial statements, and the audit
thereof as the Association shall from time to time reasonably
request.


﻿-7-
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (h) thereof:
(a) NWFP shall have failed to perform any covenant, agree-
ment or other obligation of NWFP under the NWFP Project Agreement;
(b) WAPDA shall have failed to perform any covenant,
agreement or other obligation of WAPDA under the WAPDA Project
Agreement;
(c) a change shall have been made in the Act or other
legislation has been enacted or is implemented which materially
and adversely affects the responsibilities or operations of
WAPDA;
(d) an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which
shall make it improbable that (i) NWFP will be able to perform
its obligations under the NWFP Project Agreement, or (ii) WAPDA
will be able to perform its obligations under the WAPDA Project
Agreement; and
(e) (i) Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph
the right of the Borrower to withdraw the proceeds
of the CIDA Grant shall have been suspended,
cancelled or terminated in whole or in part,
pursuant to the terms of the CIDA Agreement;
(ii) Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not
apply if: (A) such suspension, cancellation or
termination is not caused by the failure of the
Borrower to perform any of its obligations under
such agreement, and (B) adequate funds for the
Project are available to the Borrower from other
sources on terms and conditions consistent with the
obligations of the Borrower under this Agreement.
Section 5.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the
General Conditions, the following additional events are specified
pursuant to paragraph (d) thereof:


﻿- 8 -
(a) any events specified in paragraphs (a) and (b) of
Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur and s3.all continue for
a period of 60 days after notice thereof shall have been given by
the Association to the Borrower; and
(b) any events specified in paragraph (c) of Section 5.01 of
this Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as addi-
tional conditions to the effectiveness of the Development Credit
Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General
Conditions:
(a) the execution and delivery of the NWFP Project Agreement
on behalf of NWFP have been duly authorized or ratified by all
necessary corporate and governmental action;
(b) the execution and delivery of the WAPDA Project Agree-
ment on behalf of WAPDA have been duly authorized or ratified by
all necessary corporate and governmental action;
(c) all the conditions for the disbursement of the CIDA
Grant have been fulfilled;
(d) the consultants to assist WAPDA in carrying out Part
I (a) of the Project have been appointed; and
(e) the Project Steering Committee and the Project Coordina-
tion Committee have been established.
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional
matters, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Association:
(a) that the NWFP Project Agreement has been duly authorized
or ratified by, and executed and delivered on behalf of, NWFP, and
is legally binding upon NWFP in accordance with its terms; and
(b) that the WAPDA Project Agreement has been duly autho-
rized or ratified by, and executed and delivered on behalf


﻿- 9 -
of, WAPDA, and is legally binding upon WAPDA in accordance with
its terms.
Section 6.03. The date May 8, 1979, is hereby specified for
the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Secretary to the Government of Pakistan,
Economic Affairs Division is designated as representative of
the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General
Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
The Secretary to the Government of Pakistan
Economic Affairs Division
Islamabad
Pakistan
Cable address:
ECONOMIC
Islamabad
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                     Telex:
INDEVAS                            440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused


﻿- 10 -
this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the
District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and
year first above written.
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
By Is! Nisar Ali Shah
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By Is! Robert Picciotto
Acting Regional Vice President
South Asia


﻿- 11 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated          % of
(Expressed in       Expenditures
Category                 Dollar Equivalent)   to be Financed
(1) Civil works                    45,000,000     50%
(2) Vehicles, equipment             9,000,000
and materials:
(a) directly                                 100% of foreign
imported                                 expenditures
(b) locally                                  100% of local
manufactured                             expenditures
(ex-factory)
(c) procured locally                         50%
(3) Consultants' services           4,600,000     100%
(4) Overseas training                 200,000     100% of foreign
expenditures
(5) Unallocated                     1,200,000
TOTAL          60,000,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures
in the currency of any country other than the Borrower and for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than the Borrower; and


﻿- 12 -
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of the Borrower and for goods or services supplied
from the territory of the Borrower.
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in com-
pliance with the policy of the Association that no proceeds of the
Credit shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or services, or
on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof; to
that end, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in respect
of any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
decreases or increases, the Association may, by notice to the
Borrower, increase or decrease the disbursement percentage then
applicable to such item as required to be consistent with the
aforementioned policy of the Association.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expendi-
tures prior to the date of this Agreement.
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit
or the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in para-
graph 1 above, if the Association has reasonably estimated
that the amount of the Credit then allocated to any Category
will be insufficient to finance the agreed percentage of all
expenditures in that Category, the Association may, by notice to
the Borrower: (i) reallocate to such Category, to the extent
required to meet the estimated shortfall, proceeds of the Credit
which are then allocated to another Category and which in the
opinion of the Association are not needed to meet other expendi-
tures, and (ii) if such reallocation cannot fully meet the
estimated shortfall, reduce the disbursement percentage then
applicable to such expenditures in order that further withdrawals
under such Category may continue until all expenditures thereunder
shall have been made.
6.   If the Association shall have reasonably determined that
the procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with
the procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no
expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit and the Association may, without in any way
restricting or limiting any other right, power or remedy of the
Association under the Development Credit Agreement, by notice to
the Borrower, cancel such amount of the Credit as, in the
Association's reasonable opinion, represents the amount of such
expenditures which would otherwise have been eligible for
financing out of the proceeds of the Credit.


﻿- 13 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project consists of the following Parts:
A.   Installation of tile drains in about 110,000 acres with a
water table depth of less than 5 feet.
B.   Remodelling of existing surface drains on about 185,000
acres.
C.   Modification of the Benton Tunnel to increase its discharge
capacity to about 2,060 cubic feet per second.
D.   Remodelling of the Lower Swat Canal system to provide
increased capacity and improve operational efficiency.
E.   Reclamation of about 25,000 acres of abandoned or marginally
productive saline-alkaline land, and land leveling on about
35,000 acres.
F.   On-farm improvements through watercourse remodelling on
about 143,000 acres.
G.   Improvement of the rural market road network.
H.   Introduction and implementation of a sound agricultural
extension methodology, with particular emphasis on continuous
training of extension workers and regular farm visits.
I.   Technical assistance for:
(a) Preparation of detailed designs, specifications,
tender documents and construction drawings for civil
works under the Project.
(b) Preparation of other irrigation and drainage projects.
(c) Agricultural extension services.
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1985.


﻿-14-
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part D hereof, goods and civil works
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with
procedures consistent with those set forth in the "Guidelines for
Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits" published by
the Bank in March 1977 (hereinafter called the Guidelines), on the
basis of international competitive bidding as described in Part A
of the Guidelines.
2.   For goods and works to be procured on the basis of inter-
national competitive bidding, in addition to the requirements of
paragraph 1.2 of the Guidelines, the Borrower shall prepare and
forward to the Association as soon as possible, and in any event
not later than 60 days prior to the date of availability to the
public of the first tender or prequalification documents relating
thereto, as the case may be, a general procurement notice, in such
torm and detail and containing such information as the Association
shall reasonably request; the Association will arrange for the
publication of such notice in order to provide timely notification
to prospective bidders of the opportunity to bid for the goods and
works in question. The Borrower shall provide the necessary
information to update such notice annually so long as any goods or
works remain to be procured on the basis of international compe-
titive bidding.
3.   Civil works under Part A of the Project shall be grouped, to
the extent practicable, into contracts, each with a cost equiva-
lent to an amount of not less than $5,000,000.
4.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for
the supply of goods to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding, (i) bidders shall be required to state in
their bid the c.i.f. (Pakistan port of entry) price for imported
goods, or the ex-factory price for domestically manufactured
goods; (ii) customs duties and other import taxes on imported
goods, and sales and similar taxes on domestically supplied goods,
shall be excluded; and (iii) the cost to the Borrower of inland
freight and other expenditures incidental to the delivery of goods
to the place of their use or installation shall be included.


﻿- 15 -
B.   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A of this Schedule, goods manufactured in
Pakistan may be granted a margin of preference in accordance with,
and subject to, the following provisions:
1.   All bidding documents for the procurement of goods
shall clearly indicate any preference which will be granted,
the information required to establish the eligibility of a bid
for such preference and the following methods and stages that will
be followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
2.   After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified
in one of the following three groups:
(1) Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in
Pakistan if the bidder shall have established to
the satisfaction of the Borrower and the Associa-
tion that the manufacturing cost of such goods
includes a value added in Pakistan equal to at
least 20% of the ex-factory bid price of such
goods.
(2) Group B: all other bids offering goods manufactured
in Pakistan.
(3) Group C: bids offering any other goods.
3.   All evaluated bids in each group shall be first compared
among themselves, excluding any customs duties and other import
taxes on goods to be imported and any sales or similar taxes
on goods to be supplied domestically, to determine the lowest
evaluated bid of each group. Such lowest evaluated bids shall
then be compared with each other, and if, as a result of this
comparison, a bid from group A or group B is the lowest, it shall
be selected for the award.
4.   If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph
3 above, the lowest bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids
shall be further compared with the lowest evaluated bid from
group A after adding to the evaluated bid price of the imported
goods offered in each group C bid, for the purpose of this further
comparison only, an amount equal to: (i) the amount of customs
duties and other import taxes which a non-exempt importer would


﻿- 16 -
have to pay for the importation of the goods offered in such
group C bid; or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of such goods
if said customs duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price. If
the group A bid in such further comparison is the lowest, it
shall be selected for the award; if not, the bid from group
C which as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3 is the
lowest evaluated bid shall be selected.
C.   Evaluation and Comparison of Bids for Civil Works; Preference
for Domestic Contractors
With respect to any contract for civil works included under
Category (1) of the table set forth in Schedule 1 to the Devel-
opment Credit Agreement and to be procured on the basis of inter-
national competitive bidding as described in Part A of the
Guidelines, the Borrower may grant a margin of preference of
7-1/2% to domestic contractors, in accordance with, and subject
to, the following provisions:
After bids have been received and reviewed by the Borrower,
responsive bids will be classified into the following groups:
(i) bids offered by domestic contractors eligible
for preference; and
(ii) bids offered by other contractors.
For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids an amount
equal to 7-1/2% of the bid amount shall be added to bids received
under group (ii) above.
D.   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Civil works under Parts B, C, D, G and H of the Project
shall be carried out under contracts awarded in accordance with
the Borrower's competitive bidding procedures satisfactory to the
Association.
2.   Civil works under Part F of the Project shall be
carried out by NWFP either under force account or under contracts
awarded in accordance with the provisions referred to in Part D.1
hereinabove.
3.   Equipment and vehicles with unit prices not exceeding
the equivalent of $50,000 shall be procured in accordance with the


﻿- 17 -
Borrower's competitive bidding procedures acceptable to the
Association, provided that the aggregate expenditure of items so
procured shall not exceed the equivalent of $500,000.
E.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Association
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
With respect to all contracts for equipment and materials
estimated to cost the equivalent of $150,000 or more and contracts
for civil works estimated to cost the equivalent of $350,000 or
more:
(a) Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish
to the Association, for its comments, the text of the invitations
to bid and the specifications and other bidding documents,
together with a description of the advertising procedures to be
followed for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the
said documents or procedures as the Association shall reasonably
request. Any further modification to the bidding documents shall
require the Association's concurrence before it is issued to the
prospective bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, the
Borrower shall, before a final decision on the award is made,
inform the Association of the name of the bidder to which it
intends to award the contract and shall furnish to the Associ-
ation, in sufficient time for its review, a detailed report, which
shall include comments by the consultants referred to in Section
2.02 of the WAPDA Project Agreement, on the evaluation and
comparison of the bids received, and such other information as the
Association shall reasonably request. The Association shall, if it
determines that the intended award would be inconsistent with the
Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and
state the reasons for such determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Association's concurrence, materially differ from
those on which bids were asked or prequalification invited.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Association promptly after its execution and prior to
the submission to the Association of the first application for
withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect of such
contract.


﻿- 18 -
2.   With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding
paragraph, the Borrower shall furnish to the Association, promptly
after its execution and prior to the submission to the Association
of the first application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit
Account in respect of such contract, two conformed copies of such
contract, together with the analysis of the respective bids,
recommendations for award and such other information as the
Association shall reasonably request. The Association shall, if it
determines that the award of the contract was not consistent with
the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and
state the reasons for such determination.


