CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 877 PAK
WAPDA Project Agreement
(Salinity Control and Reclamation
SCARP Mardan Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
WATER AND POWER DEVELOPMENT
AUTHORITY OF PAKISTAN
Dated February 7, 1979


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 877 PAK
WAPDA PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated February 7, 1979, between INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association) and
WATER AND POWER DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY OF PAKISTAN (hereinafter
called WAPDA).
WHEREAS (A) by the Development Credit Agreement of even
date herewith between the Islamic Republic of Pakistan (herein-
after called the Borrower) and the Association, the Association
has agreed to make available to the Borrower an amount in various
currencies equivalent to sixty million dollars ($60,000,000), on
the terms and conditions set forth in the Development Credit
Agreement, but only on condition that WAPDA agree to undertake
such obligations toward the Association as are hereinafter set
forth;
(B) by an agreement of even date herewith between the
Association and the North West Frontier Province (hereinafter
referred to as NWFP), NWFP has agreed to undertake certain obliga-
tions in respect of the Project; and
WHEREAS WAPDA, in consideration of the Association's entering
into the Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has
agreed to undertake the obligations hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context shall otherwise require, the several terms defined in
the Development Credit Agreement and in the General Conditions
(as so defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. WAPDA shall carry out Parts A, B, C, D, E,
G, I (a) and I (b) of the Project described in Schedule 2 to the
Development Credit Agreement with due diligence and efficiency and
in conformity with appropriate administrative, financial and


﻿-2-
engineering practices, and shall provide, or cause to be provided,
promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other
resources required for the purpose.
Section 2.02. In order to assist WAPDA and NWFP in imple-
menting the Project, WAPDA shall employ consultants whose quali-
fications, experience and terms and conditions of employment shall
be satisfactory to the Borrower, WAPDA and the Association.
Section 2.03. WAPDA shall cause the General Manager of
WAPDA-Northern Zone to prepare an annual Project Implementation
Plan satisfactory to the Association, which, together with
budgetary estimates for the following fiscal year, shall be
furnished to the Borrower and the Association for their review not
later than March 31, 1979 and March 31 of each year thereafter.
Section 2.04. (a) WAPDA undertakes to insure, or make ade-
quate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit made available to
it by the Borrower against hazards incident to the acquisition,
transportation and delivery thereof to the place of use or
installation, and for such insurance any indemnity shall be
payable in a currency freely usable by WAPDA to replace or repair
such goods.
(b) Except as the Association may otherwise agree, WAPDA
shall cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit made available to it by the Borrower to be used
exclusively for the Project.
Section 2.05. (a) WAPDA shall, in accordance with a timetable
and arrangements satisfactory to the Association, transfer to
NWFP such equipment and facilities provided or constructed under
the Project, as shall be agreed with the Association.
(b) Prior to such transfer, WAPDA shall ensure that said
equipment and facilities are operating satisfactorily.
Section 2.06. WAPDA shall, prior to carrying out any portion
of Part G of the Project, furnish to the Association for its
review, a survey of road requirements and detailed designs for the
rural market roads improvement works under the Project.
Section 2.07. WAPDA shall cause studies to be completed
under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association and


﻿- 3 -
furnish reports by June 30, 1985 to the Borrower and the Associ-
ation for their review, on the analysis of depth to water table
data and the accomplishments of its Reclamation Unit as guidance
for future drainage designs and reclamation programs.
Section 2.08. (a) WAPDA shall at the request of the Associa-
tion, exchange views with the Association with regard to the
progress of the Project, the performance of its obligations
under this Agreement, and other matters relating to the purposes
of the Credit.
(b) WAPDA shall promptly inform the Association of any
condition which interferes or threatens to interfere with the
progress of those parts of the Project for which WAPDA is respon-
sible, the accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, or the
performance by WAPDA of its obligations under this Agreement.
Section 2.09. WAPDA shall, by July 1, 1980, establish in
or near the Project Area, a Reclamation Unit under the direction
of a senior soil scientist.
ARTICLE III
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 3.01. This Agreement shall come into force and
effect on the date upon which the Development Credit Agreement
becomes effective.
Section 3.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of
the Association and of WAPDA thereunder shall terminate on the
earlier of the following two dates:
(i) the date on which the Development Credit Agreement
shall terminate in accordance with its terms;
or
(ii) a date twenty years after the date of this Agree-
ment.
(b) If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in
accordance with its terms before the date specified in paragraph
(a) (ii) of this Section, the Association shall promptly notify
WAPDA of this event.


﻿Section 3.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation
or suspension under the General Conditions.
ARTICLE IV
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 4.01. Any notice or request required or permitted
to be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given
or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required
or permitted to be given or made at such party's address herein-
after specified or at such other address as such party shall have
designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making
such request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                     Telex:
INDEVAS                            440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
For WAPDA:
Water and Power Development Authority
WAPDA House
Lahore, Pakistan
Cable address:
WAPDA
Lahore
Section 4.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or permitted to be executed, under this


﻿- 5 -
Agreement on behalf of WAPDA may be taken or executed by its
Chairman or such other person or persons as the said Chairman
shall designate in writing.
Section 4.03. WAPDA shall furnish to the Association suffi-
cient evidence of the authority and the authenticated specimen
signature of the person or persons who will, on behalf of WAPDA,
take any action or execute any documents required or permitted to
be taken or executed by WAPDA pursuant to any of the provisions of
this Agreement.
Section 4.04. This Agreement may be executed in several
counterparts, each of which shall be an original, and all collec-
tively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By Is/ Robert Picciotto
Acting Regional Vice President
South Asia
WATER AND POWER DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY
OF PAKISTAN
By Is! Nisar Ali Shah
Authorized Representative


