Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 9 2 3 7
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PERU
SECOND INDUSTRIAL CREDIT PROJECT
(LOAN 1968-PE)
DECEMBER 28, 1990
Trade, Finance and Industry Division
Country Department IV
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency unit - Inti (I/.)*
Average Market Rates for Period
End of 1981      US$1  =   0.42 Intis
End of 1982      US$1  -   0.70 Intis
End of 1983      US$1  =   1.63 Intis
End of 1984      US$1  =   3.47 Intis
End of 1985      US$1  =  10.98 Intis
End of 1986      US$1  =  13.95 Intis
End of 1987      US$1  =  16.70 Intis
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BCR        -      Banco Central de Reserva del Peru (Central Bank)
BIP        -     Banco Industria del Peru (Industrial Bank of Peru)
COFIDE     -     Corporacion Financiera de Desarroll., (Development
Finance Corporation)
CONADE     -      Corporacion Nacional de Desarrollo
ICSA       -     Inversiones COFIDE S.A.
IDB        -      Inter-American Development Bank
PCR        -      Project Completion Report
PPS        -      Public Sector Enterprises with Public Attributes
GOVERNMENT OF PERU FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
*Note:  The new Government that took office in 1985 changed the currency
unit from the Sol (S/.) to the Inti (I/.). One Inti is equivalent
to 1,000 Soles.



FOR OMCIAL Use ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Wnshmqton. O.C 20433
ISA
oinice no 0,ectm-c~Cnr
op.t.tKm ivdIt.i nM
December 28. 1990
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT: Project Completion Report on Peru - Second
Industrial Credit Project (Loan 1968-PE)
Attached, for information, is a copy of a report entitled 'Project
Completion Report on Peru - Second Industrial Credit Project (Loan 1968-PE)'
prepared by the Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office. No audit of
this project has been made by the Operations Evaluation Department at this
time.
Attachment
This document has a retnclted distnbuuon and may be usod by mtpmets aniy in the perfomeTee
of their officil dutia Its contenus may not otherwe be disco without Ww  Bnk aud onz tN



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PERU
SECOND INDUSTRIAL CREDIT PROJECT
(LOAN 1968-PE)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
PREFACE           ..........                                 ...................            i
EVALUATION SUMMARY . .............  *..............   - . ...o .........                 i
PART I.  PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BANK'S PERSPECTIVE                  ..............
A. Project Identity ................................................         1
B. Background ..................................................... 0. ...1
C. Project Objectives and Description ....              ...............      2
D. Project Design and Organization                  ...................      3
E. Project Implementation ........ . . .  ............................. .    4
F. Project Results ....... ... o. .................          .......         5
G. Project Sustainability ... ...............................                6
H. Bank Performance . ........ .          . ................ ...........     6
I. Borrower's Performance ...............................    .8
J. Project Relationship ... ...............  .............. .               10
K. Project Documentation and Data                  ..................       10
PA.RT III*.  STATISTICAL INFORMATION ................. . .....               .....        12
I. Related Bank Loans . ..... ..... .. . .       ..........  .........      12
2. Project Timetable  *....... *...0................ .  ....                13
3. Loan Disbursements .............. ............. *.. .....                14
4. Status of Covenants                   .............      .........       15
5. Use of Bank Resources .. ..........            .......       .....       18
ANNEXES
1.  COFIDE:   Subproject Profile ...................................                    20
2.  COFIDE:   Subborrowers Financed by More than One Subloan .......                    23
3.  COFIDE:   Subprojects Financed Under Loan 1968-PE ..............                    24
4.  COFIDE:  Comparative Balance Sheets, 1981-1988 .                  ..........        26
5.  COFIDE:   Income Statements,  1981-1988 ......... G..o ............                 27
6.  COFIDE:   Financial Ratios, 1981-1988 .........               .............         28
7.  Subprojects by Financial Intermediaries se .......................                  29
This document hot a restricted distribution and may be uwed by recipients only in the perfforince |
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwie be disckosed without World Bank authorintion.



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PERU
SECOND INDUSTRIAL CREDIT PROJECT
(LOAN 1968-PE)
PREFACE
This is t.e Project Completion Report (PCR) of the Second Industrial
Credit Project in Pezu, for which Loan 1968-PE, in the amount of US$60.0
million equivalent was approved on April 7, 1981. This is a follow-up opera-
tion to the First Industrial Credit Project (Loan 1358-PE), for US$35.0 mil-
lion equivalent, approved in 1976. This project, as was its predecessor, was
implemented during a period of recession and macroeconomic instability in
Peru, in which various Governments implemented very different development
strategies. The Bank suspended disbursements to Peru in May 1987, based on
Peru's accrued non-payment of obligations. An undisbursed balance of US$20.0
million equivalent was cancelled effective October 18, 1989.
The PCR was prepared by the Trade, Finance and Industry Division,
Country Department IV of the Latin America and Caribbean Regional Office.
Preparation of Part II was requested from the Borrower. But, given the time
elapsed since suspension of disbursements and the fact that many of the
Borrower's staff involved in managing the project have retired or moved to
new assignments, Part II was not completed.
Preparation of this PCR has not involved a mission to Peru. It is
based, inter alia, on the Staff Appraisal Report, the Loan and Guarantee
Agreements, supervision reports, correspondence between the Bank and the
Borrower, and internal Bank memoranda.
This PCR was read by the Operations Evaluation Department. The
draft PCR was sent to the Borrower for comments, but none were received.



- iii -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PERU
SECOND INDUSTRIAL CREDIT PROJECT
(LOAN 1968-PE)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Obiectives
1.       This US$60.0 million equivalent loan to Corporacion Financiera de
Desarrollo (COFIDE), had as its main objectives to support: (i) the
reorganization of COFIDE, a public sector financial institution channelling
term resources, and (ii) the establishment of a more open and competitive
financial system by channeling part of the loan to other financial
intermediaries through COFIDE. The loan would help make operational
COFIDE's new organizational structure in which its lending function had
been- separated from its ownership of public enterprises function. The loan
would also help improve COFIDE's capability for economic analysis of
projects, which would be passed on to other participating financial
institutions.
Implementation and Results
2.       The loan was approved on April 7, 1981 and declared effective on
February 25, 1982 due to delays in the signature of an Exchange-Loss
provision betveen COFIDE and the Government and in the registration of the
new COFIDE by-laws. In the early stages of the project, subloan approvals
increased rapidly, so that by the end of 1982 half of the loan had been
committed. The pace of commitments slowed down considerably in 1983 for
several reasons: (i) the effects of a deepening recession that dampened
investment plans; (ii) perception on the parn of the borrowers that Bank
dollar denominated loans carried great exchange risks; (iii) the much
higher cost of Bank dollar denominated loans than local currency loans.
The combined effect of frequent currency devaluations and negative interest
rates on local currency loans, resulted in the cost of dollar denominated
loans to be nearly twice the cost of local currency loans; and (iv)
increasing attention of COFIDE's management to state enterprises at the
expense of private sector enterprises. In 1986 and 1987, the expansionary
policies of the new Government helped improve temporarily COFIDE's loan
pipeline. Many of the new investments did not materialize, however, as the
economy began to deteriorate. When the Bank suspended disbursements in May
1987, due to overdue service payments of Peru, about one third of the loan
was still uncommitted.
3.       COFIDE used US$39.7 million in loan funds to f£nance 58
subprojects, including 17 above the free limit of US$500,000. Practically
all the subloans went to private enterprises. There is no complete
information of arrears under t-- loan. The available information shows



- iv -
that by *.ue first,quarter of 1990, out of the original US$39.7 million
disbursed, subloans for US$22 million had been repaid; USS6 million were
current in their payments, and US$11 million, nearly 302 of the original
subloan amount were in arrears or judiciary procedure.
4.       An important objective of the loan was to help make COFIDE's new
organizational structure operational. However, the reorganization of
COFIDE, did not proceed as the bank had expected. The basis of the
reorganiza-ion had been COFIDE's divestiture of its equity portfolio of
state enterprises. COFIDE par.sed the ownership of its equity holdings to
another public company, ICSA, on the basis of a loan of about US$100.0
million from COFIDE to ICSA, which would be repaid from the proceeds of
selling the enterprises to the private sector. However, privatization
never took place and ICSA was unable to service COFIDE's loan.  Moreover,
the sale of COFIDE's investment portfolio did not bring a reduction in
COFIDE's lending to state enterprises, as the Bank had expected. In fact,
lending to public enterprises increased rapidly in 1981. when the loan
became effective, and in 19A2; while lending to the private sector
decreased by an average of 12Z per annum. By early 1983, COFIDE's exposure
to four state enterpzises was 2.8 times its equity and represented nearly
one-half of its total outstanding loans and guarantees.
S.       The loan partially succeeded in developing financial
intermediation through other banks. Eventually, fourteen other bank
participated in the project, although two thirds of the amount disbur-ed
was intermediated by COFIDE.
Findinas and Lessons Learned
6.       In designing this operation, the Bank addressed many of the
shortcomings identified during the implementation of the preceding loan to
COFIDE. The major design improvements were: ti) the up front
reorganizazion of COFIDE, separating its lending function from its
ownership of state enterprises; and (ii) the involvement of other financial
intermediaries as retailers of the Bank loan.
7.       During project implementation, the Bank made a considerable
supervision effort to address two major problems affecting the loan: (i)
low demand for the loan's funds, and (ii) the financial deterioration of
COFIDE as a result of the drying up of exterral and internal resources and
its worsening portfolio of loans and guarantees to state enterprises. With
respect to the demand problem, the Bank explored with COFIDE ways to adapt
the loan-to demand conditions, such as lending in local currency. However,
this option was never implemented due to the negative interest rates
prevailing in the domestic market.
8.       With respect to COFIDE's financial problems, the Bank requested,
with little success, that COFIDE formulate a program to reduce its exposure
to state enterprises. For the longer term, the Bank recommended that
COFIDE redefine its basic role and institutional arrangements to
concentrate on providing term financing and technical assistance to
productive enterprises, and transfer its loans and guarantees to state



enterprises to other Government agencies. It is surprising that in view of
COFIDE's rapid Mfnancial deterioration and the blatant violation of the
Loan Agreement covenant on maximam exposure limits, the Bank did not
contemplate suspending disbursements under this loan, before suspension
became necessary on country grounds.
9.       This project has important lessons for thb design and supervision
of credit lines intermediated by public institutions, particularly during
unstable macroeconomic situations. Some of the lessons from lending to
COFIDE have been discussed in the Project Completion Report of the First
Industrial Finance Loan (Loan 1358-PE). The main lesson in both loans is
that it is very difficult to convert a public entity into an effective
financial intermediary with proper financial discipline and independence
from political influence. Another lesson is that there is an inherent
conflict of interest in using the same financial institution as both first
and second-tier lender. COFIDE was only partially successful in developing
financial intermediation through other financial institutions, partly
because it had no interest in channeling business through competitors. The
Bank experience with COFIDE and many other public DFCs leads to the
conclusion that public banks should not be involved in direct lending and
that their role should be limited to that of wholesalers to channel foreign
loans to private financial institutions.
10.      This loan shows that it is difficult for the Bank to react to the
institutional and financial deterioration of the Borrower, even if
institutional improvement was one of the maia ,bjectives of the loan. The
use of maximum debt/equity ratios as the main financial covenant in loans
to public banks is ineffective as long as Governments are ready to assume
part of a failing DFC's debts to avoid bankrvptcy. The Bank should link
continuation of disbursements through a financial intermediary to a wider
range of financial standards, including profitability.
11.      This loan also shows that it is difficult for the Bank to react to
policy reversals. This loan was designed to help a new civilian Government
whose economic tenet was free market and free prices. The Government did
not implement consistently its policy of economic liberalization and the
new Government that took office in 1985 followed a completely different
strategy, based on demand expansion and high protection. The Bank should
link disbursements under a loan to the effective implementation or
maintenance of the policy framework that had originally justified the loan.
Proiect Sustainabilitv
12.      By the time the loan was suspended ir 1987, COFIDE's capability to
mobilize foreign and local resources had long since dried up. COFIDE's
operations continued at a very low level, based on relending the funds
collected from it-s clients. On the other hand, other sources of financing
of private sector activities in Peru also disappeared, as a result of
growing financial rapression that culminated with the attempt to
nationalize commercial banks in mid-1987. The expected benefits of this
project are, therefore, not being sustained.



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PERU
SECOND INDUSTRIAL CREDIT PROJECT
(LOAN 1968-PE)
PART I.  PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
A.       Proiect Identity
1.       Name                               Second Industrial Credit Project
Loan Number                        1968 - PE
RVP Unit                           Latin America and the Caribbean
Region
Countzy                            Peru
Sector                             Finance and Industry
B.       Backgroundl
2.       In 1979, one year before the appraisal mission, the Peruvian
economy started growing again after two years of deep recession in which
income per capita had dropped an accumulated 10, while inflation had
accelerated from single digits to close to 60i in 1978. A successful
stabilization program was carried out in 1978-79, with the help of
favorable terms of trade and booming exports. With the economy growing,
the military Government initiated an import liberalization program.
General elections in 1979, brought back a civilian Government whose
official economic tenet was free markets and free prices. The recovery
was, however, short lived: the new government embarked on bulky
infrastructure investments that complicated macroeconomic management, more
so in the face of now declining terms of trade, international recession and
an increasingly overvalued exchange rate. These problems culminated with
the drying up of external voluntary lending, particularly after the onset
of the Mexican debt crisis in 1982.  GDP pluizated by 122 in 1983 and
inflation doubled to more than 10O. In response, the Government reversed
the import liberalization process.
3.       In 1984, upon the impossibility of reaching an agreement on
foreign debt rescheduling and fresh financing with creditors, the
Government engaged in a policy of undeclared arrears. In 1984-85, steps
were taken to stabilize the economy by means of active exchange rate
depreciation, frequent adjustment to prices and some reduction of public
expenditure. These measures failed to stabilize inflationary pressures and
economic growth slowed down. The new administration that took office in
mid-1985 foilowed-a completely different e.onomic strategy oriented to
/  Based on: PERU: Policies to Stop Hyperinflation and Initiate Economic
Recovery. A World Bank Country Study. April 1989



prompt quick economic recovery by bolster lg consumption demand and using
existing idle industrial capaci y. Consumption demand was fuelled by
increasing real wages. tax cuts, and freezing state enterprises prices and
tariffs. The use of idle capacity was promot d by closing the domestic
market to competing imports and establishing multiple exchange rates and
interest rate subsidies. The initial response of the eLonomy was an
unparalleled output and employment expansion in 1986 and 1987. T'is growth
was achieved at the expense of growing financial and external imbalances.
In 1987, when disbursements of all loans t) Peru were suspended because of
accumulated non payment of obligations to tile Bank, inflation had picked up
to 1152 per annum. In July 1987, the Government attempted to nationalize
cc,mmercial banks, finance firms, and insurance companies on the grounds of
democratizing credit allocation and brea.'ing the links between financial
groups and credit institutions. Popular reaction stopped the measure.
Beginning in 1988, Peru entered in a hypey.i-flationary process whose
consequences have been: (i) progressive ti-cuction of economic activity;
(ii) increasing financial disintermediation (saver's financial assets
dropped from 20% to 5% of GDP); and (iii, rirtual collapse of public sector
revenues.
C.       Project Objectives and Description
4.       This project was designed as a follow-up to the then ongoing
Industrial Credit Project (Loan 1358-PE) to COFIDE. Its main objective was
to support the reorganization of public sector financial institutions
channelling term resources and the establishment of a more open and
competitive system, where a wider number ui financial intermediaries would
have equal access to the resources availa e. The loan would also help
make COFIDE's new organizational structure operational and improve its
capabilities for economic analysis of pro ects.
5.       To achieve these ends, the loan cj!-sisted of a line of credit to
COFIDE of US$60.0 million equivalent to finLance the foreign exchange
component of projects, mostly in the industrial, mining and tourism
sectors. Enterprises eligible for subloaus would include public, mixed and
private enterprises. Subloans over US$2±10,000 required ERR calculation,
and a cumulative limit of US$5.0 million Bank loan to any single enterprise
or group of enterprises was established. In principle, all financial
intermediaries in good standing with the Superintendency of Banks (SB),
which would meet the eligibility conditions regarding financial practices
and project appraisal capabilities - set forth in COFIDE's Policy for
Financial Intermediation - would be eligible to participate in the
operation.
6.       The Bank loan to COFIDE was made sTt a fixed interest rate of 9.6%
per annum. COFIDE undertook to on-lend the proceeds of the loan to
ultimate beneficiaries in US dollar denominated subloans, either directly
or through other financial intermediaries. The Government would assume for
COFIDE the cross-currency risk for a premium of 1.5Z per annum on the
outstanding amount, to be paid into an Special Account within COFIDE. The
interest rate charged to the financial intermediaries would be 1
percentage point above the base rate, defined as the interest rate of the



-3-
proposed Bank loan plus the 1.5Z premium f-r the cross-currencv risk.  The
interest rate for the ultimate subborrowers would range between 14.1%, for
creditworthy firms borrowing directly from COFIDE, to 15.1% to other
subborrowers. When lending directly, COFIDE would have a spread between 3%
and 4% and the oti.er financial intermediaries would have a margin of 3Z.
Interest rates would be reviewad periodically and adjusted, if necessary,
to take into account fluctuations in the capital market and domestic credit
demand. A free limit of US$1.0 million was established for COFIDE and of
US$500,000 for other f. ancial intermediaries.
D.       Project Design and Organization
7.       The design of this second loan to COFIDE addressed many of the
shortcomings identified during the implementatuon of the preceding
operation (Loan 1358-PE). First, under t;. first loan, COFIDE's double
role of holding company for state enterprises and development bank lending
to state and private enterprises posed a potential conflict of interests,
because the enterprises owned by COFIDE were eligible as users of the loan.
Also, COFIDE's double role made it difficult to differentiate the
performance of COFIDE as lender from its rerformance as owner. Throughout
the life of the previous loan, the Bank had insisted, with little success,
on the need for COFIDE to separate its lending function from its holding of
public enterprises. The strategy for COFIDE adopted by the new Government
that took office in mid-1980 was more in tune with the Bank's views on
these issues. D,iring preparation of this loan, Bank staff worked with the
new Government on a plan to reorganize COFIDE separating its lending
function from its ownership function. During project implementation, the
Government reorganized COFIDE creating the Corporacion Nacional de
Desarrollo (CONADE) as a holding company for two public companies: COFIDE
S.A., in charge of lending operations; and INVERSIONES COFIDE S.A. (ICSA)
to hold the investment portfolio including basic industries. The transfer
of equity holdings was made on the basis of a loan of about US$100 million
from COFIDE to ICSA that would be repaid from the sale of these firms to
the private sector. During loan negotiations, agreement wE.s reached with
the Government and COFIDE that approval of legislation enabling the
ownership transfer would be a condition of effectiveness.
8.       The previous loan had involved only COFIDE as direct lender,
although other financial institutions wer.! Later involved in identifying
and assessing subprojects for a fee. This second loan sought to involve
other financial inctitutions as retailers of the Bank loan, with the
objective of creating more competition in term lending. Since in the
previous loan borrowers had been reluctant to assume the cross-currency
risk, in this loan the Government assumee this risk for a fee.
9.       Another difference between the first and the second loan to COFIDE
was that the maximum debt to equity ratio was increased from 5:1 to 7:1 in
July 1982, due to COFIDE's increased foreign exchange liabilities and its
shrinking local currency based capital.  iuring preparation and
implementation of this loan, Bank staff gave emphasis to COFIDE's need
to train its staff on project evaluation and to improve the quality



-4-
external audits. Although this loan did aot incluide a technical assistance
component, a technical assistance program was agreed under a parallel loan
(Loan 2064-PE). Shortcomings in these areas had became apparent during
supervision of the previous loan. Despite these design improvements, a
major shortcoming of this loan was the inherent conflict of interest of
using COFIDE as both first and second-tier bank. Eventually, only one
third of the loan was disbursed by other flnancial intermediaries.
E.       Proie.; t Implementation
10.      The loan was approved on April 7, 1981, and declared effective on
February 25, 1982. Effectiveness had to be postponed due to delays in the
signature of an Exchange-Loss Provision between COFIDE and the f.overnment
and in the registration of the new COFIDE by-laws, the formalizatior. of the
divestiture from investments in basic industries and the ratification of
the Loan Agreement by COFIDE's shareholders. Since COFIDE was at the time
in the process of reorgaiization, its Boazd was not officially established
and could not ratify its previous approval of the Loan Agreement. In view
of a declaration by COFIDE's Board of its irrevocable intention to ratify
the Loan Agreement, the Bank waived this condition to declare the loan
effective.
11.      The actual implementation of the loan took much longer than
expected. The commitment end date was extended six times from 06/30/84 to
06/30/87; the initial Closing Date of June 30, 1985 was extended four times
to December 31, 1987. When disbursements to Peru were suspended on May 5,
1987 for country related reasons, one third of the loan was still
undisbursed. Effective October 18, 1989, US$20.3 million equivalent was
cancelled from the loan account.
12.      In the early stages of the project, the number of subloan
approvals increased rapidly, and by the end of 1982 about half of the loan
was committed. The pace of loan commitme:its slowed down significantly in
1983 for several reasons: First, the effects of the deepening recession
dampened investment plans. In 1984 capacity utilization in industry was
about 602 and there was little demand for fixed capital financing. Second,
the subloans under this loan were to be denominated in dollars which
involved a high foreign exchange risk for the subborrowers in periods of
rapid devaluation of the sol. Moreover, the combination of currency
devaluations and low - usually negative in real terms - interest rates
prevailing for subloans in local currency made the cost of dollar
denominated loans nearly twice the cost of subloans in local currency (by
mid-1983, the cost of loans denominated in dollars exceeded 1502 per annum,
while the cost of loans in local currency ias about 752 per annum). As
early as May 1984, COFIDE requested Bank permission to lend in local
currency. The Bank responded that it would be prepared to amend the Loan
Agreement to allow for local currency lcai.s with the condition that these
subloans should carry a positive interest rate. Such amendment was never
signed because interest rates in local cu.rency loans in Peru remained
highly negative. Third, COFIDE's managers paid little attention to the



project. This was in part due to the incrasing attention that COFIDE was
giving to the state enterprises at the expense of private sector
enterprises.  The expansionary policies a.opted by the new Government that
took office in mid-1985, increased the demand for fixed assets financing
and helped improve COFIDE's loan pipeline, which by early 1987 exceeded the
remaining balance of US$19 million. The increased demand for funds did not
materialize, however, due to mounting economic problems. Moreover, the
suspension of disbursements to Peru in May 1987 prevented the use of the
remaining funds.
F.       Project Results
13.      Statistics on subloans are showui in Annex 3.  Under the loan
COFIDE financed 54 subprojects, including 21 above the free limit of
US$500,000 equivalent: 11 of them above US$..0 million. The average size of
the subloan was US$735,000 and the average size of the subproject was
US$2.9 million. Six subloans representing about one third of the loan
financed new enterprises; the rest financed expansion or modernization of
existing enterprises. Four enterprises received two subloans each and one
enterprise obtained three subloans. Practically all the loan went to
private enterprises, only one subloan of US$1.5 million was given to a
state enterprise. As with the previous Bank loan to COFIDE, the bulk of
the loan (88Z) financed projects in Lima. There is no information on the
effect of the loans on exports, but it is likely that most of the 7 mining
projects, accounting for 182 of the loans were for mineral exports which,
at the time, enjoyed generous tax incentives. Two other subsectors that
together received 222 of the subloans were construction and printing were
not export oriented. Thirty five sublotns, for which information on
employment generation is available, created about 3,600 new jobs at a cost
of US$7,400 per job. There is no detailed information on arrears under
this loan. The available information shyuis that, by the first quarter of
1990, out of the original US$39.7 million lisbursed, subloans for US$22.5
million had been repaid, US$6.1 million were current on their payments and
US$11.1 million, nearly 30% of the original. loans, were in arrears or under
judiciary procedures.
14.      One major objective of the loan uas to support COFIDE's
reorganization, particularly the divestiture of its investment portfolio of
basic industries. This objective was achiaved only partially because
although COFIDE passed its equity holdings to another company ICSA S.A.,
COFIDE was not financially compensated for the property transfer, nor were
the basic industries privatized, as envisaged. The failure of ICSA to pay
back COFIDE became a serious financial problem, since ICSA's debt to COFIDE
of about US$100.0 million, accounted for 15% of COFIDE's assets and 85% of
its capital base. The sale of COFIDE's investment portfolio to ICSA did
not imply a reduction in COFIDE's lending to state enterprises. In fact,
in 1981 and 1982 lending to state enterpriTss with private characteristics
(PPs) increased rapidly reaching about 70% of COFIDE's total operations.
By early 1983, COFIDE's exposure to 4 state enterprises had reached nearly
3 times its equity and represented nearly half of its total outstanding
loans and guarantees. Most of these entetrprises were heavily indebted, had
little equity and did not generate enough resources to service their debts.



15.      Another objective of the project was to give access to Bank funds
to other financial intermediaries to increase competition in term
financing. This objective was also only partially accomplished. COFIDE
was slow to develop links with other financ;:al intermediaries: by late
1983, COFIDE had not yet developed its inrenmediation department into an
effective instrument for promoting and fii,a.acing sound projects through
financial intermediaries and the quality of project evaluation and
supervision work done by the financial intermediaries was weak. Although
fourteen other financial institutions eventually participated in the
project, two thirds of the US$39.7 million equivalent disbursed from the
loan was intermediated by COFIDE.
16.      Although one of the objectives of the loan was to strengthen
COFIDE's economic analysis of projects ar.a pass on such capability to
participating financial intermediaries, the project did not have an agreed
program of technical assistance for staff training. A Bank mission in 1983
made a diagnosis of COFIDE's project evaluation capability and identified
the need to: (i) improve the format and content of appraisal reports and
(ii) refine and standardize appraisal methodology and the treatment of some
of the important variables affecting investment projects in a difficult
macroeconomic environment with high inflation and frequent variations in
relative prices. Two years later the Bank recommendations had not been
implemented. Moreover, the technical assistance component of a parallel
loan (Loan 2064-PE) was never used. It is unlikely that any improvement in
COFIDE's evaluation and supervision capability that could have resulted
from the Bank's recommendations was passed on to other financial
institutions, since most of them intermeliated only one subloan.
G.       Project Sustainability
17.      By the time the loan was suspended in 1987, COFIDE's capability to
mobilize fcreign or local resources had lcng since dried up. COFIDE's
level of operations continued at a very lo-.. level, based on relending the
funds collected from its clients. On the other hand, other sources of
financing of private sector activities in Peru also disappeared, as a
result of growing financial repressions that culminated with the attempt to
nationalize commercial banks in mid-1987. The expected benefits of the
project are, therefore, not being sustained.
H.       Bank Performance
18.      During preparation and appraisal, Bank staff worked closely with
COFIDE and the new Government on the preparation of COFIDE's restructuring
plan, including a review of the legal chavges necessary for COFIDE's
divestiture of its investment portfolio, and on a policy statement for
financial intermediation that would guide ZOFIDE's lending through other
financial intermediaries.
19.      The Bank made a considerable suuervision effort with this loan:
fourteen supervision missions between 198.1 and 1987 and a total of 95 staff
weeks devoted to supervision. During project implementation, the major



-7-
problems affecting this loan were: (i) low demand for the loan's funds, and
(ii) financial deterioration of COFIDE as a result of the drying up of
external and internal resource mobilization and its worsening portfolio of
loans and guarantees to state enterprises. The Bank sought to address
these problems through intense supervision efforts. Concerning the demand
problem, the B"nk made recommendations to make COFIDE more active in
seeking private sector projects and exploied with COFIDE and the Government
ways to adapt the loan to demand conditions such as: lending in local
currency, lending for working capital, and iending for leasing operations.
None of these alternatives were implemented, except for some minor lending
for working capital. After having accepted the idea of lending in local
currency, the Bank was right in not allowing COFIDE to do so at the
prevailing negative interest rates.
20.      Bank supervision missions paid counsiderable attention to the
analysis of COFIDE's financial situation and proposed actions to address
not only COFIDE's short term financial difficulties, but also its long term
role as a development finance institution. The Bank requested that COFIDE
redefine its basic role and institutional arrangements to concentrate on
providing term finance and technical assistance to productive enterprises,
transferring its loans and guarantees to state enterprises to other
Government agencies. For the immediate problems, the Bank requested, with
little success, that COFIDE's management formulate a program to reduce its
exposure to, and operations with, Electro-Peru and other state enterprises,
in line with COFIDE' policy statement and the Loan Agreement. In 1985, the
Bank worked on a financial strengthening program for COFIDE covering five
areas: (i) establishment of separate accounting for COFIDE's public and
private sector portfolios, (ii) revision *f its interest accruals policy to
stop accruing interest in arrears over 180 days, (iii) revision of its loan
provisions policy and progressively building up of provisions to cover
fully COFIDE's net exposure. The Bank was instrumental in the Government
repaying COFIDE for amounts it paid on Government's behalf and to assume
the debt of the public electric companies to COFIDE. The Bank also
recommended that the Government assume COFIDE's debts to the Bank and IDB
in order to strengthen COFIDE's equity a&d that the Government pay a
commission to COFIDE for managing several Irust funds. The Bank also made
a recommendation on ways to improve COFIDE's local resource mobilization by
raising deposit interest rates and providing some incentives to make
COFIDE's bonds more attractive, such as the possibiliLy of deducting them
from income taxes on salaries and wages, issuing the bonds at a discount
and shortening the maturities. The strengt:ening program improved COFIDE's
accounting practices, but did not affect its performance. COFIDE's
performance improved temporarily in 1985 as a result of the economic
reactivation supported by the Government.'. expansionary policies.
21.      This project has important lessons for the design and supervision
of credit lines intermediated by public institutions, particularly during
unstable macroeconomic situations. Some of the lessons from lending to
COFIDE have been discussed in the Project Completion of the First
Industrial Finance Loan (Loan 1358-PE). The main lesson in the first loan
as well as in the seccnd loan to COFIDE is that it is very difficult
to convert a public entity into an effective financial intermediary with



-8-
proper financial discipline and independencr from political influence.
During implementation of the first loan, the Bank sought the separation of
COFIDE's ownership role from its financial role. This separation was
accomplished as part of the preparation of this loan. However, even free
of its ownership role, COFIDE continued te be used by the Government as a
source of finance for state enterprises, a': the expense of its lending to
the private sector.
22.      Another lesson from this loan is the inherent conflict of interest
in using the same financial institution as both first and second-tier
lender. COFIDE was not successful in developing financial intermediation
through other financial institutions, partly because it had no interest in
channelling business through competitors. Only in financing of small scale
enterprises, under a parallel Bank loan (Loan 2064-PE), COFIDE operated
mostly through other intermediaries, probably because COFIDE had not
developed its own constituency of clients among small entrepreneurs. The
Bank experience with COFIDE and many othez public DFCs, leads to the
conclusion that public banks should not be involved in direct lending and
that their role should be limited to that .3f wholesalers to channel foreign
loans to private financial institutions.
23.      This loan shows that it is difficult for the Bank to react to the
institutional and financial deterioration of a Borrower, even if one of the
main objectives of the loan was precisely to support the Borrower's
institutional improvement. The use of maximum debt/equity ratios as the
main financial covenant in loans to public banks is ineffective as long as
Governments are ready to assume part of a failing DFC's debts in order to
avoid bankrurccy. The Bank should link continuation of disbursements
through a financial intermediary to a wider range of financial standards.
24.      This loan also shows that it was difficult for the Bank to react
to policy reversals, because, at the time, :redit lines were seldom linked
to policy conditionality. This loan was designed to support a new civilian
Government whose economic tenet was free market and free prices. The
Government failed to implement consistently its policy of economic
liberalization and, eventually, reversed it. The new Government that took
office in 1985 followed a completely different strategy, based on demand
expansion and high protection. The Bank .hould link disbursements under a
loan to the effective implementation or maintenance of the policy framework
that had originally justified the loan.
I.       Borrower's Performance
25.      Institutional Performance.  COFIIDE's operations have been
dominated by its mandate to coordinate and guarantee the financing of state
enterprises. Since the mid-1970s, COFIDE had been a holding company for a
number of nationalized basic industries. By 1980, a large proportion of
COFIDE's resources were frozen in these equity holdings. This loan
supported the separation of COFIDE's investment portfolio from its lending
operations. Corporacion Nacional de Desa.r3llo (CONWDE) was created
in1981, as a holding company for COFIDE S._. and INVERSIONES COFIDE S. A.



(ICSA); the first to continue lending operations and the latter to hold
the investment portfolio, including the basic industries. The transfer of
equity holdings to ICSA was on the basis of a loan of about US$100 million
from COFIDE to ICSA that would be repaid from the sale of these firms to
the private sector. However, the Government's ambiguous position with
respect to privatization made ICSA unable to sell any of its companies and
to service its debt to COFIDE. The expected reorientation of COFIDE's
operations towards the private sector did not materialize either. COFIDE's
lending continued to be dominated by loans to public sector enterprises.
26.      Financial Performance.  Up to 1982, COFIDE maintained a relatively
sound financial position. It had been able to mobilize abundant external
resources, its portfolio was not yet showing large arrears problems, and it
had been able to maintain the real value of its capital through periodic
revaluations of its equity investments. By 1983, COFIDE's financial
situation had become critical for a number of reasons: First, in 1982,
COFIDE experienced a substantial decline in the real value of its local
currency based assets. With the transfer of its equity portfolio, COFIDE
could no longer show capital increases through periodic revaluations of its
equity investments. On the other hand, the US$100 million loan from COFIDE
to ICSA - representing 15% of its assets and 852 of its equity - was of
doubtful value. COFIDE's equity shrunk by 51Z in real terms between 1982
and 1985, mainly due to negative interest rates and substantial provisions
for losses on bad debts. Second, COFIDE's foreign currency liabilities
increased in 1981 and 1982, particularly short term liabilities. This was
followed in 1983 by a sharp decline in resource mobilization. Mobilization
of external resources plummeted following the international debt crisis.
With interest rates below inflation, mobil.1i?ation of local resources
through deposits and bonds also dried up due to ceilings on interest rates
below the inflation rate. Third, COFIDE greatly increased its exposure
(loans and guarantees) to a few state enterprises (by the first quarter of
1983, COFIDE's exposure to four state cor-panies was 2.8 times its equity
and represented nearly one-half of its to:al outstanding loans and
guarantees).   With the 1983 economic crisis, many of these public
enterprises found themselves unable to service their loans to COFIDE; the
Government was also slow to reimburse COFIDE for payments it had made on
Government's behalf. An indication of the deterioration of COFIDE's
portfolio is that loan collections as a proportion of payments due
decreased from '0 to 452 between 1982 and 1985.
27.      COFID.   short term financial problems temporarily diminished with
the refinancing of Peru's foreign debt at the end of 1983. However,
COFIDE's financial position remained affected by US$1.0 billion in
guarantees granted to foreign banks on behalf of the government, since
there was no allocation from the Central's Government budget to attend the
cash flow requirements of such guarantees. In 1985 and 1986, COFIDE's
financial situation improved chowing increasing profitability and improving
portfolio quality. The impi vements were the result of the repayment of a
number of bad loans by state enter rises rhat were benefiting from the
temporary reactivation of the economy generated by the expansionary
policies of the new Government. However, wiith maximum deposit interest



- 10 -
rates at 1102 per annum compared with inf2i;|;ion of 250% per annum during
the first five months of FY1985, COFIDE ccux..nued to be unable to mobilize
local resources.
28.      Compliance with Financial Covenmn s.  COFIDE did not comply with
Section 3.01(b) of the Loan Agreement which established a maximum exposure
limit of 202 of COFIDE's paid up capital ana reserves to any single
enterprise. Mentions of this non-compliance in Bank documents appear in
1983, 1984 and 1985. Four state enterprises exceeded this limit,
representing almost half of COFIDE's total operations - as of March 1985,
COFIDE's exposure to Electro-Peru was 2.37 times COFIDE's equity. Although
subsequent Bank reports omit this issue, :.t is likely that COFIDE remained
in non-compliance until March 1987, when the Government announced that it
would assume Electro-Peru's debt to COFIDE.
29.      COFIDE also did not comply with Section 4.06 of the Loan Agreement
which established a maximum debt/equity ratio of 5:1. In July 1982, the
Bank agreed to permit COFIDE to increase its debt/equity ratio to 7:1. As
of August 1983, COFIDE's debt/equity ratio -was 6:1. However, it would have
been much higher if adequate provisions had been made for ICSA's debt to
COFIDE. By May 1984, COFIDE's debt/equity ratio amounted to 22.5:1
including guarantees granted on behalf of the Government to five state
enterprises, and to 9.2:1 without the guirantees. To strengthen COFIDE's
financial position and to comply with the debt/equity covenant, the
Government agreed, in late 1984, to capital'ze some long-term loans for
about US$81 million, including this loan.
J.       Project Relationship
30.      The project period covered nine years between preparation and
cancellation in 1989. During this perioc, the Bank's project officers,
COFIDE's management and Government teams changed. In addition, overdue
service payments of loans led to suspension of disbursements of all loans
to Peru. These circumstances affected continuity of project supervision.
K.       Proiect Documentation and Data
31.      The quality of COFIDE's financial reports and external audits
remained low, despite the stated objecti;e to improve these aspects under
this loan. A recurrent problem has been the discrepancies between COFIDE's
annual financial reports and the reports presented by the auditors. Also, a
variety of auditors followed different au'fiiing principles and
presentational standards, making the calculation of standard operating and
financial ratios difficult. Only since 1984 did audit reports present
analysis of arrears in total portfolio. iudit reports gave very
superficial treatment to Bank loans. The financial information on COFIDE
presented as annexes to this report comes from audit reports prepared by
several firms and from COFIDE's unauditea figures. Since this PCR was
prepared without the assistance of an accountant familiar with accounting
and auditing



practices in Peru, such financial information should be interpreted with
caution.
32.      The data for the preparation of *.his PCR was not readily available
in COFIDE. The information presented in this report on subborrowers and
loan amounts is based on the Bank's disbursement records and subproject
files.



- 12 -
PART III: STATISTICAL INFORMATION
1.          Related Bank Loans
Year of
Loan Title            Purposo                             Approval    Status       Comments
Industrial            To support the financing            1976         Closed     The final closing
Credit Project        of manufacturing and tourism                                 was 6/30/83,
Loan 1368-PE          projects through COFIDE.                                     two years
later than
initially
contemplated.
US22.9 million
of the loan was
cancel ld.
Small Scale           To finance Small                    1981         Closed      The final closing
Enterprise Project   Sloe Enterprise                                               was 12/31/87,
Loan 2064-PE          through financial                                            two years later
intermediaries,                                             than initially
which will discount                                         contemplated.
their loans with the                                        USS.76 million of
SSE unit within                                             the loan was
COFIDE.  USS760,00                                          concelled.
would be allocated
for technical
assistance to COFIDE's
staff and staff of
financial intermediaries.



- 13 -
2.       Project Timetable
Date             Date              Date
Item                 Planned          Revised            Actual
Pre-Appraisal/
Preparation                    4/80                              4-5/80
Appraisal Mission              8/80                             8/18/80
Post Appraisal
Mission                    11/80                            11/10/80
Loan Negotiations           2/09/81                             3/17/81
Board Approval                 4/81                             4/07/81
Loan Signature                 8,81                             8/19/81
Loan Effectiveness         11/19/81          12/31/81
2/25/82           2/25/82
Loan Commitment
End Date                  6/30/84          12/31/84
4/30/85
9/30/85
1/31/86
6/30/86
6/30/87           6/30/87
Loan Closing Date           6/30/85          10/31/85
2/28/86
12/31/86
12/31/87          12/31/87
Final Cancellation Date                             -          10/18/89
Comments:
The Bank suspended disbursements to Peru on May 5. 1987 based on Peru's
accrued non-payment of obligations to the Bank.



- 14 -
3.        Loan Disbursements
Cumulativo Estimated and Actual Disbursements
(USS '000)
FY82   FY83   FY84   FY85   FY86   FY87   FY88
Appraisal Estimate       8       29     49      so     -       -      -
Actual                   2.3    1Z.2   26.6   29.6   36.9   38.7   39.71
Actual as X of Estimate   29     88     62      49     36.9   38.7   39.7
Date of First Disbursement:                            5/03/82
Date of Last Disbursement:                            10/27/87
Comments:
A final disbursement of US$954,427.27 was applied to application A-21
(CIA. Minera San Ignacio) on 10/27/87 during the period of suspension.
1/ Effectivo 10/18/89 USS20,313,067.78 was cancelled from the Loan account.



4.              Status of Covenants
Description of
Covenant        Condition                                          St&tu        Comments
Losn
Agre.emnt
2.02((b)           A Free-Limit Sub-loan shall not exceed the          Violated    Promociones Pet-oleras Tal ar  SA received two B sub-loans
sum of:  (i) 6500,000 equivalent, if such Sub-                   from two different intermedieriwe.  Each individual
loan he* been made by a Financial                               aub-loan d a not exceed the free-limit, however the
Intermediary, or (ii) 61,000.000 equivalent,                     total of tCe two, $579,141 did exceed the free-limit.
if such Sub-loan hea been made by the
Borrower.
2.03(c)            Application and requesto purouant to the            Amended       Amended 6 times to final date of 6/30/87.
provision of subloans shall be presented
to the Bank on or before June 30, 1984.
2.04               The Closing Date shall be June 30. 1Q85.             Amended      Amneded 4 times to final date of 12/31/87.
3.05(a)            The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank              Complied
at regular intervals all such                       with
information as the Bank shall reaaonably           delays
request concerning the expenditure of the
proceeds of the Loar., the Project, the
Financial Intermediaries, the Investment
Enterprises, the Investment Projects, the
Provision, the Sub-loan, and, where
appropriate, the benefits to be derived
from the foregoing.
3.05(c)             Within 6 months following the lost                  Not          No report *a  reoceived on Borrowor Performance.
withdrawal from the Loan Account, the               Complied    Data received from  the Borrower was incomplete.  No
Borrower shall prepare and furnish to                            figures on arrears were provided.
th* Bnic a report, of such scope and in                          En Post ERR, F1, employment, and total cost
such detail as the Bank shall reasonably                         figures mors .ot supplied.
request, on the execution and initial
operation of the Investment Projects,
their costs and the benefits derived
and to be derived from them, the
performance by the Borrower and the
Bank of their respective obligations
under this Agreement, the performance
by the Borrower and each Financial
Intermediary of their respective



- 16 -
4. Status of Covenants (cont'd)
Description of
Covenent        Condition                                          Sttu         Conment
AgrBoment
obligations under the applicable
Suboidiury Loan Contract, the
operation of the Provision, and the
accorpl ihment of the purposes of the Loan.
3.07               For all Subloans in once" of S250,000 the           Complied    Bank revieoeru of subloen applications found, at
Borrower or the Financial Intermodiary shall   with              times, the ERRe to be higher then those the Bank
calculate tho OR for each Investment Project. questions   could estimate from other date supplied on the
the enterprise in queotion. Requesto wmere mde
by the Bank for COFIOE to aupply an eaplanation
substantiating their ERR calculation or to
recalculate ¶4,e ER. Reponsee aere received
with delaye.
3.08               The Borrower shell (a) aseist the Financial    Complied    The iesus of decreaaing the book value wee moot
Intermediaries with appraieal of Investment                      due to the oending transfer of eoat of COFIOE's
Projects; and (b) put into effect not later                      share portfolio.
than December 31, 1981, a anagement
information, control and perforeance
evaluation *yatee. to be operated by the
Financial Administration Department of
COFIDE. and by December 31. 1981, a systematic
policy for decreasing the book value of
COFIDE's investent portfolio when it is
subject to poe.ible losses.
4.01               The Borrower shell maintain and cause each          Complied
financial inter-ediary to maintain,
procedures and records adequate to monitor
and record the progres of the Project and
of each Investment Project to reflect in
accordance with consistently aintained
sound accounting practices the operations
and financial condition of the Borrower.
4.02               The Borrower shall: (i) have its account.            Complied    December S3 1l81 report was unacceptable due
and financial statements including the                           to inadequste content and a large number of
Provision and the account. end financial                         financial .euso left unresolved.
statemento of its Subsidiaries, for each
fiscal year audited in accordance with
sound auditing principles consistently
applied, by independent auditore
acceptable to the Bank.
4.06               The Borrower nor any Financial subsidiary            Complied    Amended 8/1/82 to 7:1.  As of May 31, 1Q84 the
shell not exceed a   axiaum D/E ratio of 6:1.                    D/E was 9.2.  The Bank and CDFIDE agreed to a
strongthe inj progrea.



-17 -
4. Status of Covenants (cont'd)
Descript.ion of
Covenant         Condition                                            Statue       Comments
Loan
Agreement
4.10(a)(b)          The Borrower *hall put into effect the                Complied    RatificatiL- took place 8/31/82.
Reorganization Legislation, *nd to dispose            aith
for vp  a, by Deacober 31, 1981, all of the    delays
Borrower's shares of capital stock of the
Corporations. The 9orroer shall tranafer,
through contractual arrangements, to the
Cuorantor, all of the 8orrower's eharea of
capital stock of tha Corporations.



- 18 -
5.           Use  of  Bank  Resources
A. Staff Inputs
---------------------------------___-___----------------------------__------
Stage of Project Cycle                                                 Period                   Staff Weeks
(FY)
Through Appraisal                                                       80                      12.8
Appraisal through Board Approval                                        81                      34.0
Board Approval Through Effectiveness                                    81-82                   10.0
Supervision                                                            82-88                    94.9
Project Completion Report                                              90                         6.0
_____________________________________.___TOTAL______________157.7_________-
TOTAL                                                                      157.7
-----------------------------------------------------------------__---------



- 19 -
5.         Use of Bank Resources (cont'd)
B. Missions
--------------------------------------------------------------________     --__________________ --_________ --
Month/  Number of  No. Of    Staff      Dates of   Overall Project   Typec of
Activity                 Year      Persons   Weeks     Weeks     Report      Status Rating     Problems2
Pro-Appraisal/
Preparation             4-6/80      3       2         6         6/09/80          -
Appraisal                   8/80      6       3        15          3/12/81         -
Post Appraisal             11/80      3       1         3         11/24/80         -
Subtotal                                             24
Supervision                 8/81      1       1           .63     8/31/81          1
Supervision                11/814     1       1           .*5     11/20/81         n/.              n/a
Supervision                 1/82      2       2.6       2.86       3/04/82         1
Supervision              9-10/82      2       2         2.07      11/30/82         2                f,p
Supervision                 1/838     1         .2        .2       2/02/83         n/.              n/a
Supervision                 6/83      3       2.8        8.4       7/28/83         3                f,p
Supervision                10/83      2       2.4       4.8       11/08/83         2                f,p
Supervision                 7/849     1        1.2       1.2       7/27/84         2                f,m
Supervision                 n/a       n/a     n/a        n/a       4/16/85         3                n/a
Supervision                 6/85      1       3.4        3.4       7/12/86         3
Supervision                10/86      n/a     n/t        n/,      10/08/86         4
Supervision                 7/86      2       2          4         8/16/88         3
Supervision                 7/8716    n/a     n/a        n/a        3/9/87         3
Supervision                 5/87       1       1         1.0        6/4/87         3
Subtotal                                              28.8
TOTAL                                                 62.8
2/  f-financial;  n-managerial;  t-technical;  p-political;  o-other
3/  Joint Mission with Loan 1368-PE.  Approximately 60X of the mission was devoted to the
supervision of each loan.
4/  Form 690 missing.
5/  Joint Mission with Loan 1318-1E. Approximately 560% of the mission was devoted to the
supervision of each loan.
6/  Joint Mission with Loan 13SP-PE.  Approximately 60% of the mission was devoted to the
supervision of each loan.
7/  Joint Mission with Loan 2064-PE.  Approximately 60% of the mission was devoted to the
supervision of each loan.
8/ Joint mission with Loans 20684-PE and SAL.
9/  Taken from Form 690 7/12/86
10/ Form b96 seems as though mission end date should read 7/26/87 rather than 7/26/86.



- 20 -
Annex 1
Page 1 of 3
PERU
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
SECOND INDUSTRIAL CREDIT PROJECT - LOAN 1968-PE
COFIDE - SUBPROJECT PROFILE
(as of 5/04/90)
No.       2       Amount         z
(US$' 000)
By Size of Subloan
Up to US$100,000                          5      9         263,147         1
USS100,001-US$250,000                    14     26       2,253,569         6
USS250,O01-USS500,000                    14     26       4,998,625        13
US$500,001-US$1,000,ooo                  10     19       7,498,430        19
US$1,000,001-USS5,000,000                11     20      24,691,206        62
Total                               54      100      39,704.977      100
By Size of Subproject
Up to US$250,000                         10     19       1,388,092         1
US$250,001-US$1,000,000                  19     35      10,229,401         6
USS,1000001-US$5,000,O00                 19     35      40,450,083        26
More than US$5,000,000                    6     11    106,255,000         67
Total                               54      100    158,322,576       100
Bv Maturity
3 to 5 years                            24      44      14,248,169        36
More than 5 years                        30     56      25,456,808        64
Total                               54      100      39,704,977      100



- 21 -
Annex 1
Page 2 of 3
PERU
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
SECOND INDUSTRIAL CREDIT PROJECT - LOAN 1968-PE
COFIDE - DISTRIBUTION OF SUBPROJECTS
No.      X          Amount          2
(USS' 000)
By Region
Arequipa                                  1      2          510,190       1
Cuzco                                    1       2          326,909       1
Iquitos                                  2       4          485,485       1
Junin                                    1       2        1,533,397       4
Lima                                    46      85      3;,,762,660      88
San Martin                               1       2        i.,507,195      4
Talara                                   2       4          579,141       1
Total                               54      100      39,704.977    100
By Sector
Car Repair Service                        1      2           57,025       0
Chemicals                                 1      2        3,715,311       9
Construction                             11     20        4,754,445      12
Crude Petroleum and Gas                   1      2        1,967,592       5
Electrical App - Const                    2      4          678,535       2
Fertilizer Products                       1      2        1,800,996       5
Foodstuffs                                4      7        1,098,979       3
Glass Products                            2      4        1,624,599       4
Hotel                                     3      6          907,857       2
Masonry                                   1      2          109,000       0
Metals                                    1      2          807,560       2
Mining                                    7     13        7,157,841      18
Non-ferrous Metals                        1      2          957,909       2
Oils and Fats                             1      2        2,508,789       6
Paper Products                            1      2          123,525       0
Petroleum                                 2      4          579,141       1
Photography                               1      2          135,370       0
Plastics                                  1      2          570,461       1
Printing                                  3      6        3,899,339      10
Textiles                                  7     13        4,616,997      12
Tranport                                  1      2        1,507,195       4
Wood Products                             1      2          126,514       0
Total                               54      100       39,704,977    100



- 22 -
Annex 1
Page 3 of 3
PERU
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
SECOND INDUSTRIAL CREDIT PROJECT - LOAN 1968-PE
COFIDE - SUBPROJECT PROFILE
(as of 5/04/90)
No.      I        Amount        Z
(US$'000)
By Financing Purpose
existing                                48     89      27,097,718       68
new                                      6     11      12,607,259       32
Total                              54      100      39.704,977      100
By Ownership
Private                                 53     98      38,171,581       96
Public                                   1      2       1,533,397        4
Total                              54      100      39,704,977      100
Source: COFIDE, LAC subproject files, World Bank LDS



- 23 -
Annex 2
PERU
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
SECOND INDUSTRIAL CREDIT PROJECT
SUB-BORROWERS FINANCED BY MORE THAN ONE SUBLOAN UNDER LOAN 1968-PE
Loan 1                    Loan 2               Loan 3
Subproj.    Amount         Subproj.    Amount  Subproj.    Amount
Enterprise                               No.      Disburs d         No.       Disbursed  No.       Disbursed      TOTAL
CIA Miner& San Ignacio de Morococha    A-21       1,310,648        A-9          525,216 B-23         172,172   2,008,033
Cesar Fuentes Ortiz                      B-10        212,506       B-4          114,574                 -         327,080
Grano y Montero Blocker SA               B-25        270,937       B-28         292,306                 -         663,242
La Percela SA                            B-38        277,747       B-36         213,814                 -         491,560
Promociones Petroleras Talara SA         B-i         330,000       B-30         249,141                 -         679,141
TOTAL    2,401,836                  1,395,048               172,172   3,969,067



SUJ8 PMOJECIS FIANCAWFID UNDR LOAN 1968 PE
Sub    Company                                      Sector                       In,estment       Employ-   FfR (O)  ERR (O)               1Ow          Status
No.                                                                               Purposes         ent                                   Financing
(US$OOO)
A-10   Wars Plastics SA                             Plastics                     *.pansion              62        118       46             5/0.461      repa.d
A 11   F.rt,l.antos del Pscifico                    Fortilizer Products          no.                    22        62        67           1.800.996      Jod  action
A 12   fransport.s Hi..h.pa SA                      Tranport                     f..ed 6s2ots           25         16       41           1,507,195      Jud  a,t,on
A 13  S<r,ced.d Mn.--  Cran Gretan. SA              Mining                       now                   289        14        28           3,114.064      Jud  action
A 14   Palo.. del ispino SA                         Oils and Fats                new                   670         13                    2,508,789      ripsy-ng *;th arrears
A 16   Ind.strial T..til Piura SA                   Toatilos                     working capital         0                               2,500.964      currnt
A 19   CENIROMIN Peru                               Min,ng                       modernization                    16        16          1,533,397       current
A 2    Woodsan y tlob  Ingenieroc Conotratist   Construction                     fiaed sasets           48        20                      956,272       rapaid
A-20   Potr.s                                       Crude Petroleum and Cas    fined assets             71        45        51          1.967.592       r-peid
A 21   CIA Miners San Ignacio de Morococha          Mining                      e*pansion                0        26        37          1,310,646       repaid
A-3    Sociadad Quimico Industrial                  Chemicals                    no.                    33        42                   3,715,311        repaid
A 4    Ajinomoto del Peru                           Foodstuffs                   eipanoion               0        29                      963,037       repaid                                                    I
A-5    Condor Totiles Ital                          Teatils.                     new                   100        18        13            510,190       repaid
A-6    Empreas Editors oI Comercio SA               Printing                     modern iation           0        30        47          2.884,317       repsd
A-7    Vid-ioa Industriales SA                      Class Products               e.ponsion             36         95        91            987,146       repaid
A-S    Carlos Tizon PS.A.                           Construction                 fi.ed asset.           63        27                    1,847,937       repaid
A-9    CIA Minors San Ignacio de Morococha          M. iira                      modernisetion          0        308        71           525,215        repaid
8-1    Promocionso Petroloras Talera SA             Potroleu.                    esponanion             80       127        67            330.000       repaid
B-10   Cosat Fuentes Ortia                          Construction                 fiaed assets           12       100        23           212,506        ropaid
0-11   Fenac SA Contratits Cenerales                Construction                 fied assemits        550        277        40            364,581       repaid
B 12   Tolimos Espinoza Garcia Sh'L                 Constructioni                e.pansion               0                                162,074       repaid
8-13   V A P. In Servico SA                         Car Repair Sr.rice           fised  asets          22                                  57,025       repaid
8B14   Iquitos Plywood SA                           Wood Products                fi.ed assets            0                                126,514       repaid
82I5   L  Croissontri-  SA                          Foodstuffs                   fised assets           13                                 18,900       repaid
8 16   Cables y Conductores                         Electrical App - Const       filed assots            0        32        40            178,535       repaid
8-17   Rayon y Celoneso Peruana SA                  leatiles                     eapansion                                                453,721       repaid
8-18   I iof,nlozadors del Pacifeco                 Foodstuffs                   * pansion              25                                 50,089       repaid
8-19   Ingenieros Civijes Contratistas Crales   Construction                     fiaed assets                                              70,180       repaid
8-2    Print Color  SA                              Printing                     fi.ed  ssest&                                            431,834       Jud  action
820   Compania Minors Tels* SA                     Mason                        fiaed assets                                             109,000       ropaid
8 23   CIA MFiner  Son Ignacio de Morococha         Mining                       e.pansion                                                170,172       repaid
B 24   Connortidors do Papal y Ca tons SA           Paper Products              eapansion                                                 123,525       r-paying refinancing
8 25   Crans y Montero Blocker SA                   Construction                 e.pasnion                                               270,937        repaid
B 26  fEpress ds Srm.  Turistico-, Brads SA    Hotol                             ospansion                                  30            360,948      curront                                         lt
827   CIA Miners Aliania SA                         Mlining                        pansion                                  92            370,0        rpaid                                           OQ 
8 28   Crane y lIontero Blocker SA                  Construction                 fiied assets                                            292,305        repaid                                         MD  M
11 29   Hoterlera ta Paz (lIit-l Maria Angola)    Hotel                          saponsion             38         33        46           220,000       n/s                                             I
83    1lidoutriae Santa Mar                         T*.tiles                     eapanoion               8                               276,327       rapaid                                              Lo
8 30   Pioiciones Patroleras Talaia SA              Petrol-m                     sapansion             130                               249.141       repaid                                          0
h' 11 Ci*ia y M,iiteio Salna. Ciunin saln  SA        in.ti ct on                 ippnssion            310         71        71           3b68,91       repaid
11 43  Pei  Iinim SA                                 i.. pes                     aipansion            240         26       5t            3l44,'ZI6     uirr i,I
H4 Pi,  I. P 1iila ¶A                               1natl                              ia Ii.-d asnats  19        26        37           213,814       iepaid



PF RU
PROJEC! COMPLt !iON REPO.RT
SECOND IN)USR_IAL CREDIT PROJECT
SUaSPROLJEClS F ANtKCED UNDER LOAN 1968 PE
Sub    Company                                     Sector                        Inneatment       Ep Ioy-   FRR (2)  ERR (S)               IBRD        Status
No                                                                                Pu rposes       went                                  Financing
(USSOOO)
B-37   fundeconsa de Concentrados SA               Non-ferrous Metals           fle                   147         47       34            957,909       current
8.38   la Parcela SA                               Teatiles                     aupansion              16        100       98            277,147       repaid
8 4    Cesar Fuentes Ortiz                         Construction                  fiaed asoets          12                                 114,574      repaid
B-40   Hotel Alhamb,a  I(Invvarsione  Yucay)    Hotel                          e*p-ns on               46         29       30            326,909       repaying with arrears
8 41   Socedad Miners Carolina SA                  Mining                        fised aesets          27                                 132.236      current
8-42   Fabrica d  tquipo de Telefonis, Fetes    Electrical App - Conat           fiued assets          45          0        0            500,000       repaid
8 43   Cobres .aminados                            Metals                        *apaneion             10         12        14           807.560       repaying aith arrears-
8-44   Vidrios Plnos del Peru SA                  Class Products                modernization        174                                637,463       current
8 5    Repro. SA                                   Photography                   aspansion              5                                 135,370      repaid
8-6    AvapacL SA                                  Foodstuffs                   fited assets          200                                 66,953       repaid
8-7    Cuiulfo Constructor de Casinos SA           Construction                  espantsion,           65                                 104,108      currant
8-9    Empress Talleres Craficoo Eysaguirr-        Printing                     modernization           8                                583,188       arrears
Source:  COFIDE. LAC Subproject Files, World 8ank LDS
li)
O0



POu
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
SECON  1USTRIAL CEDiT PROJ8T - LOAN 1968-PE
COFIDE - COWCARATIVE 8ANCE SIETS, d8EIR  S. 1961 - iDEC   8t. 1908
(mill ion  of Intl.)
1901 ./      I1S2          1968        1964         1965        1906         1907        1988
ASSETS
Curre"t Ampot-
Cooh end Bank.                                       6.2         11.7 T       0.6         80.0       2e8.S        667 a     1.146 S    16.566 6
Negot;able Investomnt.                               4.2          4.8         2.6         10.6            -           -            -
Current Loons                                      6d.7         144.8 I81.8             9@8 6      1,807.7      1,962 3     7,041.6    63. 00 3
Intereet. Co_mis;one and
Dividends Receivable                               11.8         87.O       181.3        452.0            -           -            -      (257 6)
Prao.iions for Doubtful Reesivable.                    -         (9.6)      (s .7)      (107.6)      (341.3)     (367.0)   (1,897 6)  (38.276.7)
Accounts Receineble frou Afflie;te                     -            -        14.5         21.4            -           -            _           _
Otheor Current A-ata                                 1.4          5.7         a 5         11.6            -           -
sub-total                                     92.8        198.6       612.1      1,375.2    1,729. 7     2,262.6      6,790 3    41,060.4
Accounts Receivable fro- Affliatee (nob curr             -           -        170.8       879.1      1,047.0         2.7          4.5           -
Portfol io Inveet_nte
Equity Investments (loe. provisions)                10.9         82.8        82 S         35.2         72.0     1,7U4.8     3,241.4      6,9 6.1
Long-tors Loans (Ioe. provisions)                  16.9          48. 4       6es 0     1,189.9     2,711 5      2,881.7     6,987.7    43,S81.6
sub-tot l                                    I97.6        400.7       597.3      1,175.1     2,763.5     4,286.2    10,199.1    49,317.9
Fined Aa_t. 'not of depreciation)                     0.6          1.6         8.0          58.         12.5        16.1        38.3        727.0
Other A- t.                                           1.8          8.0         4.1          9.4      1,920.3     2,196.0     7,701.8   23,276.0
TOTAL ASSETS                                 298.0       66 .9    1,294.8        2,944.6     7,498.0      8,766 8    24,7S8.5   114,361.3
LIABILITIES ANO Eum
Current Liabilities
Accounbe Payable                                     1.4          1.6        1.0         25.2                        -            -            .
Bank Loae, Sands, Certificates
of Deposito                                        68.1        181.6       829.0        904.6     1,S99.5      1,718.4     5,756.7    89.901.6
Interoat, Cie_;ons and
Dividends Paoyble                                  10.9         26.8        78.4        215.9            -           -           -            -
Other Psys*lea                                       4.8    S      .2
Sub-total                                     69.7       187.4        415.4      1,145.6     1,599.5      1,718.4     5,756.7    89,901.6
Long-torm Liabillties
Sank Loon, Sands, Cartif -atac
of DopoaIto                                       125.5        276.9       641.6      1.318 0     2,797.4      3,508.4     8,691.2    47,736.4
Reowrea ;n Administration                           1.2          7.2         2.7         17.2        76.6         65.0       121.0      1,707.0
Provisions for Soe;l Benefit.
nd Other                                            0.1         0.1          1 9          2.2         4.6          63         32.0        69.0
Sub-total                                      1.8         7.8          4.6         19.4        81.2         70.3       163.0     1,790.0
Other Liabilitias                                     0.2          0.2         0.3          5.4      1,614.9     1,998.7     7,136.8    20,004.2
TOTAL LIABILiTIES                            190 7       481.8      1,062.9     2,488.4      8,293.0      7,26S.6    21,737.2   109,487.2
Capi ta                                             79.7         86.7        97.9        106.1        110.5       127.6       274.6      1,22i.
Ramrv.                                              10.6         46.5       120.0        349.7     1,063.3      1,817 2     2,644.8      246 7.7
evs luetlon Aecount                                  0.4          0.5          1.4         2.6          7.6         1.8         6.9        788.8
Retained Earninga                                    5.4          9.4         7.6          2.8         186.        43.6       ISO 0        487.0
Sub-totel                                     90.8        147.1       2M2.9        461.2     1,200.0      1,490.0     2,996.8     4,94. I
TOTAL LIABILrTIES AN  E17TY                  298.0       598.9      1,294.6     2,944.6      7,498.0     6,77.S     24.783 6   114,881.8
*/ COFtDE ; ewented a nee s*ytem of accounting during 1986 which did not permit the Independent auditors
to seprate the current assets end i;sbiIities from that of the long-toer.  The audit report doe not reflect this Problem in the blne aheat.
d>to-- Minor diecrePencies due to rounding.
*eNOt*-- Date is based on the folloming independent suditor. for the correeponding yoar(s) indicated:
1980/01  Odie Picasso, Tuests y Aaocied4o
1982 84  Benjamin Callirgoo  y Aaocisdoe
1985-87  Rodolfo Ratsozo y Aoociadoa
2968     Alejondro tueste y Aeociado.
AIthough diff*rent sudLore followed different definitione in their reso,to on  ffort a.. eade to oetnd,rdise the precentetion of tho
different accounts for the purpos. of conwtructing * comperotive bslance *h--t table o.er the life of the loan   Theorfore*   t a
necoseary to interpret this table with cauton



- 27 -
Annex 5
PERU
PROJEC COMPLFr!ON REPOR
SgCOND0 'hCUSRIAL CRED:- PROiJEC  - LoAC. 1988-PE
COFIDE - INCOME S'AT040S  1981-1988
(n 1,000'- of 1nt -)
1981         1982         1Y83        1984         1985        1986         1987         1988
INCOMzE
IflCoa  On Loan
(-ntereat end co-mm.  ons)               27.566       70.725      167.189     4768907   1.204,632      748.169   1.163,100   6.769.711
OthPe  C.0mnt. Comson
and Se-ice Fees                           1.813         7,748      21.752       56.548
Int*.Oat on Bonds
4nd Osoo it-                              5.339
C - dend, on Inn.st,ent
Portfolio                                 2.702         4.778       3.423        1,745
For ogn Each*n9s Ca;ns                      3.751                                                                      789.712   7,844.438
Otne, Incoe.                                2 472A       1C 626      2T 168    8.650         260335       3135a  5     744 057  2.288908B
TOTAL INCOME                             43 643        93 877     219 532      543940   1 484 967  1,106;1728   2AJ9 869  16 003L137
EIxPENC ITURES
Ints.est end Comms-ions en
Bor.roe.nga                              27,138        62,781     138.454      336,280     810,782      691,688   1,082,824   S,237.274
Ad-n.,trt;.t     Eapona.s                   4.233         7,242      14.193       27.223      71.745      117,235      325,579   2.655.184
Ot:,..  E.,p.s..                                            606       1.106        3.614                               236.355
TOTAL E(PeSDITLAE                        3; 371        70 629     1l3.753      367 ;117A    882527      8080I 23  1644 758   7-802 450
P104.t before To. and Pronlon              12.272        23.248      65,779      176.823     602,440      252.805   1,052.111   9.010,679
P.o- 0, O"                                  4.638        10,089      53,622      166.569     57:.201      :70.802      858.367   8,387.257
Prof t bo*o'5 Ta.                           7.634        13,159       12.157      10.254      31,239       82.003      193.744      623.422
Ta. on Net Worth                            1,944         2.935        4,582       7,395       12.393      38.514
'a. on Income                                  74           641                                                         25.749      136.457
NET PROFIT AFTER TAXES                    5.616         9.583        7,575       2.850       18,846       43.489     167.995      486,965
_st                a..          as.        swan.w  assa             asaa.       esausca
Not-    Dacop,ances .n dc-mals d.u to rounding.
..Note-- Osta ; based on the follo.,.9 indeDpndent a.d;tora for the co-oesoonding year(s,) indicated.
:980/81  Od;s P.casso. T.*sta y Asoceados
11;82-84  B'njan n Call -goa y Aaoc;odos
1985-87 RoIo.fo staoozo y ASoc ados
1988     Alejandro '.sata y Asoc ados



- 28 -
Annex 6
PERU
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
SECOND INDUSTRIAL CREDIT PROJECT - LOAN 1968-PE
COFIDE - FINANCIAL RATIOS:  1981-1988
Amendment
19e1    1982    1983    1984       1986    1988    1987    1988
Debt to Equity - Loan Agreement
Section 4.06                          6       7        7        7        7        7       7        7
Debt to Equity1                             3.8    4.5      6.2      6.7       7.0     6.3      9.3    43.39
Current Assets to Current Liabilities    1.3    1.6         1.2      2.0       1.2     1.8      1.4     2.2
Profits before Taxes as X of
Average Total Assets                  2.4    2.3       0.8      0.6      0.6      0 6     1.2      0.9
Return on Equity                            6.8    6.5       3.3     0.6       1.6     2.9      5.6     9.9
Administrative Expenses as % of
Average Total Assets                  1.8    1.4       1.6    13.7      17.7      6.2    17.6    19.4
Financial Income (Net of
financial costs) as X of
Averag  Loan Portfolio               13.9   10.9      11.4    13.7      17.7      8.2    17.6    19.4
Portfolio affected by s
Arrears as X of
Total Portfolio                     n/a    n/.       n/a       81       es       63       43     n/.
Overdue Loans (capital A interest)
as X of Total Portfolio              10.1  n/o       n/a       28       19       30      24      n/a
Comment:  COFIDE calculated thes  ratios based on its  own accounting rocords.  Thoy do not necessarily reflect
the independently audited balance sheet figures.
* From audited financial reports.
1/ Includes contingent liabiliti-s.



-29 -                              Annex 7
Page 1 of 2
PERU
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
SECOND INDUSTRIAL CREDIT PROJECT - LOAN 1968-PE
MANAGEMENT OF IBRO SUBPROJECT FUNDS THROUGH FINANCIAL INTERMEDIARIES
Subproject                                                                                 IRBD Financing
Category    Enterprise                               Intermediary                                (USS)
A-10        Warn Plastics SA                         Banco Industrial dol Peru                    670,461
A-11        Fertilizentee del Pocifico               COFIDE                                     1,800,996
A-12        Transport.. Huachipa SA                  COFIDE                                     1,607,196
A-13        Sociedod Miners Gran Bretons SA          COFIDE                                     3,114,064
A-14        Palmas del Espino SA                     COFIDE                                     2,608,789
A-16        Industrial Textil Piurx SA               COFIDE                                     2,600,964
A-19        CENTROMIN P-ru                           COFIDE                                     1,633,397
A-2         Woodman y Mohmo Ingeni-ros Constratist Banco Popular del Peru                         966,272
A-20        Petrex                                   Financiers de Credito del Peru             1,987,692
A-21        CIA Minera San Ignacio de Morococha    COFIDE                                       1,310,646
A-3         Sociedad Quimico Industrial              COFIDE                                     3,715,311
A-4         Ajinomoto del P-ru                       Bank of Tokyo                                963,037
A-6         Condor Textiles Ital                     Fin. de Credito dol Peru A PERUINVE           610,190 a/
A-4         Empress Editors *1 Comercio SA           COFIDE                                     2,884,317
A-7         Vidrios Industrials* SA                  Banco de Credito d-l Peru                     987,146
A-8         Carlos Tizon P.S.A.                      Bnnco Popular d-l Peru                      1,847,937
A-9         CIA Miners San Ignacio de Morococha    Banco Comercial del Peru                        626,216
B-i         Promociones Petroleras Talars SA         COFIDE                                        330,00
B-10        Cesar Fuentes Ortiz                      Banco Popular del Peru                        212,150
B-11        Fevac SA Contratistas General.s          Banco Popular del Poru                        364,681
3-12        Tolimos Espinoza Garcia SRL              Banco Perusno de I*o Constructor.s            162,074
u-13        V.A.P. In Service SA                     Banco Internacional del Peru                   57,625
D-14        Iquitos Plywood SA                       COFIDE                                        126,614
B-16        La Croissanterie SA                      Banco Industrial del Peru                      18,900
B-16        Cables y Conductore.                      COFIDE                                       178,535
8-17        Rayon y Celones-  Peruana SA             Banco Popular del Peru                        463,721
B-18        Liofinlazadore del Pacifico              Banco dol Sur del Peru                         50,089
8-19        Ingeni-roo Civiles Contratistas Grale-  Banco Popular del Peru                          70,180
B-2         Print Colors SA                           COFIDE                                       431,834
B-20        Compania Miners Telsa SA                 Banco Regional Sur Medio y Callao             109,600
8-23        CIA Miners San Ignacio de Morococho    Financiers de Credito del Peru                  172,172
8-24        Convertidoro de Papsl y Cartones SA    COFIDE                                          123,626
8-26        Grana y Montero Blocker SA                Banco Popular d-l Peru                       270,937
D-26        Empresa de S-rv. Turisticos, Brad. SA  COFIDE                                          360,948
8-27        CIA Min-ra Alianzo SA                     Banco Continental                            370,110
8-28        Cronr y Montero Blocker SA                Banco de Credito del Peru                    292,305
B-29        Hoterlers La Paz (Hotel Maria Angola)  COFIDE                                          220,000
8-3         Industries Santa Mar                      PERUINVEST                                   276,327
8-30        Promociones Petroleras Tolar* SA          COFIDE                                       249,141
B-3.        Grona y Montero Solve, Granonselva SA  Bonco Popular del Peru                          368,971
B-33        Peru Dinim SA                             COFIDE                                       384,236
B-36        La Parcels SA                             Financiers de Credito del Peru               213,814
B-37        Fundoconsa de Concentrados SA             COFIDE                                       967,909
B-38        La Porcela                                Financiers Son Pedro SA                      277,747
B-4         Cesar Fuentes Ortiz                       Banco Popular del Peru                       114,674
B-40        Hotel Alhambra III(Invversiones Yucay) COFIDE                                          326,909
B-41        Socieodd Miners Carolins SA               Banco Latino de Fomento do ia Const          132,236
B-42        Fabrics de Equipo do T-lefonis, Fetta  PERUINVEST                                      600,000
B-43        Cobres Laminados                          COFIDE                                       807,660
B-44        Vidrioe PIanos d-l Peru SA                COFIDE                                       637,463
B-6         Reprox SA                                 Banco Continental                            136,370
8-6         Avepack SA                                Banco Popular del Peru A PERUINVEST           66,963 b/
B-7         Guiulfo Constructor de Caminos SA         Banco Popular del Peru                       104,108
B-9         Empress Talleres Craficos Eyzoguirr-   COFIDE                                          683,188
TOTAL                                                                         39,704,977
Source:  LAC Loan 1968-PE Subproject Files and the WORLD BANK LDS database
x/          Guarantee of US3 600,000 by Financiers de Credito d-l Peru, Promissory note of USS400,000 by
PERUINVEST
b/          Intermediaries financed equal parts.



~ 30           ~            Annex 7
Page 2 of 2
PERU
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
SECOND INDUSTRIAL CREDIT PROJECT - LOAN 1968-PE
USE OF LOAN FUNDS THROUGH FINANCIAL INTERMEDIARIES
IBRO
Financing
Subprojects      Amount
Intermediary                               No.       X         (US)          %
Banco Comercial del Poru                     1      1.8        626,216      1.3
Banco Continental                            2      3.         606,4860     1.3
Banco Industrial del Peru                    2      3.6        689,361      1.6
Bance Internacional del Peru                 1      1.8         67,826      0.1
Banco Latino de Fomento do Is Const          1      1.8        132,236      0.3
Banco Peruano de loo Constructores           1      1.8        162,074      0.4
Banco Popular del Peru a/                   11     19.6      4,787,263     12.1
Baneo Regional Sur Medio y Callao            1      1.8        109,000      0.3
Banco de Credito del Peru                    2      3.6      1,279,461      3.2
Banco del Sur del Peru                       1      1.8         60,089      0.1
Bank of Tokyo                                1      1.8        963,037      2.4
COFIDE                                      23     41.1    26,693,429      67.0
Financiers San Pedro SA                      1      1.8        277,747      0.7
Financiers de Credito del Peru b/            4      7.1      2,669,692      6.7
PERUINVEST c/                                4      7.1      1,013,879      2.6
TOTAL                                  5o    100.0    39,704,977    100.0
Source:  LAC Loan 1968-PE Subproject Fileo and the WORLD BANK LDS databsoe.
*/ Joint financing of funds with PERUINVEST for Avepack subproject. Managed SUs33,476.S of Subloan
funds.
b/ Guaranteed US3600,000 ex ant of subloan funds for Condor Textiles Ital. subproject.
PERUINVEST provided a promissory note of US3400,000 for the same subproject.
c/ Joint financing with Banco Popular for Avepack subproject. Managed USS33,476.5 of the subloan funds.
Issued a promissory note of US3400,000 ex onto for Condor Textiles Ital. Financiers do Credito
del Peru guaranteed USS600,0O ox ante of the subloan funds for the same subproject.



