Document of
The World Bank                      FILE CoPy
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Repsi No. P-2995-PE
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE
CORPORACION FINANCIERA DE DESARROLLO (COFIDE)
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF THE
REPUBLIC OF PERU
FOR A
SECOND INDUSTRIAL CREDIT PROJECT
March 19, 1981
This docum  hb a redricted disbibt,s id may be used by reciets ody i the pufmance of i
their offieial dtki.ts contests may  t oterwise be dbcowd withot Wrd Bank authorbato.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
The exchange rate is being adjusted daily roughly in line with the differential
between domestic and international inflation. The exchange rate and currency
equivalents in 1980 and as of March 1, 1981 were as follows:
Currency Unit = Sol (SI.)
Calendar 1980        March 1, 1981
US$1        =             SI.   287.83              SI. 374.99
S/.1                      US$      0.0035         US$     0.0027
S/. 1,000   =             US$      3.47           US$     2.67
Fiscal Year
January 1 to December 31
Abbreviations
CERTEX                   Certificado de Reintegro Tributario a la Exportacion
(Export Tax Credit Certificate)
COFIDE                   Corporacion Financiera de Desarrollo
(State Development Finance Corporation)
ERP                      Economic Recovery Program
FENT                     Fondo de Exportaciones No Tradicionales
(Non-Traditional Exports Fund)
FIRE                     Fondo de Inversiones Regionales
(Regional Investment Fund of COFIDE)
FONCAP                   Fondo de Bienes de Capital
(Capital Goods Fund of COFIDE)
FONEX                    Fondo de Exportacion
(Export Fund of COFIDE)
FRAI                     Fondo de Redescuento Agroindustrial
(Agroindustries Rediscount Fund of COFIDE)
MITI                     Ministerio de Industria, Turismo e Integracion
(Ministry of Industry, Tourism and Integration)
RNM                      Registro Nacional de Manufacturas
(National Register of Manufactures)



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
REPUBLIC OF PERU
SECOND INDUSTRIAL CREDIT PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:              Corporacion Financiera de Desarrollo (COFIDE)
Guarantor:             Republic of Peru
Amount-                US$60 million equivalent
Terms:                 Repayable in 17 years on a composite amortization basis,
including 4 years of grace, at 9.6 percent interest per
annum.
Relending Terms:       COFIDE would on-lend the proceeds of the proposed loan
to ultimate beneficiaries in US dollar denominated
subloans, either directly or through other financial
intermediaries. The Government would assume for COFIDE
the cross-currency risk (i.e. between the Bank's currency
basket and the US dollar) for a premium of 1.5 percent
p.a. on the outstanding amount to be paid into a special
account within COFIDE. Subloans would have maturities
of 4 to 15 years, including up to 3 years of grace,
depending on the type of investment. The interest rate
charged to the financial intermediaries would be 1 per-
centage point above the base rate, defined as the
interest rate of the proposed Bank loan plus the 1.5
percent premium for the cross-currency risk. The
interest rate charged to intermediaries, as well as the
premium to cover the cross-currency risk, would be
periodically reviewed by COFIDE and the Bank during
the commitment period of the proposed loan.
Project Description: The proposed loan would help finance projects mostly in
the industrial, mining and tourism sectors. It would
contribute to the institutional strengthening of Peru's
term-financing subsector by supporting the reorga-
nization of COFIDE, further developing the project
appraisal capabilities of COFIDE and other participating
financial intermediaries, and promoting competition
among the various financial intermediaries. The economic
return for subprojects is expected to range between
15 and 40 percent.
Special Risks:         The proposed loan does not face any unusual risks.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Estimated Disbursements:                          1982   1983   1984   1985
(US$ million by Bank FY)
Annual              8.0   21.0   20.0   11.0
Cumulative          8.0   29.0   49.0   60.0
Appraisal Report:       Staff Appraisal Report No. 3238-PE, dated March 12, 1981.



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE IBRD
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE CORPORACION FINANCIERA DE DESARROLLO (COFIDE)
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF THE REPUBLIC OF PERU FOR A
SECOND INDUSTRIAL CREDIT PROJECT
1.        I submit the following rep-rt and recommendation on a proposed loan
to the Corporacion Financiera de Desarrollo (COFIDE) with the guarantee of the
Republic of Peru for the equivalent of US$60.0 million to help finance a
second industrial credit project. The proposed loan would be repayable over
17 years, including 4 years of grace, on a composite amortization schedule,
with interest at 9.6 percent per annum. COFIDE would relend the loan proceeds
in US dollar denominated subloans, either directly or through other financial
intermediaries. The Government would assume for COFIDE the cross-currency
risk between the Bank's currency basket and the US dollar for a premium of 1.5
percent p.a. The interest rates charged to financial intermediaries and to
ultimate beneficiaries would be 1 and 4 percentage points, respectively, above
the base rate, defined as the interest rate of the proposed Bank loan plus the
1.5 percent premium for the cross-currency risk. Onlending to financial
intermediaries and the subloans to the ultimate beneficiaries would be at terms
of 4 to 15 years including grace periods of up to 3 years, depending on the
type of investment.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
2.        A basic economic report entitled "Long-Term Development Issues:
Peru" (Report No. 2204-PE) was distributed to the Executive Directors on
April 13, 1979. This part is based on the report's findings and on those
of more recent economic missions to Peru. Country data sheets are attached
as Annex I.
Natural and Human Resources
3.        Per. , the fourth largest country in Latin America, is divided by
the Andes mountains into three distinct regions: the coastal region (Costa),
with 46 percent of the population and where modern economic activity is concen-
trated; the mountain region (Sierra) with 44 percent of the country's popula-
tion; and the sparsely populated tropical rain forests east of the Andes
(Selva). The country's rugged topography limits trade between the three
regions.
4.        Peru's natural resources include large deposits of minerals--
particularly copper, iron, silver, and zinc--located mainly in the Sierra
and the southern Costa. There are also large phosphate deposits, located in
the northern Costa. Petroleum resources found in the jungle areas and
offshore are also substantial, but their full extent has not yet been ascer-
tained. Another major natural resource is the large fishing potential in
coastal waters, although the magnitude of the catch is subject to sharp
fluctuations. Agricultural land is limited, and most of the soils suitable
for intensive agriculture are already being farmed.
1/   This part is substantially unchanged from the Aviation Development
Project President's Report of March 4, 1981 (Report No. P-2979-PE).



- 2 -
5.         Crude oil is the dominant source of energy in Peru, supplying
approximately 80 percent of Peru's commercial energy requirements. Although
Peru's energy resource base is relatively diverse, with scope for expanding
hydro and coal based power generation, petroleum is expected to be the major
energy source in Peru through the rest of this century. After having been
dependent on imported crude oil for many years, domestic oil production
increased almost threefold between 1976 and 1979 to about 200,000 barrels per
day, enabling Peru to export oil in substantial quantities (about 70,000
barrels per day). Despite this encouraging production trend, domestic
consumption is rebounding after several years of stagnation, and Peru may
once again become a net importer of petroleum in the mid-1980s unless new
oil reserves are discovered and rational pricing policies adopted to contain
demand growth. The Government has begun to address the problem vigorously.
Prices for domestically consumed petroleum products were steeply increased,
and new legislation was enacted offering special tax incentives to investors.
Response to the tax incentives has been positive.
6.         As a result of three decades of rapidly falling mortality rates,
Peru's population growth accelerated during the 1930-1960 period. In the early
1960s, however, birth rates started a gradual fall, mainly caused by the
urbanization process and by improved education. But with declining death rates,
population has continued to grow at about 2.7 percent p.a. and is currently
estimated at about 17 million. It is expected that population growth will
fall only slightly to about 2.6 percent p.a. over the next 20 years, unless an
effective demographic policy is adopted. The urban population is increasing
rapidly at 4.5 percent p.a., and over 4 million people are concentrated in
Lima. Given the structure of Peru's population, the labor force is expected
to grow in excess of 3 percent per year during the next 20 years.
Past Development Policies and Performance (1968-78)
7.         The military Government, in office from October 1968 until July 1980,
followed a development strategy aimed at promoting economic growth and improv-
ing distribution of income and wealth, not only on the individual level but
also between regions. To achieve these goals, the Government expanded the
role of the State in the economy, changed the pattern of asset ownership,
reduced foreign ownership of national resources, oriented industry and agri-
culture toward production of essential goods for the domestic market, stimu-
lated regional deconcentration, and reformed the educational system. Through
nationalization and creation of new enterprises, the State took direct control
of key economic sectors. Moreover, the Government imposed complex legislation
to control the operations of the private sector.
8.         The pattern of asset ownership in the economy changed drastically.
Through nationalization, the share of foreign-owned assets fell sharply. A
sweeping land reform redistributed 49 percent of the country's best farmland
to workers' cooperatives benefitting some 30 percent of all rural families.
Through other laws, industrial workers were given shares in their employers'
firms and, in the mining sector, a share in profits. While these actions
benefitted large numbers of Peruvians, they barely reached the poorest groups,
which continue to live in abject poverty. It is estimated, for example, that
almost three quarters of rural families--mostly "minifundistas" (those farming
less than 2 ha) and landless seasonal workers--were not reached by social



programs. Moreover, subsidies were given to products that were more important
in the consumption basket of high and middle-income groups than in that of the
poorest groups. Artificially low prices for some products---such as mutton
and cereals--actually hurt the poor who produced these items, and affected
production nega'tively.  Although many of the policies and structuaral changes
carried out after 1968 were meant to achieve rapid growth and more equality,
the cost of these measures proved to be excessive and their implemnentation
inefficient.
9.         Between 1968 and 1977, the Government followed expansionary fiscal
and credit policies. A rapid increase in expenditures was not matched by a
parallel increase in revenues. Public sector savings dropped steadily in
relation to GDP from 4.4 percent in 1970 to dissavings of 2.6 percent in 1977.
Major causes were the erosion of the tax base owing to excessive tax incentives,
loopholes, weak enforcement, rising budgetary cost of subsidies for foodstuffs
and petroleum products, and sharp increases in defense outlays. At the same
time, public investment expanded rapidly and was increasingly concentrated on
capital-intensive projects with long gestation periods and little immediate
contribution to the growth of output or employment.
10.        Pricing, interest rate and foreign exchange policies encouraged
consumption and discouraged savings, exports and sometimes overall production.
The problems were exacerbated by circumstances beyond the control of the
authorities such as the sharp drop in the catch of anchovies, the fishing
industry's mainstay, and the sharp deterioration in Peru's terms of trade
between 1974 and 1978. As a result, aggregate demand considerably exceeded
aggregate supply. Excess demand, in turn, led to strong inflationary pressures
and widening external gaps.
11.        Inflation accelerated from 5 percent per year in 1970 to 38 percent
in 1977. Interest rates, however, remained substantially negative in real
terms, discouraging financial savings and stimulating capital flight. Moreover,
the exchange rate remained practically constant between 1968 and 19753 thus
contributing to the overall disequilibrium. National savings fell dramatic-
ally from 16 percent of GNP in 1970 to 8 percent in 1977, when they financed
only about one-half of investment.
12.        The growing disequilibrium was reflected in the balance of payments.
The current account deficit averaged US$1.1 billion per year in 1974-77,
equivalent to nearly 9 percent of GNP. To finance this deficit, Peru accum-
ulated a massive external debt. At year-end 1977, Peru's total private and
public external debt--including short-term indebtedness--stood at almost
US$8.3 billion, equivalent to two-thirds of GDP and almost four times exports
of goods and non-factor services. Much of this debt was contracted on fairly
short maturities. Three-fourths of the US$6.4 billion long-term public sector
debt (including undisbursed) was scheduled to be repaid over the 1978-82
period.
13.        Following the 1968-74 period of rapid expansion during which GDP
grew by more than 6 percent per year, the growth rate dropped progressively
and became negative in 1977 and 1978. GDP (at constant 1973 prices) fell by
0.1 percent in 1977 and a further 0.7 percent in 1978.  In this two-year



- 4 -
period, GDP per capita dropped by over 6 percent and unemployment or under-
employment is believed to have risen to almost 60 percent of the labor force,
up from less than 50 percent during the early 1970s. According to Government
estimates, the purchasing power of an average salary had fallen 40 percent by
1978 compared to 1970 and that of an average wage by over 16 percent.
Stabilization Policies and the Economic Recovery Program (1978-80)
14.       From 1975 on, several unsuccessful attempts were made to cope
with Peru's deteriorating economic situation. By mid-1978 the economic
crisis had reached grave proportions, with a drop in real GDP and inflation
approaching 100 percent. Moreover, the private sector was finding it increas-
ingly difficult to open letters of credit for new imports and the banking
system's net international reserves had dropped to a negative level of US$800
million. Financial instability had reached the point where practically all
economic activities were adversely affected. The public sector was fast
approaching the point where it would no longer be able to fully service its
external debt. Peru was no longer creditworthy.
15.       Beginning in May 1978, the Government adopted a number of important
measures aimed at strengthening public finances, improving the balance of
payments and curbing inflation. It also reached an agreement with foreign
commercial banks to reschedule US$185 million of principal payments due in the
second half of 1978 until January 1979. Moreover, the Government negotiated a
stand-by arrangement with the IMF for SDR 184 million. In July 1979, this
stand-by was replaced by a new one for SDR 285 million in support of the same
financial program. Peru's debt outstanding to the IMF as of January 31, 1981
amounted to SDR 617.5 million.
16.       Major debt-relief operations carried out in late 1978 enabled Peru
to reduce the debt-service burden for 1979 and 1980 by postponing repayment to
the 1982-1986 period. In May 1978, the Soviet Union rescheduled the equivalent
of about US$140 million of maturities originally due in 1978-80. These amounts
are to be repaid over a 10-year period including three years of grace. In
November 197E at a Paris Club meeting, the OECD countries agreed to reschedule
90 percent of principal payments due by the public sector to governments and
guaranteed suppliers in 1979 (US$250 million) and 1980 (US$263 million).
These amounts were to be repaid over a period of eight years, including three
years of grace. The Paris Club creditors also agreed to reschedule 90 percent
of the principal payments due in 1979 and 1980 on private sector debt guaran-
teed or insured in the creditor countries (about US$30 million in each year).
In addition, Peru negotiated smaller amounts of debt relief with non-OECD
countries. At the end of 1979, however, in view of the improved balance of
payments situation, the Government decided to forego the Paris Club debt
rescheduling option for 1980.
17.       As regards the large medium-term public debt to commercial banks,
in keeping with an agreement concluded in December 1978, Peru repaid
in 1979 the bulk of the US$185 million rolled over from 1978 (para 15 above).
The agreement gave the Government the option of refinancing up to 90 percent
of the maturities due in 1979 and 1980. Again, in view of the strong balance
of payments performance, the Government decided not to take advantage of the
rescheduling of 1979 maturities, thus obtaining slightly better terms on the
refinancing of 90 percent of the 1980 maturities.



- 5 -
18.       To overcome the economic recession, the Government adopted a more
comprehensive Economic Recovery Program (ERP), which, in addition to the
above-mentioned stabilization actions, included measures to open up the
economy, promote non-traditional exports, strengthen the tax system by broad-
ening its base, and generally improve the efficiency of resource allocation
in the private and public sectors. Import liberalization was the most im-
portant element of the ERP and is expected to have salutary long-term effects
on the economy. The Government also drew up a public sector investment program
that aimed at redirecting investment towards projects of clear economic
priority and with positive effects on production and employment. In support
of the ERP, the Bank approved a US$115 million program loan in May 1979.
Progress in carrying out the ERP has generally been satisfactory. Performance
in some critical areas--e.g., export promotion and import liberalization--
exceeded expectations. In other areas--e.g., improvements in the quality of
public investment and in raising interest rates--progress was more modest.
19.       The Government's stabilization-cum-economic recovery program
resulted in a strong improvement in public sector finances in 1979. Central
Government revenues increased by 23 percent in real terms, while current
outlays declined by 6 percent. Payments for wages and salaries alone fell by
some 7 percent in real terms, partly as a result of a reduction in excessive
civil service employment. Public sector current account savings rose from -
0.7 percent of GDP in 1978 to about 3.6 percent of GDP in 1979, and the overall
deficit was reduced from 6.4 percent of GDP in 1978 to 2.9 percent in 1979.
In spite of the good fiscal performance, however, inflationary pressures have
remained strong, with consumer price increases of 67 percent in 1979 and of
about 60 percent in 1980.
20.       The implementation of stabilization measures and of the ERP had
a positive impact on the balance of payments. Moreover, an increase in
petroleum exports, substantial price increases for silver, copper, petroleum,
and other commodities, as well as the relatively low level of imports because
of the recession led to high overall surpluses of the balance of payments in
1979 and 1980. At year-end 1980, the net reserve position was estimated at
about US$1.8 billion, equivalent to over 5 months of imports. Peru also made
greater use of assistance from official bilateral and international sources
thus improving the structure of its external debt. The short-term debt of
less than one year, already sharply reduced from US$1.8 billion at year-end
1978 to US$1.1 billion at year-end 1979, is expected to be further reduced as
the gradually improving economic situation permits new medium-term credit
lines to be opened. Real GDP growth in 1979 was 3.5 percent. Growth of some
3 percent is estimated in 1980 owing, in part, to a drought which affected the
agricultural sector.
Outlook
21.       In July 1979, the military Government promulgated a new constitution,
written by a popularly elected constituent assembly. Elections were held in
May 1980, and the transfer of authority to the Government of President Fernando
Belaunde took place on July 28, 1980. The new Government faces a challenging
economic and social situation. Although the stabilization-cum-economic recovery
program (1978-80) has resulted in an improved financial situation and has laid



-- 6 -
the ground for more efficient resource use, the present economic situation is
characterized by a number of acute problems such as persistent high inflation,
high un- and undererployment, stagnating agricultural and petroleum production,
a deteriorated pattern of income distribution, food and petroleum subsidies,
and an inherited rigid structure of Government expenditures with relatively
low expenditures for economic and social purposes and high outlays for interest
payments and defense. Peru also faces severe long-term problems like wide-
spread poverty, poor state of health and nutrition, rapid population growth,
severe water and land resource constraints, rapidly expanding demand for
energy and potable water, and the low degree of integration between the
different parts of the country. These problems call for urgent corrective
measures. Tackling them all will be difficult given overall resource scarcity
and particularly the very limited public sector resource availabilities.
22.       The new Government has a capable economic team which is committed to
economic efficiency, decontrol, promotion of the private sector, and policies
conducive to a more equitable sharing of the benefits of development. During
the first few months in office, the Government took important economic policy
measures such as the elimination of import licenses, tariff cuts, major upward
price adjustments--particularly for domestically consumed petroleum, power,
and food items--adoption of higher interest rates, a new agricultural promotion
law, and others. Moreover, it enacted a new petroleum law giving tax incentives
to promote new petroleum exploration, and it is preparing programs to improve
the situation in health, housing, and transport. Important efforts have also
been made to work out a five-year public investment program that responds to
the country's needs and resource availabilities. In this context, the creation
in November 1980 of PROINVERSION, a committee attached to the Prime Minister's
office and in charge of coordinating all efforts related to public investment
including foreign financing, is an important initiative to improve the effi-
ciency of resource use.
23.       To tackle the most difficult short-term problems, inflation (running
at over 60 percent per year) and the precarious public finance situation (with
an overall public sector deficit equivalent to some 5 percent of GDP in 1980),
the Government is following a restrictive financial program for 1981 with
tight credit ceilings and limits to foreign indebtedness.
24.       Based on cautiously optimistic assumptions with regard to economic
management and commodity prices, the country is expected to have economic
growth of about 5 percent per year and a manageable balance of payments
situation during the next two years, with a continued gradual build up of
international reserves in spite of heavy debt repayment obligations. The
balance of payments situation could, however, become precarious, if the
exportable surplus of oil declines and if imports further accelerate as a
result of the import liberalization and economic recovery process. While
measures are being undertaken to speed up petroleum exploration and to
increase manufactured exports, these may not lead to the expected results
in time to countervail the potential foreign exchange shortfalls. Against
this background, there is a continuing need for official development assistance.
Considering the above, a debt service ratio hovering around the 30 percent
mark and assuming that the authorities continue the initiated course of
economic policies, Peru is creditworthy for Bank lending.



- 7 -
PART II - BAN-K GROUP OPERATIONS IN PERU
25.       In addition to the US$58 million Aviation Development Project which
the Executive Directors are expected to consider in late March, the Bank
has approved 40 loans to Peru for a total amount of US$791.8 million, net of
cancellations. About 28 percent of the Bank's lending to Peru has been for
transportation (mainly highways and ports), 23 percent for agriculture, 18
percent for the energy sector, 11 percent for mining and industry, about 6
percent for education and urban development, and 14 percent for the US$115
million program loan of May 1979.
26.       As of January 31, 1981, US$265.4 million was undisbursed on project
loans (i.e., excluding the 1979 program loan) currently in execution. (Annex II
contains a summary statement of Bank loans as of January 31, 1981, and notes
on the execution of on-going projects.) Disbursements on Bank financed
projects moved slowly in the 1976-78 period, primarily because of weak project
execution capacity and a shortage of counterpart funds that worsened as the
economy deteriorated during this period. In an effort to improve disbursements:
(i) the Bank opened a resident mission in Peru; (ii) the Executive Directors
approved modifications in the Education and the Lima/Amazon Corridor Projects
(see Annex II for further details); (iii) the Government provided adequate
counterpart funds in 1979 and 1980; and (iv) the Government also set up a
special commission to monitor loan execution and resolve administrative
problems. With these actions, the pace of disbursement is now increasing;
about US$44.0 million was disbursed on project loans in FY1980 and US$29.1
million during the first half of FY1981. This compares with average dis-
bursements of US$27.5 million during FY1977-79.
27.       The main objectives of Bank lending to Peru have been to assist
-a (i) the creation of the physical infrastructure needed to sustain and
foster economic development; (ii) the expansion of productive capacity in
crucial sectors; (iii) the consolidation of structural and institutional
changes, particularly land and education reforms; (iv) the strengthening,
through technical assistance loans and regular operations, of local capacity
to prepare, implement and operate projects effectively; and (v) the improvement
of living conditions for the urban and rural poor. In the past, Bank lending
,oncentrated on infrastructure in the transportation and power sectors. More
recently, the Bank's emphasis has shifted to more directly productive fields
-- mining, agriculture and industry -- to help Peru to strengthen its balance
of payments. Lending for social projects has also grown.
28.       The next operations that would be ready for the Executive Directors'
consideration include projects in road improvement and rehabilitation, power
engineering, small-scale industry, mining, urban development, and health.
This program has been reviewed with the new Government and is in line with its
priorities.



-8-
29.       It is estimated that Bank loans constituted about 4.0 percent of
Peru's total public external debt outstanding and disbursed at the end of
1979, and absorbed about 3.3 percent of the country's external debt service
in 1979. Assuming increased recourse to long-term bilateral and multilateral
aid by Peru, the Bank's share in the country's outstanding public foreign debt
by 1985 could reach about 10 percent, and its share of debt-service would be
around 4.5 percent.
30.       IFC commitments as of January 31, 1981 have been US$29.7 million
(including US$15 million to the Southern Peru Copper Corporation for the
Cuajone Copper Mining Project) of which US$15.4 million is held by the
Corporation. A summary statement of IFC investments as of January 31, 1981
is presented in Annex II.
31.       The other principal public agencies lending to Peru are IDB and
USAID. IDB is expected to emphasize lending for agriculture, industry,
mining, roads, and small scale irrigation. USAID is expected to stress rural
development and health. Total loan commitments as of December 31, 1980 by IDB
and USAID were US$652.4 million and US$348.6 million, respectively, and their
shares of debt service as of end-1979 were both estimated at 0.6 percent.
PART III - THE MANUFACTURING AND FINANCIAL SECTORS
The Manufacturing Sector
32. Performance and Structural Features: By the end of the 1970s, the
manufacturing sector accounted for roughly one fourth of Peru's GDP. Growth
of the sector during the past decade largely depended on the domestic market
and was subject to large fluctuations, which mirrored those of the whole
economy. During 1969-74, sectoral production grew at an average annual rate
of 6.6 percent in real terms, well above GDP growth of 4.8 percent. During
1975-76, sectoral growth slowed down to about 4 percent per year and during
1977-78, because of the economic crisis referred to in Part I of this report,
it dropped to a negative 4 percent. During 1979-80, as the economy rebounded
the sector resumed growth at annual rates of about 4 percent and 6 percent,
respectively. Industrial investment fluctuated widely during the 1970s,
doubling during 1971-75 and then dropping by 1978 to 25 percent below its 1975
peak. Investment in manufacturing came largely from public enterprises.
33.       The manufacturing sector in Peru is diversified.  Industrial policies
pursued during the past decade led to a strong expansion of intermediate goods
industries such as textiles and chemicals. In 1978, traditional consumer goods
industries (food, beverages, and tobacco; clothing and footwear; furniture;
and others) accounted for about 40 of manufacturing industry value added, the
chemical and related industries (incl. petroleum refineries) accounted for
another 30 percent, and metal processing industries for some 15 percent.
About 85 percent of the industrial firms in Peru are small with less than 50
employees, but over 80 percent of production is concentrated in larger
firms employing over 50 persons. Manufacturing is heavily concentrated in the
Lima-Callao area, by far Peru's largest market. The Lima area accounts for



-9-
about 70 percent of the number of firms, employment, and output. Other
industrial centers of importance are Arequipa in the south as well as Trujillo,
Chimbote, and Piura in the north. With the exception of Arequipa, industries
outside the Lima-Callao area mainly process locally available raw materials
such as sugarcane, bagasse, cotton, fish, and others.
34.       While the private sector accounts for over 90 percent of the
number of industrial firms and for about two thirds of output and employment,
the State's role in manufacturing is substantial. State-owned enterprises
accounted for one third of output in 1978, mostly in tobacco, paper, petroleum
refining, cement, iron and steel, and non-ferrous metals. The new Government
is firmly committed to promoting the private sector, including foreign invest-
ment. It is also considering divesting itself of some of its industrial
investments. Its general policy of decontrol (para. 22) is expected to result
in the further revival of private investment, which started to pick up in
1979, and in a lessening of direct Government involvement in the industrial
sector.
35.       Labor productivity in manufacturing stands at about twice the
economy-wide level, and employment in the sector amounts to slightly over
600,000 people or some 12 percent of total employment. Most of these jobs
are provided by the informal sector and small handicraft firms, primarily in
the form of self-employment. Less than half of the jobs are in modern indus-
trial establishments. Employment in the modern industrial sector expanded
roughly in line with production during the period of growth, but did not drop
as fast as production during the 1977-78 recession. This was the result of
labor legislation guaranteeing jobs, which also contributed to the sharp
deterioration in real wages and salaries.
36.       Institutional Framework:  The most important institutions shaping
sectoral development are the Ministry of Economy, Finance, and Commerce, which
sets trade, tax, and overall economic policies, and the Ministry of Industry,
Tourism, and Integration (MITI), which is responsible for the whole system of
incentives. MITI is currently preparing a new industrial development law which
would simplify the structure of incentives and include legislation concerning
small-scale industries. Within the private sector, two trade associations
stand out 'or their influence on public opinion and the design of sectoral
policies: the Association of Industries and the Association of Exporters.
37.       Industrial Policies:  Until the mid 1970s, Peru followed the import
substitution approach to industrial development providing high tariff protection--
supplemented by import prohibitions for a large number of products--generous
fiscal incentives, and credit on relatively favorable conditions. Although
export incentives in the form of negotiable export tax credit certificates (CERTEX)
were introduced on a small scale in 1970, industrial development was inward-
oriented and manufactured exports were relatively minor, amounting to some
US$75 million in 1975 or roughly 1 percent of industrial output. Up to 1973,
tariffs increased steadily. During 1973-79, they remained essentially unchanged,
but were gradually eroded through widespread exemptions and the overvaluation
of the sol during 1968-75/76. Beginning in 1970, tariffs were gradually
replaced by non-tariff barriers including import licensing, prohibitions,
state monopolies, and, in particular, the National Register of Manufactures



- 10 -
(RNM). The RNM consisted of a list of industries that was maintained by the
Direction of Industry within MITI. Imports competing with goods produced by
industries on the RNM were banned. Out of the 4,600 items in the customs
classification, about 40 percent were subject to non-tariff barriers in 1973,
and this share had grown to about 60 percent by early 1979 (including about
1,400 items in the RNM).
38.       A major reorientation of industrial policies took place in connection
with the 1978 ERP, which was supported by the Program Loan. The complex system
of non-tariff protection was dismantled and replaced by a new tariff system.
In addition, more vigorous export promotion efforts were undertaken along with
a more flexible exchange rate policy, which complemented an increase--introduced
in 1976--in CERTEX. The first important liberalization measures were intro-
duced in March 1979, when the RNM was abolished and replaced by a greatly
reduced temporary list of import prohibitions, which by now have virtually
disappeared. The new tariff structure became effective in December 1979.
39.       These policy changes resulted in an important reorientation of
industrial development, with the value of manufactured exports increasing from
about US$100 million in 1976 (equivalent to 1.6 percent of industrial output)
to almost US$700 million in 1979 (equivalent to about 8 percent of output).
Textiles and fish products accounted for most of this increase.
40.       The new Government has accelerated the import liberalization pro-
cess by further eliminating administrative barriers (including the whole
system of import licensing) and by reducing tariffs. At present, the unweighted
average of tariffs is 34 percent, with the maximum tariff at 60 percent. The
Government is committed to reduce tariffs further over a period of three to
five years through successive, pre-announced cuts and to make the tariff
structure more uniform with the ultimate goal of a flat rate. The Government
revised the CERTEX system in February 1981 to make it more responsive to
the goal of industrial development and growth of manufactured exports and to
correct abuses which have crept into its use.   Moreover, the devaluation
process has been accelerated after July 1980 to bring it into line with
the differential between domestic and international inflation. The continua-
tion of these policies, together with the general process of decontrol, should
provide the appropriate framework for sustained growth of industrial investment,
production and exports. Similarly, mining and tourism -- activities that
would also be eligible for financing under the proposed loan -- have good
prospects over the next few years.
The Financial Sector
41.       Institutional setting:  The financial sector in Peru includes the
Central Bank, the Banco de la Nacion (the Central Government's bank and tax
collector), 20 commercial banks (including six regional banks), five specialized
development banks, COFIDE (the Government's major development finance institu-
tion), 12 finance companies, 17 savings and loan associations, 20 insurance
companies, and several small savings cooperatives and credit unions. Commercial
banks account for about one half of the total assets of the financial system.



- 11 -
42.      Until 1978 the Government played an increasingly important role in
the financial system. It owned three commercial banks, the development banks,
and COFIDE. in addItion, it regulated commercial bank credit channelled to
priority sectors and regions. Since 1978, Government involvement has been
gradually reduced, and the authority of the Central Bank in monetary matters
has been reestablished. The main instruments of monetary policy at the
disposal of the Central Bank are: setting legal reserve requirements; redis-
count facilities and rates; fixing interest rates for all local currency
lending by financial intermediaries, and for deposits and bonds; exchange rate
policy; and -- to a limited extent -- open market operations. In recent years,
the Central Bank also operated a number of special development funds, which
were transferred to COFIDE in November 1980.
43.       Banco de la Nacion, although authorized to offer the full range of
banking services to the public, has concentrated on its initial function--
servicing the banking needs of the public sector and on tax collection.
The commercial banks handle short-term banking operations. Three of the
largest banks were nationalized in 1970 and placed under the control of Banco
de la Nacion. Eight banks are private, four of which are small subsidiaries
of foreign banks. Commercial banks currently have 690 offices, two-thirds of
which are located in the Lima area. The industrial sector has traditionally
received che lion's share of commercial bank credit. Confined by law to
short-term lending, all but one of the domestic commercial banks have estab-
lished finance company subsidiaries to provide medium-term financing. While
the six regional banks operate as commercial banks focusing on the promotion
of economic development in their respective regions, they are also authorized
to make medium- and long-term loans. The five State-owned development banks
provide specialized services for industry, agriculture, mining, and housing.
Although these banks are authorized to accept deposits, they rely mostly on
funds from the Central Bank and foreign borrowings.
44.       COFIDE, established in 1971 as a State-owned industrial development
institution, has focused on the financing of medium- and large-scale industrial
projects, particularly those of public enterprises. Although COFIDE has been
successful in mobilizing domestic resources by issuing high yielding bonds
with special tax benefits, it has had to rely increasingly on foreign currency
borrowings and Central Bank credit. Although initially it limited itself to
direct lending operations, COFIDE started lending through other financial
intermediaries in mid-1978. It has recently strengthened its wholesale credit
function by setting up a specialized department for this purpose. Further
analysis of COFIDE, its past operations, financial situation, and future role
is provided in paras. 59-65.
45.       The finance companies (financieras) were established to provide
medium-term financing -- a service that cannot be offered by commercial banks
under the banking law and that has not been offered in sufficient quantity and
quality by the specialized development banks. In 1971, a new law was adopted
bringing the financieras under Central Bank control and establishing minimum
capital requirements for these. As a result, 31 out of the existing 37 finan-
cieras disappeared. It was only in 1978 that commercial banks and other groups
took a renewed interest in this activity. Since then, six new financieras
have been set up. The financieras are expected to play an important role as
retailers of ftnds under the proposed loan.



- 12 -
46.       Resource mobilization and interest rates:  Financial savings in Peru
are mainly marshalled by the banking system, which at year-end 1979 held about
85 percent of all financial liabilities (including demand deposits) with the
private sector. These financial instruments include savings and time deposits,
various types of bonds, mortgage certificates, and certificates of deposit.
The latter are both sol and dollar denominated. The non-banking system uses
the same instruments (except dollar denominated certificates of deposit). In
addition, insurance policies constitute an important form of financial savings,
and bonds and stocks are issued in limited numbers by non-financial institutions.
Except for COFIDE's high yielding type C bonds, bonds have not been widely
used by financial institutions because they offered a maximum interest rate of
35 percent -- lower than for certificates of deposit and longer-term maturities
-- and owing to the lack of a well developed secondary market. Certificates
of deposit have been the main sources of funds for the financieras.
47.       Since mid-1978, interest rates in Peru have been regulated by the
Central Bank and the Government, which established a complex structure of
rates differentiated by financial instrument, type of intermediary and sector
of destination. During the seventies, deposit and lending interest rates in
local currency were negative in real terms. At the end of 1980, effective
lending rates (including tax) amounted to some 55 percent, close to the 1980
inflation rate of some 60 percent. Deposit rates, which are tax exempt, were
in the 30 to 35 percent range, with some instruments, like certificates of
deposit and time deposits over two years with financieras, at higher rates.
COFIDE's type C bonds, trading at a discount price around 70 percent, had the
highest effective yield (about 50 percent) of any sol denominated financial
instrument in Peru. Negative real interest rates for sol denominated instru-
ments and high interest close to LIBOR on dollar denominated certificates of
deposit resulted in a dramatic shift towards the latter, which account for
about 50 percent of financial savings within the banking system.
48.       In December 1980, a law was passed eliminating the 17 percent tax
on lending rates and giving the Central Bank authority to set interest rates
for sol denominated operations. Subsequently, the Central Bank has made a full
revision and simplification of the interest rate structure, including an upward
adjustment of 20 percentage points for most deposit and lending rates, which
has brought their effective rates to over 60 and 70 percent, respectively. If,
as expected, the envisaged monetary and fiscal policies succeed in bringing
inflation down to about 55 percent in 1981, interest rates would become highly
positive in real terms.
49.       Because of lack of coordination among institutions and competition
using cost-free resources provided by the Government, some of the State
development banks have been lending to the final borrowers at rates below the
cost of the foreign resources to the Government. The ongoing reorganization
of public sector financial institutions is expected to establish a consistent
interest rate policy for term lending in foreign currency that would eliminate
distortions in the allocation of resources and would help develop a healthy
and competitive financial system.



- 13 -
50.       Term Lending:  The main institutions channelling term resources to
the industrial and other productive sectors have been COFIDE, the State
development banks, the financieras and, to a smaller extent, the regional
banks. In addition, commercial banks were occasionally involved in term
lending with special authorization by the Central Bank. The public sector
plays the major role in term lending, with COFIDE and the State development
banks accounting for 72 percent of total assets of institutions engaged in
term lending.
51.       The institutions involved in term lending supplemented their
own resources with funds from the various rediscount facilities established
by the Central Bank during the last two years,including the Agroindustries
Rediscount Fund (FRAI), the Capital Goods Fund (FONCAP), the Regional Invest-
ment Fund (FIRE), and the Export Fund (FONEX). FONEX supplements the Non-
Traditional Export Fund (FENT) set up in 1972 by the state-owned
Industrial Bank. Resources from these funds, partly supplemented by a
US$14.7 million loan from USAID for FRAI, were channelled by different financial
intermediaries through subloans at widely varying conditions, in both local
and foreign currency.
52.       Action has been taken recently to strengthen and coordinate the
institutional framework for term lending by dividing control, wholesale, and
retail functions among the Central Bank, COFIDE, and other financial interme-
diaries. The Central Bank will concentrate on the definition and implementa-
tion of financial policies and regulations affecting term lending including
interest rates and terms. On November 13, 1980, it transferred the special
funds for term lending (FRAI, FONCAP, FIRE, FONEX) to COFIDE. COFIDE now
has responsibility, therefore, for domestic and foreign resource mobilization,
wholesale credit operations with other financial intermediaries, and retail
credit operations with final borrowers. The new organizational structure of
COFIDE provides for a clear separation of its wholesale and retail functions.
Retail credit operations will be handled through a wide range of financial
intermediaries, both public (including COFIDE) and private, which will compete
with each other having equal access to resources under uniform conditions.
53.       Previous Bank Activities:  Aside from a 1955 US$2.5 million loan for
a cement plant, which was successfully completed, and a 1980 US$5.0 million
for technical assistance to SIDERPERU, a public steel enterprise, the Bank has
made a US$35 million first industrial credit loan to COFIDE in 1977. This
operation got off to a slow start because of the 1977-78 recession in Peru and
the requirement that the final borrower assume the cross currency risk. With
Peru's economic recovery and the application of special disbursement procedures,
which were designed to partially shield the ultimate beneficiary from the
exchange risk, commitments under this project have picked up,and full commit-
ment is expected shortly. In addition, Bank support of the ERP through
the Program Loan of 1979 was instrumental in bringing about important changes
in industrial and trade policies (see para 18). Moreover, the Bank has
supported development in the mining sector through two projects: the US$39.7
million CENTROMIN loan of 1976 for mine water treatment and plant expansion
and a technical assistance loan for the Bayovar phosphate project, approved in
June 1980.



- 14 -
54.       Under the first industrial credit project, 71 subloans for a total
of US$31.9 million had been approved as of February 28, 1981. Disbursements
as of January 31, 1981 amounted to US$19.2 million. The subprojects covered
a wide range of subsectors, including chemicals (20 percent of the subloan
amounts), textiles (20 percent), metals (15 percent), fish products (8 percent),
metal products (7 percent), and others (30 percent). The economic rates of
return of the subprojects for which such calculations were required ranged
from 12 to 40 percent. The project helped to support an estimated total
investment volume of about US$100 million, which created about 4,000 jobs.
Most subprojects were in export-oriented activities, particularly in the
textile, metal, and fish processing industries. During the last two years,
COFIDE has onlent part of the loan's proceeds through other financial inter-
mediaries. About one half of the total number and almost one third of the
amount of the subloans committed under the project were made through this
channel.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
55.       The proposed project was first discussed with the Bank in late 1979.
It was prepared by COFIDE with the assistance of Bank missions in February and
April 1980. Appraisal took place in August 1980, and a post-appraisal mission
visited Peru in November 1980. The appraisal mission's report entitled "Staff
Appraisal Report - Second Industrial Credit Project (No. 3238-PE dated March 12,
1981), is being distributed separately. Annex III contains a Supplementary
Project Data Sheet. Negotiations were held in Washington from February 9 to
13, 1981. The Peruvian Delegation was headed by Carlos Neuhaus, COFIDE's
Financial Manager. A representative of the Ministry of Economy, Finance, and
Commerce also attended.
Project Objectives and Description
56.       Building on the achievements and experience of the first industrial
credit project, the loan recommended in this report would continue to support
investment subprojects in the industrial, mining and tourism subprojects
sectors -- as well as to strengthen COFIDE's effectiveness as a development
bank engaged in term lending. More specifically, it would (i) support COFIDE's
new organizational structure, particularly with regard to the planned expansion
of its wholesale function; (ii) facilitate equal access to resources by a
large number of financial intermediaries thus stimulating competition and
improving the quality of services; and (iii) improve project appraisal capabil-
ities (including the economic analysis of projects) within both COFIDE and
other financial intermediaries.
57.       The proposed loan consists of a line of credit of US$60 million,
which would meet about 25 percent of COFIDE's estimated demand for foreign
resources over the next three years. COFIDE would channel the loan's proceeds,
either directly or through other financial intermediaries, to the ultimate
beneficiaries--public and private enterprises, mostly in industry but also in
the mining and tourism sectors. During the past few years, loans from COFIDE
to the industrial sector financed about 40 percent of sectoral investment,
with the remainder being self-financed or financed from other banking sources,
mainly from abroad.



- 15 -
Project Execution
58.       The proposed loan would be made to COFIDE with the guarantee of the
Government. COFIDE would act as wholesaler and retailer of funds. Other
financial intermediaries would have access to the funds via COFIDE in accor-
dance with each institution's capability and financial soundness.
Participating Institutions
a. COFIDE
59.       COFIDE, operating since 1971, has competent and experienced manage-
ment and staff. Its project appraisal and supervision activities are adequate.
COFIDE's comprehensive Policy Statement and Operating Procedures (approved
during preparation of the previous project and periodically updated) are also
generally adequate, but the expansion of its operations through financial
intermediaries requires specific amendments thereto. The approval by COFIDE's
Board of Directors of these amendments, in a manner satisfactory to the Bank,
would be a condition of the proposed loan's effectiveness (Section 6.01(b) of
the draft Loan Agreement).
60.       At year-end 1979, COFIDE had total assets of S/.160.8 billion
(US$643 million) including, inter alia, S/.45.6 billion (US$187 million)
in net loans outstanding, S/.37.8 billion (US$15.1 million) in investments,
and S/.65.6 billion (US$262 million) in guarantees issued on its own account.
Its equity stood at S/.41.6 billion (US$166 million), and 93 percent of the
paid-in capital was held by the Government with the balance held by indi-
viduals and companies that had received COFIDE shares as compensation under
the agrarian reform. By law, control of COFIDE rests with the Government,
which exercises its authority through the Ministry of Economy, Finance, and
Commerce, and COFIDE's Board of Directors.
61.        Since mid-1978, COFIDE's operations have grown substantially
in line with Peru's overall economic recovery. After having dropped from
S/.19.3 billion (US$336.1 million) in 1976 to S/.8.3 billion (US$99.0 million)
in 1977, COFIDE's operations -- including loans, investments and guarantees
increased to S/.23.4 billion (US$149.7 million) in 1978 and S/.39.8 billion
(US$177.2 million) in 1979. During the first half of 1980, the volume reached
S/.28.5 billion (US$107.0 million). COFIDE has increased its operations to
the manufacturing sector from 19 percent of its total operations in 1976 to
67 percent in 1979. Previously, substantial amounts were lent to the petroleum
and power sectors.
62.       COFIDE's overall exposure reached S/.156 billion (US$624 million)
at year-end 1979, and S/181.4 billion (US$636 million) as of June 30, 1980.
As of the latter date, COFIDE had 171 clients, of which 135 had received
only loans and guarantees, 21 loans and equity investments, and 15 only equity
investments. Of COFIDE's total exposure, 79 percent was to State enterprises
(including 40 percent to basic industry companies which were nationalized
between 1973-1979 and which are wholly owned by COFIDE) and only 21 percent
to the private sector. On the whole, the quality and management of COFIDE's
portfolio are adequate, although the large exposure to basic industries in the
form of loans and equity investments constitutes a concentration of risk and
limits COFIDE's flexibility. As of June 30, 1980, arrears over 90 days



- 16 -
affected only 6.2 percent of the loan portfolio, and exposure to compauies in
arrears constituted only 5 percent of COFIDE's overall exposure.  Ii rode:- to
reduce the risk 2ssociated with its exposure to basic industries and make
COFIDE more flexible i.i its operations, the Government and COFIDE have agreed
that COFIDE would divest itself of all its equity investments in basic indus-
tries by December 31, 1981 and on tc-Ins and conditions satisfactory to the
Bank. The enactment of legislation enabling COFIDE to do so would be a
conditicn of loan effectiveness (Sections 4.10 and 6.01(c) of the draft Loan
Agreement).
63.        Comparative balance sheets for 1976-79 show COFIDE with an adequate
financial position (with a long-term debt to equity ratio of 2.7 to 1 in 1979)
as well as a satisfactory liquidity situation (with a current ratio of 2.3 to
I in 1979). However, COFIDE's profitability, although improving during recent
years, has remained low because of high provisions for bad debts (necessary to
offset low provisions made prior to 1976), low interest spreads and charges --
particularly on foreign currency loans to State enterprises -- and low charges
on guarantees on its own account. Net profits before taxes amounted to only
2.3 percent of the average amount of assets in 1979; net profits after taxes
were equivalent to 7.4 percent of equity -- well below the opportunity cost of
capital in Peru. In line with the Government polic'7 to raise interest rates
to positive levels in reai. terms, COFIDE's management has approved a new
structure of interest rates and guarantee fees that will allow a more adequa,e
return on equity. Under the new structure, COFIDE's basic lending rate for
local currency loans was set at 58 percent p.a. (including annual commiss.ions);
since interest is paid quarterly, COFIDE's effective rate is over 70 percent.
Moreover, a margin of 3 percent p.a. above the resource cost to COFIDE applies
to foreign currency loans and guarantees. These measures are expected to
contribute to a further improvement of COFIDE's profitability to some 15
percent on equity bv 1984. To further strengthen its performance, COFIDE
would introduce a management information, control and performance evaluation
system satisfactory to the Bank by December 31, 1981. By the same date, it
would also put into effect a satisfactory policy of provisions for losses
related to equity investments (Section 3.08(b) of the draft Loan Agreement).
64.       As part of the realignment of public sector financial institu-
tions (para. 52), COFIDE has gone through a fundamental reassessment of its
role. In this regard, on September 23, 1980, COFIDE's Board of Directors
approved a new organizational structure with three major operating divisions:
finance, operations, and financial intermediation. The new financial inter-
mediation division has been partly staffed with personnel experienced in
dealing with other financial intermediaries as a result of the transfer
to COFIDE of four funds previously operated by the Central Bank (FRAI, FIRE,
FONCAP and FONEX).
65.        During the project's commitment period (four years), auticipated
overall economic recovery and COFIDE's expanded role in lending through
financial intermediaries are expected to result in a substantial increase in
COFIDE's operations. Assuming a conservative growth rate of loan approvals of
5 percent p.a. in real terms, combined with the new structure of interest
rates and the divestiture of equity investments in basic industries, the Bank
estimates that COFIDE's financial position will remain adequate and that its



- 17 -
return on equity will gradually improve. COFIDE's debt/equity ratio would be
limited to 5 to 1 (Sections 4.04 and 4.06 of the draft Loan Agreement). It is
expected, however, that this ratio would not be reached during the next four
years.
b.   Other Participating Intermediaries
66.      The financial intermediaries eligible to participate under the
proposed loan would be those legally authorized to undertake term lending
in the industrial, tourism, and mining sectors. At present, these include
the financieras, regional banks and State development banks, which have been
eligible to participate under Loan 1358-PE since mid-1978. In keeping with
its Policy for Financial Intermediation, before signing contracts of partici-
pation with eligible intermediaries, COFIDE would ensure that these followed
sound financial practices and possessed project appraisal capabilities.
COFIDE's financial intermediation division would periodically monitor their
compliance with these criteria and conditions.
67.       While the participating financial intermediaries have developed some
project appraisal capabilities (including the ability to do economic analyses
for projects financed with resources from COFIDE or the various Central Bank
funds), these capabilities vary widely and need to be strengthened. COFIDE
would help participating financial intermediaries through seminars and
special technical assistance as well as through the process of reviewing
subproject appraisal documents. COFIDE sponsored a pilot appraisal seminar
with Bank/IFC assistance for its own staff and staff of other financial
intermediaries in January 1981.
Terms
68.       The proposed Bank loan of US$60 million would bear an interest of
9.6 percent and be repayable within 17 years, including four years of grace,
on a composite amortization basis. The Government would guarantee the
loan. Since COFIDE may not incur any foreign exchange risk under its Policy
Statement, the Government would assume the cross-currency exchange risk (i.e.
between the currencies being disbursed and the US dollar) in exchange for a
premium of 1.5 percent p.a. on the aggregate amount of subloans outstanding.
The premium would be reviewed periodically by the Government, COFIDE and the
Bank and adjusted, as needed, with the consent of the Bank. The proceeds
of the premium would be deposited in a special account to be opened by COFIDE.
The accrued exchange differentials would be calculated annually, and the
Government would cover any shortfalls that might occur in the account. Signing
of an agreement, satisfactory to the Bank, between COFIDE and the Government
on the mechanism to cover the cross-currency risk would be a condition for
loan effectiveness (Sections 3.02 and 6.01(a) of the draft Loan Agreement and
Section 2.02(b) of the draft Guarantee Agreement).
69.       Subloans would be denominated in US dollars.  The repayment obliga-
tions of the financial intermediaries and of the ultimate beneficiaries
would, therefore, be in dollars, irrespective of the currencies in which the
Bank loan or the subloans were actually disbursed. COFIDE would, however, repay
the Bank under the usual currency pooling arrangements. Subloans would have
terms ranging from 4 to 15 years, including up to 3 years of grace, depending



18 -
on the type cf investment (Section 2.08 (b) and Schedule 3 of the draft Loan
A.greement). Actual maturities are expected to range mostly between 7 and 12
years. The interest rate charged to the ultimate beneficiaries would be 4
percentage points above the base rate, defined as the interest rate of the
proposed Bank loan plus the 1.5 percent premium for the cross-currency
risk. For prime customers, COFIDE and the other financial intermediaries
might accept a lower spread, e.g. 1 percentage point less. COFIDE would
on-lend to financial intermediaries at 1 percentage point above the base rate
and, in add;.ticn, charge a commitment fee of 1 percent (Schedule 3 to the
dcaft Loari Agreement).  The spreads of 3 to 4 percent in the case of COFIDE
and up to 3 percent in the case of financial intermediaries should be sufficient
to cover all administrative costs involved in the different types of operations
and to allow a reasonable profit. These spreads are in line with COFIDE's
current practice and with those of the term lending funds recently transferred
to COFIDE by the Central Bank.  The interest rates on sublopns would be
reviewed periodically by COFIDE and the Bank (Section 4.08 ot the draft Loan
Agreement) to take account of fluctuations in the international capital
markets and domestic credit demand.
70.       Subprojects would have to be financially and economically viable.
The direc-r lender would prepare a complete evaluation of the proposed subproj-
ects, including the calculation of an economic rate of return for all sub-
projects requiring Bank financing of US$250,000 or more (Section 3.07 of the
draft Loan Agreement). All subloans made directly by COFIDE requiring more
than IUS$1 million in Bank funds as well as those made by other financial
intermediaries requiring more than US$500,000 in Bank funds would be subject
to prior review and approval by the Bank (Section 2.02(b) of the draft Loan
Agreement). To ensure the distribution of industrial credit over a satisfactory
number of recipients, there would be a cumulative limit of US$5.0 million
on the total financing to a single enterprise or group of related enterprises
out of the proceeds of the proposed loan (Section 2.02(c)(iii) of the draft
-oan Agreement).
Disbursement and Procurement
71.       The terminal date for submission of subprojects would be June 30,
l984, and the closing date for disbursements would be June 30, 1985. Procure-
ment for subprojects would be in accordance with standard practice for DFC
loans. The financial intermediary (or COFIDE in the case of direct loans)
would require ultimate beneficiaries to obtain price quotations from a reason-
able sample of qualified suppliers for major pieces of equipment. Following
the approval of individual subloans, COFIDE would monitor the procurement of
items to he financed under the Bank loan in order to ensure that the items
were reasonably priced and appropriate for their intended purpose. COFIDE
would also provide the Bank with the rationale for procurement decisions in
all subloan appraisals. COFIDE has assisted its clients by putting together
financial packages which blend Bank resources provided under Loan 1358-PE
with export financing from supplier countries, generally having favorable
interest rates but with tied procurement. The proposed loan wculd permit
a continuation of COFIDE's efforts to expand and diversify procurement
sources for its borrowers and to provide them with attractive financial
packages.



- 19 -
72.       Disbursement procedures would be similar to those under the first
loan to COFIDE. The loan proceeds would be disbursed against: (a) 100 percent
of foreign expenditures for directly imported goods and services; (b) 70 percent
of expenditures for imported goods purchased from domestic distributors; and
(c) 50 percent of the ex-factory cost of locally produced equipment and 35 per-
cent of civil works expenditures.
Project Benefits and Risks
73.       Ihe proposed loan would increase significantly the term financing
available for investment projects in the industrial, tourism, and small and
medium-scale mining sectors. It would provide financing for an estimated
100 subprojects with total investment costs of about US$120 million. It is
expected that about half of the loan proceeds would be used by COFIDE for
direct subloans. These are expected to range in size from US$500,000 to US$4
million, The other half would be on-lent through other intermediaries,
most of whose subloans are expected to fall below US$500,000. Direct employ-
ment generation is expected to be about 4,000 jobs, based on an estimated
average investment cost per job of US$30,000. Indirect employment generation
is expected to be important, although difficult to quantify. Most subprojects
are expected to have an economic rate of return in the order of 15-40 percent.
74.       The proposed loan would support COFIDE's expanded function as a
wholesaler of term resources. Other financial institutions providing term
resources would also be strengthened and competition encouraged. Moreover,
the project evaluation and supervision capabilities of the participating
intermediaries would be improved. Thus, the project would have a significant
institution building impact on the Peruvian financial sector.
75.       The project does not involve unusual risks regarding the attainment
c its major objectives. However, the ongoing changes of Government policies--
psrticularly the opening up of Peru's economy--while salutary in the longer
run, could create some short-term dislocations with initially lower than
uraticipated levels of economic activity. The institutional changes within
COJFTDE may also limit at the outset its processing capacity and, therefore, the
level of loan approvals in 1981. The quality of COFIDE's management and the
speedy implementation of the reorganization, however, are expected to keep the
institutional risks to a minimum, and the prospects for continuing economic
tecovery in Peru appear to be good.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
76.       The draft Loan Agreement between COFIDE and the Bank as well as the
draft Guarantee Agreemeut between the Republic of Peru and the Bank and the
Report ar.d Recommendations of the Committee provided for in Article III,
Section 4(iii) of the Bank's Articles of Agreement are being distributed to
the Executive Directors separately.



- 20 -
77.       These draft agreements conform to the normal pattern for loans for
development banking projects. The main features of the Loan and Guarantee
Agreenments are referred to in the text of this report and are listed in
Section III of Annex III. Special conditions of effectiveness would be: (i)
the signing of an agreement between COFIDE and the Government, satisfactory to
the Bank, on the mechanism to cover COFIDE's cross-currency risk; (ii) approval,
by COFIDE's Board of Directors, of an amendment of its policy statement and
operating procedures, in a manner satisfactory to the Bank, to enable it
to engage more effectively in financial intermediation; and (iii) enactment of
legislation needed to enable COFIDE to divest itself -- by December 31, 1981
and in a way satisfactory to the Bank -- of its equity investments in basic
industries.
78.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
79.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
March 19, 1981
Washington, D.C.



- 21-                                             ANEX I
Page 1 of 5
TABLE 3A
PERU - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
PERU                        REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVE GES
LAND AREA (THOUSAND SQ. KM.)                                                     - MOST RECENT ESTIHATE)
TOTAL           1285.2
AGRICULTURAL     305. 5                              HOST RECENT            MIDDLE INCOME           MIDDLE INCOME
1960  /b   1970 lb EST-MATE lb   LATIN AMERICA & CARIBBEAN          EUROPE
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                 230.0       410.0     730.0               1562.9                   2749.5
ENERGY CONSUNPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)    445.0       619.0     649.0               1055.9                   1641.4
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
TOPULATION, MID-YEAR (MILLIONS)     10.2        13.5      16.8
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 46.3        57.4      65.6                63.4                     53.9
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                      29.0
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                       57.0
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                 2090
POPULATION DENS ITY
PER SQ. XM.                        8.0        11.0      13.0                28.1                      77.2
PER SQ. DI. AGRICULTURAL LAND     33.0        44.0      55.0                81. 7                   129.5
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PrRC!rT)
0-14 YRS.                         44.2        45.0      42.9                 41.4                     30.6
15-64 YRS.                        52.0        51.9      53.4                 54.7                     61.1
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                   3.8        3.1        3.7                  3.9                     8.2
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                              2.6         2.8       2.7                  2.7                     1.6
URBAN                              4.7/        5. Q      4.5                 4.1                       3.3
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)    47.0         43.0      39.0                34.8                     22.8
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)     19.0        15.0      12.0                  8.9                      8.9
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE              3. 1j       2.9      2.8                   2.5                     1. 5
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)      ..          ..
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)   ..          ..
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)         96.0        102.0     85.0                 106.9                    113.1
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREHENTS)                  95.0         99.0      97.0               107.4                     125.3
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)         62.0         61.0     59.0                 65.6                     91.0
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE       27.0        25.0      24.0                 33.7                     39.6
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE     28.0        20.0      16.0                  8.4                     4.3
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)   48.0        53.0      56.0                 63.1                     67.8
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                             ..       122.Oje     ..                 66.5                     55.9
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                              ..         35.0      47.0                 65.9
URBAN                              ..        58.0       72.0                80. 4
RURAL                              ..          8.0      15.0                44.0
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                              ..         36.0       ..                 62.3
URBAN                              ..        52.0        ..                 79.4
RURAL                              ..         16.0       ..                 29.6
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN         2251.0/    1859.0   1556.0                 1849.2                   1030.1
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON     2205. f      738 0     745.0               1227.5                   929.4
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                           424. 0      470.0    547.0                480.3                     289. 7
URBAN                              ..        425.0
RURAL                              ..       3144.0
ADHISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED          ..         19.0       ..                   ..                      17.0
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                              4.9         4. 9/h     .
URBAN                             4.8         5. *j..
RURAL                             4. 9        4. 7/h
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROCU
TOTAL                              2.3        i.9j       ..
URBAN                              2.0         1. 7i
RURAL                              2.7         2.4/h
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                             26.0        32.1/.
URBAN                            50.7        54. 3        *h
RURAL                              4.0         2.7/h



- 22 -
ANNEX I
TABLE 3A                                         Page  2  of  5
PERU - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
PERU                           REFEREOCE GRO1UPS (WEIGHTED AVERAGES
- MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)  -
MOST RECENT              MIDDLE INCOME            MIDDLE INCOME
1960  /b    1970 /b ESTLMATE /b    LATIN AMERICA & CARIBBEAN             EUROPE
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLIENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                  83.0        107.0     110.0                   99.7                     105.9
MALE                  95.0        114.0      115.0                 101.0                     109.3
FEMALE                71.0         99.0      106.0                  99.4                     103.0
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                  15.0         30.0      52.0                   34.4                      64.0
MALE                  18.0         34.0       56.0                  33.5                      71.1
FEMALE                13.0         26.0       48.0                  34. 7                     56.9
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (% OF SECONDARY)  20.0           17.0       23.0                  38.2                      28.8
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                             34.0         40.0      40.0                   30.5                     29.4
SECONDARY                           12.0         23.0      23.0                   14.5                     26.1
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)         61.0           ..       72.0                  76.3
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           8.0         17.0      18.4                   43.0                     84.6
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAIID
POPULATION                         110.0        137.0     131.0                  245.3                     192.2
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           3.0         30. 0     38.0                   84.2                     118.5
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                     ..        124.0      96.0                   63.3                      93.0
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA   ..             ..         ..                    ..                       5.7
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)       3187.8       3909.3    4980.4
FEMALE (PERCENT)                    21.0         20.7      23.9                   22.2                     30.4
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)               53.0         45.0       39.0                  37.1                      37.0
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                  19.0         20.0      21.0                   23.5                     29.3
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                 31.3         29.1       29.2                  31.5                      40.9
MALE                                  49.2         45.8       45.3                  48.9                      55.9
FEMALE                                13.2         12. 1      12.8                  14.0                      26.2
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                1.5          1. 7       1.6                   1.4                       1.0
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   39. Oj i          .
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS  64.4/i         61.0/h
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    2.5/i          1.9/h
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    8. 0/i         7.0L/h
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 ..           ..     235.0
RURAL                                 ..           ..     180.0                  190.8
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 ..           ..     293.0                  474.0
RURAL                                 ..           ..     200.0                  332.5                    385.8
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW POVERTY
INCOIIE LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                 ..           ..      49.0
RURAL                                 ..           ..
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a   The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means.  Coverage of countries
among the indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b   Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estinate, between 1974 and 1978.
/c   1956-61;  /d 1960-65;  /e 1970-75;  /f 1964;  /g 1962;  /h 1972;  /i Personal income within labor
force.
Most recent estimate of GNP per capita is for 1979, all other data are as of April, 1980.
October, 1980



- 23 -                                                        ANNEX I
Page 3 of 5
'tFT'TffoNS OF SOoCIALINDICATt'ORS
Osr.s    1oi.o    .vot  ae dacefre  sor ot  oosa'.y    gs  th  mot tthritriv   td trliale   It shul  als  be ootedtht  theP   ma Thenettr
oaoitail  totooctt trajo   ofte _akIo tandardloed dftitivts and cocet  use  by dfeetcat e   ocleto    he dat. Th  data  r,  ae
thfts -ofut to toeslOt cr5-  of ngnitoda  ti,di-tut  t-sodo, .eO ch--ec-ote   eotunt, eaJor diff-rnot  hel.. ...o.sosttei..
TOt tfereot gocpe a,aIl1  tht sates country_gopofttahetooty at  (2) atoet.e1y geocy oith s.meohee higberea.etage  IFoome thee the testry greap
of te to  .tt .otvfsstfe"ayelOofo01Oytes  atayoboe  "stdloOes   tttAfto  ed tiddls test" Is ottees be-os   f  eeae
rns.t buff of tbeh   urotic a geo-y h.e dat  toor a todi-a-o  flestecveaso   s etos   sn   h  fodte-se  deysedo on the avaliaility ef
date toO  no ot  nifrn   --to  soot be  oelodt  ecletieg onaogas of use tndlatoe to anothee.  Thane ay.rageace rsely .sef.  feI  aspasieg she tales
of ss i.dlcatos ate  ins asco  tbs ....stry and sefeseoc. grotys.
LAND1 AORPA (tho..sad aqAtc.)                                                                 roosltilnl per PhYsoclas -dOyte             iridst By seamer 55 p-aatisg pay-
bee       oa  onefte  ascocnrieiog food stat ae  e-an  .at.se.                          elnta. qoal led   es ameIta          .cebft.       iesiyftl
eatotuo      atint   fagiunse   tanedtsossl r yeattp                                PoylalI   ee NorsI    Person    Popelatios ditided by saber ef prastisiag
foe e..y.  yaPo. , P.t .  nahnInf,  che:a,a    rt  lIe fallot; f977 data.                   saeadfmae          'auts aota, P ..oti .f  ....e, e.d ...iem  acess
Peselstlo  seer  ..esital Bed -  toa.1sbe   a   orrel - Pepaletim (hand1,
lOP FEf  A,-,0, "dl)) - Ghf pee cat It  -ae ates  attest stekar pelo-, eel-                      tbehen  and eusal) dltdd hy thir e-p-etie- ambeat  beh-pitel beds
_.uatod  ra non  c_t-t to n-etted os W.'Itld BoeAlla utlo 19 77-279 heS); lInT90,             avilblahi  Is ypblis and yeiVate g..srel ta.d epesialted boapita1 cad es-
ff77. un   1970 d..a                                                                          habilitatis tetae.Bopitala are satblihbeeta pseasettly staffed
~N'Pq~ONSU101TF 'F'   A": A   A..!  -..pti- f F- i.l .. rgy(-1          by an loses ss physiIan.  Eanebliehssts pr-vidlg primeipally o-tediel
__ _9  _OOO'I U   O   01'     noo_oc_ylte    seea   se:  oo                                     fees are so.F.t i-oloded.  Rsaf. heapitels, howevr, irle des health sad  edinal
ooc  igufe. pe"")r s.not roi an Pndbde-9      1eea  adterera  alo                     enem           eraetly staffed By a physlitic  (hoe by a medisa  esict
c"d  i    tlte.to  Ite   quols   e   epe;1f,17,  n   90nss Idoifs  ens.) whifh  ff.e is-patiebt e                                                   . e .sdatit  sad preside 
dane.                                                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~limited ease  ef sedloal fasilintei. F, Pee etnicicl   rpaspes  cease bep. -
F-)PULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS                                        t-11~~~i  islode tWtle principal cease   ae d apenialisd haspitls. cad easel
O.;Pt'lbblii ht 01101 OfATlTfCO                                                      hoepltelefeed  scrotal  esytnal19sod 1d7eal sad 19ncalhy  siate_.
Tent fcc.aits, Ad-sartmsltesl    Asof  oly1;  909  100, oO  tYt      Admi_sists peOer H.itel Bed - Tonal scaher 5  adeisi.se to ec dianfhsram
dra,  p,feesf b.t.t11p...i.;                                                                  I-  hoepinlel  dtrided hy nhs nshet of beds.
diffe-ee   snte          f urban  -area  say affect  -oparbility of dent.                OSN
_-ongocttotot; 19601, 1970, ted 19708 den.                                                A-vereaSi       f Ntem .t . stahtd (Peeoesthc ed    toa,. aches, cad neal-
frns~~~el'tr Pojoetlooc ~~~~~~A ho..ehold  .tosinet  ef a gesop ef iaddeeidoale the share leis  qatet
21'95aIt  to  ear110   C- ts t Peyolatios prejeceton  ore haeo   901                        and thoir,_i malt    leal.  A bsordee en ledger may or may son be i.saded I
rota) Peytoie- ho ag.td eon and rhafe  _ritfy and ferIlity rates,                         the ho....bhld fee teiattti-I peeposee.
7,oeto   etatee  comotlIty  ..ne .oylo  fee..eel   eu                          Average tebec of pees-.-  pe  ram  ses0 r.ad easel - A-ecg  ae
Too  ltseroeneat bIrth  Oetot                i thb ocno'be npe   nee                      hr Po aeesynres  to all ashen, cod so: .1   npied seaeesissal
iee.,ut  lslsftt   sesa-o..  s.iahiltifo   on 77.1 y-noa   The yara-              d-ellings, sasp-tnl-ly.  Dsellings enofude r             _-psssts  nrtnatcs sad
fatseta  forutlity rain alto ihon thet  l--sssolgdeis  su                                    piod peets.
ferreilite u_toniog to inco_  lseyl ted tans f"abl  Planeig psftae.                     Ae_e  ts Elsetisitos     (osroSot ef deelliste) -tnatl.  rban, cad steal-
tEoh --oter  lv thss aselgeed ass of ehess else  -etb-etloo of se-tfty                    Tes...neis..al doellings olnh elsetrielny Is Iitiog qeartees as per ...teas
cod -ot'WIcy tre-da oce projection yrpe...                                                s  ztotl, -bha, and steal dsslIinge rsyeilvely.1y
Stnttesaot   eudntLcT - To A stationery ypePlailte there Is no growth sit-
tie sleeth o-e  -e eqel Ithls  eth ease. ad also the age  --retee so-    EDUCATION
votes  reto       Thin it ahesnod only afior fertility rores deeltes t.                Adju-tsd Eorell btee  Rtios
etcosy -osent IC-s  of onus net r-y-d-etise. cons,1,ate se.b g-nrotioc                 Pestpehe   -          Weil.ml  an  femle - frees tonal, male end fsealsi'
totesseultas lsolf  ototY.  The  tatitant.oy PopulatIo  tis  tearElbmsen of al  ae  ant she petarytes   sps nges ofr-ePet
set' atedo  etc beebe sftbe pro) mcteo ohas-nrietise  nryaeae                               priatryseo-aspylte;  -eo1a1y  intoe  eh'ldeeaedBl
tolse Toe   010, tod ohn rat  of dobin  of i fnityes  to osylats-                         y=nr  hen adjsned for diffseent leagnhs of primary eda...sisa; fine
mart level.,.. octots etch ust-er-a  ede..tisneer.JIet may sensed lOB p.sest
Ote   ot.   re  culetn  a  oate     Te  ea  aonatsttty   oplal          ite  seat peytle  r   elws  ahmr  th          ffinial aebel at.
sloe  'a  be     ..sah d.                                                                 Sec...dary school - total, male ad f-sas1        Cmpsda   hes.medc
PXyent  oei                                                                              du tisqnrstlatfryceof appo-vd peluasy ieeeatlem;
Per  qk,b. - ted-yea..p. oto   pee squars hifen..ter (175 heotaros) of                        yes-ides goseral, r_stissaT   r isashetraitig isetetto"ben  tee Pp-si
tona  sotaual  of 12 ne 17 years  og e; omreepsndensssse  s  geaseely
peero  bo  Coieaollce    apund as above for  gartultena1 Iaed                                  _neldyd.
osly.V..Teetietl...                                                                                      ltts       P('sset of ...soder")-Vonislgtnte
Peyuf nIse  ae Otrenese(psre-e)    Children 7 1-14 years)  wokn-gt71                       sld   nebsteal ldoserial, o  other prooem  ebe   pstsldpe
no pren-),..ed rsetired15 yaesad evesr) syronosafidpo    70desly or as depart..ts of a...ondany  intieio
toete, 'o', 1h71, aod 1979 dana.                                                            P,Erl-ta.sh tseaie - yeityoe. and esesadey - rtota  tsdestse secaled L.
Pecaso   r_ht tot  (sor-est) - total - Aensal grosst Fane. of nens.l nOd-                  petmary an  Iee_sdary levls Otided Iby nabers oft. te tts is she
psar psyalattor  for 1950-tO, 196f-70, asd 1970-78.                                            eoeoemytedns   lves
Poebote  ees   atan  (easc-s   - erbas - Anneal grnn  r-ant  of orbas ypn-                     Ade,   isrc  eat  Ip....t) - Lltnsateado1ts  (able to read sad -ins)
fo6seto19fO, 19bO-I, ad 197f-0                                                       aspsenaem  tona  ade1  pmpeiatims aged 11 yees and over.
feds  io.- Oats(pear sh--sod) - A-Ioa  lees hiiehs per oht5ttd ef  ind-yee
pryolaties; 1900, 19'0, toO 1970 dat. .CONSUMPTINo
trot'. leh Rate  ta  theeseed; - Atne.. 1drcht yer th--a,d of mid-year                      P,sses  at(senseadpsoafs)-Pssee  se   epissee
popoleei-; 1700, 0970, eod 198  ot,                                                          ar  eate  les  ntes  tgb peeop         ;   tlele blats. e-sP               o
Oren...  odu  .r,R-aes- Fnrogc na..e  of1 da-,h-rsse                  il  boar tnlnre o-hilts..
t,etsu   epoouo    etoFfeeeyofee'ete  ag-y                                .li    Ie-     Rdsfeies(e   hotd Pssolaslee)    All tye P                   f.   niee  o   ai
I'll.rsso   oset"Ci;fe-seaeon   soOt   e10,1970, te-d 1977.                              bradatsn          bgnral pole  e  nheeand ef peaeln   ssss   ai
Paci fue'-  - cobbe.,.nalinoooo)-  nstlt-o   of scthapt-O                               es....d rso-i-e- it  --anele  ced it peers  he  reiseat f sadie  e
ot  lorth-ou-irc  d-i-om   uedon ausylce   of calol lat0yl n   prgra.                       oat is effect; data foe rennt pears may son ha esapasebl  since seen
_t)4..its.lfj-ss            roesciof nAsriadnoe)-Postgeaftasoied                               -torieje   abolished lt-enetmg.
00e  ,7zhl- aal g eg  (lb-of Toast) obsos eIloh--ctoui droi-sato                       TR f.esItFs(e   bato    seai    - TVreter  fine besadnese ft
of1orvs   es  it uau  ag&--p gccl publie yes thousand ppaletiss; etlees Ieie..ased TV. e-siter
fIll t,5  l:TieTlhN                                                      I soesterisa,m-d in year  then regienretite of 1   an  wee. is  fftas.
a_OT`_~~~~~" IMI-T I 3N                                                N...~~~~~~so,paoee fi .ef .i . (per ,hesan  popalatios) - Shoe  th  aveag  si-sal-
lodn o  F ud    odoneepo  fote1969-71!0100)-ldno   e   ayraee                             nta  "dtp   eseltteetvppe.dfidasprtodisa1 pat-'
Ito of oil food toonudltesa.   Poodetnioeoocltdsaessd  esd teedI td  lato,  denoted primarily nor. reseding geeslnes    Is is neeideced
is or -o'odao pea  hot. i      feeaodittiencve,     rlno   geae.  esoto                      ob   daily" if it appeare at leas t foe- imsa=           ek
ittadt Iegs  obeoc ass sdibl  od retals euitoloo   e.g. cofelo is-A-. Ansai tnsdam.. pe   Sa Ptin  per Tetre- a..ed on she  tebe- at
te aostud) . hAg~egass prodoctiso of etch cen..ery Is base.d 00                      nibi   ed   ulgte  er   eleigomsaset   riei    ta
_ertetel soerge predno-  psies esiabt.; 1961-65, 97i, and 1970 dat.                         ad  atl sis
Pss tyjlta step)-  -i casisa (toeeni9 of cetuiresets   - fosyted lees.d.bi                            i
t-reo   -ot-lent of oct feed  _aplio Tavalhei    _'unry per sopita                    LABOR0 FORCE
Pay day .  Aretleble soppliot competes d-metie p-ed-tio,  iperc  lest..                 Tesaf Labor Peos (thesd) -                   "eoo Isa     a-ti'a perse"' * i-nldts
qostilstee  -sd is food preeein,ad lessee In dietoblbaies.  Reqeire-                     7etiie   nvrossutieaesnesaei;10,11   a
toots, errsas i        lne y PAt1 bes..denphysio.Etol t_eds for norma  -toi-              1978 data.
iytd te,ftt _jhIigeectmatlt..enp-ttus   rudy Ottighnt. age                         PIa(sen) -,Petl  labor totes en pesoe..tage of ntal.  lb-e fares.
S_ e   Ooebro o..f pepoleco-s  ted allowing 10 pen--t for sets cc                                          Latneoo(esot      tae  fosee In fario. osey    ess   n
hoocebo1d 1nvf1; 1961-t5, 1970. ted 1977 dana.                                            tisbieg as P-esto  oftnllbrfet;10,170ad17   ae
Por setro oeplo  f prte.in  ga  pr dcv.        P.eiec-otnot ef per enpita             nutyfe et   labo  frte1 to.. sif.-  1tn60ren9i0m. san1f78mdntes
tee ouyy   vi fed per dy.  Te   uply tf feed is defited aa abate.  Os-             end e1estrisity, eater med gas an persce.stge of tinsel labor fae;1900,
qtct'c_neoia Ifor all osoe:.toiso cetaliob.ed by UifA proide foe mitimu                   1970 aod 1978 data.
t.laceee  Of toast of tonal ph,t  ye fdy  e  20 g'll, ofh  tisa1 sod              Pertisisatnos Bas   eeat  - nte,. male, and femal  - Penitopastes er
yco   otc,t   hc,  9gaaselreafta   oti.Isnsed                                             anivisy rates as  -optatd.a  tonal,-mal, cd femle labor tesea
.-tma  profe1  am as ae gefethe  sd  propose.d bp FAOgi  tbe ThrId                       Peettgeofnnf   al   n   eae  eoaia  felae   e-ep -sivel
World rood OS-ry; 1901-05, 1970 asd 1977 dIt..ae-e i91 at17reoce o   athe ,T poplai-.Ien  Ie    s    end        e   ai
riond fro  teimaleasd yeme  is osco  me day;1961-65, 197  te S177 datt.   isnmetyeoo    ai      et   fpopela-is  under 15 cad B5 sad eve
10119 (case f'fjtootatty  fate loss  h...atd, - AbsuoI danbe Peard Ihoadt           t   ith  toa  lebest aee
oge  ru  I-lhfr,  e  blden  enthie age  resop; fee sea  doeItpisg  -son
Irise dote deoios.dfoTliesbles; 1900, 1970 end 1977 date..tNCOME DISTRIBUTION
Penenige  f Piote testes (botb is .neh ad lied) - Re-i-ad by eloee
5 preonfeehatm 20 p.essts, poorest 20 pernest, end possA   er
tile EfopoSate u  Birtth  yss  't-Fevrae nebet of pesos  ft fife re-iting                      ofhaeds,
Ittani M.toci te Rate (oar th.n.d          A unseal deatbe of infest  undes ens Tear    POE7  TARGET GOUyPi
of toe fee ibh--o  Ilee bisohle.                                                                                         I-ien   h.on   een   on   Level (BUBSeocna    - sbs  cadceei
NOess  of ~epesl- tol  ubrb, cog rusl  sith r..e...ablseo-ee   t. safe                       nnnrfi-sally adeq.... diet Plea essential ems-feed esqairsets is sat
toe _sr soyp (sneledee treated corfaoewetes eruisndbtunetemiested                            off rdable.
at,reesac   us .that fa   rtra  bsesle  a'pring,adaeiaywel)t                                Esnt-td Rslatios Poveety I.o-m  Levl(.         $peepn)-ahemad55 
pseoeeftheir esprne   eeeie.   esssaomoleiral reaiepvrty tom                                                            - lve  is em-third of avrge pee o"ite
foustctosotsdyoeeleeatdsos   are the 200mense  frrho..a.b                       eeoc   tes   s  O.oecy   ihslee   s  eidte   the mora
eoedoa   t  rn  olthte se...bl    esn   f tat tes. Isrrl trace                      leve  a ith ej   fssneto  highee sea at o  lsia8ie I ss aeas
oeancsnbleoocersneultt, ~iply that ehe httsonif . er  .es.es  ef the he-ehbld             fatloctid P-slte    ae   heoaPvrty tease  Lea1 (Cee-sa   - sebs
et eec  "ea  to apeud a ditsyssyset isnte pool ef eh  day is fatehteg the                    tedrual-  soem   o  porelceis  (ahncdeal)sece"hesepn.
lurl' te-bart  pol  (ttl,ubt,ad  ua)  e d by  05c
dityc..aI as Per-atngee of theirssmpeotitve  popolsitoes.  fEo-eta die-tast  ca.-                                                       dSImnia1 Deta Diviesa
Pa""  say iocluds the co1etnion tad dieps..ef,  jtis'o   inbtou   -nemn,tcoic  Atalsi me d Peejeatt.se flep-ssas
of b-um -t uoent cod _se.e.nesIs byeart 00r   ytene  tohb  sea of                                                                           Orttber 19800
Pit PTnVi.c .td eiaileeteelato






-24-
Page 4 of 5
PERU
ECNONOIIC DEVELOPMENT DATA
1977
A C T U A L                                                                      P R O J E C T ED                                  GROIT RATE  ( P...)                  R of
1965            1970           1975           1976           1977           1978 j/        1979 Z/       1980            1985                         1965-76   1976-78    1978-85                 -
NATIONAL ACCOUNTS
(.eill-ioc of Us dollars at 1977 prices)
Gros Domestic Prsdost                           9046.7         10759.9       13403.2        13718.9         13639.6       13795.6         14247.6       14685.5        18695.9                          3.9        0.3        4.4                 100.0
Gatsi  fros Terms of Tr-d.                      -610.9           130.0        -246.9         -179.4             0.0        -186.3           467.9         804.4          501.2                           .          .           .                   0
Gross Domestic Income (GDY)                    8435.8          10889.9       13156.3        13539.5         13639.6       13609.3         14715.5       15489.9        19197.1                          4.4        0.3        5.0                 100.0
Imports                                        184o.2           2190.1        2985.8         2697.7          2706.8        1868.3          2135.8        2742.2         4240.8                          3.5      -16.8       12.8                  19.8
opPorta                                        2314.3          2616.8         1906.9         1908.8          2129 5        2355.1          2846.8        2655.3         3136.9                         -1.7       11.1        8.2                  15.6
Eaporte, Torso of Trade Adjeeted               1703.4           2746.8        1660.0         1729.4          2129.5        Z168.8          3314.6        3459.7         3638.1                          0.1       12.0        7.7                  15.6
Resource Gop,Tsrms of Trade Adjsted (-:eorplos) 136.8          -556.7         1325.4          968.3           577.3        -300.5         -1179.2        -717.5         -602.7                           .          .                                 2
Total Cooesuptin                                6605.5          8735.3       11339.7        11766.6         12172.2       11505.3         11588.3       12392.3        15183.5                          5.4       -1.1        4.0                  89.2
Invastomot                                     1967#1           1597.9        3142.0         2741.2          2044.7        1803.5          1947.9        2380.1         3410.9                          3.1      -18.9        9.5                  15.0
Dowestie Soviogo                                1830.3          2154.6        1626.c         1772.9          1467.4        2104.0          3127.2        3097.6         4013.6                         -0.3        8.9        9.7                  10.8
P/ prslimieoy
PRICER IN IJS OLLARS
(1977 = 100)
Eaport Price Iodec                               32.9             46.5          87.4           90.6           100.0         101.3           142.4
Imprit Price lodee                               44.7             48.3         100.4           95.7           100.0         110.0           122.3
Terms of Trade Lodex                              73.8           105.0          87.1           98.7           100.0          92.1           i16.4
A=Ual Average Eac4aage Rats (Slaes per 8)         26.8            38.7          40.8           57.4            83.81        156.3           224.6
OUTPUT, LABOR PORCE AND PRODUCTIVITY IN                                    GNP by Sector                                                            Labor Force                                                      Labor Produetivity
1970 PRICES                                  ID Nil. of US Dollars        Percent of Tetl                  -ro-t- Rate      ID Thoaada                  Perc.nt of Total              frosob Eats                    ia. US Dohrs          X of Av          arP (kosth Rate
1970             1979        1970            1979               1970-79         1970        1971                           19797-7                              1970              1979         1970    1979  I97-7f9
Agrioulture                                   1534.2           1536.6        17.3           13.9                 0            .2011.9     22.4            48.0            40.8              1.1                762.6             691.4        36.1    31.9   -1.1
Irdustry                                     3226.3           4476.5         36.5           38.0                 3.7           769.1    '1005.3           18.4            18.5              3.0               4194.9            4452.9       198.6  205.4    0.7
Servio.s                                     4084.8            5780.6        46.2           49.0                 3.9          1407.6        12 983.6                      40.7              5                                   26i5.2       137.4  120.5   -1.2
Total/Average                                                 1419.?                                                                                                     100.0                                                  2167.7       100.0  100.0   '&T
CENTRAL GOVERNMENT FINANCE                                                                                                                                             Projected
(" percert of Currect GDP)                   1965             1970         1975            1976                 1977          1978        1979           1980                             -1982
Current Roveou                                  13.2             14.6        18.0           13.4                13.5            18.5        16.6          19.8             19.4            19.5
Curreet Ropeoditore                             12.4             12.1        14.4           14.8                16.9            15.7        14.o          16.0             16.7            17.2
Correot SRviP6o                                 o.8               2.5        -0.4           -1.4                -3.4            -1.2         2.6           3.4             2.7              2.3
Capital Ecpeoditure                             3.9               3.7         4.5            4.5                 3.5             3.1         3.9           3.9             3.9              3.9
Fat-oial Aiseitoo.e (Net)                        1.0              0.5         2.3            1.8                 3.0             0.4        -0.2           3.4              a.a.            a.a.
CURREliT EXPENDITURE DlTAI1I                                   Actual                                                        DETAIL ON                                 19772       v     t Pi-
(mA percent of total Curreot Espeod.)        1968              1973        1976            1977                 1978         PURLINSECTOR                             USi illien% i Totl
DN2S2YMUIT PROGRAM
Educatiso                                       30.6             27.9        22.9           18.o                16.1
Realth                                          9.0               6.3         6.2            4.7                 6.0          Agriculture                               1262.2             19.6
Agricultur-                                      3.6              4.4         1.8            1.3                 3.4          Ted.etry, Touri_m  ad Mieieg               1375.1            21.3
Other Economic Services                         3.2               4.0         5.2            3.2                 2.7            o-rgy                                    1794.4            27.8
G(;par l Services (ind, defense)               46.4              42.7        46.9           54.1                45.2          Treasport sad Coms-icmtioa                  892.4            13.8
ICterest oD Debt                                5.4              11.3        10.8           15.1                24.1          Socia1 mod Lcaul Interest Projects         1128.3            17.5
Other                                            1.8              3.5         6.2            3.5                 2.5
Totel Curront Eupeoditorsa                   100.0            1           100.0          100.0               1070.0          Total                                     MET2.i4.0
KOMEC AND CREDIT                              1973             1974        1975            1976                 1977          1978        1979
TMilliics of SDoes outatasdiog
at the eud of period)
No  ey asd Qoaoi-MHoey                        98268           119996      141766          166296               220453        321200      615699
Sak Credit to Pblic Sector                  27234             26898       49711          101399               198854        287700      212129
BReal Credit to Private Sector                73189            84512      108234          134536               173772        239300      379509
Mosey so peroect of GDP                        25.0             24.3         22.6           20.0                 19.3          17.2        18 6
Coneceor Price Codes io SC1 6 (1977=100)    37.5              43.9         54.3           72.4                100.0         157.0       264.7
Ansua1 perceatege chang is:
Co-somIr Price Indec in Solea               9.5             16.9         23.7           33.5                 38.o          57.8        67.7
banls Credit to Public Seotor              53.7             -1.2         84.8          104.0                 96.1          44.7       -26.3
Brsk Credit to Private Sector              27.7             15.5         28.1           24.3                 29.2          374         58.6
LC ID
Mar0h    1981






2CORA   1-RI.A   NP .0080                      2472.       14973         ACTUAL302                                                                                         PIAJ8A0C694
-IS240292    l)                           112.       19.0         023        322        22.          2693.41270.1I            269.2                            3915.8          7885.2          23985.4
RoTor.. AA602A. 2ROAD0UA   -2   56.0     - 52.2      -634.2    ~~~~~~~~    ~~~~~~~-6357.9    .883.4  .556.6  329.8  2447.2                          591.3           819.2         -2036.9
N.s  -ot,  oso.bot                                 -62.9       -,186.9     -12.5  ~      -203     -366.4      .w26.4       -577.7      .877.3                           -0956           11.7-1871.
Tot Illo,anAOop..ooo                ~~~~~~~~~~ ~ ~~- 74.2  -26.  -1758   -224.2    -324.6       -371.9       -526.3      -46333-457                                        66..114
t ,o   oosmo   om                                 46.        -6.         -   .7      - 6.3      -  20        - 5b.5       - 6:..     -2..0                            -1417 .9        -157?1 .7       - 729.
Rot OrosoT TooooCo,o                   ~~~~ ~ ~~~~ ~~~~~39.6 6.  45.21     49.4       57.9         56.          56.8         1C32.5                                         249.2             1.
A&20A5. 05 C4.o.st AAOA62O         - 32.7     ~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~-9192.6  -8075  -2538.8    -51.9  -96.         -61.9       663.9                           - 70.2          -243.3           -688.
0. -2no  Po.0  '5.OOO5.2                                       49.4       243.2       365.7      176.8         56.1        23.0        62.2                              2.             76.2             5.
DloArm...os                         ~~~~~~      ~~~~~~    ~~~~~~216.2.  665.4  2278.0  6066.2    624.4  1626.4  841.8   639.3                            1490.6          1970.6.         472.2
6090ti o-                                     -1324       -364.,9    -36.         -259.5    -305.41       .46.4       -2460       .676.2                           -85o.A         -246.           -199.
8.1 IRU'                                            409.6     3625         79.        23D 3.                   1.           9.          6.                              596.6           424.9275.
2016o,ooooos                      20.6        6~~~ ~ ~~~~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~7.8  16.5  84.-5  87.-9  74.3        6i.8        0.099                                           282365
O051000A.0                        - 56.8~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0:  -38. - 67. - 56.7     - 5.           74.4      -75.3          8.D                             89.           -181.9          -233.4
No-t AP,00                                        -30.          9.          07         27.        627        -02          -11.2          3.2                              4.2             5.93           68.1
llrs-smo-o CR021.2                     75~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~.7  -64.  243.5 -5,       -32.         - 97 5       -75.5        2  6.350C0
206., Coobool (0.0)                   -66.~~~~~~~~~~~                     ~~84  -91.6  -9. I5.6  C350802                     5.0                                              6               0
ChRog  xol..   (=o.o)  /-5.4                                  - 33        -282.6       530.2      522.4        349.       - 2o       -589-859.9                                        -262.C           28
Loo  fIso-- o  .6o  6 0,o 9                     406.3      463.6       693.        265.2    -3505.3       -750         -632         995.9                           182.             A43            44.
-7-5  -&23..  95 9                        WA ~~~~~~P0.32165 3            4"65.35At.( p.)               p,.o    PTo.
A86C8006121 02121            213/        ),~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~3/  297'  2~~~~~975  1976   1977         19          33/97                            1988           4433      2972-76      1767           3863 43/
75.2        85-.4      96. 64 65.5           229.3        283.4        262.9       096.6                            274.6           66G6.7    36.7        - 13.8         22.3      6.8         8.
Ollop Osoola, AooAR                     6~~~ ~ ~~~~~ ~~~~~~5.9  43.3  46. 4 64.5     126.4        245.2         90.1       157.7                            29.              0.        79         - 56           2.         .           .5
P 1,-02, 124          .po-tio...                     37.3        47.1        99.4       267.4      762.6        268 .9        35.0        0                               936            40I       62.69       --8.4           24.      28.0          .
bot.P.02o.olo ORO2.                   ~~~~~~      ~~~~~~     ~~334.6  339.6  561.1  962.6  41.2    2. 2..7                 78.                              9D. 28.                   625.86          . 63.8              23.2        31.
0.02502 oA0d.                         ~~~~~~      ~~~~~~     ~~~~~197.4  327.7  469.2  750.0  675.2  462.6     4558.       678.9                            925.           20239      38.0o         17.6          2.3.     17.4        25.3
201010,0100 026 500-0005to,7 gold     256.~~~~~m7  299.       638.5       266.2      216:.5      47.           2.         31I                                4.             6.         .            18          2.         76         1.
Tosol ACOdO 2f.o.l.)             263.2      1632.9      2~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~928.9  230.  0116.0  2288.0  21680.5    2892.7                           3235.'8         6464.6      6.         - 3.7          22.1      883         8.89
80-or  Rsoo290.9                                                367.1       553.4       631.9      528.6        536.4        469.6      566.3                            880.2          162.8      2.M              . 17.                97         1.
Too.: 05020 ood 000-02050,. .00.10..  6202.9  1416.0  2462.3  3022.2    2628.0  2690.4      2270.1      2619.2                           3915.8          7883.20-   24.2        - 11.28          2a2.24.2   1  162.0l 1W. 100.0
PoR2.ool                      229.5       637.7       222.8 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~':558  177.5  279.0  691.2    237.0                            188.5           283.7    - 5.2           4.0          s.8       8.4 
foT..o                                              49.         636         SoS         5.        16203983                   68.2       244.8                           163.4           288.4    19282.064                               .          3.8
006., .054.21150001 g0088             ~~~~~~      ~~~~~198.6  223.7  -357.1  385.8    204.0        276.6        258.6      216295                                            3.         .           25.8          22.3      2.3         7.3
1~~~:~~~  N;:~~~~  12~~~~:~~~  I~~~:~~~  ~~  ~    5                                                                             4:38       -a3 32          18:5     22.4        15.6
161r ojoosal.                         289.~~~~~~~~          ~ ~~~~~~~~3 2252  229  236,3  318.6   335.7        296.6      421.                             963.0           757.6    13.9             3.5         24.3    15.7          8.7
-622o.'doood-8ioi...                            65        15.2        28.2        37.3       53.3         52.2        279.8       665.7                            797.89/        1509.9_/  69.2           83.7         35.5      2.4        173
NRlfoCop, A4R3.7                                             65.2        656.5      666.2      135.2        221.2        3306.1      672775.2                                        1869.1    42.0           57.5         26.1     12.3        21.4
Tooob RRR2,       965.0      1611.8      1363.2      1292.6    2359.5       1725.6       6946.6      9474.2                           3636.5          7536,2      9.5          29.5         22.4     88.7        88.64 .  836.57536-  M195  .14  8-.  86.
800-002000 00051020                    22~~~~~~~~~~         ~ ~~~7.9  235.6  325.  383.5  385.2    462.2       559.3       591.8                            67o.6          1168.4    i6.7            8.2          14.3    19.3         13.4
Tot-  god.d Ao-1020t r.o.0262.9                                1327.2      26286.2     1674.1    6744.6        2237.8       2399.9     40666.4                          4563.2           8704.,    22.9           17.3         22.2   102.0        120.2
120 000257 T17                                     1972        1933        6974     9753     1976    332Z       2978        I979                                                                           oo
2880                                                 2          49.0        26.0       6     174.2    60.0        8.8      171.0                                        1972            19713       1934          1933         0976      2977     1978 -   1938
202                                     2    ~     ~     ~     ~    ~ ~ ~~~               ~    ~ ~        ~    ~    ~ ~~~~~~~ 0  C  2 DA    2  0  Moo.0 MD 1172TRNPAI 88  o.rod82)5
24o   -t-1.00o.                                   6           6.6        25.9      42.   63.4    42.6         35.5        73.5
1000r0.o200                        200.1       5~~~~ ~~~~~~~        ~~~~~58.5  541.3  367 8.3 455.2    276. 558        To.:~ lobl  - -500'1   (002 mod
011020C                                             65.4       217.        t38.8      86.21  139.2   399.5       733        226.6        of 06. ppod                    6247.2          1431.2      221.5         3020a8      3666.3    451.3  903.0          1:.3
Poooollol 100510001000                261.a       656.1       588.1    432.9  792.    18.6         172.9       86~.                 D=loio  Oolb..         1538.2          2552.1      3434.6        4162.2      5559.1    63.6      749
Rooo.o                                  o     ~    ~      ~    ~~        ~ ~~ ~ ~~~~               ~      ~    ~~~~~ o  D  I  .3  0  0 bli2. 020  ooo- 8.                  -398.2    -0430.9         .4407       -455.2   -653.3-749.5-14
SoSol 881 IR.,                                      668       6297.0      6318.2     9407.6  1862D.7   128.6    501.2      2850.3       I6o.... -t52.2 -431                                        -132          -969        -19.           6.      1.      5.
Ro0             .00D.852100  2102  2080  815                                                   15.             29.5        23.6          26.3        26.       36.-6    31.2    oa.6'
MD                                                                                                                   Db~~~~~~~~~~~~~~3.7 r  ot R._o.'w2.               s.9         3.4           2.           .s        48       6,8.     6.
002102002                                 234.7            4.0                                       28102 Rarslo./Aost. Noseolb.       25.5             28.9        24.4          22.7        23.1      35.6    43.4      37.5~~~~D.ft,  I5.  289  1.4   2.7  3.1 35 6~5.  7.
100-0000                                                                    436.9           41 .6                                      !81912815ot)
2Ppll.-                                                                    722.3          :2.0                                        T      _.0 Tota 00/oa80             5.2              6.5         5.2           6.252                 5.3      3.       76
Floo-oo  0o55-oo  (16. boodo)                                             2409'.2           2200800                                                             M.sI.fo.  17 0.4          27.8        29.5          24.6        '2.4      13.9    13.9      15.'5
02101 P421  1.021                                                          5952.5         216.0                                         10so00588POP02 N 6 
lob., 061.7 2160                       0.0.                                                       2264oo loob./I.po,1. 2102. NPR2    25.4            4s.3        43.6          56.6        33.9      o8.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'-D:    ~UFA'~~5.447.  438   3.6  3498.3  62.34.3
8.5t Toof,/ool  (2.l. 5082    8.8                  69.2        2623          22.2         16.59    25.9I     6.5    7,.6
otTooo/o..o D.-v.-.oo      34.9            46.4        62.8o          60.2        489       49.      11.2    97.5
FIblE  ON P202C DEBT
0022o2/oa            bb             3.5             2.          D.            14          22        2.5      3.0      3.5
D=k s  l0/2PR   01b.         3.5             63          0.6            24          72        2.5      38       5.5
TRD .0/16D                      62.5             9.2          5.9           4.6         4.0       3.6      s.:4     4.88
Hoo  80-0  001/0D                  12.5             9.2         s9            6.6         2.2       3.8       ).4     6.R
CR00 1bt R.i.2./Dobt 201.           8.6             4.2         4.2           4.2         4.5       3.4      5.6      3.3
Rak  oP 2140 O.P9/2.tM .         8.6             4.1         4.2            4.2         4.5       3.4      3.6      .33
9/  .5 OArt..
t26o 00  ooo t.   flo..  .bso2  52.. 4o1.oto -fPot.o0  0000100.t  -1122.  -                      .t
0oCID    90






- 26 -
ANNEX II
Page 1 of 6
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN PERU
A.   STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS (as at January 31, 1981)
--- US$ million ---
Amount
Loan                                                              (less cancellations)
Number   Year            Borrower             Purpose              Bank      Undisbursed
25 loans fully disbursed                                          268.2
949      1973       Republic of Peru         Education             24.0          8.6
1025     1974       Republic of Peru         Roads                 26.0          0.7
1196     1976       Republic of Peru         Transport             76.5         48.4
1215     1976       Republic of Peru         Power                 36.0         11.2
1281     1976       CENTROMIN                Mining                39.7         23.3
1283     1976       Banco Vivienda           Urban Dev.            21.6         13.6
1358     1977       COFIDE                   Industry              35.0         15.8
1403     1977       Republic of Peru         Agriculture           25.0         24.1
S-11     1978       Republic of Peru         Preinvestment          8.8          4.1
1693     1979       Republic of Peru         Program Loan         115.0          0.7
1771     1980       Republic of Peru         Irrigation            56.0         56.0
1806     1980       Petroleos del Peru       Petroleum Prod.       32.5         32.1
1812 1/  1980       Republic of Peru         Rural Dev.            15.0         15.0
1888     1980       Republic of Peru         Preinvestment          7.5          7.5
S-19 1/  1980       SIDERPERU                Technical Asst.        5.0          5.0
Total                                                      791.8         266.1
of which has been repaid                                160.9
Total now outstanding                                      630.9
Amount sold                            18.3
of which has been repaid            18.3                  -
Total now held by Bank                                     630.9
Total undisbursed                                                        266.1
1/   Not yet effective.



- 27 -
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 6
B.   STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS (as at January 31, 1981)
Type of        Amount in US$ million
Year               Obligor                      Business       Loan   Equity   Total
1960       Industrias Reunidas, S.A.          Home Appliances  0.3               0.3
1960       Luren S.A. and
Ladrillos Calcareos, S.A.       Bricks            0.3              0.3
1960       Durisol del Peru, S.A.             Building
Materials         0.3              0.3
1960;1962  Fertilizantes Sinteticos, S.A.  Fertilizers          4.1              4.1
1962;1968  Cemento Andino. S.A.               Cement            2.2     0.2      2.4
1964;1967  Cia. de Cemento Pacasmayo          Cement            1.1      0.5     1.6
1975       Southern Peru Copper Corp.         Mining           15.0             15.0
1978       Cia. de Minas Buenaventura         Mining            2.0      0.5     2.5
1980       Cia. Minera San Ignacio
de Morococha, S.A.              Mining            2.7      0.5     3.2
Total gross commitments                             28.0      1.7    29.7
less cancellations, terminations,
repayments and sales                            13.9      0.4    14.3
Total commitments now held by IFC                   14.1      1.3    15.4
Total undisbursed                                    2.2       -       2.2



- 28 -
ANNEX II
Page 3 of 6
C.   PROJECTS IN EXECUTION l/
Loan 949-PE: Education Project; US$24.0 million Loan of December 5, 1973;
Effective Date: March 5, 1974; Closing Date: June 30, 1981.
lhe project has experienced serious difficulties and is now about
40 months behind schedule. In the first 3-1/2 years after effectiveness,
there was little progress owing to delays in establishing and staffing the
project unit, weaknesses in the unit itself and a long delay in adopting the
educational reform which was to determine curricula. This last difficulty was
resolved -with the reform's implementation in 1977, but project execution was
still hampered by weaknesses in the project unit and cumbersome bureau-
crat4c procedures.  In order to resolve these problems, th; project has been
modified to reduce its scope, increase the Bank disbursement percentage,
create a revolving fund and improve administrative procedures (see President's
memorandum R79-59 of March 27, 1979). As a result, the pace of project
execution has improved noticeably in recent months and disbursements now stand
at about -US$15.4 million.
Loan 1025-PE: Sixth Highway Project; US$25.0 million Loan of July 1, 1974;
Effective Date: August 21, 1974; Closing Date: June 30, 1981
Loan 1025-PE finances improvement of the Lima-Pucallpa highway which
connects the Amazon basin to the Pacific Coast. In view of the unusually
difficult terrain and limited Government implementation capacity, the works
was divided into two stages which were financed by separate loans, 1025-PE and
1196-PE (see below). Because of initial delays and substantial cost increases,
the scope of the project was reduced in February 1978 (see President's Memo-
randum R78-360 of February 17, 1978) and the Closing Date postponed. Construc-
tion has been completed and studies are being finished up. Since the Loan is
almost fully disbursed, we do not anticipate any extension of the closing date.
Loan 1196-PE: Lima-Amazon Transport Corridor Project; US$76.5 million Loan of
May 27, 1976; Effective Date: August 18, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982.
Construction of the project's river ports component is almost completed,
although with some cost increases because of start-up difficulties. There have
been serious delays in contracting for civil works under the road component
because of slow procedures and limited Government implementation capacity.
These problems now appear to be largely overcome and construction is underway
on all project components. The project has been modified so as to increase
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any
problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to
remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the understand-
ing that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths
and weaknesses in project execution.



- 29 -
ANNEX II
Page 4 of 6
the financing for urgently needed road maintenance and eliminate improvement
of those road sections which cannot be completed within a reasonable time
(see President's memorandum R79-88 of April 27, 1979).
Loan 1215-PE: Fifth Power Project; US$36.0 million Loan of September 20, 1976;
Effective Date: November 18, 1976; Closing Date: December 31,
1981.
The slowdown of demand in ELECTROLIMA's market in the wake of the
recent economic difficulties, as well as procurement problems, have delayed
the project's power distribution component and completion is expected
about a year behind schedule. Serious delays were also experienced in
getting the technical assistance program of the loan underway; however,
most consultants have now been retained, and with strong support from the
current staff in the Ministry of Energy and Mines the program has begun to
progress normally. Because of the delays, the closing date has been extended.
Loan 1281-PE: CENTROMIN Mining Project; US$40.0 million Loan of December 6
1976; Effective Date: May 24, 1977; Closing Date: December 31,
1982.
Initiation of the copper mining component, which the IDB is co-
financing with the Bank and which amounts to about 90 percent of total project
costs, was delayed by about two years because of the lack of local counterpart
funds. The Government is now proceeding with the project with support from a
supplementary IDB loan which will help cover part of the financing shortfall.
Engineering, procurement and mine development activities on this part of the
project are well-advanced.  Construction of the mine-water treatment plant
is now almost completed.
Loan 1283-PE: Urban Sites and Services Development Project; US$21.6 million
Loan of October 12, 1976; Effective Date: January 10, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982.
Administrative difficulties, particularly the need to reconcile
Peruvian procedures with Bank guidelines for procurement, delayed the
project by about one year. All components are now moving ahead well, but
because of past delays, the closing date has been extended.
Loan 1358-PE: Industrial Credit Project; US$35.0 million Loan of January 28,
1977; Effective Date: March 30, 1977; Closing Date: June 30,
1981.
Peru's economic recession led to a contraction of investment
and to lower than anticipated demand for the loan. In view of this, the
Borrower--the National Development Bank (COFIDE)--has agreed to finance
projects identified by commercial banks and other financial institutions,



AN'.T3X II
Page 5 of 6
which would also gtzrarftee these loans aad provide some loan servicing.
With this action and improving economic conditions over the past year,
demand for the credit line has increased and it is now over 91 percent
committed, with full commitment expected by early 1981.
Loan 1403-PE: Irrigation Rehabilitation Project; US$25.0 million Loan of
May 20, 1977; Effective Date: August 2, 1977; Closing Date:
June 30, 1983.
DEPERTC, the executing agency, has completed the design for civil
wTorks in the six valleys where irrigation systems are to be improved and
construction has started. The project's implementation is behind schedule
because of delays in completing designs but is now accelerating as construction
gets underway.
Loan S-li:      Water Supply and Power Engineering Project; US$8.8 million Loan
of December 22, 1978; Effective Date: June 27, 1979; Closing
Date: December 31, 1981.
Consultant's studies have commenced and are proceeding on schedule.
Loan 1693-PE: Program Loan; US$115 million Loan of May 17, 1979; Effective
Date: May 24, 1979; Closing Date: December 31, 1980.
The economic recovery program supported by the program loan was
concluded in a generally satisfactory manner and $114.3 has been disbursed.
The Closing Date was extended to December 31, 1980 in order to permit addi-
tional technical assistance which is now being completed. No further extension
of the Closing Date is anticipated.
Loan 1771-PE: Lower Piura Irrigation Rehabilitation Project; US$56 million
Loan of February 4, 1980; Effective Date: May 28, 1980;
Closiag Date: December 31, 1985.
Project execution is now getting underway.
Loan 1806-PE: Petroleum Rehabilitation Project; US$32.5 million Loan of
April 28, 1980; Effective Date: September 30, 1980;
Closing Date: January 31, 1983.
This loan was signed April 28, 1980 and project execution has
commenced.
Loan 1812-PE:  Puno Rural Development; US$15 million loan of April 28, 1980;
Effective Date:                               ; Closing Date:
June 30, 1985.
This loan was signed April 28, 1980. Start-up of project activities
has been satisfactory but there has been a delay in satisfying the condition
of loan effectiveness in regard to approval of the bylaws for the Project Unit.
We expect this to be completed shortly.



- 31 -
ANNEX II
Page 6 of 6
Loan 1888-PE:  Bayovar Engineering and Technical Assistance Project, US$7.5
million loan of August 21, 1980; Effective Date: December 22,
1980; Closing Date: June 30, 1983.
This loan was signed August 21, 1980. Consultants have been
contracted and project execution has commenced.
Loan S-19:      SIDERPERU Technical Assistance Prolect, US$5.0 million loan of
December 15, 1980; Effective Date:
Closing Date: June 30, 1985.
The conditions of effectiveness are now in the process of being
satisfied.



- 32 -
ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
PERU
SECOND INDUSTRIAL CREDIT PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken by the country
to prepare project:                6 months
(b)  Project prepared by:               COFIDE with Bank assistance
(c)  First presentation to the Bank:  November 1979
(d)  Identification of Project:         February 1980
(e)  Departure of Appraisal Mission:  August 1980
(f)  Planned Date of Effectiveness:   July 1981
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Actions
None.
Section III: Special Conditions
(a) The Government would assume the cross-currency risk (between the
Banks currency basket and the US dollar) in exchange for a premium
of 1.5 percent p.a. on the amount outstanding. The premium would
be credited to a special account within COFIDE. The signing of
an agreement, satisfactory to the Bank, between COFIDE and the
Government on the mechanisms to cover the cross-currency risk
would be a condition for loan effectiveness (para 68).
(b) COFIDE's Board of Directors would approve a Policy Statement and
Operating Procedures, satisfactory to the Bank, to enable it to
better deal with the expansion of its operations through financial
intermediaries. This would be a condition of effectiveness
(para 59).
(c) As a condition of effectiveness, the Government would enact satis-
factory legislation to enable COFIDE to divest itself by December
31, 1981 of its equity investments in basic industries (para. 62).



- 33 -
ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
(d) COFIDE would maintain a debt-equity ratio of 5 to 1 or less
(para 65).
(e) COFIDE would implement by December 31, 1981, an adequate policy
of provision for losses on equity investments and a better informa-
tion, control and performance evaluation system, both satisfactory
to the Bank (para 63).
(f) All subloans using the proceeds of the Bank loan and exceeding
the amount of US$1 million in the case of subloans made directly by
COFIDE and US$500,000 in the case of subloans made by other financial
intermediaries would be subject to prior Bank approval. Subloans of
US$250,000 or more of loan proceeds would be subject to the calcula-
tion of an economic rate of return for the corresponding subproject.
Moreover, total financing out of Bank loan proceeds to a single
group of related enterprises would be limited to a cumulative US$5.0
million (para 70).



