X   LOAN NUMBER 1968 PE
Loan Agreement
(Second Industrial Credit Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
CORPORACION FINANCIERA DE DESARROLLO, S.A. - COFIDE
Dated                        , 1981


﻿LOAN NUMBER 1968 PE
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated     '   76/, 1981, between INTERNATIONAL
BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called the
Bank) and CORPORACION FINANCIERA DE DESARROLLO, S.A. - COFIDE
(hereinafter called the Borrower), a development finance corpora-
tion established and operating under the laws of the Republic of
Peru'.
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements of the Bank dated October 27, 1980, with the
same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein,
subject, however, to the modifications thereof set forth in
Schedule 2 to this Agreement (said General Conditions Applicable
to Loan and Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, as so modified,
being hereinafter called the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth,
and the following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "Sub-loan" means a loan made or proposed to be made, by
the Borrower or by a Financial Intermediary, out of the proceeds
of the Loan to an Investment Enterprise for an Investment Project
and "Free-limit Sub-loan" means a Sub-loan, as so defined, which
qualifies as a Free-limit Sub-loan pursuant to the provisions of
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement.
(b) "Financial Intermediary" means any financial institu-
tion, which has been established in, and is operating under the
laws of, the Republic of Peru, which, in accordance with such
laws, may normally undertake medium and long-term operations,
which is eligible in accordance with the applicable provisions of
the Statement of Policy, and with which the Borrower has entered
into contractual arrangements satisfactory to the Bank whereunder
one or more loans have been made or are proposed to be made for
the sole purpose of financing one or more Sub-loans made or
proposed to be made by the applicable financial institution.


﻿-2-
(c) "Investment Enterprise" means an industrial, construc-
tion, mining or tourism enterprise to which the Borrower or a
Financial Intermediary proposes to make or has made a Sub-loan.
(d) "Investment Project" means a specific development
project, financially and economically viable, to be carried out by
an Investment Enterprise utilizing the proceeds of a Sub-loan.
(e) "Local currency" and "Sol" mean the currency of the
Guarantor, and "local currency cost" means expenditures in local
currency made in respect of goods procured in, or services sup-
plied from within, the Guarantor's territories.
(f) "Foreign currency" means any currency other than the
currency of the Guarantor, and "foreign currency cost" means,
subject to Section 5.01 of the General Conditions, expenditures in
foreign currency made in respect of goods procured in, or services
supplied from, a country other than the Guarantor's.
(g) "Charter" means the charter of the Borrower approved by
the Guarantor's Legislative Decree No. 206, published in El
Peruano on June 15, 1981, as amended to the date of this Agree-
ment, and "Estatutos" means the public deed incorporating the
Borrower as approved by the Guarantor's Supreme Decree No.
dated August , 1981, as amended to the date of this
Agreement.
(h) "Statement of Policy" means the statement of lending
and investments policy approved by the Board of Directors of the
Borrower on August 13, 1975, as amended up to October 31, 1980 and
for purposes of Section 6.01 (b) of this Agreement, and as it may
be further amended, from time to time.
(i) "Subsidiary" means any company of which a majority of
the outstanding voting stock or other proprietary interest is
owned or effectively controlled by the Borrower or by an Invest-
ment Enterprise or by a Financial Intermediary, and the term
includes any company of which a majority of the outstanding voting
stock or other proprietary interest is owned or effectively
controlled by any one or more Subsidiaries of the Borrower or of
an Investment Enterprise or a Financial Intermediary, or by the


﻿Borrower or an Investment Enterprise or a Financial Intermediary
and one or more of its respective Subsidiaries, and "Financial
Subsidiarv" means any Subsidiary which, in the judgement of the
Bank, is engaged in promotional, financial or technical activities
similar or complementary to the operations of the Borrower.
(j) "Related company" means any legal entity which owns or
effectively controls a majority of the outstanding voting stock or
other proprietary interest of an Investment Enterprise (such
related company hereinafter called "Parent Company") or any legal
entity other than such Investment Enterprise which is so owned or
effectively controlled by such Parent Company.
(k) "Subsidiary Loan Contract" means any one set of one or
more contractual arrangements entered into between the Borrower
and a Financial Intermediary pursuant to Section 3.04 (a) of this
Agreement whereunder such Financial Intermediary shall borrow from
the Borrower such amounts in dollars, to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan, as shall be required for the financing of
one or more Sub-loans made or proposed to be made by such Finan-
cial Intermediary.
(1) "Exchange Loss Provision Contract" means the contract to
be entered between the Guarantor and the Borrower pursuant to
Section 2.02 (c) of the Guarantee Agreement and 3.02 (c) of
this Agreement and "Provision" means the account for purposes of
the creation of an exchange-loss provision, to be opened pursuant
to Section 3.02 (a) of this Agreement.
(m) "Reorganization Legislation" means the Guarantor's Law
No. 23230, published in El Peruano on December 16, 1980, and all
action pursuant thereto taken or to be taken by the Guarantor and
the Borrower, including but not limited to the Law or Legislative
Decree or Decrees required by Section 6.01 (c) of this Agreement,
in order to enable the Borrower to transfer to the Guarantor, or
any agency thereof other than a Subsidiary of the Borrower, the
shares of capital stock of the Corporations held by the Borrower
as of December 31, 1980, and to enter with the Guarantcr, or such
agency, as the case may be, into the contractual arrangements
referred to in Section 4.10 (b) of this Agreement; and the term
"Corporations" means the corporations listed in the letter of even
date herewith addressed by the Guarantor and the Borrower to the
Bank.


﻿-4-
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions in the Loan Agreement set forth
or referred to, an amount in various currencies equivalent to
sixty million dollars ($60,000,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn
from the Loan Account for amounts paid (or, if the Bank shall so
agree, for amounts to be paid) by the Borrower on account of
withdawals made by an Investment Enterprise under a Sub-loan made
by the Borrower or by a Financial Intermediary to finance the
lower of: (A) the amount of the Sub-loan in question; or (B) (i)
the reasonable foreign currency cost of goods and services for the
Investment Project financed under the Sub-loan in respect of which
the withdrawal from the Loan Account is requested, (ii) the
equivalent of seventy per cent (70%) (representing the estimated
foreign exchange cost) of the reasonable off-the-shelf price of
imported goods locally procured for the Investment Project
financed under the Sub-loan in respect of which the withdrawal
from the Loan Account is requested, (iii) the equivalent of fifty
per cent (50%) (representing the estimated foreign exchange
component) of the reasonable ex-factory price of locally manu-
factured goods for the Investment Project financed under the
Sub-loan in respect of which the withdrawal from the Loan Account
is requested, and (iv) the equivalent of thirty-five per cent
(35%) (representing the estimated foreign exchange component) of
the reasonable local currency cost of civil works for the Invest-
ment Project financed under the Sub-loan in respect of which the
withdrawal from the Loan Account is requested; provided, however,
that no withdrawal shall be made in respect of a Sub-loan unless
(1) the Sub-loan has been approved by the Bank, or (2) the
Sub-loan shall be a Free-limit Sub-loan for which the Bank has
authorized withdrawals from the Loan Account.
(b) A Free-limit Sub-loan shall be a Sub-loan for an
Investment Project in an amount to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan which, when added to any other outstanding amounts
financed or proposed to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Loan for such Investment Project, shall not exceed the sum of: (i)
$500,000 equivalent, if such Sub-loan has been made by a Financial
Intermediary, or (ii) $1,000,000 equivalent, if such Sub-loan has
been made by the Borrower. The foregoing amounts are subject to


﻿-5-
change from time to time as determined by the Bank, provided,
however, that the amount determined from time to time for sub-
paragraph (i) of this paragraph shall not be higher than the
amount then determined for sub-paragraph (ii) of this paragraph.
(c) Except as the Bank and the Borrower shall otherwise
agree, no withdrawals shall be made on account of (i) expenditures
before the date of this Agreement or (ii) expenditures by an
Investment Enterprise, in respect of a Sub-loan subject to the
Bank's approval, if such expenditures shall have been made more
than ninety days prior to the date on which the Bank shall have
received in respect of such Sub-loan the application and informa-
tion required by Section 2.03 (a) of this Agreement or, in respect
of a Free-limit Sub-loan, if the expenditures shall have been made
more than ninety days prior to the date on which the Bank shall
have received in respect of such Free-limit Sub-loan the request
and information required by Section 2.03 (b) of this Agreement, or
(iii) any Sub-loan, if the amount of such Sub-loan, when added to
the amount of all other Sub-loans made or proposed to be made to
the Investment Enterprise in question or to its Related Company or
Companies, shall exceed the equivalent of five million dollars
($5,000,000), or (iv) any Sub-loan made by a Financial Inter-
mediary, if such Financial Intermediary has not entered with the
Borrower into a Subsidiary Loan Contract satisfactory to the Bank
under which such Sub-loan could be financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan in a manner satisfactory to the Bank.
(d) The ninety-day periods set forth in paragraph (c) (ii)
of this Section shall apply to Sub-loans, including Free-limit
Sub-loans, made or proposed to be made by the Borrower.    In the
case of Sub-loans, including Free-limit Sub-loans, made or pro-
posed to be made by a Financial Intermediary such periods shall be
considered extended to one hundred and eighty days.
Section 2.03. (a) When presenting a Sub-loan (other than
a Free-limit Sub-loan) to the Bank for approval, the Borrower
shall furnish to the Bank an application, in form satisfactory
to the Bank, together with (i) a description of the Investment
Enterprise and an appraisal of the Investment Project, including,
when applicable, the economic rate of return of such Investment
Project as required by Section 3.07 of this Agreement and, in all
cases, a description of the expenditures proposed to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Loan; (ii) the proposed terms and
conditions of the Sub-loan, including the schedule of amortization
therefor; (iii) a statement as to whether the Sub-loan will be


﻿-6-
made directly by the Borrower or by a Financial Intermediary, and
in the latter case, a copy of the applicable Subsidiary Loan
Contract; and (iv) such other information as the Bank shall
reasonably request.
(b) Each request by the Borrower for authorization to
make withdrawals from the Loan Account in respect of a Free-limit
Sub-loan shall contain: (i) a summary description of the Invest-
ment Enterprise and the Investment Project, including, when
applicable, the economic rate of return of such Investment Project
as required by Section 3.07 of this Agreement and, in all cases, a
description of the expenditures proposed to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan; (ii) a statement as to whether the Sub-loan
will be made directly by the Borrower or by a Financial Inter-
mediary, and in the latter case, a copy of the applicable Sub-
sidiary Loan Contract; and (iii) the terms and conditions of the
Sub-loan, including the schedule of amortization therefor.
(c) Except as the Bank and the Borrower shall otherwise
agree, applications and requests made pursuant to the provisions
of paragraphs (a) and (b) of this Section shall be presented
to the Bank on or before June 30, 1984.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1985
or such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrower and the Guarantor of such later
date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%)
per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from
time to time.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest at the rate
of nine and three-fifths per cent (9-3/5%) per annum on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from
time to time.
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semi-annually on January 1 and July 1 in each year.
Section 2.08. (a) The Borrower shall repay the principal
amount of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule
set forth in Schedule 1 to this Agreement as such Schedule shall
be amended from time to time by the Bank to the extent required


﻿-7-
to: (i) conform in relevant part substantially to the aggregate
of the amortization schedules applicable to Sub-loans which
have been approved or authorized for withdrawals from the Loan
Account under Section 2.02 of this Agreement; and (ii) take
into account any cancellation pursuant to Article VI of the
General Conditions and any repayments made by the Borrower under
Section 2.09 of this Agreement; provided that repayments due
hereunder shall be made on January 1 and July 1 in each year. Such
amendments of said Schedule 1 shall include amendments to the
table of premiums on prepayment, if necessary.
(b) The amortization schedule applicable to each Sub-loan
shall provide for an appropriate period of grace, which shall not
exceed three years and, unless the Bank and the Borrower shall
otherwise agree (i) shall not extend beyond 15 years from the date
of approval by the Bank of such Sub-loan or July 1, 1998, which-
ever is earlier, or in the case of a Free-limit Sub-loan, the date
of authorization by the Bank to make withdrawals from the Loan
Account in respect thereof or July 1, 1998, whichever is earlier,
and (ii) shall provide for approximately equal semiannual, or more
frequent, aggregate payments of principal and interest or approxi-
mately equal semi-annual, or more frequent, payments of principal.
(c) The Borrower shall transmit to the Bank, for its prior
approval, any substantial changes proposed to be made by the
Borrower in respect of the repayment provisions of any Sub-loan.
Section 2.09. Unless the Bank and the Borrower shall other-
wise agree:
(a) If (i) a Sub-loan or any part thereof shall be repaid
to the Borrower in advance of maturity or if a Sub-loan or any
part thereof shall be sold, transferred, assigned or otherwise
disposed of for value by the Borrower, the Borrower shall promptly
notify the Bank and shall repay to the Bank on the next following
interest payment date, together with the premiums specified in
Schedule 1 to this Agreement or in any amendment thereof under
Section 2.08 (a) of this Agreement, the amount withdrawn from the
Loan Account in respect of such Sub-loan or part thereof and not
theretofore repaid to the Bank, or (ii) a Sub-loan or any part
thereof shall be repaid to the applicable Financial Intermediary
in advance of maturity or if a Sub-loan or any part thereof shall
be sold, transferred, assigned or otherwise disposed of for value
by such Financial Intermediary, and, in both cases, to the extent


﻿-8-
such Financial Intermediary has repaid to the Borrower, as
required in Part C of Schedule 3 to this Agreement, the amount
of the loan, or part thereof, made by the Borrower to such Finan-
cial Intermediary for purposes of financing the Sub-loan, or part
thereof, so repaid or disposed of, the Borrower shall promptly
notify the Bank and shall repay to the Bank on the next following
interest payment date, together with the premiums specified
in Schedule 1 to this Agreement or in any amendment thereof
under Section 2.08 (a) of this Agreement, the amount withdrawn
from the Loan Account in respect of such Sub-loan or part thereof
and not theretofore repaid to the Bank.
(b) Any amount so repaid by the Borrower shall be applied
by the Bank to the maturity or maturities of the Loan in amounts
corresponding to the outstanding amounts of the maturity or
maturities of the Sub-loan or part thereof so repaid or disposed
of.
(c) Paragraph (b) of Section 3.04 of the General Conditions
shall not apply to any repayment made under paragraph (a) of
this Section.
ARTICLE III
The Project;
Management and Operations of the Borrower
Section 3.01. (a) The purpose of the Project is to assist
the Borrower in financing such productive facilities and resources
in Peru' as will contribute to the economic and social deve-
lopment of the country. The Project consists in the financing of
specific development projects through loans to Investments Enter-
prises in Peru", made directly by the Borrower or through Finan-
cial Intermediaries which, in that case, shall assume the credit
risk of the loans in question, all in furtherance of the corporate
purposes of the Borrower.
(b) The Borrower shall carry out the Project and conduct
its operations and affairs in accordance with sound financial
standards and practices, with qualified management and personnel,
and in accordance with the Charter and Statement of Policy.
(c) The terms and conditions of Sub-loans made by the
Borrower, Sub-loans made by Financial Intermediaries and loans
made by the Borrower to a Financial Intermediary with the sole


﻿-9-
purpose of financing Sub-loans made by such Financial Inter-
mediary, shall be satisfactory to the Bank and the Borrower and
shall include those set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 3.02. The Borrower shall:
(a) Make provision for any foreign exchange-losses incurred
by reason of this Agreement including the losses described in
paragraph (b) of Section 2.02 of the Guarantee Agreement by
opening in its books and maintaining thereafter, until the Loan
has been repaid and interest thereon has been fully paid, a
reserve account into which the Borrower shall pay on each of the
dates referred to in Section 2.07 of this Agreement, an amount
equivalent to 1.5% per annum, or such other percentage as shall be
determined from time to time pursuant to paragraph (b) of this
Section, on the aggregate amount of Sub-loans outstanding from
time to time, and shall make good any such losses to the extent
they are realized losses, out of the funds in such reserve
account.
(b) From time to time, review together with the Guarantor
and the Bank the percentage set forth in paragraph (a) of this
Section in order to determine whether a different percentage is
warranted in light of the circumstances prevailing at the time of
such review; provided, however, that no such different percentage
shall be adopted without the consent of the Bank.
(c) Enter with the Guarantor into the Exchange-Loss Pro-
vision Contract, and shall exercise all of its rights and fulfill
all of its obligations in respect thereof in such manner as to
protect the interests of the Guarantor, the Bank and the Borrower,
and shall not take or concur in any action which would have the
effect of amending, abrogating, assigning or waiving the Exchange-
Loss Provision Contract or any of the provisions thereof.
Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower undertakes that, unless
the Bank shall otherwise agree, any Sub-loan will be made on terms
whereby the Borrower shall obtain, by written contract with the
Investment Enterprise or by other appropriate legal means, rights
adequate to protect the interests of the Bank and the Borrower,
including the right of the Borrower to: (i) require the Investment
Enterprise to carry out and operate the Investment Project
with due diligence and efficiency and in accordance with sound
technical, financial and managerial standards and to maintain
adequate records; (ii) require that: (A) the goods and services to


﻿- 10 -
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be purchased
at a reasonable price, account being taken also of other relevant
factors such as time of delivery and efficiency and reliability
of the goods and services, availability of maintenance facilities
and spare parts therefor, and, in the case of services, of their
quality and the competence of the parties rendering them and (B)
such goods and shall be used exclusively in the carrying out of
the Investment Project; (iii) inspect, by itself or jointly with
representatives of the Bank if the Bank shall so request, such
goods and the sites, works, plants and construction included
in the Investment Project, the operation thereof, and any relevant
records and documents; (iv) require that: (A) the Investment
Enterprise shall take out and maintain with responsible insurers
such insurance, against such risks and in such amounts, as shall
be consistent with sound business practices; and (B) without any
limitation upon the foregoing, such insurance shall cover hazards
incident to the acquisition, transportation and delivery of
goods financed out of the proceeds of the Loan to the place of use
or installation, any indemnity thereunder to be made payable
in a currency freely usable by the Investment Enterprise to
replace or repair such goods; (v) obtain all such information as
the Bank or the Borrower shall reasonably request relating to the
foregoing and to the administration, operations and financial
condition of. the Investment Enterprise and to the benefits to be
derived from the Investment Project; and (vi) suspend or terminate
the right of the Investment Enterprise to the use of the proceeds
of the Loan upon failure by such Investment Enterprise to perform
its obligations under its contract with the Borrower and, in
appropriate cases, the right to premature the Sub-loan.
(b) The Borrower shall exercise its rights in relation
to each Investment Project in such manner as to: (i) protect
the interests of the Bank and the Borrower; (ii) comply with
its obligations under this Agreement; and (iii) achieve the
purposes of the Project.
Section 3.04. (a) In order for a financial institution to
become a Financial Intermediary and therefore eligible to receive
loans from the Borrower, out of the proceeds of the Loan, to
finance Sub-loans made by such Financial Intermediary, the
Borrower shall enter with such financial institution into one or
more contractual arrangements on terms and conditions satisfactory
to the Bank (each such set of contractual arrangements with any
one Financial Intermediary hereinafter called Subsidiary Loan
Contract).


﻿- 11 -
(b) The Borrower shall exercise its rights in relation to
each Subsidiary Loan Contract in such manner as to protect the
interests of the Bank and the Borrower and shall not take or
concur in any action which would have the effect of amending,
abrogating, assigning or waiving such Subsidiary Loan Contract or
any provision thereof.
(c) The Borrower shall cause each Financial Intermediary,
by means of the applicable Subsidiary Loan Contract, to: (i)
undertake that, unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, any Sub-
loan will be made on t(rms, in addition to those set forth in
Schedule 3 to this Agreement, whereby the Financial Intermediary
shall obtain, by written contract with the Investment Enterprise
or by other appropriate legal means, rights adequate to protect
the interests of the Bank and the Borrower, including, mutatis
mutandis, the rights described in respect of the Borrower in
Section 3.03 of this Agreement; and (ii) exercise its rights
in relation to each Investment Project in such a manner as to:
(A) protect the interests of the Bank, the Borrower and the
Financial Intermediary; (B) comply with its obligations under
the applicable Subsidiary Loan Contract; and (C) achieve the
purposes of the Project.
Section 3.05. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank
at regular intervals all such information as the Bank shall
reasonably request concerning the expenditure of the proceeds of
the Loan, the Project, the Financial Intermediaries, the Invest-
ment Enterprises, the Investment Projects, the Provision, the
Sub-loans and, where appropriate, the benefits to be derived from
the foregoing.
(b) The Borrower shall inform the Bank promptly of any
change in the Statement of Policy.
(c) Within six months following the last withdrawal from the
Loan Account, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Bank a
report, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall reason-
ably request, on the execution and initial operation of the
Investment Projects, their costs and the benefits derived and to
be derived from them, the performance by the Borrower and the Bank
of their respective obligations under this Agreement, the perform-
ance by the Borrower and each Financial Intermediary of their
respective obligations under the applicable Subsidiary Loan
Contract, the operation of the Provision, and the accomplish-
ment of the purposes of the Loan.


﻿- 12 -
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall duly perform all its obli-
gations under agreements under which funds have been lent or
otherwise put at the disposal of the Borrower by the Guarantor or
its agencies or others for relending, investment or management.
The Borrower shall promptly inform the Bank. of any action which
would have the effect of assigning, or of amending, abrogating or
waiving any material provision of, any such agreement.
Section 3.07. The Borrower shall, as part of the appraisal of
each Investment Project for which financing out of the proceeds
of the Loan in an amount equivalent to $250,000 or more is being
sought, calculate, or cause the Financial Intermediary in question
to calculate, the economic rate of return thereof; such calcula-
tion to be made in accordance with economic evaluation methods
satisfactory to the Bank and the Borrower.
Section 3.08. The Borrower shall (a) assist Financial Inter-
mediaries concerned with appraisal of Investment Projects in
matters related to that activities; and (b) put into effect, in
form and substance satisfactory to the Bank, (i) not later than
Deceber 31, 1981, a management information, control and per-
formance evaluation system, such system to be applied by the
Borrower's Financial Administration Division to all relevant
aspects of the Borrower's operation, and (ii) not later than
December 31, 1981, a systematic policy for decreasing, on a
consistent basis, the book value of the Borrower's investment
portfolio when it is subject to possible losses.
Section 3.09. The Borrower shall cause each of its Subsi-
diaries to observe and perform the obligations of the Borrower
hereunder to the extent to which such obligations shall or can be
applicable thereto, as though such obligations were binding upon
such Subsidiary.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. The Borrower shall maintain and cause each
Financial Intermediary, in respect of Sub-loans financed by such
Financial Intermediary, to maintain, procedures and records
adequate to monitor and record the progress of the Project and of
each Investment Project (including its cost and the benefits to be
derived from it) and to reflect in accordance with consistently
maintained sound accounting practices the operations and financial
condition of the Borrower.


﻿- 13 -
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall: (i) have its accounts
and financial statements (balance sheets, statements of income
and expenses and related statements) including the Provision and
the accounts and financial statements of its Subsidiaries, for
each fiscal year audited in accordance with sound auditing prin-
ciples consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to
the Bank; (ii) furnish to the Bank, as soon as available but in
any case not later than six months after the end of each such
year, (A) certified copies of its financial statements for such
year as so audited and (B) the report of such audit by said
auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have
reasonably requested; and (iii) furnish to the Bank such other
information concerning the accounts and financial statements of
the Borrower and its Subsidiaries and the audit thereof as the
Bank shall from time to time reasonably request.
Section 4.03. (a) The Borrower represents that at the date of
this Agreement no lien exists on any of its assets or the assets
of its Financial Subsidiaries as security for any debt.
(b) The Borrower undertakes that, except as the Bank shall
otherwise agree: (i) if any lien shall be created on any assets
of the Borrower or any Financial Subsidiary as security for any
debt, such lien will equally and ratably secure the payment of the
principal of, and interest and other charges on the Loan and that
in the creation of any such lien express provision will be made to
that effect at no cost to the Bank; and (ii) if any statutory
lien shall be created on any assets of the Borrower or of any
Financial Subsidiary as security for any debt, the Borrower
shall grant, at no cost to the Bank, an equivalent lien satis-
factory to the Bank to secure the payment of the principal of, and
interest and other charges on the Loan; provided, however, that
the foregoing provisions of this paragraph shall not apply to: (A)
any lien created on property, at the time of purchase thereof,
solely as security for the payment of the purchase price of such
property; or (B) any lien arising in the ordinary course of
banking transactions and securing a debt maturing not more than
one year after the date on which it is originally incurred.
Section 4.04. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
the Borrower shall: (i) conduct its operatons and affairs in
such manner as shall be necessary to maintain, at all times, its
debt/equity ratio within the limit referred to in Section 4.06 of


﻿- 14 -
this Agreement; and (ii) if such ratio shall, for reasons beyond
the Borrower's control, be exceeded, promptly take all such
reasonable action as shall be necessary or advisable to bring
such ratio within such limit.
Section 4.05. The Borrower shall not make any repayment
in advance of maturity in respect of any outstanding debt of
the Borrower which, in the judgment of the Bank, would materially
affect the Borrower's ability to meet its financial obligations.
Section 4.06. Except as shall be otherwise agreed between
the Bank and the Borrower, the Borrower shall not incur or permit
any Financial Subsidiary to incur any debt if, after the incurring
of such debt, the consolidated debt of the Borrower and all its
Financial Subsidiaries then incurred and outstanding would be
greater than five times the consolidated capital and surplus of
the Borrower and all its Financial Subsidiaries. For the purposes
of this Section:
(a) "debt" means any debt incurred by the Borrower or
any of its Financial Subsidiaries maturing more than one year
after the date on which it is originally incurred;
(b) debt shall be deemed to be incurred: (i) under a loan
contract or agreement (including the Loan Agreement and any
outstanding loan agreement bewteen the Bank and the Borrower dated
before the date of this Agreement) on the date and to the extent
the amount of the loan is drawn down and outstanding pursuant to
such loan contract or agreement; and (ii) under a guarantee
agreement, on the date the agreement providing for such guarantee
has been entered into but only to the extent that the guaranteed
debt is outstanding;
(c) whenever in connection with this Section it shall
be necessary to value in terms of soles debt payable in foreign
currency, such valuation shall be made at the prevailing lawful
rate of exchange at which such foreign currency is, at the time
of such valuation, obtainable by the Borrower for the purposes
of servicing such debt;
(d) "consolidated debt of the Borrower and all its Finan-
cial Subsidaries" means the total amount of debt of the Borrower
and its Financial Subsidiaries, excluding any debt owed by
the Borrower to any Financial Subsidiary or by any Financial
Subsidiary to the Borrower or to any other Financial Subsidiary;
and


﻿- 15 -
(e) "consolidated capital and surplus of the Borrower
and its Financial Subsidiaries" means the aggregate of the
unimpaired paid-up capital, surplus and free reserves of the
Borrower and its Financial Subsidiaries after excluding there-
from such amounts as shall represent equity interests of the
Borrower in any Financial Subsidiary or of any Financial Sub-
sidiary in the Borrower or any other Financial Subsidiary.
Section 4.07. The Borrower shall take such steps satisfactory
to the Bank, additional to those to be taken pursuant to Section
3.02 of this Agreement, as shall be necessary to protect itself
against risk of loss resulting from changes in the rates of
exchange between the currencies (including soles) used in its
operations.
Section 4.08. The Bank and the Borrower shall from time
to time, at the request of either party, exchange views through
their representatives with regard to the administration, opera-
tions and financial condition of the Borrower, its Subsidiaries
and the Provision, including the rate of interest and other
charges on Sub-loans, and the Borrower shall furnish to the
Bank All such information as the Bank shall reasonably request
concerning the administration, operations, and financial condition
of the Borrower, its Subsidiaries, and the Provision.
Section 4.09. The Borrower shall enable the Bank's repre-
sentatives to inspect the records referred to in Section 4.01 of
this Agreement and any relevant documents.
Section 4.10. (a) The Borrower shall take all action
necessary on its part to put into effect the Reorganization
Legislation, and to dispose for value, not later than December 31,
1981, of all of the Borrower's shares of capital stock of the
Corporations.
(b) For purposes of paragraph (a) of this Section, the
Borrower shall, inter alia, enter into such contractual arrange-
ments as shall be necessary to transfer to the Guarantor or any
agency thereof, other than a subsidiary of the Borrower, on terms
and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, all of the Borrower's
shares of capital stock of the Corporations.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General
Conditions the following additional events are specified:


﻿- 16 -
(a) any part of the principal amount of any loan to the
Borrower having an original maturity of one year or more shall,
in accordance with its terms, have become due and payable in
advance of maturity as provided in the relative contractual
instruments, or any security for any such loan shall have become
enforceable;
(b) a change shall have been made in the Charter or the
Estatutos which would materially and adversely affect the opera-
tions or the financial condition of the Borrower;
(c) a material change, other than changes required under
Section 6.01 (b) of this Agreement, shall have been made in the
Statement of Policy without the Bank's consent;
(d) a resolution shall have been passed for the dissolution
or liquidation of the Borrower;
(e) the Reorganization Legislation shall have been amended
or revoked or waived;
(f) a Subsidiary or any other entity shall have been created
or acquired or taken over by the Borrower, if such creation,
acquisition or taking over would adversely affect the conduct
of the Borrower's business or the Borrower's financial condition
or the efficiency of the Borrower's management and personnel
or the carrying out of the Project.
Section 5.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General
Conditions the following additional events are specified:
(a) the event specified in paragraph (a) or paragraph (b)
or paragraph (c) or paragraph (d) or paragraph (e) of Section 5.01
shall occur; and
(b) the event specified in paragraph (f) of Section 5.01
shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty days after
notice thereof shall have been given by the Bank to the Borrower.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination; Miscellaneous
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as addi-
tional conditions to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement
within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions:


﻿- 17 -
(a) that the Exchange-Loss Provision Contract has been
executed and delivered;
(b) that the Statement of Policy has been amended so
as to cover, in a manner satisfactory to the Bank, financial
intermediation in development financing which the Borrower is
encouraging;
(c) that a Law or a Legislative Decree or Decrees have been
enacted enabling the Borrower to comply with its obligations under
Section 4.10 of this Agreement;
(d) that this Agreement and the Guarantee Agreement have
been duly registered by Direcci6n General de Credito P5blico
of the Guarantor's Ministry of Economy, Finance and Commerce; and
(e) that the Estatutos have been duly registered with the
Guarantor's   Registro Mercantil de los Registros PGblicos de Lima
and that the execution and delivery of the Loan Agreement and
supplemental letters thereto have been ratified by an extra-
ordinary meeting of the Borrower's Shareholders within 90 days
following such registration.
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional
matters, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Bank:
(a) that the Law or Legislative Decree or Decrees referred
to in Section 6.01 (c) of this Agreement permit the lawful
disposal for value by the Borrower of all of its shares of capital
stock of the Corporations and that the method of payment of the
value of such shares, if set forth in such Law or Legislative
Decree or Decrees, is legally binding upon the Guarantor or its
applicable agency, in accordance with the terms of such Law or
Legislative Decree or Decrees; and
(b) that this Agreement and the Guarantee Agreement have
been duly registered by Direcci6n General de Cr6dito P5blico
of the Guarantor's Ministry of Economy, Finance and Commerce.
(c) that the Borrower has been duly established as a cor-
poration (sociedad an6nima) under the laws of the Guarantor,
that the Estatutos have been duly registered with the Guarantor's
Registro Mercantil de los Registros Pfiblicos de Lima  and  that


﻿- 18 -
the meeting of shareholders referred to in Section 6.01 (e) of
this Agreement has been legally held and has legally ratified the
execution and delivery of the Loan Agreement and the supplemental
letters thereto.
Section 6.03. The date of i&~44 c/1/404 is hereby specified
for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.04. The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                     Telex:
INTBAFRAD                          440098 (ITT),
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
For the Borrower:
Corporaci6n Financiera de
Desarrollo, S.A. - COFIDE
Avenida Inca Garcilaso de la
Vega 1456
Casilla Postal 10377
Lima
Perd
Cable address:                     Telex:
COFIDE                             20162 PE
Lima, Per,6                        25356 PE
IN WITNESS WHEREOF the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereanto duly authorized, have caused this


﻿- 19 -
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the city of
Lima, Peri, as of the day and year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By
Senior Vice President, Operations
CORPORACION FINANCIERA DE DESARROLLO, S.A.- COFIDE
By
Authorized Representative
By
Authorized Representative


﻿- 20 -
SCHEDULE 1
Amortization Schedule*
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                         (expressed in dollars)**
On each January 1 and July 1
beginning on January 1, 1986
through January 1, 1998                   2,310,000
On July 1, 1998                                2,250,000
*    The Amortization Schedule is subject to amendment pursuant
to the provisions of Section 2.08 of the Loan Agreement.
**   To the extent that any portion of the Loan is repayable in
a currency other than dollars (see General Conditions,
Section 4.04), the figures in this column represent dollar
equivalents determined as for purposes of withdrawal.


﻿- 21 -
Premiums on Prepayment
The following percentages are specified as the premiums
payable on repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of
the principal amount of the Loan pursuant to Section 3.04 (b)
of the General Conditions or to Section 2.09 (a) of the Loan
Agreement:
Time of Prepayment                              Premium
Not more than three years                             1.70%
before maturity
More than three years but                             3.40%
not more than six years
before maturity
More than six years but not                           6.20%
more than eleven years
before maturity
More than eleven years but                            8.50%
not more than fifteen
years before maturity
More than fifteen years
before maturity                                  9.60%


﻿- 22 -
SCHEDULE 2
Modifications of the General Conditions
For the purposes of the Loan Agreement, the provisions
of the General Conditions are modified as follows:
(1) The following subparagraph (d) is added to Section
3.04:
"(d) The Bank and the Borrower may from time to time
agree upon arrangements for prepayment of the Loan and
the application of such prepayment in addition to, or in
substitution for, those set forth in paragraph (b) of
Section 3.04."
(2) The words "Investment Projects" are substituted for
the words "the Project" at the end of Section 5.03.
(3) Section 6.03 is deleted and replaced by the following
new Section:
"Section 6.03. Cancellation by the Bank. If (a) the
right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Loan
Account shall have been suspended with respect to any amount
of the Loan for a continuous period of thirty days, or (b) by
the date specified in paragraph (c) of Section 2.03 of the
Loan Agreement no applications or requests permitted under
paragraph (a) or paragraph (b) of such Section shall have
been received by the Bank in respect of any portion of
the Loan, or having been so received, shall have been denied,
or (c) after the Closing Date an amount of the Loan shall
remain unwithdrawn from the Loan Account, or (d) the Bank
shill have received notice from the Guarantor pursuant to
Se.-ion 6.07 with respect to an amount of the Loan, the Bank
may by notice to the Borrower terminate the right of the
Borrower to submit such applications or requests or to make
withdrawals from the Loan Account, as the case may be, with
respect to such amount or portion of the Loan. Upon the
giving of such notice such amount or portion of the Loan
shall be cancelled."


﻿- 23 -
SCHEDULE 3
Terms and Conditions Applicable to Sub-loans and
to loans to Financial Intermediaries
A.   Sub-loans
1.   Repayment of each of the Sub-loans, including grace
period, will be subject to paragraph (b) of Section 2.08 of this
Agreement, but the final maturity will not be scheduled, except if
the Bank and the Borrower will otherwise agree for specific
Sub-loans, before a date four years after the date of the contract
providing for the Sub-loan in question.
2.   Sub-loans will be denominated and repayable in dollars.
3.   Interest on Sub-loans will be paid in dollars and will
be calculated on the principal outstanding from time to time at an
annual rate of (i) in the case of Sub-loans made by COFIDE not
less than three and not more than four percentage points, and (ii)
in the case of Sub-loans made by a Financial Intermediary of not
more than four percentage points, in both cases above the sum of
the rate set forth in Section 2.06 of this Agreement plus the rate
determined, from time to time for purposes of Section 3.02 (a) of
this Agreement (such sum hereinafter called the Base Rate).
4.   If the Base Rate is modified pursuant to changes in the
rate set forth in paragraph (a) of Section 3.02 of this Agreement
made in accordance with paragraph (b) of such Section, such
modification will not apply to Sub-loans which have already been
made at the time the Base Rate is so modified.
5.   Sub-loans made by Financial Intermediaries will be
subject to prior approval of the Borrower except as otherwise
agreed, in respect of specific Financial Intermediaries, between
the Bank and the Borrower.
B.   Loans made to a Financial Intermediary for the sole purpose
of financing Sub-loans made by such Financial Intermediary.
1.   Each of these loans will be denominated and repayable
in dollars and will finance 100% of the corresponding Sub-loan.
2.   Dates for payments of principal and interest under these
loans will coincide with dates for payment of principal and
interest under the corresponding Sub-Loan.


﻿- 24 -
3.   Interest on these loans will be paid in dollars on the
principal thereof outstanding from time to time, at an annual
rate of one percentage point above the Base Rate.
4.   Commitment fee will be paid in dollars at an annual
rate of not less than 1% on principal outstanding amoint of the
applicable Sub-loan or Sub-loans not withdrawn from time to
time.
C.   Conditions applicable to each Sub-loan and to each loan
financing such Sub-loan.
1.   Each Financial Intermediary will assume the risk of
non-payment and consequently will be under the obligation of
repaying any loan made to it by the Borrower regardless of whether
the Investment Enterprise in question repays the corresponding
Sub-loan.
2.   Each Financial Intermediary will establish and maintain
separate accounts to be used exclusively for the Project and will
record in such accounts all receipts and payments for, or in
connection with, each Sub-loan made by such Financial Intermediary
and the loan financing such Sub-loan, all in accordance with sound
accounting principles.
3.   If a Sub-loan or any installment thereof will be paid
to a Financial Intermediary in advance of maturity or if, unless
otherwise agreed between the Bank and the Borrower, a Sub-loan
or any installment thereof shall be sold, transferred, assigned or
otherwise disposed of for value by a Financial Intermediary, the
Financial Intermediary in question will notify and repay to the
Borrower, on the next following principal payment date under the
applicable Subsidiary Loan Contract, the amount disbursed in
respect of the Sub-loan in question (or any installment thereof)
and not theretofore repaid to the Borrower.
4.   Sub-loans proposed to be made to Investment Enterprises
ordinarily engaged in construction activities will be restricted
to the financing of the equipping of such Investment Enterprises
and will be made only if there are reasonable assurances that the
equipment in question will not be used solely in connection with
a single construction project.


﻿INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Bank for Reconstruction and Develop-
ment.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Bank thereunto
this /44  LLday of4At- 198 L.
FR ECETARY


