Report No. 621a-EC                                                                FILE  COPY
Appraisal of a
Vocational Training Project
Ecuador
April 1, 1975
Education Projects Division
Latin America and Caribbean Regional Office
Not for Public Use
Document of the international Bank for Reconstruction and Development
International Development Association
This report was prepared for official use only by the Bank Group. It may not
be published, quoted or cited without Bank Group authorizatiorn. The Bank Group does
not accept responsibility for the accuracy or completeness oif the report-



Currency Equivalents
us$ 1.00          s        S/. 25.00
S/.1             =         US$  0.04
S/. 100          =         US$  4.00
S/. 1,000         =        US$  40.00
3/. 1,000,000    =         US$  40.000
Measures
1 m2                       10.76 sq. ft.
1 km2                       0.38 sq. mi.
1 hectare                   2.47 acres
Fiscal Year
January 1        -          December 31



ECUADOR
APPRAISAL OF A VOCATIONAL TRAINING PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
BASIC DATA
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS ..........................             i - iii
I.   INTRODUCTION .....................................                1
II.   THE SOCIO-ECONOMIC SETTING .......................                2
Background ..................................              2
Development Prospects and Human
Resource Needs ............................              3
II.   EDUCATION AND TRAINING ...........................                5
Art Overview of the Formal System ....       ........       5
Tetchnical Education and Vocational
Training ..................................              6
Nconformal Education and Training ....       ........       6
Servicio Ecuatoriano de Capacitacion
Profesional (SECAP) .......................              7
IV.   THE PROJECT ......................................                8
Objectives ..................................               8
Project Description .........................               8
Technical Assistance ........................              10
Cost of the Project .........................             11
Project Recurrent Costs ....          .................    12
V.   IMPLEMENTATION ...................................               12
VI.   AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS ....         .......      14
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission which visited
Ecuador during April/May 1974. The mission was composed of Messrs. A. Salmon
(general educator), J. Besa (architect), R. Hemingway (technical educator),
C. Vidalon (agricultural educator) and Mrs. R. Brandenburg (economist).



TABLE OF CONTENTS (Cont'd).
APPENDIX
I.   Nonformal Education and Training Finance
ANNEXES
1.   Comparative Education Indicators
2.   Annual Manpower Requirement Projections by Skill Level
3.   SECAP - Vocational Training Programs
4.   SECAP - Budget (1970-1977)
5.   SECAP - Unit Capital Costs and Use Factors
6.   Summary of Estimated Costs
7.   Contingency Allowances
8.   Implementation Schedule
9.   Estimated Disbursement Schedule
CHARTS
1.   Structure of the Education and Training System (1973)
2.   SECAP - Administrative Structure
MAP



VOCATIONAL TRAINING PROJECT
BASIC DATA 2
(1972)
Total Population:                                             6.50 million
Annual growth rate                                           3.4%
Active Population:                                            2.08 million
as percentage of total population                              32%
Gainfully employed                                      930,000
Subsistence level workers                             1,045,000
Unemployed (official estimate)                          105,000
Employment by Sectors:
Agriculture                                             407,000
Secondary Sector                                        138,000
Services/Government                                     385,,000
Urban Populatio:n:                                            2.80 million
of which Guayaquil                                      962,000
Quito                                          630,000
GDP Growth Rates:                    1971      1972     1973
7.9      9.7     10.4
GNP (Market Prices)                                    US$   2,370 million
GNP Per capita                                         US$     360
Senior Secondary Technical Enrollment:                      28,446
Agriculture (7 percent)                                   2,025
Industry    (12 percent)                                  3,296
Commerce    (79 percent)                                 22.,455
Art         ( 2 percent)                                    670
as percentage of total senior secondary enrollment           36%
Public Expenditures on Education (rounded)               $    74.5 million
as percentage of total public expenditures                   19
Estimated public expenditures on nonformal
education and training (including external
assistance)                                      $     3.8 million
as percentage of public expenditures on education             5%
%/ See also Annex I.






ECUADOR
APPRAISAL OF A VOCATIONAL TRAINING PROJECT
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
i.        This report appraises a project for the expansion and improvement
of vocational training for industry and agriculture in Ecuador, for which a
Bank loan of US$4.0 million is proposed. The project would address a major
constraint to the country's economic development -- the lack of qualified
middle-level manpower -- by assisting the Servicio Ecuatoriano de Capacita-
cion Professional (SECAP), a semi-autonomous government agency, in expanding
and improving nonf'ormal training opportunities, for out-of-school youths
and adults in urban areas and rural communities, thereby substantially
contributing to meeting national needs.
ii.       This project would complement the first Bank Group education pro-
ject in Ecuador (Credit 124-EC, signed in 1968), which provided US$5.1 mil-
lion to assist the government in consolidating and improving primary teacher
training and in introducing a reform curriculum with diversified practical
courses at secondary level. Implementation of this first project is expected
to be completed by the end of 1975.
iii.      A signil'icant turning point in Ecuador's economic situation occurred
in 1972 with the emergence of petroleum as the major contributor to GNP.
Ecuador has a highly dualistic economy and the distribution of income is very
uneven, with 54% of the population at the subsistence level. The already low
urban skill profiLe of the labor force has been exacerbated by a pronounced
exodus of migrants from the rural areas, mainly to the two major cities of
Quito and Guayaqu:Ll. As much as 65% of the urban labor force has received
only five or fewer years of education and has had limited opportunities to
receive specific job-oriented training. Inadequate training arrangements,
irrelevant education and the absence of any provision for the occupational
training of school leavers from the formal education system have also contri-
buted to the very low productivity of the labor force.
iv.       Prior to the oil boom, human resource development was not oriented
to long-term socio-economic needs and was partly constrained by a lack of
financial resources. The growth of the petroleum sector has eliminated the
financial constraint to development, and the government is now faced with the
challenge of expanding the country's productive capacity while at the same
time improving income distribution and achieving better physical and social
integration of the country. Substantial investments are envisaged in manu-
facturing, construction, energy and the service sector. The scarcity of
trained manpower, however, will be a constraint to growth unless immediate
corrective action is taken. The planned expansion of the economy will place
a premium on the present limited supply of trained human resources and will
require substantial organizational and training efforts in both the formal
and nonformal areas.



- ii -
v.        The proposed project is intended to increase the capacity of SECAP
by about six fold and to help diversify its training program. It would
assist SECAP in the efficient expansion of its nonformal vocational training
programs to meet specific manpower requirements in priority sectors of the
economy and to increase the productivity of the labor force. In addition to
its upgrading programs, training would be available for unemployed youths and
adults living in the marginal districts of Quito, Guayaquil and other small
urban areas and in rural communities. The project would thus contribute to
increasing the participation of the subsistence-level population in the
modern sector. Socio-economic data on the target populations served by the
project would be provided through the surveys of human resources and manpower
needs which are being conducted by the Organization of the American States
(OAS) in collaboration with the National Economic Coordination and Planning
Board (JUNAPLAN).
vi.       The proposed project consists of:
(a) construction of and furniture, equipment and teaching/learning
materials for the extension of the existing Vocational Training
Center in Quito from 390 to 1,110 trainee places, and for the
establishment of a new Vocational Training Center with 1,245
trainee places in Guayaquil to provide training opportunities
for a total of about 5,640 trainees annually; and
(b) two mobile training units to provide training opportunities for
about 500 trainees annually in rural communities and small
townships.
vii.      Both training centers would operate on a double-shift basis.
Their total annual output of newly trained skilled workers would be about
5,640 meeting about one-third of the estimated annual middle-level manpower
requirements in industrial trades. Through SECAP's in-plant training program
it is estimated that another 5,000 would be trained annually within enter-
prises and 1,200 via mobile action. A wide range of training and upgrading
programs for apprentices and adult workers in the mechanical, electrical,
agriculture and construction fields would be introduced. The training of
apprentices would normally be in three-year courses, with the first year
spent full time at the training center; in each of the remaining two years
they would be given six months' full-time training at the center and six
months supervised on-the-job training in an enterprise. Accelerated train-
ing courses would be offered to unemployed adults and dropouts from the
education system who wished to train for specific occupations within a narrow
field of specialization.
viii.     Training would be based on occupational analysis and would meet
established trade standards. Skill levels would be tested. A placement
service for the trainees, a tracer system to follow up their career develop-
ment, and training program evaluation procedures would be established on a



- iii -
permanent basis. Instructors and supervisors required to operate the centers
and mobile units would be trained by the technical assistance experts already
assigned to the Vocational Training Center in Quito under bilateral and multi-
lateral schemes.
ix.       The total project cost is estimated at US$7.9 million, with a
foreign exchange component of US$4.0 million. The proposed loan of US$4.0
million equivalent would represent about 51% of the total project cost and
finance all the foreign exchange costs. Prices as of February 1975 were
used to estimate the base costs, to which contingency allowances of 35%
have been added. 'SECAP has already a senior official to coordinate all
activities related to project implementation.
x.        The sites selected for the project institutions are government
properties already assigned to SECAP. Contracts for civil works would be
awarded on the basis of competitive bidding advertised locally and in
accordance with local procedures which are satisfactory to the Bank.
Contracts for furniture and equipment would be awarded on the basis of
international competitive bidding in accordance with Bank guidelines. Items
would be grouped to form sizeable packages for bulk procurement. However,
items that cannot be grouped into packages of at least US$40,000 would be
procured in accordance with the government's regular procurement procedures
which are satisfactory to the Bank. The total value of items purchased in
this manner would not exceed US$200,000, corresponding to about 10% of the
total cost of furniture and equipment. Local manufacturers of furniture
would be allowed a margin of preference equal to the prevailing tariff or
15% of the c.i.f. prices, whichever is lower.
xi.       The project is expected to be completed in three years and the
proposed loan would be disbursed over a period of four years. A small amount
of up to US$120,000 would be disbursed retroactively to cover expenditures
incurred after June 1, 1974, related to site development, construction and
furniture and equipment for the project administration.
xii.      The proposed project constitutes a suitable basis for a Bank loan
of US$4.0 million equivalent to the Government of Ecuador for a term of 25
years, including a grace period of five years.






ECUADOR
APPRAISAL OF A VOCATIONAL TRAINING PROJECT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The Golvernment of Ecuador has requested Bank financing for a
project which would address one of the principal constraints to the coun-
try's economic development: the lack of qualified middle-level manpower.
The proposed project would assist the Servicio Ecuatoriano de Capacitacion
Profesional (SECAP), a semi-autonomous government agency, in expanding and
improving its programs in nonformal training for out-of-school youths and
adults in both urban and rural areas, thereby increasing training opportuni-
ties and helping to meet Ecuador's middle-level manpower requirements. A
Bank loan of US$4.0 million is proposed, which would cover the estimated
foreign exchange component of the project, the total cost of which is esti-
mated at US$7.9 million equivalent.
1.02      This would be the Bank Group's second lending operation for the
development of education and training in Ecuador. Credit 124-EC for US$5.1
million was signed in June 1968 to help finance a project to consolidate and
improve primary teacher training and to introduce a reform curriculum with
diversified practical courses at secondary level. Initial shortages of
counterpart funds and weak project administration have caused delays in
implementation of the project, which is now expected to be completed by
December 31, 1975.
1.03      InitiaL discussions with the government on a possible second educa-
tion project commenced in September/October 1972 when a Unesco mission
identified priority project items. In February 1974 a Bank reconnaissance
mission agreed with the government on the content of a possible education
project. In March/April 1974 a Unesco mission assisted the government in
preparing the project, which was appraised in April/May 1974 by a Bank mission
comprising Messrs. A. Salmon (general educator), J. Besa (architect), R.
Hemingway (technical educator), C. Vidalon (agricultural educator) and Mrs. R.
Brandenburg (economist).
1.04      The project as initially identified and prepared also included
teacher training and the provision of basic education and training opportuni-
ties for the poorest segment of the population in urban and rural areas.
These items were deleted during appraisal at the request of the government.
Also, a third and smaller vocational training center was deleted for lack
of manpower justification.



-2-
1.05      The amended project, as approved by the government and SECAP, con-
sists of:
(a) one new vocational training center at Guayaquil with a capacity
of 1,245 places to provide training opportunities for about 2,895
trainees annually;
(b)  extension of the vocational training center at Quito to increase
the capacity from 390 to a total of 1,110 places and thereby provide
training opportunities for about 2,745 trainees annually; and
(c) two mobile training units to provide training opportunities for
about 500 trainees annually in rural communities and small
townships.
II. THE SOCIO-ECONOMIC SETTING
Background
2.01      The year 1972 marked a significant turning point in Ecuador's
economic situation with the emergence of petroleum as the major contributor
to GNP. The significance of this development and the concomitant impli-
cations of the development of petroleum exports, large in relation to the
size of the economy, are far reaching and very complex. Even before the
petroleum boom Ecuador had a highly dualistic economy; a relatively small
modern agricultural export sector contrasted sharply with a vast traditional
sector upon which half the population depended. The benefits of Ecuador's
impressive growth, 9.7% of GDP in 1972 and 10.4% in 1973, when petroleum
became the largest export, have been concentrated and have not affected the
majority of the population, whose standard of living has remained low due
to an extremely unequal distribution of income. The top 2.5% of Ecuador's
population of 6.5 million earns 42% of the total income, while 54% of the
population is at the subsistence level. More than two-thirds of the latter
are unemployed or underemployed rural workers.
2.02      These factors have encouraged a pronounced exodus of migrants from
the rural areas, mainly to the two major cities of Quito and Guayaquil, where
a significant stock of unskilled labor has developed over the years. This
has exacerbated the already existing low skill profile of the labor force
there. As much as 65% of the urban labor force has received only five or
fewer years of education and has had very limited opportunities to receive
specific job-oriented training. The 15-19 age group, representing 11% of
the total population, is particularly affected by unemployment and about
one-fifth are jobless.
2.03      Inadequate and limited training arrangements, irrelevant education
and the absence of any provision for the occupational training of school
leavers from the formal education system have contributed to the very low



skill profile of Ecuador's labor force of about 2.1 million. As a result of
this labor productivity has not increased substantially since 1960. It is
estimated that more than two-thirds of the 930,000 wage earners (Annex
2) in 1972 require specific and systematic skill upgrading. Prior to the
oil boom, human resource development was not oriented to long-term socio-
economic needs, being partly constrained like most other sectors of the
economy by a lack of financial resources and inflexibility in fund reallocation
within the education budget.
Development Prospects and Human Resource Needs
2.04      The oil boom has alleviated the financial constraint to develop-
ment. However, the government is aware that, unless properly controlled,
the petroleum-related development will not only exacerbate the dualism
between the modern and traditional sectors and external dependence, but will
also aggravate ex.Lsting imbalances in the economic structure and their
adverse social consequences. The government has therefore developed a plan
calling for a greater degree of physical and social integration of the coun-
try, using the petroleum earnings for diversification and expansion of the
country's productive capacity and for improvement of the living conditions
of the poorest segment of the population. Emphasis is given to the creation
of employment at a rate higher than the annual increase in the labor force.
The major sources of growth, apart from petroleum, are expected to be manu-
facturing, construction, energy and the service sector. Substantial invest-
ments are envisaged in these sectors; however, the scarcity of trained
manpower will be a constraint to growth unless the government takes correc-
tive action.
2.05      A little less than half of the population will continue to depend
on agriculture for food and income in this decade. The government intends
to bring about structural changes in the sector through agrarian reform,
which is expected to integrate about 245,000 people into the market economy,
and to promote the! use of modern technology and training in order to modernize
small-scale farming. For that purpose, various delivery systems for providing
formal and nonformial training are being contemplated, ranging from the use of
rural schools to the organization of educational nuclei serving community
learning needs at large, together with mobile units associated with the coun-
try's vocational training centers for provision of training services to small
townships and rural communities.
2.06      In the modern sector, the expansion of domestic incomes and in-
creased domestic demand for manufactured products will not be sufficient to
generate sufficient impetus to industrial growth; hence the government in-
tends to emphasize the development of industries oriented to broader markets,
including those established under the Andean Sub-Regional Agreement. An
Industrial Development Law has already introduced tax incentives for indus-
tries on the basis of employment generation and export orientation. Thus,
the manufacturing sector has a most important role to play in Ecuador's



- 4 -
economic and social development, with the potential to generate new produc-
tive jobs, to absorb part of the labor force increase, to reduce unemployment
and, over the long term, to replace the petroleum sector as the main generator
of economic growth.
2.07      This planned expansion of the economy will place a premium on the
present limited supply of trained human resources. It will require substan-
tial organizational and training efforts in both the formal and nonformal
areas so that the realization of the country's economic growth potential will
not be constrained by the lack of suitably trained manpower. Because of the
high prevailing economic uncertainties and weak data base, meaningful pro-
jections of long-term manpower requirements are of limited value. Shorter-
term manpower estimates, based on economic targets of the 1972-77 Development
Plan, suggest that the biggest manpower gap will be in the provision of
middle-level personnel and semi-skilled labor. At the higher and subprofes-
sional manpower levels the annual supply and demand would be approximately
in quantitative balance (in the order of 5,000 individuals), although some
occupational imbalances can be expected in such areas as management and
services.
2.08      By 1977, average annual demand for new middle-level personnel and
semi-skilled workers is estimated to be in the order of 25,000 - 30,000.
For general reference and manpower planning purposes it would seem reasonable
to assume that at least this order of magnitude of demand will prevail in
the immediate period beyond the Plan's duration. The projected annual supply
from the secondary technical streams would be about 10,300 graduates by 1977,
of whom some 70% or 7,200 are expected to join the labor force in middle-level
positions. Of these about 1,400 will go to industry, 400 to agriculture,
and 5,400 to commerce and administration. While this would satisfy quanti-
tatively most of the demand for middle-level personnel the remainder of the
demand -- almost exclusively skilled and semi-skilled workers, mostly in
industrial trades -- will have to be trained on the job or through nonformal
training programs of varying duration and intensity. Furthermore, although
the government is redressing some of the deficiencies in the quality of train-
ing with the establishment of diversified secondary institutions through the
first Bank Group project, a significant proportion of the graduates will
still require additional specific job orientation through on-the-job training
or special short courses.



-5-
III. EDUCATION AND TRAINING
An Overview of the Formal System
3.01      Ecuador's formal education system is not presently geared to meet
the specific requirements of the economy, especially those for middle-level
manpower. The government's general objective is primarily to provide uni-
versal nine-year basic education by 1985. Emphasis is presently laid on
providing 100% and 50% of primary and junior secondary age groups with pre-
vocationally oriented basic education by the end of the decade. The ongoing
development of rural nuclei aims particularly at providing practical educational
opportunities in rural areas. The preparation and appraisal missions (para.
1.03) provided substantial technical assistance in school mapping, costing,
and analysis of organizational issues related to the rural neclei. With regard
to other levels of the education system, the government intends to reduce
the expansion rate cf senior secondary and higher education, despite strong
social pressures, and to gear both subsectors more directly to economic
development and manpower requirements. While various attempts have been
made over the past ten years to introduce a reform curriculum with diversified
practical subjects into general education particularly at the secondary level
reform has proceeded slowly. The effects of the first Bank project which
introduced diversified education into the system have not been felt as only
some of the schools are fully operational in their new premises. The formal
education system therefore remains predominantly academic and the possibility
of essential changes for a substantially practical orientation of studies is
still uncertain.
3.02      The relative strengthening of academic secondary education in the
past is also illustrated by the government's resource commitments to the
education sub-sectors. In 1969-73 the share of middle-level academic educa-
tion in the recurrent public expenditures increased from 18% to 25%, while
that of technical education increased only from 8% to 10% and the share of
higher education decreased from 18% to 12%. These relative changes took
place at a time when, the government attached a higher priority to education,
raising that sector's share of recurrent expenditures from 15.2, to 23.9 X
and of GDP from 3.1% to 3.4%.
3.03      To remedy the deficiency of the formal system in responding to the
needs of the economy, nonformal training programs have been developed on an
ad hoc basis by governmental agencies and employers. Although still limited
in scope, these programs provide valid models as they have become the most
effective means of training needed manpower at various levels. The government
attaches a very high priority to the development of this type of training and
the proposed project would assist in the expansion and strengthening of the
main national non-formal training agency.



-6-
Technical Education and Vocational Training
3.04      This section presents a brief review of formal technical education
and nonformal training in Ecuador.
3.05      Secondary technical education consists almost exclusively of the
senior secondary diversified cycle, beginning after nine years of general
education and lasting three years (Chart I). Courses are available in the
industrial, commercial, agricultural, art and home economics fields. A total
of 28,446 students, more than one-third of senior secondary enrollment,
attended technical courses in 1971/72. Eighty percent of these students were
enrolled in the commercial course, which is considered an easier route to
attaining entrance to the faculties of law and economics in the university.
As a result there was a lopsided distribution of graduates: of the 5,800
graduates in 1971, 4,700 were from commercial, 700 from industrial and 400
from agricultural streams. Although this is a substantial output, it failed
to meet labor market shortages because a large proportion (30%) went on to
higher education. Many others did not take available jobs because they con-
sidered the wages too low or they lacked sufficient practical training.
3.06      Because of lack of interaction with the labor market technical
education has not been fully responsive to needs. Furthermore, the fragmen-
tation of resources among a large number of schools (to be partially corrected
by the first Bank Group education project), the lack of a clear policy with
regard to the level of qualification of the graduates, and deficiencies in
teaching and physical facilities have all contributed to the low quality of
technical education, which results in most of the graduates being in need of
further extensive on-the-job instruction.
3.07      The Ministry, recognizing the deficiencies in technical education
is negotiating a contract with the Inter-American Development Bank for about
US$300,000 for technical assistance to aid in studying the problem and recom-
mending solutions. This may result in a construction program to be financed
by IDB.
Nonformal Education and Training
3.08      Nonformal education and training are mainly under the responsibility
of the government.  Program implementation is shared in most cases with the
private sector. The principal nonformal programs are related to literacy and
adult basic education, enterprise management, health, agricultural and rural
development, and artisan and industrial training. Of all nonformal vocational
training agencies, the Servicio Ecuatoriano de Capacitacion Profesional (SECAP),
provides the widest range of ad hoc, job-oriented training and upgrading.
3.09      A number of other training schemes in rural and urban areas comple-
ment SECAP's activities. They include literacy programs with a skill train-
ing component, evening courses in artisan trades, and farmer and agricultural
staff training organized throughout the country by the Ministries of Education



- 7 -
and Agriculture a,nd other government agencies. However, these programs have
only a limited impact on the target populations because of lack of organi-
zation, monitoring and follow-up, in turn due to insufficient and inefficient
staffing. Artisan training and the establishment of handicraft cooperatives
are the responsibility of several agencies, the most important being the
Institute for Handicrafts. Courses in management skills are organized by
various associations, such as the National Association of Employers and the
Chamber of Commerce and Industry. Specific skill-oriented training is pro-
vided in one-year courses for skilled mechanics by the Ministry of Defense to
meet military needs and train soldiers who are about to be discharged. Enroll-
ment is about 12C per year. Course standards are high and the graduates in
great demand. Also, to provide skilled personnel at all levels for the elec-
tricity supply industry, the National Franco-Ecuadorian Center (CENAFE) was
established in 1966 as an in-plant scheme under the auspices of the Ecuadorian
Electricity Institute and the private electricity supply company. French
technical assistance has been provided for this program, which has an output
of about 80 graduates per year.
Servicio Ecuatoriano de Capacitacion Profesional (SECAP)
3.10      Since 1966, training courses for skilled and semi-skilled workers,
supervisors and technicians have been mainly organized by the Servicio Ecua-
toriano de Capacitacion Profesional (SECAP), a semi-autonomous body governed
by a board of directors representing the government, private enterprise and
the trade unions. The Minister of Labor is the chairman of SECAP's board.
In addition to training activities, SECAP assisted by the Organization of
American States (OAS) has carried out comprehensive manpower surveys of the
manufacturing and mining sectors to identify priority training requirements.
It has also provided advisory services to enterprises to develop their in-
plant training programs. Due to limited financial resources, only about 7,000
workers were trained in the period 1968-72. To eliminate the financial con-
straints, a levy of 0.5% was imposed on wages for use in expanding SECAP's
training programs. This resulted in a rapid growth of training activities,
increasing the number of persons trained from 971 in 1971 to 6,332 in 1973
(Annex 3). About two-thirds of the trainees were workers and the rest were
supervisors, instructors and managers.
3.11      Training is organized by SECAP on a regional basis from offices
in Quito, Guayaquil and Cuenca (Chart II), but has been limited to upgrading
and in-plant training because of a lack of facilities. In order to overcome
this constraint, some use has been made of secondary technical schools, work-
shops of enterprises and, more extensively, the Instituto Tecnico Ecuatoriano
Aleman (ITEA) in Quito. This institute, established in 1965 with the assis-
tance of the Federal Republic of Germany, trains apprentices in three-year
full-time courses in the mechanical trades. Quality of training is excellent,
but output is limited to about 60 per year for lack of adequate physical
facilities in other than the mechanical trades. Because of the small enroll-
ment, costs per trainee are very high (about US$650 per year). In January
1974, SECAP assumed administrative responsibility for ITEA, which is still
benefiting from foreign specialists' assistance in course organization and
teaching.



- 8 -
3.12      SECAP's growth in recent years and the priority the government
attaches to its operation can be seen in the changing budgetary allocations
to the agency (Annex 4). Its capital budget, supported fully by the govern-
ment, has grown from US$180,000 in 1970 to US$3.4 million in 1974. The re-
current budget increased in the same period from US$120,000 to US$780,000,
mainly through the collection of the levy on wages (para 3.10).
3.13      The government attaches a very high priority to the expansion of
nonformal training programs as an efficient and rapid means of meeting urgent
manpower requirements. Most of these would be implemented by SECAP which
has been recognized as being the most important and effective institution
operating in the field. The government's plans for the expansion and improve-
ment of non formal training to be implemented by SECAP include the following:
(a) carrying out of surveys of human resources and manpower needs of the
target population to be served; (b) providing training opportunities to
unemployed youths and adults living in the marginal subsistence level dis-
tricts of Quito and Guayaquil and through mobile action in the rural areas
and smaller towns; (c) increasing labor productivity by improving the skill
profile of employed workers through upgrading and the establishment of train-
ing standards and testing; (d) expanding apprentice training schemes; (e)
expanding training advisory services to industry; and (f) providing training
opportunities for graduates of the secondary technical schools.
IV. THE PROJECT
Objectives
4.01      The proposed project is intended to increase the capacity of SECAP
by about six fold and to help diversify the training programs. It would
provide SECAP with the physical facilities at Quito and Guayaquil to enable
it to implement the government's plans for the expansion of non formal train-
ing. These facilities would permit the organization of accelerated training
for the unemployed and the expansion of apprenticeship and upgrading training
for employed workers as well as specific job oriented training for graduates
of the secondary technical schools. Training opportunities in rural areas
and smaller towns would be provided by two mobile units which would complement
three other units provided under bilateral and multilateral assistance programs.
Project Description
4.02      The project consists of:
(a) construction, furnishing and equipping of two vocational training
centers:



_ 9 _
…-------Trairnee Places------------- ----------Annual Output---------------
Accel-
Location of      Exist-   Addi-          Apprentice erated   In-Center
Centers         ing      tional Total   Training  Training Upgrading  Total
(M)  Quito
(extension)   390     720   1,110       390       375      1,980    2,745
(ii) Guayaquil
(new)           -   1,245   1,245       450       405      2,040    2,895
TOTAL         390   1,965   2,355       840        780     4,020    5,640
(b)  two mobile training units to provide training opportunities for
about 500 trainees annually in rural communities and small town-
ships.
4.03      The two training centers would operate on a double-shift basis,
with apprentice training in the morning and adult worker training and upgrad-
ing in the afternoon. Depending on the mix of the training program a total
of about 5,640 could be trained (para. 4.02). Through SECAP's other programs
it is estimated that about 5,000 would be trained annually within enterprises
and some 1200 via mobile action. The provision of this training would meet
about a third of the total requirements for middle-level manpower; the rest
would be providedl through the formal education system and by learning infor-
mally on-the-job.
4.04      The proposed project would enable SECAP to introduce a wide range
of training and upgrading programs in 25 different occupations in the mech-
anical, electrical, agricultural and construction fields and to expand related
services to the provinces. The training of apprentices would normally be in
three-year courses, with the first year spent full-time at the training center.
Out of each of the subsequent two years the apprentices would receive six
months' full-time training at the center and six months' supervised on-the-
job training in an enterprise. For entry to an apprenticeship, SECAP would
require the candidates to be 15 years old and have a minimum of six years of
primary education. There would be two intakes of apprentices per year into
the scheme. A selection procedure for their recruitment would need to be
developed; the government has given assurances that a draft procedure will be
submitted to the Bank for review no later than one year prior to completion
of construction of the vocational training centers. The participating enter-
prises are expected to pay allowances to the apprentices during training.
4.05      Accelerated training courses would be offered to unemployed adults
and dropouts from the education system, with a minimum age of 18, who wish
to train for specific occupations within a narrow field of specialization.
The courses would vary from 400 to 600 hours' duration. Upgrading of employed
workers would be organized in programs varying in duration from 40 to 180



- 10 -
hours and would be implemented both at the centers and through the mobile
units. In addition to the above courses for semi-skilled and skilled workers,
short supplementary courses set up on an ad hoc basis would prepare graduates
from the formal technical schools for specific middle-level technician occupa-
tions.
4.06      The training would be based on occupational analysis.  Training
flexibility would be ensured through the use of short, self-contained modules
arranged so that workers could obtain further training by taking a series of
related modules at subsequent dates throughout their lifetime. Training for
recognized skilled occupations would meet established trade standards. Skill
levels would be tested and certificates awarded. SECAP is already preparing
the new training programs, standards and tests. The government has given
assurances that representative samples of these programs, standards and tests
will be submitted to the Bank for review no later than one year prior to com-
pletion of construction of the centers.
4.07      A placement service for the trainees, a tracer system to follow up
their career development, and evaluation procedures to assess the suitability
and efficiency of the training programs would be established on a permanent
basis. The government has given assurances that plans showing the operation
of the above placement service, tracer system and evaluation procedures will
be submitted to the Bank for review no later than one year prior to completion
of construction of the centers.
4.08      The two mobile training units to be provided under the project
would supplement units provided by the UNDP/ILO and the Swiss Government
under technical assistance schemes, enabling training in such fields as
welding, automechanics, and agricultural mechanics to be conducted at mini-
mum cost in small urban areas and rural communities where it is not economi-
cally viable to establish fixed centers. The units would be administratively
based in either Quito, Guayaquil or Cuenca and would travel to small town-
ships and accessible rural communities. The duration of stay at each place
would vary up to six weeks, with the itinerary to be determined by the re-
gional offices of SECAP.
4.09      To operate the centers and mobile units, 211 instructors and 10
supervisors would be required. Technical assistance experts already assigned
to the Quito center would train the required 160 new instructors and super-
visors. Instructor and supervisor trainees would be recruited from among
graduates of the formal technical schools with industrial experience. A plan
for instructor and supervisor training is being developed by SECAP. The
government has given assurances that this plan will be submitted to the Bank
for review no later than one year prior to completion of construction of the
centers.
Technical Assistance
4.10      The technical assistance required to complement the physical facili-
ties provided under the Bank project will be supplied by the Federal Republic
of Germany, Spain, the United Kingdom. Switzerland and UNDP/ILO (Appendix).



- 11 -
It consists of 43 experts, 58 fellowships and equipment, and concentrates on
strengthening the technical and administrative infrastructure of SECAP, ex-
panding the training program in the new training centers, reinforcing in-plant-
training and the t:raining advisory service and instructor training. The me-
chanical, electrical, agricultural machinery, heavy equipment, artisan, marine
and fishing fields are covered. In addition the Organization of American
States (OAS) is to carry out a further and more comprehensive manpower study,
extending work done in 1970 and 1971. Except for the UNDP/ILO project, which
will continue to 1977, the ongoing technical assistance programs will be
completed by the end of 1976. National staff is expected to operate the pro-
ject centers thereafter. However, should operational assessments show that
further specialist assistance is required, additional bilateral and multi-
lateral technical assistance would be available as the external aid agencies
already supporting SECAP attach a very high priority to its successful opera-
tion.  Consequently, no technical assistance is included in this project.
Cost of the Project
4.11      The cost of the project is estimated at US$7.9 million equivalent
(exchange rate US$1.00 - S/.25.00). The components are summarized below.
sB.  (million)                 US$ (million)
Local    Foreign    Total   Local    Foreign    Total
1.   Vocational
Training Centers:
(a)  Quito         21.56    30.75      52.31     0.86      1.23        2.09
(b)  Guayaqu:Ll    42.39    47.25      89.64      1.70     1.89        3.59
2.   Mobile Units        0.18      1.63       1.81     0.01      0.06       0.07
3.   Project Admin-
istration         2.55     0.45       3.00      0.10     0.02        0.12
Base Cost Esti-
mates            66.68    80.08    146.76       2.67     3.20        5.87
4.   Contingencies:
(a) Physica:L
(8.5%)        6.29      6.24      12.53     0.25      0.25        0.50
(b) Price
(24.3%)      24.25    14.50       38.75     0.97      0.58        1.55
Total Project
Cost               97.22   100.82    198.04       3.89      4.03       7.92
4.12      The base costs are estimated in prices projected to February 1975.
The school building costs are derived from recent contracts obtained from
public and private enterprises, including SECAP and the School Construction



- 12 -
Department of the Ministry of Education.  The estimated average construction
cost based on appropriate building standards and specifications, ranges from
US$115 to US$143 per square meter of gross floor area. Equipment and furni-
ture costs are based on recent price trends and experience gained from the
first project. Space allocations are appropriate for the various levels of
training involved and the cost per trainee place would be economical as both
centers would be used intensively on a double-shift basis (Annex 5). The
distribution of the project costs by category of expenditure is shown in
Annex 6.
4.13      Added to the base cost estimates are contingency allowances for
(a) unforeseen factors equal to 10% of the base cost estimates of civil
works (including site development), furniture, professional services and
project administration, and 5% for equipment; and (b) expected price in-
creases estimated between: 11% and 8% per year for imported furniture and
equipment; 15% and 12% per year for the foreign component of civil works,
based on international prices; 20% and 15% per year for locally produced
furniture and equipment; and 30% and 20% per year for the local component
of civil works. All contingency allowances (Annex 7) amount to US$2.1
million, or 35% of the base cost estimates. The project is expected to be
completed in 3 years (Annex 8).
4.14      The foreign exchange component of the project would be about US$4.0
million equivalent, representing 51% of the total project cost. It was cal-
culated as follows: (a) building construction and site development, 40%;
(b) furniture, 45%; and (c) equipment, 90%.
Project Recurrent Costs
4.15      The annual recurrent costs of the project institutions and mobile
units would be about US$1.3 million in 1977 (at 1973 prices). This triples
SECAP's recurrent expenditures in 1973. To meet this cost and continue its
other programs, SECAP will require additional income as the levy on wages
(para. 3.10) is expected to finance about 30% of the expenditures, and mis-
cellaneous income another 20%. As the government considers the project to
be of very high priority, it would be prepared to meet any deficit in SECAP's
expenditures that might arise. The government has given assurances that it
will provide any balance of funds that may be required each year, in addition
to receipts from the levy on wages and miscellaneous income, for the efficient
operation of SECAP.
V. IMPLEMENTATION
5.01      Administration.  SECAP would be capable of implementing the pro-
ject. From its pool of resources it would allocate manpower, as necessary,
for design work, civil works supervision, and procurement of furniture and
equipment. The Director of SECAP will be responsible for the coordination of



- 13 -
the various activit:ies related to the carrying out of the project and for
providing liaison with all entities involved in the project. He will be
assisted by the Assistant Director for Technical matters who would be directly
responsible for the design and construction aspect of the project and the
Assistant Director for Administration who would be directly responsible for
the procurement of goods included in the project and for keeping the project
accounts. SECAP will appoint additional staff as required for the proper
carrying out of the project. The cost of the services of the project
administration officers and support staff is estimated at US$100,000 equi-
valent and has been included in the project cost. Also included in the
cost is an additional US$20,000 for the project administration office
furniture and equipment. Project implementation has already commenced with
submission of preliminary designs to the Bank.
5.02      Sites.  The sites selected for construction of the two project
centers are suitable. Both are government properties, already assigned to
SECAP. Earthwork and leveling operations have already commenced on the site
at Guayaquil.
5.03      Procurement.  SECAP's administration would be responsible for
preparing and issuing bid documents, evaluating bids, and awarding contracts
for civil works and for supply of furniture and equipment, in consultation
with the Bank. CorLtracts for civil works would be awarded on the basis of
competitive bidding advertised locally and in accordance with local proce-
dures which are satisfactory to the Bank. Since the civil works are of small
size, foreign contractors are not expected to be interested. Nevertheless,
the above procedures do not preclude bidding by foreign firms.
5.04      Contracts for furniture and equipment would be awarded on the basis
of international competitive bidding in accordance with Bank guidelines. De-
tailed furniture and equipment lists would be prepared during the design and
construction bidding stages of project implementation and would be reviewed
by the Bank prior to procurement. Items would be grouped to the extent prac-
ticable to form sizable bid packages and to permit bulk procurement. Items
that cannot be grouped into packages of at least US$40,000 would be purchased
in accordance with the government's regular procurement procedures which are
satisfactory to the Bank. The total value of items purchased in this manner
would not exceed US$200,000, corresponding to about 10% of the total value of
the furniture and equipment component. Local manufacturers of furniture and
equipment would be allowed a margin of preference equal to the prevailing
tariff, or 15% of the c.i.f. prices, whichever is lower.
5.05      Disbursements.  The proposed loan of US$4.0 million would cover the
estimated foreign exchange component and would be equivalent to 51% of the
total project cost of US$7.9 million. The loan would be disbursed over a
period of four years (Annex 9). Disbursements would be made against 40% of
total costs of civil works, 100% of foreign expenditure costs of mobile units



- 14 -
and equipment including equipment for the project administration, and 45%
costs of furniture. Retroactive financing up to US$120,000 is recommended
for expenditures incurred from June 1, 1974 for construction, site develop-
ment, furniture and equipment for the project administration. Any surplus
funds remaining would be used for priority items closely related to the
original project subject to the Bank's approval.
VI.  AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
6.01      During loan negotiations agreement was reached with the government
on the following points:
(i) submission to the Bank for review no later than one year
prior to completion of construction of the vocational
training centers of (a) SECAP's draft procedure for the
selection of apprentices; (b) representative samples of
the new training programs, trade standards and skill
tests; (c) the operational plans of the placement service,
of the tracer system and of the evaluation procedures;
and (d) the plan for instructor and supervisor training
(paras. 4.04, 4.06, 4.07 and 4.09);
(ii) provision of any balance of funds that may be required
each year, in addition to the receipts from the levy on
wages and miscellaneous income, for the efficient opera-
tion of SECAP (para. 4.15).
6.02      The proposed project is suitable for a Bank loan of US$4.0 million
to the Government of Ecuador for a term of 25 years, including a five year
grace period.
April 1, 1975



APPENDIX
Page 1
ECUADOR
NONFORMAL EDUCATION AND TRAINING FINANCE
1.        This Applendix provides some additional information on the financing
of training activities in Ectador. The availability of finance data however
is limited. The information provided below is intended to provide in most
cases an order of magnitude of the financing of the principal nonformal train-
ing programs. Capital expenditures on nonformal training are available only
for SECAP since all other nonformal courses are offered in formal education
facilities on an extra-curricular basis. Except for SECAP, the recurrent
budgets of government and private agencies for nonformal training are small.
SECAP
2.        The main financial resources of SECAP are the contributions of the
private sector and the government. A comparison between the 1970 total bud-
get of SI. 4.6 million (US$180,000) and the 1974 budget of SI. 83.8 million
(US$3.4 million) gives the order of magnitude of SECAP's development and of
the importance attached by the government to SECAP's work. SECAP's recurrent
budget increased from S/. 3.0 million (US$120,000) in 1970 to SI. 19.6
million (US$780,000) in 1974, of which the ITEA Center in Quito has absorbed
about S/. 3.2 million (US$130,000). A strong impetus to SECAP's activities
was provided in 1972 when the first contribution of the 0.5% levy on wages
was added to SECA<'s budget.  It amounted to about two-thirds of the total
operational budget: (S/. 10.6 million or US$24,000 out of S/. 15.3 million,
or US$612,000), boosted SECAP's activities. The limited number of trainees
(163 in 1973) at the ITEA center results in a high unit cost per trainee
(S/. 16,000 or US$650 per year). Trainees pay only S/. 430 (US$17.20)
annual fees. With regard to future fund allocations a total budget of
S/. 121.1 million (US$4.8 million) is programmed by the government for SECAP
by 1977. Fifty-six percent (US$2.7 million) would be allocated to recurrent
expenditures. The government is prepared to finance 50% of the total budget;
the levy on wages is expected to finance 30%, and miscellaneous income 20%.
Activities by VarLous Ministries
3.        Total recurrent expenditures on nonformal education and training
under the responsibility of the Ministry of Education amounted to about
S/. 20.3 million (US$812,000) in 1972, representing 0.86% of total recurrent
education expenditures. They were financed by the public sector, including
S/. 12.6 million (US$500,000) from the State budget, representing 0.81% of
the central government's expenditure on education. The difference was financed
by extra-budgetary fiscal revenue and by Provincial and Municipal Councils.



APPENDIX
Page 2
4.        The Ministry of Education plans to increase its nonformal education
and training budget to about SI. 109 million (US$4.4 million) by 1977. This
would represent 3% of the total recurrent education costs. However, this
budget .s unlikely to be fully utilized because of the expected organizational
deficiencies of the sub-sector.
Activitles by Other Agencies
5.        The managers' courses provided by the Enterprise Training Center
(CEFE), are financed by voluntary contributions from the National Association
of Employers (Asociacion Nacional de Empresarios, or ANDE). The training
fees are paid by the participating firms. Some assistance is received from
USAID. The recurrent budget for the courses offered by the Center of Executives
(CE) is estimated at about US$48,000 and is financed by the contributions and
fees of 110 affiliated enterprises. These are classified according to their
annual financial contributions, which range from US$80 to US$400. The average
training cost per participant is estimated at US$40. While non-affiliated
firns pay the entire fees, affiliated firms are given 20% to 70% discounts
on training fees according to their contribution to the Center.
b.        CENAFE's programs are supported by the Ecuadorian Government, the
private electrical industry and the French Government. The enterprises pay
,he Center for meals and lodging expenses, amounting to SI. 3,500 (US$140)
per mon:Hh for each employee in training. The overall recurrent budget for
1971 was about SI. 740,000 (US$29,000). The unit cost per trainee is S/. 9,250
('US$370` per year.  In view of the short duration of the courses (five to
sixteen weeks), this unit cost is high. This is due to the high degree of
specialization of the training offered.
External Aid to Nonformal Education and Training
7.        During recent years, nonformal education and training has been
substantially assisted in finance, fellowships and expertise by multilateral
and bilateral aid agencies. This assistance has gone principally to agri-
cu"tura1 and rural development and to the industry, education and health
sectors. These benefited from about 40%, 23%, 17% and 13%, respectively,
oJT the total external aid to nonformal training, amounting to an estimated
lS$2.5 nillion in 1973.  Eighty percent was provided by fourteen countries.
ltle ITN1P aad UN specialized agencies, the Inter-American Development Bank
(tIDB) a.rd the Organization of the American States (OAS) contributed the
remnaining 20%. In 1973 the above assistance represented about 65% of total
estiiuated recurrent expenditures on nonformal training (US$3.8 million).
8.        Of all the nonformal training projects, SECAP has received the most
extensive amount of external assistance (about US$790,000 in 1973 out of a
total program of US$2.8 million covering the period 1972-78) from the UNDP|ILO,
tile Federai Republic of Germany, Spain, the United Kingdom and Switzerland.
Its Quito center was set in operation and continues to benefit from the



APPENDIX
Page 3
financial aid, equipment and experts provided by the Federal Republic of
Germany. This assistance concentrates on instructor and manpower training in
general mechanics and auto-mechanics, and comprises the services of five
experts, ten fellowships, equipment and teaching materials. Spain focuses
its assistance on artisan skills and production and on marine and fishing
trades; its ongoing program includes the provision of 25 experts and 38
fellowships, plus equipment and teaching materials. The United Kingdom
provides one expert, two fellowships and equipment for training in the field
of electrical installations. This program amounts to about US$88,000.
Switzerland concentrates on training in the fields of agricultural machinery
and heavy equipment, particularly for road construction. This program amounts
to US$559,000 and includes four experts, five fellowships, equipment and two
mobile workshops. A US$500,000 UNDP/ILO program, covering a four-year period
(1974-77), will provide eight experts, three fellowships, one mobile unit and
equipment for training in the fields of rural development, electronics,
commerce, supervision, and small and medium-sized enterprise management.
This program will also concentrate on institution strengthening and improve-
ment of teaching methods. The OAS will contribute US$39,000 to SECAP's
agricultural and rural training programs. In addition, the government has
requested OAS assistance in carrying out manpower surveys in various economic
sectors in which SECAP is involved. They will complement the surveys of the
manufacturing and mining sectors already completed and in which both OAS and
the Federal Republic of Germany participated.






. .     . .. .     - -- -         a. -                                                                                                                   a -
- - - - - - -- - - - - - --    a-a.'a- -
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -                                                                        a-.   - =                a    aaa              -    -        aa a            a-






ECUADOR
VOCATIONAL TRAINING PROJECT
SECAP
Annual Manpower Requirement Projections by Skill Level
1977
(Rounded)
-   ~  ~ Average         Managers                   MiUdle Level Manpower
Employmentl/       Demand I         New Man-        Annual          Professionals        Commerce            Technical Trades
1972            1977       Power Required-V Requirements  Sub-Professionals  Administration          Skilled         Semi-Skilled        Unskilled
1972-1977      Number      '% Number           %   Number        %    Number       X    Number       %    Number       7,
AGRICULTURE
(incl. FISHING)       407,000            630,000       274,000      55,000       100    330         0.6      170       0.3   1,600      2.9   3,400       6.2   49,500       90.0
MANUFACTURING
(incl. ARTISANS)       75,000            105,000        39,400       7,900       100    240         3.0      710       9.0   1,260    16.0   3,600       46.0    2,090       26.0
CONSTRUCTION           52,000             74,000        28,500       5,700       100    140         2.5      200       3.5      570    10.0   2,400       42.0    2,390      42.0
PETROLEUM               3,000              5,000         2,400         500       100      30        5.0       40       7.0       30     6.0      160      32.0       240     50.0
ENERGY                  8,000             11,000         4,000         800       100      80       10.0      300      38.0      240    30.0      130      16.0        50      6.0
SERVICES              305,000            360,000        93,000      19,000       100  2,850        15.0   5,700       30.0   1,330      7.0      570       3.0    8,550      45.0
GOVERNMENT             80.000            110,000        40,000        3,000      100  1.200        15.0   4.000       50.0      400      5.0     400       5.0    2.000      25.0
TOTAL                 930.000          1,295,000       481,300      96 9o0       100  4.870         5%   11.120        llt   5.430       6Z  10.660        11%   64.820      67%
ai Mission estimates based on "Plan Integral de Transformaci6n y Desarrollo, 1973-1977"
(excluding subsistence workers), and tInvestigaci6n de Mano de Obra en los Sectores
Manufacturero y Minero, 1970-1971 (OEA-SECAP).
/ Including requirements to cover some attrition.



ECUADOR
VOCATIONAL TRAINING PROJECT
SECAP
Vooational Training Programs (1971-73)
1971                        1972                         1973
PROGRAMS                             Courses    Enrollment        Courses    Enrollment       Courses    Enrollment
Management Executives                   1             12             -            -
Supervisors                            25            244             52         604              95         1,161
Commercial Employees                    -             -              -            -              47           616
Industrial Workers                     43            434             82         814             210         2,215
Agricultural Workers                     3            36              9         112               39          469
Instructor Training                      7           102              8          89                8           93
Technician Training                      -            -              -            -                6          153
Miscellaneous ad-hoc upgrading           8           143             67          845             122        1,625
TOTAL:                             87            971            218       2,464             527         6,332
1!



ECUADOR
VOCATIONAL TRAINING PROJECT
SEGAP - Budget (1970-1977)
(000's Sucres)
1. EXPENDITURES
Type                           1=           1971         1972           1973          1974        1977
Recurrent Expenditures             2,966        3,761        7,530         11,172        19,639       67,826
Capital Expenditures                  58          415        7,500         13,176        59,510       43,602
Not Classified                       970           73          270        .1223           4,611        9,690
Total                              3,994        4,249       15,300         25,700        83,760      121,118
2. REVENUES
Government Subsidy                 4,o0o        3,250        3,019          2,000        46,500       60,000
Industry i/                          _            -         10,538         14,000        20,000       37,118
Other Income  /                       96        1,110        11743         19,700        17,260       214,000
Total                              4,596        4,360       15,300         35,700        83,760      121,118
Source: Estimate provided by SECAP
1  Levy on wages
i/ Donations, Fees, Grants



ECUADOR
VOCATIONAL TRAINING PROJECT
SN.AP
Unit Capital Costs and Use Factors
Earoll'   Plaoes to           C o s t a  (in donl lrs)                         Use Factors.?/
Type of Facilities     Area in m2    ment    be built    Buildirg           Furniture    Equipment    Total   Classrooms   Laboratories   Number of    Teacher-Trainees
m2    Trpaie-e[                                                   & Workshops    Weeklv             Ratio 2/
_ __________________   ____________   _______     PJa                                                                        Periods            Ra i ./
Vocational Training
Center, Quito              14.3        580,        720 '    115  1,648          172          1,079      2,899        83 %        68 x            35             1:13
Vocational Training
Center, Guayaquil          13.8        900       1245       1434/ 1,972         181            720V    2,873         75 %        72 %            35             1:13
lJ  Excludig contingencies - Adjusted as of February 1975.
/ Applicable to apprenticeship courses only.
3/ Including the cost of filling-in-operations.
i Excluding equipment provided from bilateral sources.



ECUADOR
VOCATIONAL TRAINING PROJECT
S-ECAP
Summary-of Estimated Costs
(S/. ?OOOs).-..US$ 'OOOs)
Student  Building  Price    Site      Construc-                      Prof.    Proj.  Total  Total
Places     Area     m2    Dev2elp.      tion    Furniture Equipment Services Adm.    S/.    Us$
QLito Center                580      10,320   2,500   3,870       25,800     3,o96      19,430    117            52,313  2,093
Guayaquil Center            900      17,212   2,730  14,39        46,989     5,639     22,400     214      -    t9,64o  3,506
Mobile Units                                     -                            -         1,81Q.     -      -      1 ._   Q2
Project Administration                           -         -                                  -         3,000    3,000    120
Total S/.-                  -         -       -   18,268        72,789     8,735      43,640    331   3,000  146,763      -
Total US$'-/               -          -       -       732        2,912       349       1,746     13     120    n.a.   5,871
lithout Contingencies
Physical Contingencies        -         -       -         73         292        35          88      1       12    n.a.     501
Total Without Price
Contingencies                -         -       -        804       3,204       384       1,834     14      132    n.a.  6,372
Price Contingencies           -         -       -       1442/        962       102         314     n.a.    29    n.a.   1,551
Total               1,480    27,532       -       948        4,166       486       2,148     14     161    n.a.   7,923
/ Base costs as of I'larch 1, 1975.
2 Price contingencies do not apply to s/.5.0 million for filling-in operations.



ECUADOR
VOCATIONAL TRAINING PROJECT
SECAP
Cont  eA   Lowance6
run+- IOOs I I)
Civil 'Works     Furniture       Eo;uipmi,ent    Prof Services   Project Ad-ni     Total
Local 12MIjgrA  Local Fore.im  Local Fo v        real Foreign  Iocal ForeiaiT Local Fort    Total
Total Project Cost            2,186   1,457   192       157    175   1,571    13       n,a,    102    18        2,668  3,203   5,871
(Excluding Contingencies)
Physical Contingecs
Percentage                  10      10      10     10       5       5      10      n.a.      10    10        10      8        9
Amount                     219     146      19      16      9       79-    1       n.a.      10    2         258    243      501
Cost Including Physical
Contingencies            2,405   1,603    211    173    184    1,650    14         n0a.    112    20    2,926  3,446   6,372
Price Contingencies
Percentage                 36]d    19-'     35     16      27       16    n.a.    n.a.       25    7        33      17       24
Amount                    818      288      74      28      50     264.   n.a.    n.a.       28    1         970    581   1,551
Total Cost Including
Contingencies             3,223   1,891      285    201    234   1,914        14     n.a.    140    21    3,8%  4,027   7,923
2 Price contingencies do not apply to US$220,000 equivalent (including physical contingencies) for filling-in
operations in Guayaquil.
.  .~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.



ECUADOR
VOCATIONAL TRAINING PROJECT
SECAP
Implementation Schedule
_        FIRST YEAR      SECOND YEAR       THIRD YEAR
ITEMS                                         1  2 3 4          5 6 7 8        910 11 12
A.  CIVIL WORKS
Selection of Sites                        x
Selection/Appointment of Architects       x x
Preliminary Drawings                      x x
Working Drawings                            x x
Construction Bid Documents                    x z%
Tenders and Contract Awarding                   x     x x
Construction                                x xx      X X X x           x x x x         . . . .
B. FURNITUEE AND EQUIPMENT
CD
Master Lists and Bid Documents              x x x 0   x x
Tenders and Contract Awarding                   x      X X Xx
Manufacturing-Delivery-Installation               C     x x x           x x x x         . . .
C.  PROJECT ADMINISTRATION                    x x x x      x x x x          x xxx           x x x x
Calendar Years (indicative)                   1974       1975          1976             1977
. . . . Guarantee Period



ANNEX 9
ECUADOR
VOCATIONAL TRAINING PROJECT
SECAP
Estimated Disbursement Schedule
(US$ 000's)
FISCAL                                               ACCUMULATED      UNDISBURSED
YEAR            SEMESTER        DISBURSEMENTS       DISBURSEMENTS       BALANCE
4,000
1975               l                  61                  61             3,939
1976               2               1,343               1,404             2,596
3                 541             1,945             2,055
1977               4                 876               2,821            1,179
5                 815              3,636               36h
1978               6                 196               3,832              168
7                 168              4,000                0



ECUADOR
STRUCTURE OF THE EDUCATION AND TRAINING SYSTEM (1973)
Preprimary                    Primary Education                                                 Secondary Education                                                           Higher Education,                          Non Formal                         Labor Force
GRADES                      1       2       3                        C7                       8       9           t0           1          1    12              13       14      15      16l      1r7     '           la      i
I   I  I  I   I       I       i                I       I        I      ~        ~      ~ ~~~               ~      ~      ~~~~Ic  I  I I   I I  I  I        I       I                   I
AGES R)   3-5               6       7       8       9       10      11               12      13       14      15              15      16       t7              18      19       20      2t      22      23           24      25
Medical a,,d
Fost Graduate Engie.eriirg Course
UNIVERSITIES &
POLYTECHNICS                                                                                  PROFESSIONALS
*         Examination or Other Sreening Process
1)       Age relationship applies oniy when students enter
primary education at ag 6 and do not repeat a class                                                                     'Shnrt Professional Courses'
Includes 'Modern Human ties' Arts or Sience-),                                                                                                3                                                                                     HIGHER
(2)       Industrial., Commercial, Agricultural, Home Economics,,                                                                                                                                                                              TECHNICIANS
Art and Teacher Training Streams
| |    Institutions included in Proposed                                                                Ce    dz=                                                                                                                       LEVEL
----    Drop-out Route                                                                                                                                                                                                                        TECHNICIANS
KINDERGARTEN                      PRIMARY CYLE.
O ________________________________________________ ADULT ~ADUL
. EDUCATIDb USKILLED
ILLITERATES                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    WORKERS
World Ba,k-9446



ECUADOR
SECAP-ADMINISTRATIVE STRUCTURE
INATION.ALCOUNCIL  
N~ATIOINAL DIRECTORATE
C=ONNTRUCTlIlONP    TECHNICAL          M         T      |    LCN                                                     ICE                    L       DOCUM ENTATION S   | RIN
NORTHERN REGION              CENTRAL REGION                                  SOUTHIIERN REGION             COAST REGION
DIRECTORATE  DIRECTORATE                         DIRECTORATEW DIRECTORAT
WRfld 13aoI-R741



IBRD 11374
81100y                                             7                                                  776o                                                 75 00                                               7 00                     DECEMBER 1974
N 9    50>.            gt'>                                                                                                  ECUADOR
REsreed                                      'rrk,       ;      i      0      L      o A
Kf _/tyk\Tlas'°Lo                                 MLSECOND EDUCATION PROJECT
/>, )27) B~~el 
Roze           -             -.  iJ P                    \                                  '~           '4                     ~,                         SECAP VOCATONA TRAINIMN  CENTERS
INDUSTRIAL AREAS
0'0                                                                                                           cc,,oo.d,l                                                                                 NATIONAL CAPITAL                                   00'
7">~       b'.-                                    0 sPROVINCIAL CAPITALS
-   RP. lloct/'>-----                                              -                                                    TOWNS
N          ,-          -MAIN ROADS
SECONDARY ROADS
CZ                                                                                                                                               ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~RAILWAYS
RIVERS
4)            c.t.                                   t-: ~~~~~~~~olcogo .                                                   RocoNOre                                              PROVINCIAL BOUNDARIES
Lo          M          d     't -             (:Duev_df              rtricungr      %      v r                         _                      N                  '.                     ---  -INTERNATIONAL BL OUNDARIES
2oool        *-p--~                                                    CoT0 A  Z  A
AA-Moglb,lt
Ga DC                                                                                                                                                                                                  2QW '0 0 0
Q-                                                                                                    9>~~~~~~~~~~~A
R..~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~i
r                          |         \   <                                                          P          E           R           Uo                                                                ' s  NTAGO* -.
,                                  \       S       S                                                                  KlLCrVETERS                                                                              , Vm.   Iqw
C.I.C.Lh                                                                                                                                                                   4'00'-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0
~-.CororZ-c
R U~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
V   20       S0        100     14T       E   2TD00
KILOMETERS
PI,~ ir,;Ic-rrrrl
8100                                               79'00'                                              7700                                                75'00'               IIo-ld Bur; r  Idc il, fr- I
I    .                   S~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



