CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 1157 EC
Loan Agreement
(Vocational Training Project)
BETWEEN
REPUBLIC OF ECUADOR
AND
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
DATED SEPTEMBER 3, 1975


﻿CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 1157 EC
Loan Agreement
(Vocational Training Project)
BETWEEN
REPUBLIC OF ECUADOR
AND
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
DATED SEPTEMBER 3, 1975


﻿LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated September 3, 1975, between REPUBLIC OF
ECUADOR (hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called the Bank).
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the provisions of the
General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agreements of the Bank,
dated March 15, 1974, with the same force and effect as if they were fully set
forth herein (said General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agreements
of the Bank being hereinafter called the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise
requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions have the respective
meanings therein set forth and the term "SECAP" means Servicio Ecuatoriano de
Capacitaci6n Profesional, an agency of the Borrower, and such term includes any
successor thereto.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and
conditions in the Loan Agreement set forth or referred to, an amount in various
currencies equivalent to four million dollars ($4,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule I to this Agreement, as
such Schedule may be amended from time to time, for expenditures made (or,
if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods
and services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan.
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, goods, works and
services (other than consultants' services) for the Project to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Loan, shall be procured in accordance with the provisions
of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.


﻿4
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be September 30, 1978 or such later
date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower
of such later date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge
at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal
amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to time.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest at the rate of eight and one-half
per cent (8-1/2%) per annum on the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn
and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable semi-annually on
March 15 and September 15 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan
in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this
Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Borrower shall carry out the Project through SECAP with
due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative,
financial, engineering, architectural and educational practices, and shall provide,
promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for
the purpose.
Section 3.02. The Borrower shall cause the Director Nacional of SECAP to
be responsible for the coordination of the various activities related to the carrying
out of the Project and for providing liaison with all entities involved in the Project.
The Director Nacional of SECAP shall be assisted by the Subdirector Tecnico and
the Subdirector Administrativo of SECAP, who shall be well qualified professionals
and shall be supported by competent staff as required for the carrying out of
the Project.
Section 3.03. In carrying out Parts A and B of the Project, the Borrower
shall cause SECAP to employ contractors acceptable to the Bank upon terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Bank.
Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower shall cause SECAP to insure, or make
adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be financed out


﻿5
of the proceeds of the Loan against hazards incident to the acquisition,
transportation and delivery thereof to the place of use or installation, and for
such insurance any indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the
Borrower to replace or repair such goods.
(b)   Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall cause
all goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Loan to be used
exclusively for the Project.
Section 3.05. (a) The Borrower shall cause to be furnished to the Bank for
approval, promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications, reports,
contract documents and construction and procurement schedules for the Project,
and any material modifications thereof or additions thereto, in such detail as the
Bank shall reasonably request.
(b)   The Borrower: (i) shall cause SECAP to maintain records adequate
to record the progress of the Project (including the cost thereof) and to identify
the goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, and to disclose
the use thereof in the Project; (ii) shall enable the Bank's accredited representatives
to visit the facilities and construction sites included in the Project and to examine
the goods financed out of the proceeds of the Loan and any relevant records and
documents; and (iii) shall furnish or cause to be furnished to the Bank all such
information as the Bank shall reasonably request concerning the Project, the
expenditure of the proceeds of the Loan and the goods and services financed out
of such proceeds.
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall take or cause to be taken all such action
as shall be necessary to acquire as and when needed all such land and rights in
respect of land as shall be required for the construction and operation of the
facilities included in the Project and shall furnish or cause to be furnished to the
Bank, promptly after such acquisition, evidence satisfactory to the Bank that such
land and rights in respect of land are available for purposes related to the Project.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) It is the policy of the Bank, in making loans to, or with
the guarantee of, its members not to seek, in normal circumstances, specific security
from the member concerned but to ensure that no other external debt shall have
priority over its loans in the allocation, realization or distribution of foreign
exchange held under the control or for the benefit of such member. To that end,
the Borrower and Banco Central del Ecuador undertake that, except as the Bank


﻿6
shall otherwise agree, if any lien shall be created on any assets of the Borrower,
or of Banco Central del Ecuador or any other institution acting as the central
bank of the Borrower, as security for any external debt, such lien will ipso facto
equally and ratably secure the payment of the principal of, and interest and other
charges on, the Loan, and that in the creation of any such lien express provision
will be made to that effect; provided, however, that within the limits of its
constitutional powers, the Borrower will make the foregoing undertaking effective
with respect to liens on assets of any of the Borrower's agencies including agencies
granted autonomy by the Constitution of Ecuador (other than Banco Central del
Ecuador), of any other institution acting as the central bank of the Borrower,
or of any of the Borrower's political subdivisions or of any agency of any such
political subdivisions, and to the extent that the Borrower is unable within the
limits of its constitutional powers to make such undertaking effective, the Borrower
will give to the Bank an equivalent lien satisfactory to the Bank. The Borrower
shall promptly inform the Bank of the creation of any such lien.
(b)   The foregoing undertaking shall not apply to: (i) any lien created on
property, at the time of purchase thereof, solely as security for payment of the
purchase price of such property; (ii) any lien arising in the ordinary course of
banking transactions and securing a debt maturing not more than one year after
its date; and (iii) any lien solely upon revenues or receipts in currency of the
Borrower which is given by a political subdivision (concefo provincial or
municipalidad) or by an agency of a political subdivision of the Borrower under
arrangements containing no provisions which would result in priority in the
allocation or realization of foreign exchange.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall cause SECAP to maintain records adequate
to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained appropriate accounting
practices the operations and financial condition of SECAP.
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall cause SECAP to take out and maintain
with responsible insurers, or to make other provision satisfactory to the Bank for,
insurance against such risks and in such amounts as shall be consistent with
appropriate practice.
Section 4.04. (a) The Borrower shall cause SECAP to operate the training
institutions and facilities included in the Project in accordance with appropriate
administrative and educational policies and practices and with due regard to
economy, and shall make or cause to be made such annual budget allocations for
each institution and facility as shall be necessary for the operation of each such
institution and facility.


﻿7
(b)   The Borrower shall cause SECAP to cause (i) the buildings, equipment
and furniture of the training institutions included in the Project to be adequately
maintained and (ii) all necessary repairs and renewals thereof to be made in
accordance with sound administrative and technical standards.
Section 4.05. The Borrower shall cause SECAP to submit to the Bank for
its review, not later than March 31, 1977, or such other date as the Bank shall
agree:
(i)         a draft of the procedure for selection of apprentices to be trained
in the centers included in Parts A and B of the Project;
(ii)        samples of (1) the programs for (A) accelerated training courses
for unemployed adults and dropouts from the education system,
(B) upgrading of employed workers, (C) short supplementary
courses to prepare graduates from the formal technical schools
for specific middle-level technician occupations, and (D)
apprentice training courses; (2) the standards to be met in the
training for recognized skilled occupations; and (3) the tests to
measure skill levels;
(iii)       plans for the operation of a placement service for the trainees
of such centers, a tracer system to follow-up the career
development of such trainees and evaluation procedures to assess
the suitability and efficiency of the training programs of such
centers;
(iv)        a plan for the training of instructors and supervisors to operate
such centers and the mobile vocational training units included
in Part C of te Project.
Section 4.06. The Borrower shall cause SECAP to review, at intervals of
about one year, jointly with the Bank, its plans and programs for vocational training.
ARTICLE V
Termination
Section 5.01. The date December 3, 1975 is hereby specified for the purposes
of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.


﻿8
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Director Nacional of SECAP is designated as representative
of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of
Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Botiower:
Servicio Ecuatoriano de Capacitaci6n
Profesional
Santa Prisca, 310 - Apartado 2221
Quito
Ecuador
Cable address:
SECAP
Quito
For the Bank:
International Bank foi
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INTBAFRAD
Washington, D.C.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed


﻿9
in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of America,
as of the day and year first above written, and Banco Central del Ecuador, acting
through its duly authorized representative, has evidenced its acceptance of its
obligations under Section 4.01 of this Agreement.
REPUBLIC OF ECUADOR
By /s / Jaime Moncayo Garcia
Authorized Representative
BANCO CENTRAL DEL ECUADOR
By /s / Jos6 C. Cardenas
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s / Enrique Lerdau
Acting Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean


﻿10
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each
Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each
Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated             % of
(Expressed in          Expenditures
Category                 Dollar Equivalent)      to be Financed
(1)  Civil works                   1,450,000          40%
(2)  (a)   Mobile units            1,549,000          100% of foreign
and equipment                              expenditures
(b)  Project ad-                21,000           100% of foreign
ministration                               expenditures
(3)  Furniture                      160,000           45%
(4)  Unallocated                    820,000
TOTAL        4,000,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule the term "foreign expenditures" means
expenditures for goods or services supplied from, the territory, and in the currency,
of any country other than the Borrower.
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in compliance with the
policy of the Bank that no proceeds of the Loan shall be disbursed on account
of payments for taxes levied by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on goods
or services, or on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof;
to that end, if any event occurs which shall affect the amount of any such taxes
included in the cost of any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan,
the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower, correspondingly adjust the disbursement
percentage then applicable to such item.


﻿11
4.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall
be made in respect of expenditures rrior to the date of this Agreement, except
that withdrawals may be made in respect of civil works, equipment, furniture and
Project administration on account of expenditures incurred after June 1, 1974 in
an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of $120,000.
5.    Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Loan or the disbursement
percentages set forth in the table in paragraph I above, if the Bank has reasonably
estimated that the amount of the Loan then allocated to any Category will be
insufficient to finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures in that Category,
the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower: (i) reallocate to such Category, to the
extent required to meet the estimated shortfall, proceeds of the Loan which are
then allocated to another Category and which in the opinion of the Bank are
not needed to meet other expenditures, and (ii) if such reallocation cannot fully
meet the estimated shortfall, reduce the disbursement percentage then applicable
to such expenditures in order that further withdrawals under such Category may
continue until all expenditures thereunder shall have been made.
6.    If the Bank shall have reasonably determined that the procurement of any
*       item in any Category is inconsistent with the procedures set forth or referred to
in this Agreement, no expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan and the Bank may, without in any way restricting or limiting
any other right, power or remedy of the Bank under the Loan Agreement, by
notice to the Borrower, cancel such amount of the Loan as in the Bank's reasonable
opinion, represents the amount of such expenditures which would otherwise have
been eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Loan.


﻿12
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project consists of the expansion of SECAP's vocational training
programs to meet specific manpower requirements in priority sectors of the
economy and to increase the productivity of the labor force.
The Project includes the following Parts:
A.    Expansion and additional furnishing and equipping of a vocational training
center in Quito, with an increase from 390 to about 1,110 trainee places.
B.    Construction, furnishing and equipping of a new vocational training center
in Guayaquil with about 1,245 trainee places.
C.    Purchase of two mobile vocational training units to provide training
opportunities to about 500 trainees annually in small towns and rural
communities.
The Project is expected to be completed by March 31, 1978.


﻿13
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                                  (expressed in dollars)*
September 15, 1980                                       40,000
March 15, 1981                                           40,000
September 15, 1981                                       45,000
March 15, 1982                                           45,000
September 15, 1982                                       45,000
March 15, 1983                                           50,0
September 15, 1983                                       50,000
March 15, 1984                                           55,000
September 15, 1984                                       55,000
March 15, 1985                                           600
September 15, 1985                                       60,000
March 15, 1986                                           65,000
September 15, 1986                                       65,000
March 15, 1987                                           70,000
September 15, 1987                                       70,0
March 15, 1988                                           75,000
September 15, 1988                                       75,00
March 15, 1989                                           80,0
September 15, 1989                                       85,000
March 15, 1990                                           85,000
September 15, 1990                                       90,000
March 15, 1991                                           95,000
September 15, 1991
iarch 15, 1992                                         105,000
September 15, 1992                                      110,0
March 15, 1993                                          110,000
September 15, 1993                                      115,000
March 15, 1994                                           120,000
September 15, 1994                                       125,000
March 15, 1995                                          135,000
September 15, 1995                                      140,0
March 15, 1996                                          145,000
September 15, 1996                                      150,000
March 15, 1997                                          155,000
September 15, 1997                                      165,000
March 15, 1998                                          170,000
September 15, 1998                                      180,000
March 15, 1999                                          185,000
September 15, 1999                                      195,000
March 15,3 2000                                         195,000
*  To the extent that any portion of the Loan is repayable in a currency other
than dollars (see General Conditions, Section 4.02), the figures in this column
represent dollar equivalents determined as for purposes of withdrawal.


﻿14
Premiums on Prepayment
The following percentages are specified as the premiums payable on
repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of the principal amount of the
Loan pursuant to Section 3.05(b) of the General Conditions:
Time of Prepayment                                 Premium
Not more than three years
before maturity                                    1%
More than three years but
not more than six
years before maturity                          2-1/4%
More than six years but
not more than eleven
years before maturity                              4%
More than eleven years
but not more than
sixteen years before
maturity                                       5-1/2%
More than sixteen years
but not more than
twenty-one years
before maturity                                7-1/4%
More than twenty-one
years but not more
than twenty-three
years before maturity                              8%
More than twenty-three
years before maturity                          8-1/2%


﻿15
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement
A.    General Procedures
1.   Except as provided in Parts A.3 and A.4 hereof, contracts shall be let under
procedures consistent with those set forth in the "Guidelines for Procurement under
World Bank Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in April 1972, as
revised in October 1972 (hereinafter called the Guidelines), on the basis of
international competitive bidding.
2.    Furniture and equipment shall be grouped so as to permit such bulk
procurement as shall be consistent with appropriate technical and procurement
practices. Whenever possible, each bid package for such items shall be for not less
than the equivalent of $40,000.
3.    Bidders  for  civil works shall be    prequalified. The  invitation  for
prequalification shall be advertised locally, provided, however, that copies of such
*        advertisement shall be transmitted to local representatives of the member countries
of the Bank and Switzerland, which are potential suppliers of such services. Foreign
contractors shall not be precluded from bidding.
4.    Furniture and equipment which cannot be grouped in lots estimated to cost
the equivalent of $40,000 or more may be procured in accordance with the
Borrower's regular procurement procedures, provided that the total cost of the
furniture and equipment so procured shall not exceed the equivalent of $200,000.
B.    Evaluation and Comparison of Bids for Goods; Preference for Domestic
Manufacturers
1.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for the supply of
goods: (i) bidders shall be required to state in their bid the c.i.f. (port of entry)
price for imported goods, or the ex-factory price for domestically-manufactured
goods; (ii) customs duties and other import taxes on imported goods, and sales
and similar taxes on domestically-supplied goods, shall be excluded; and (iii) the
cost to the Borrower of inland freight and other expenditures incidental to the
delivery of goods to the place of their use or installation shall be included.
2.    Goods manufactured in Ecuador may be granted a margin of preference in
accordance with, and subject to, the following provisions:


﻿16
(a)   All bidding documents for the procurement of goods shall clearly
indicate any preference which will be granted, the information required to establish
the eligibility of a bid for such preference and the following methods and stages
that will be followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
(b)   After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified in one of the
following three groups:
(1)   Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in Ecuador if the
bidder shall have established to the satisfaction of the Borrower
and the Bank that the manufacturing cost of such goods includes
a value added in Ecuador equal to at least 20% of the ox-factory
bid price of such goods.
(2)   Group B: all other bids offering goods manufactured in Ecuador.
(3)   Group C: bids offering any other goods.
(c)   All evaluated bids in each group shall be first compared among
themselves, excluding any customs duties and other import taxes on goods to be
imported and any sales or similar taxes on goods to be supplied domestically, to
determine the lowest evaluated bid of each group. The lowest evauated bid of
each group shall then be compared with each other, and if, as a result of this
comparison, a bid from group A or group B is the lowest, it shall be selected
for the award.
(d)   If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph (c) above, the lowest
bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids shall be further compared with the
lowest evaluated bid from group A after adding to the c.i.f. bid price of the
imported goods offered in each group C bid, for the purpose of this further
comparison only, an amount equal to (i) the amount of customs duties and other
import taxes which a non-exempt importer would have to pay for the importation
of the goods offered in such group C bid, or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of
such goods if said customs duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price. If the group
A bid in such further comparison is the lowest, it shall be selected for the award;
if not, the lowest evaluated bid from group C shall be selected.
C.    Review of Procurement Decisions by the Bank
1.   Review of prequalification. The Borrower shall, before qualification is invited,
inform the Bank in detail of the procedure to be followed and shall introduce
such modifications in said procedure as the Bank shall reasonably request. The


﻿17
list of prequalified bidders, together with a statement of their qualifications and
of the reasons for the exclusion of any applicant for prequalification shall be
furnished by the Borrower to the Bank for its comments before the applicants
are notified and the Borrower shall make such additions to, deletions from, or
modifications in, the said list as the Bank shall reasonably request.
2.    Review of invitation to bid. Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish
to the Bank, for its comments, the text of the invitations to bid and the
specifications and other bidding documents, together with a description of the
advertising procedures to be followed for the bidding, and shall make such
modifications in the said documents or procedures as the Bank shall reasonably
request, Any further modification to the bidding documents shall require the Bank's
concurrence before it is issued to the prospective bidders.
3.    Review of proposed bid awards and final contracts. With respect to all
contracts for civil works estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more
and to all contracts for furniture and equipment estimated to cost the equivalent
of $25,000 or more:
(a)   Promptly after the bids have been received, the Borrower shall inform
the Bank of the names of the bidders and the respective amounts of the bids.
(b)   After bids have been received and evaluated, the Borrower shall, before
a final decision on the award is made, inform the Bank of the name of the bidder
to which it intends to award the contract and the reasons for the intended award
and shall furnish to the Bank, in sufficient time for its review, a detailed report
on the evaluation and comparison of the bids received, together with the
recommendation for award and such other information as the Bank shall reasonably
request. The Bank shall, if it determines that the intended award would be
inconsistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower
and state the rCasons for such determination.
(c)   The terms and conditions of the contract shall not, without the Bank's
concurrence, materially differ from those on which bids were asked or
prequalification invited.
(d)   Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished to the Bank
promptly after its execution and prior to the submission to the Bank of the first
application for withdrawal of funds from the Loan Account in respect of such
contract.
4.    With respect to each contract to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Loan and not governed by the preceding paragraph, the Borrower shall furnish


﻿18
to the Bank, promptly after its execution and prior to the submission to the Bank
of the first application for withdrawal of funds from the Loan Account in respect
of such contract, two conformed copies of such contract, together with the analysis
of bids, recommendations for award and such other information as the Bank shall
reasonably request. The Bank shall, if it determines that the award of the contract
was not consistent with this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and state
the reasons for such determination.


