E768
August 2002
Jamaica
Reform of Secondary Education II Project
Environmental Assessment
1.    From January 6-9, I visited Jamaica for the pre-appraisal mission of the ROSE II
project. My terms of reference were to review the environmental screening procedures
for site selection and construction of three new schools, which are to be built under the
operation.
2.    My counterparts included Mr. Noel Brown, Building Coordinator, and Mr. Laurie
Wilson, , of the Ministry of Education. In addition to counterpart discussions, I also met
with several members of the National Environmental Planning Agency, of the Ministry of
Planning and the Environment, to review environmental legislation governing
construction of small civil works, and visited the three selected sites for new schools.
3.    The Bank team confirmed that there are screening procedures for environmental
impacts in place for site selection and for construction of schools. The environmental
screening process is as follows:
4.    Site selection. The MoE has selected three sites for new school construction
under the project. A separate description of these sites is attached; no significant
environmental issues are associated with two of the sites. The third site, located in
Discovery Bay, is on coastal property and will likely undergo more intense scrutiny by
NEPA during the review process than the other two.
5.   - The MoE is required to send proposed school construction plans to NEPA for
review, once topographical studies have been completed and architectural models have
been drawn. Schools are not projects which require a permit from NEPA; however, any
proposed new construction requires review by the Agency, and any project involving
effluent waste disposal requires a license. This will be the case for schools constructed
under the ROSE II project: a permit will not be required, but certain licenses will.
6.    NEPA's screening procedures for site selection involve review by various
technical branches, including the coastal zone management unit, water resources, cultural
properties, and protected habitats and species. The proposed MoE sites will be reviewed
to ensure that appropriate buffer zones to water and other resources are respected; that
protected areas and/or habitat for endangered species are not affected, that appropriate
water and sewerage systems suitable to the soil and water tables in the area are designed;
and that cultural and historical properties in the area are not adversely affected by
erecting a new school. Minimum review time by NEPA for this type of construction is
eight weeks; however, if additional review is necessary because of issues associated with
site selection, the review time may be longer.
7.    The standard procedure is for the MoE to submit its site and construction plans to
NEPA once completed. However, it was agreed that, though not required, the MoE would
FIL COPY _



involve NEPA immediately in the site selection process, with NEPA staff visiting the
three sites prior to the MoE submitting design plans to NEPA. The purpose is to avoid
delays at the review stage by the possible rejection of the selected sites (the Discovery
Bay site is likely to have some environmental, and possibly cultural, issues associated
with it), and to improve project design early in the preparation process.
8. The Bank team also confirned that NEPA, upon reviewing and approving
proposed projects, provides guidelines to avoid and mitigate negative
environmental impacts during the construction phase, to which the MoE is
required to adhere. These guidelines are based on the World Bank procedures for
the construction of small civil works, and include such standard procedures as
keeping dust down through spraying of water during construction, ensuring
proper disposal of construction waste, requiring temporary latrines to be
constructed for workers, etc.
9. A copy of some of the documentation required by NEPA for review of proposed
projects can be found in the Bank's project files.
10.   School design: Architectural designs of the new schools have not yet been
completed; however, the MoE confirms that materials are locally manufactured (with the
exception of some concrete bricks), and that designs are appropriate for the geographical
location of the sites. School models will be reviewed to ensure appropriate design by
NEPA. The design will also include features to ensure that physically disabled students
have access to the schools.
11.   Community consultation: The MoE has consulted with local school principals
regarding the necessity and location of new secondary schools at all three sites. Though
it was assured that the affected communities are aware that the new schools are being
built, it is unclear how these communities were informed and how thorough this
disclosure has been to date. The MoE should therefore agree on some kind of standard
procedure to follow to inform the three communities of the proposed schools.
12.   Disclosure. This EA will be submitted to the Bank's InfoShop prior to appraisal.
The Government of Jamaica (GOJ) will also disclose this document to the public as soon
as possible, in a manner to be determined by the MoE.
Site visits by Bank mission team, January 7-8, 2001.
1.    Visit to Riversdale, St. Catherine Parish.
The site is approximately 14 acres, and has been assigned by the National Lands
Commission to the MoE. The Rio Cobre and one of its tributary bound the property;
however, even during the rainy season the river in that area has not been known to rise
more than about 20 feet, well below the proposed school site. The site is cleared in some
parts for gardens and livestock; in other areas it is more heavily vegetated.



There are seven squatters on the site, who have been there approximately 3-5 years, and
each of whom has been informed that the school is being built and some of whom have
begun to move in anticipation. These squatters have gardens and livestock on the site,
and will receive formal written notice in addition to the verbal communication already
received.
The MoE will need to construct an access road to get to the site; one option is to obtain
an easement from a private road running along the site, and then construct a small access
road of about 100 meters to the site; the second option is to construct a short access road
(less than 100 meters) that will eventually become a permanent road to the school.
The road leading from the surrounding communities to the school is a secondary road
maintained by the national government.
Architects and engineers have visited the site and proposed the exact spot for the school.
The next step will be to undertake a topographical survey, at which point a water and
sewage system appropriate for the geography and soils of the area will be proposed. The
town has piped water so the proposed school will most likely hook up to the existing
water supply system. It was agreed with the MoE that NEPA technical staff will become
involved during the topographical surveys. No alternative site has been identified in this
community; however, major environmental issues with the site are not anticipated.
2.    Discovery Bay, St. Ann's Parish.
The proposed site is located on 100 acres of coastal land, approximately 3/4 mile from the
ocean and two miles from Runaway Bay and Discovery Bay. The coastline is mostly
cliff, not beach. Less than three feet below the soil surface, white and yellow limestone
is found. Cultural and historically important sites, including the Green Grotto caves, are
in the vicinity. One squatter is living on the site, and the standard written notice will be
provided to the family. The area is heavily vegetated with logwood and sea grape,
among other plant species. The national government owns 51 percent of the land, while
the Kaiser Bauxite company owns the remaining shares. Kaiser proposed the site, and no
land acquisition is required by MoE since the government has controlling interest of the
land; the Commissioner of Lands must simply turn over the site to the MoE. The site was
selected in October 2001, and architects and engineer teams have not yet visited the area.
Groundwater is the source of water for the surrounding towns, which have a piped water
system that the proposed school would likely connect.
This site is likely to undergo more scrutiny by NEPA because of its coastal location and
underlying limestone, and the historical properties in the area (namely the Green Grotto
caves). In preliminary discussion of the site with NEPA officials, they expressed some
concern about water supply issues and solid waste disposal, as well as the effect on the
limestone caves located in the area. An alternative site has been identified in the event
that the preferred location is rejected by NEPA. The alternative site, located on a hillside
where a prep school and community college already exist, is approximately 8 acres.
While no major issues are identified with the alternative site, the MoE prefers the coastal



location because there is more space and therefore greater possibility to expand in the
future. It is also located right off the national highway (which is being expanded by
about 250 yards), making it easily accessible.
3.    Mile Gully, St. Catherine Parish.
The proposed site is located on about 14 acres of government land, on a small elevation
above the main section of the town. There are leased lands surrounding the site, which
should not be affected by the proposed construction. The town is located at roughly 1700
feet above sea level and no flooding issues are envisioned. The site is heavily vegetated,
near a former railroad station and tracks now closed. There is some discussion at the
national level about the railroad re-opening here, and the MoE will have to take this
possibility into consideration when designing the school.
Architects and engineers have visited the site, and no major environmental or cultural
issues are identified with the proposed selection; however, no alternative site has been
identified.
The town's water supply comes from rainwater catchment tanks, and this would be the
proposed plan for the new school. There are plans to bring piped water to the town, but
until that happens, the school design will likely include the rainwater catchment tanks.



Annex 17: Environmental Assessment
l. Mle Gully, Manchester Parish.
The proposed site is located on about 14 acres of government land, on a small elevation
above the main section of the town. There are leased land(s surroundinig the site, which
should not be affected by the proposed construction. The town is located at roughly 1700
feet above sea level and no flooding issues are envisioned. The site is heavily vegetated, near
a former railroad station and tracks now closed. 'There is some discussion at the national
level about the railroad re-opening here, and the MOEYC will have to take this possibility
into consideration when designing the school.
Architects and engineers have visited the site, and no major environmental or cultural
issues are identified with the proposed selection. No alternative site has been identified.
The town's water supply comes from rainwater catchment tanks, and this would be the
proposed plan for the new school. There are plans to bring piped water to the town, but
until that happens, the school design will likely include the rainwater catchment tanks.
2.     Discovery Bay. St. Ann's Parish.
The proposed site is located on 100 acres of coastal land, approximately 3/4 mile from
the ocean and two miles from Runaway Bay and Discovery Bay. The coastline is mostly
cliff, not beach. Less than three feet below the soil surface, white and yellow limestone is
found. Cultural and historically important sites, including tile Green Grotto caves, are in
tile vicinity. One squatter is livinig on the site of the 100 acre coastal land, but the dwelling
does not fall within the boundary of the school site. The area is heavily vegetated with
logivood and sea grape, among other plant species.
The national government owns the land on which the school is proposed to be bluilt.
T'he Commissioner of Lands will turn over the site to the MOEYC. The site was selected in
October 2001. and architects and engineer teams have visited the area. Groundwater is the
source of water for the surrounding towns, which have a piped water system that the
proposed school would likely connect.
This site is likely to tindergo more scrutiny by NEPA because of its coastal location and
underlying limestone, and the historical properties in the area (namely the Green Grotto
caves). In preliminary discussion of the site with NEPA officials, they expressed some
concern about water supply issues and solid waste disposal, as well as the effect on the
liimestone caves located in the area. An alternative site has been identiried in the event that
the preferred location is rejected by NEPA. The alternative site, located on a hillside where
a prep school and community college already exist, is approximately 8 acres. AVhiie no
major issues are identified with the alternative site, the NIOEYC prefers the coastal location
because there is morc space and therefore greater possibility to expand in the futtire. It is
also locatcd right off the national highway (which is being expanded by about 250 yards),
making it easily accessible.
3.     Riversdale, St. Cathenne Parish.
The site is approximately 14 acres, and has been assigned by the Commission of
Lands to the MOEYC. T'he Rio Cobre andi one of its tributary hound the property;



however, even during the rainy season the river in that area has not been knowi to rise
more than about 20 feet. well b)elow the proposed school site. The site is cleared in some
parts for gardens and livestock; in other areas it is more heavily vegetated.
There are seven squatter households on the site, who have been there approximately 3-5
years, and each of whom has been informed that the school is being built and some of whom have
begun to move in anticipation. These squatters have gardens and livestock on the site, and have
received formal written notice, in addition to the verbal communication. The Government of
Jamaica has offered a different site to resettle the squatters. However, the squatters prefer to go
to various sites of their own choice. The Government will provide compensation and building
materials. These squatters are in the process of constructing their new homes in other areas of
their choice.
The MOEYC will need to construct an access road to get to the site; one option is to
obtain an easement from a private road running along the site. and then construct a small
access road of about 100 meters to the site; the second option is to construct a short access
road (less than 100 meters) that will eventually become a permanenlt road to the school.
The road leading from the surrounding commuinities to the school is a secondary road
maintained by the national government.
Architects and engineers have visited the site and proposed the exact spot for the school.
The next step will be to undertake a topographical survey, at which point a water and
sewage system appropriate for the geography and soils of the area will be proposed. The
towii hias piped water so the proposed school will most likely hook up to the existing water
supply system. It was agreed with the MOEYC that NEPA technical staff will become
involved during the topographical surveys. No alternative site has been identiried in this
community; however, major environmental issues with the site are not anticipated.



Annex 18: Abbreviated Resettlement Plan for the Riversdale Site
The site for the construction of a High School in Riversdale, St. Catherine have
illegal occupants. As a result, a survey was conducted in the beginning of March from
which the following information was obtained.
Table 1: Status of Settlements
Household     No. of
Number       persons in    No. of     Employment     Evaluation of  Comments
Household     Children   Status         Assets
1            I             none       unemployed     $8,000        Willing to be
relocated
2            7             5          Domestic       $20,000       Willing to be
Helper                       relocated
3            5             3          Higgler        $15,000       Willing to be
relocated
4            4             3          unemployed     $10,000       Willing to be
relocated
5            6             4          Carpenter      $15,000       Willing to be
relocated
6            4             2          Labourer       $20,000       Willing to be
relocated
The findings of the survey indicate that the dwellings occupied by the settlers are
in a state of disrepair arising mainly from the fact that they were not properly constructed
in the first place. The dwellings are board structures with no proper utilities in place.
Discussions were held with the settlers and they indicated a willingness to be
relocated. With this in mind, a location was identified for the households to be relocated.
The settlers, however prefer to choose their owvn site. Consequent upon that, they have
identified locations in different areas in Riversdale and some have started their
construction and are making preparation to relocate.
In order to aid in the relocation process, the households will be provided with
assistance in terms of building materials. The families have indicated their agreement
with the terms offered and have also indicated a willingness to work with the relocation
timetable discussed.
The Estate Management Division of thc National Land Agency will be
responsible for the monitoring and implementati on of these activities.
Table 2               Resettlement Schedule



Activities             Dates            Budget                      Comments
Conduct census survey  February, 2002   1 household @ $15,000       $15,000 - $25,000 in
of persons on site                      2 households @ $20,000      kind, per household
3 households @ 25,000       depending on size of
Total of $1 30,000          households. This will
be in the form of
building materials.
Identify altemate site(s)  February, 2002                           Site identified, but
settlers prefer to fmd
their own sites
Serve official notice  May, 2002                                    Will be done by the
_____________________  ________________National Land            Agency
Persons relocated      By July 31, 2002                             National Land Agency
Visit from the Estate  August, 2002                                 Visit will be to confirm
Management Division                                                 relocation of settlers.
of the National Land
Agency
No later than 12 months after the relocation date, the MOEYC will make reasonable
efforts to locate and follow up on the relocated families to determine if they have been
able to reestablish their livelihoods and living situation. If this is not the case for any or
all of the persons relocated, further assistance will be provided by the relevant
Government institution.



