Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 24782-JM
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ONA
PROPOSED LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$39.8 MILLION
TO
JAMAICA
FOR THE
REFORM OF SECONDARY EDUCATION PROJECT II
September 16, 2002
Sector Management Unit for Human Development
Caribbean Country Management Unit
Latin America and Caribbean Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective January 15, 2002)
Currency Unit = Jamaican Dollar (JMD)
1 JMD = US$0.02
US$1 = JMD48.00
FISCAL YEAR
April   - March 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CAS           Country Assistance Strategy
CFAS          Country Financial Accountability Assessment
CXC           Catibbean Examination Council
DFID          Department for International Development (UK)
GOJ           Government of Jamaica
GNAT          Grade Nine Achievement Test
GSAT          Grade Six Achievement Test
ICB           International Competitive Bidding
IDB           Inter-American Development Bank
IMF           International Monetary Fund
JHSC          Junior High School Certificate Examination
JAASP         Jamaican All-Age School Project (DFID)
MIS           Management Information System
MOEYC         Ministry of Education, Youth and Culture
MOFD          Ministry of Finance and Development
MOH           Ministry of Health
MLSS          Ministry of Labor and Social Security
NCB           National Competitive Bidding
NGO's         Non-Governmental Organizations
PCU           Project Coordination Unit
PIOJ          Planning Institute of Jamaica
P&JH          Primary and Junior High Schools
PMR           Project Management Report
ROSE          Reform of Secondary Education
SA            Special Account
SEP           Secondary Enhancement Programme
SIF           Social Investment Fund
SIG           School Improvement Grants
SIP           School Improvement Plan
SLC           Survey of Living Conditions
SOE           Statement of Expenditures
SSNP          Social Safety Net Project
USAID         United States Agency for Intemational Development
UTECH         University of Technology
UWI           University of the West Indies
Vice President:   David de Ferranti
Country Manager/Director:    Orsalia Kalantzopoulos
Sector Manager/Director:    Marito H. Garcia
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:      Kin Bing Wu



JAMAICA
REFORM OF SECONDARY EDUCATION PROJECT II
CONTENTS
A. Project Development Objective                                                     Page
1. Project development objective                                                     2
2. Key performance indicators                                                         2
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project    2
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy                                         3
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices                12
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components                                                                13
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project                     18
3. Benefits and target population                                                    19
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements                                     19
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection                        21
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and other development agencies        22
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design                               26
4. Indications of borrower conmmitment and ownership                                 26
5. Value added of Bank support in this project                                       27
E. Summary Project Analysis
1. Economnic                                                                         29
2. Financial                                                                         29
3. Technical                                                                         30
4. Institutional                                                                     30
5. Environmental                                                                     31
6. Social                                                                            33
7. Safeguard Policies                                                                35
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability                                                                   36
2. Critical risks                                                                    36



3. Possible controversial aspects                                                  37
G. Main Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition                                                         37
2. Other                                                                           37
H. Readiness for Implementation                                                       37
I. Compliance with Bank Policies                                                      38
Annexes
Annex 1: Project Design Summary                                                       39
Annex 2: Detailed Project Description                                                 47
Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs                                                      51
Annex 4: Cost Benefit Analysis Summary, or Cost-Effectiveness Analysis Summary        52
Annex 5: Financial Summary for Revenue-Earning Project Entities, or Financial Summary  57
Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements                                    59
Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule                                                  72
Annex 8: Documents in the Project File                                                75
Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits                                               76
Annex 10: Country at a Glance                                                         77
Annex 11: The Education System                                                        79
Annex 12: Institutional Analysis                                                      83
Annex 13: Social and Economic Situation                                               91
Annex 14: School Improvement Grants                                                  107
Annex 15: Bursaries for Independent School Places                                    113
Annex 16: Monitoring, Evaluation and Assessment                                      119
Annex 17: Operational Structure for Rose II                                          125
Annex 18: Abbreviated Resettlement for the Riversdale Site                           126
MAP(S)



JAMAICA
REFORM OF SECONDARY EDUCATION PROJECT II
Project Appraisal Document
Latin America and Caribbean Region
LCSHE
Date: September 16, 2002                        Team Leader: Kin Bing Wu
Sector Manager/Director: Marito H. Garcia       Sector(s): Secondary education (100%)
Country Manager/Director: Orsalia Kalantzopoulos  Theme(s): Other public sector governance (P), Education
Project ID: P071589                             for all (P), Access to urban services for the poor (P),
Lending Instrument: Specific Investment Loan (SL)  Rural services and infrastructure (P)
Project Financing Data
[X] Loan    [ ] Credit   [ ] Grant   []Guarantee      [ Other:
For Loans/CreditslOthers:
Loan Currency: United States Dollar
Amount (US$m): 39.8 million
Borrower Rationale for Choice of Loan Terms Available on File: [71 Yes
Proposed Terms (IBRD): Fixed-Spread Loan (FSL)
Grace period (years): 5                       Years to maturity: 17
Commitment fee: 0.85% 1st. 4 years/0.75% after  Front end fee (FEF) on Bank loan: 1.00%
Initial choice of Interest-rate basis:
Type of repayment schedule:
[X] Fixed at Commitment, with the following repayment method (choose one):
[ l. Linked to Disbursement
Financing Plan (US$m):   Source                           Local-        Foreign.       Total
BORROWER                                                    23.20           0.00         23.20
IBRD                                                        21.76          18.04         39.80
Total:                                                      44.96          18.04         63.00
Borrower: JAMAICA
Responsible agency: MINISTRY OF EDUCATION, YOUTH AND CULTURE
Address: 2 National Heroes Circle, Kingston 4
Contact Person: Ms. Marguerite Bowie, Permanent Secretary
Tel: (876) 922-1400         Fax: (876) 922-6328          Email: Edpersec@Cwjamaica.Com
Estimated Disbursements ( Bank FYIUS$m):
FY
Annual     3.00      10.00     15.00      8.00       3.80
Cumulative     3.00     13.00     28.00      36.00 l   39.80
Project implementation period: January 1, 2003 - December 31, 2007
Expected effectiveness date: 01/01/2003  Expected closing date:  06/30/2008
OCS -AD F-n RH. MAch. 2Du



A. Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective: (see Annex 1)
This Reform of Secondary Education Project II (ROSE II) (2003-2007), is a follow-on to the first
project, ROSE I (1993-2000). These two projects support the Jamaican Ministry of Education, Youth and
Culture's (MOEYC) 15-year program to reform secondary education.
ROSE II aims to achieve the following:
(a)  to continue to improve the quality and equity of secondary education through funding
school improvement plans and through providing pedagogical and other support to schools;
(b)  to expand access to upper secondary education through building new schools and
extending existing schools, and through public financing of student places in Independent
Schools; and
(c)  to strengthen the capacity of the central ministry and the regional offices to manage and
monitor the reform.
2. 'Key performance indicators: (see Annex 1)
*   Annual increase in average scores in Junior High School Certification Examination (JHSC)
or the Grade Nine Assessment Test (GNAT) in Language Arts and Mathematics.
*  Annual reduction in the percentage of students in JHSC scoring below 30 percent correct in
Language Arts and Mathematics.
*  Annual increase in attainment, at the end of Grade 11, in the Caribbean Examination
Council's Caribbean Secondary Education Certificate Examination (CXC-CSEC) at Level 3
and above in Language and Mathematics.
* Annual increase in enrollment in secondary education, disaggregated by consumption
quintile.
* Annual increase in participation in the CXC-CSEC at the end of Grade 11.
The aim is to obtain statistically significant improvement in the above indicators by the end of
the Project in 2007, in comparison with the baseline measures in 2001. The participation rates
and the results of the above-mentioned examinations are to be disaggregated by school type. The
JHSC and CXC-CSEC results of students who receive bursaries in Independent Schools will be
monitored.
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project: (see Annex 1)
Document number: R2000-200 Date of latest CAS discussion: November 30, 2000
Jamaica is a country of 2.6 million people and with a GNP per capita of under $2,740 in 2001.
-2 -



Since the late 1990s, economic contraction, high unemployment rates, particularly among young people,
and crime and violence have adversely affected society. The Government of Jamaica's (GOJ)
development agenda aims at: (a) restoring economic growth, (b) protecting the poor and building up the
social and human capital, (c) improving govemance, efficiency, and effectiveness of the public sector,
and (d) ensuring sustainable development.
Based on this GOJ agenda, the Bank's Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) of November 2000
developed a highly focused program. The FY01-02 lending program supported reform of the financial
sector, restructuring of the social safety net program, and instituting of a national program for HIV/AIDS
prevention and control. In response to intemal and extemal shocks in 2001, the Bank approved an
Emergency Rehabilitation loan and prepared a National Community Development Project to address the
issues of social dislocation. The CAS in 2002 follows the same course set previously. In the financial
sector, it follows up with the Bank Restructuring and Management Program II. In the education sector,
the CAS endorses GOJ's policy of improving the quality and equity of secondary education and of
providing a place for all Grade Nine graduates in upper secondary education by 2007 through ROSE II
because the Project speaks directly to the goals of ensuring the inclusiveness of growth and building up
of the human capital.
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
Accomplishments. Jamaica stands out among lower middle income countries as one of the few
that has attained 93 percent coverage for early childhood education for children between the ages of 3
and 5, and practically universal enrollment in primary and lower secondary education (Figure 1 and
Table 1). The formal education system serves about 767,000 students at all levels, or about 30 percent of
the total population. About 94 percent of the students are enrolled in the public secondary schools and 6
percent in independent schools.
These accomplishments reflect a successful focus of education policy, as well as a strong
household demand for education. Government commitment to education is reflected in the growth in
public expenditure on education from 2.9 to 7.6 percent of GDP between 1992/3 and 1999/2000. This
level of public spending is high, relative to the Latin American and the Caribbean average of 4.6 percent,
and also high relative to countries of similar income level.
The average household spending on primary and secondary education amounted to about
US$624 per annum, indicating a willingness of households to pay for education. About a quarter of the
Jamaican household expenditure on education is on extra-tutoring. The rest on lunch, transport, books
and fees. Even the poorest consumption quintile spend something on extra-lessons, a most unusual
phenomenon.
-3 -



Figure 1: School Eirollment by Age and
Consurrption Quintile, 2000
100 -                                  --
80
60      -,                 *            ----- ' borest
40  ~  -  T                     -a4.s  ' ., . _ .........- Rchest]
40              ,ttl
20    .      -,_                '  --
0
3-5   6-11  12-14 15-16 17-18 19-24
Age Gro ups
Issues. Challenges, however, are formidable. The key issues are (a) uneven quality of primary and
secondary education; (b) youth-at-risk; (c) inadequate access to upper secondary education by the poor;
(d) constraint in education finance; and (e) constraints in institutional capacity. (See Annex 1 1 for a
description of the education system and education fimance.)
Table 1: The Education System in Jama ca, 2000
Level            Enrollment      Enrollment in      Gross           Net         Female as
in Public        Private       Enrollment    Enrollment      % of Total
Institutions    Institutions       Ratio          Ratio
ECE (Ages 3-5)            135,918            8,770           93             82            50
Primary (Ages 6-11)       312,369           33,000        -99.1           92.8            49
Secondary                 277,540            1,500                                        51
Gr. 7-9 (Ages 12-14)      144,241              NA         -95.3             89             51
Gr. 10-1I (Ages 15-16)     78,112              NA          76.7             72            52
Gr. 12-13 (Ages 17-18)      5,177              NA           5.0            NA             62
Special Education**         2,414              NA           NA            NA
Tertiary (Ages 17 up)**    38,822         2,000(?)          NA             NA             66
Sources: MOEYC School Census 2000; Jamaica Survey of Living Conditions 2000.
Notes:
(1) Gross enrollment ratios indicate how many students of all ages are studying at a given level, including under- and over-
aged students, repeaters, and adult learners. Gross enrollment ratios may exceed 100 percent. Net enrollment ratios indicate
what percentage of children of a particular age group are studying in the level designated for that age group. It never
exceeds 100 percent and more accurately reflects the age-grade correspondence and the efficiency of the system.
(2) Enrollment in Grades 12 and 13 is not required for attending tertiary education institutions in Jamaica. Grades 12-13,
which prepare for GCE A level exams, would give a competitive edge nationally and regionally in university admission.
(3) Tertiary education institutions include teachers' colleges, community colleges, and universities.
* Data for special education and tertiary education are from 1999/2000.
(a)     Uneven quality of primarY and secondary education
There is enormous disparity in students' mastery of basic cognitive skills:
At the end of the Primary Cycle (Grade 6): About 30 percent of Grade 6 leavers read
below grade level. In spite of their low scores in the Grade Six Achievement Test (GSAT), they
were placed nonetheless in Grade 7. They tend to lag further and further behind as they continue
-4-



to move. Low academic achievement has a strong bearing on their subsequent educational
aspirations, the risks of dropout and delinquent behavior.
At the end of Lower Secondary Education (Grade 9): In the Junior High School Certificate
Examination (JHSC) for the end of Grade 9 in 2000, students in the five-year Upgraded High
Schools and three-year Primary and Junior Highs (P&JH) performed much worse than their
counterparts in the Traditional High Schools in Language Arts and Mathematics (see Figures 2 and
3 for percent correct in mathematics and language in the JHSC Examination, 1997 to 2000).
Figure 2: Percent Correct in Mathematics,
Junior High School Certificate Examination,
1997-2000
U  80
0  60 
40                      _P4J_H
20    --
0        - -.-..               * Corrprehen.
0 .~~~~~~~~~~ Traditbnal
1997   1998  1999   2000      r
Year
Figure 3: Percent Correct In Language,
Junior High School Certificate Examination,
1997-2000
100-.           -
e 801
o 0
20 L4   . ;              +         P&JH
L0.                             . Corrprehen.
1997  1998  1999  2000 -*  Traditionai
Year
At the end of Senior Secondary Education (Grade 11): Low achievement has led to low
participating rates in the Caribbean Secondary Education Certificate Examination of the regional
Caribbean Examination Council (CXC), which is the key examination for admission in tertiary education
and employment. Of those students from Upgraded High Schools who sat the examination, only 31
percent attained the passing grade of Level 3 and above in Mathematics and 39 percent in English. Even
among traditional High Schools, only 40 percent of those who sat the CXC attained a passing grade in
Mathematics and 74 percent in English. The inadequate cognitive skills reduce students'
work-preparedness and productivity, and the country's competitiveness in the global economy. (Figure
4A and 4B.)
-5 -



Fg 4A: Percentage of Bigible Cohort Taking CXC, 2001
Maths      English
Fig. 4B: Percentage of Total Passess of CXC Candidates,
2001
30%   - -
60% a -,
Qo s ; ^ = [, Hn~~~~~~~~ditoa Hgh Schools|
-  -           ETr~~~~~~~It~.onalHgh ScWoI
20% -a UpgradedHghSrhoIs
Maths     English
Low level of achievement reflects an inevitable trade-off between quantity (enrollment
expansion) and quality (maintenance of high standards). In the past, automatic promotion was practiced
in order to minimize difficulties for over-aged students to stay in the same class with younger students
and to accommodate a growing school-age population. Many students moved through the system without
acquiring the requisite skills. Examinations are used to select the students with the highest achievement
for the best and most well-financed schools. Soon the school system mirrored the socioeconomic divide
of society.
Table 2 presents enrollment by school type and by consumption quintile. Students in the first
(poorest) quintile were disproportionately represented in All-Age Schools. Over half of the students in
the traditional High Schools were from the top two quintiles. In tertiary education, 77 percent of students
were from the top quintile, but none were from the poorest quintile. (See Annex 11 for a description of
the education system in Jamaica.)
-o6 -



Table 2: Enrollment by School Type in Secondary and Tertiary Education
by Consumption Quintile, 2000
Ql
(poorest)  02     03        04       05       Total
All-age (Gr. 7-9)            43%       30%      18%       6%        3%     100%
P&JH (Gr. 7-9)               22%       16%      19%      33%       10%     100%
Comprehensive (Gr. 7-11)      18%      24%      27%      18%       13%     100%
Secondary Highs (Gr. 7-13)    13%      17%      20%      25%       26%     100%
Technical Highs (Gr. 7-11/13)  11%     20%      15%      31%       23%     100%
Voc./Agricultural (Gr. 7-11)  11%      12%      39%      27%       11%     100%
Adult/Night                   12%        0      14%      24%       51%     100%
Tertiary                        0       2%       7%      14%       77%     100%
Source: Jamaica Survey of Living Conditions 2000.
(b)    Youth-at-risk.
The students who are not in school after age 14 tend to be from the poorest quintile. (Figure 1). As
they tend to be tracked into poorer quality schools, they easily lose interest in schooling all together and
are at risk of falling into delinquent behavior and getting trapped into a cycle of poverty. Poor quality of
school interacts with pre-existing disadvantaged home environment:
*   Many of these students tend to come from unstable home environments. About 43 percent of
households are female headed, almost one-fifth of children do not live with either parent.
Many fathers are in the home irregularly, have multiple mates and children with more than
one mate (Blank, 2000).
*   Many of these students have been witnesses or subjects of violence at home or in the street.
Grief, frustration, and anger are common experiences. These are emotions difficult enough
for adults to cope with, let alone children or adolescents in their formative years. These
experiences, while hard to measure, undoubtedly affect schooling and achievement in
negative ways.
*   Internalization of violence often begets violence. Over half of all major crimes are committed
by youth and 30 percent of inmates sentenced to adult correctional facilities are between the
ages of 17 and 24 (Blank, 2000). In 2001, there were about 1,139 homicides, averaging 3.5
per day (Ministry of National Security). This represents an increase of some 252 over 2000.
*   About 28 percent of the homicides are due to domestic violence. Although the causes are
complex, starting to work with youths in school would be a far more effective intervention
than to tackle the issues at the later stage.
*   Unstable adult relationships provide poor behavioral models for children. Many boys begin
to have their first sexual experience at age 13 and girls at age 14. Teenage pregnancy is
increasing and the number of reported new HIV infections has doubled since 1995 (World
Bank's IUV/AIDS Project Appraisal Document, December 2001).
*   Poor cognitive skills lead to poor labor market outcomes. Some 45 percent of the 14-19 age
cohort and 28 percent of the 20-24 age group are unemployed (Labor Force Survey, 2000).
- 7 -



A multi-prong approach is needed to address the youth at risk issues. From the education sector,
major efforts are needed to improve learning outcomes at all levels, to attend to students' emotional
needs, to make the educational experience exciting and supportive so that students remain in school, and
to provide a place in upper secondary education for all Grade 9 completers so as to reduce their exposure
to greater risks outside the school.
(c)    Inadeguate access to upper secondarv education by the poor.
The sharp decline in enrollment of students from the first quintile after age 14 can also be
attributable to the lack of school places in Grades 10 and 11. For many students in All-Age and P&JH
schools, which offer only 3 years of junior secondary education, there is little opportunity to continue on
with senior secondary education. These schools tend to concentrate in rural areas which have difficulty
recruiting qualified teachers in the first place and where the dispersion of population makes building
upper secondary schools extremely costly.
Table 3 shows that the population which is not in school disproportionately has fewer academic
qualifications which are essential to get a job in. the private and public sectors in Jamaican society. To
universalize upper secondary education would directly benefit these socioeconomically disadvantaged
students. To provide opportunity to obtain upper secondary education is to give an opportunity to
students from poor families to access tertiary education.
Table 3: Highest Examination Passed by Population 14 years and older
not enrolled in Education institution, 2000
Ql poorest Q2        Q3        Q4        Q5        Total
None                                20%       21%       22%       22%       16%      100%
CXC Basic                            8%       12%       17%       32%       31%      100%
CXC General 1-2 Subjects             7%       12%       22%       24%       35%      100%
CXC General 3-4 Subjects             5%       12%       16%       27%       39%      100%
CXC General 5+ & 1-2 A Level         0%       10%        3%       28%       59%      100%
GCE A Level 3+                       0%        0%       10%        0%       90%      100%
Degree                               2%        2%        3%        9%       83%      100%
Other                                3%        5%        6%       10%       76%      100%
Note Stated                          2%        9%       15%       33%       41%      100%
Source: Survey of Living Conditions, 2000.
(d)    Constraints in education finance (See Annex 11)
Although GOJ has made education a top priority, the high level of public debt has put enormous
pressure on education expenditure. Between 1992 and 2001, the government allocated an annual average
of 11.5 percent of its national budget to the education sector, ranging from a low of 9.1 percent in
1994/95 to a high of 14.5 percent in 1997/98. The allocation without debt servicing averaged 22.7
percent over the same period. External funding accounted for an additional 7 to 10 percent of total
public expenditure on education.
To defray the operating costs at the school level, the government introduced cost sharing in high
schools in 1993/4. Tuition fees are regulated by the MOEYC, and are higher in traditional High Schools
than upgraded High Schools. Fees are not chargeable in primary schools, All-Age, and P&JH schools.
Textbooks are provided free of charge to primary schools. A textbook rental scheme is put in place to
-8 -



provide books at the secondary level. To ensure that no student will be disadvantaged because of the lack
of financial resources, a scheme of student financial assistance to cover tuition fees and textbook rental is
put in place. Nonetheless, schools have little discretionary resources to improve their conditions and to
address the challenges of teaching and learning. The regional offices also have little discretionary
resources to help the schools.
(e)    Constraints in institutional capacity
Over the years, the central ministry has strengthened its capacity in many aspects, including reform
management, curriculum development, textbook development, student assessment, evaluation, education
management information system, policy analysis, civil works supervision and project accounting. The
development of these capacities has been largely financed by ROSE I. However, with expanded
mandate, decentralization, and implementation of school-based management and accountability, the
institutional capacity needs to be broadened and deepened. Training and qualification upgrading in core
managerial and professional skills (such as policy and planning, information and communication
technology, guidance and counseling, and project management) are needed. Improvement of information
and communication technology is also needed to enhance management effectiveness. Moreover, since
nearly 40 percent of senior and middle-level officers in the MOEYC will reach the retirement age of 60
within the next three years, the program of professional development for the next generation of officers
should be accelerated. At the school level, technical assistance and capacity building is also needed in
order to enhance accountability.
Summary and outlook. These challenges are formidable. However, the population trend also
provides a window for improving the system in this and the next decades. (See Figure 5 below). The
total fertility rate is trending down (in spite of rising teenage pregnancy) and the number of children in
the age-group of 3 to 5 is projected to go into decline by 2006, to be followed closely by the age group
of 6 to 11. The cohort for secondary education will see an increase throughout the first decade of the
21st century and then go into a decline. The eventual reduction in the school-age population would
relieve pressure on public resources, and make universalization of access to upper secondary education
and improvement of quality more attainable. Within the current decade, however, the age group of 12 to
16 will continue to increase modestly, thereby requiring additional places throughout the secondary
school system.
Fig. 5 Projection of School-age Population,
2000-2020
600.
500--    a   _   a   A   K    -     35
400
~~  U        !!~~~~iri.    u ~~~~6-11
°300 -'                             -61
'200                      _;12-14
_                     _   _          15-16
0   I  . I  I I. ,,.,.,.,. .x." 17-25
'r    .o               . ~   . 
40      4  *' . J_ ~   ~.
Government Policy on the Education Sector
The MOEYC addressed the challenges of uneven quality and inequality by introducing a common
core curriculum to reform junior secondary education nationwide since the early 1990's (in ROSE I).
-9-



This aimed to equalize the educational opportunity across a multiple track system and to balance between
the demand for academic development and preparation for the world of work. Through five core subjects
(Mathematics, Language Arts, Science, Social Studies, and Resource and Technology) and career
education, the ROSE curriculum aimed to develop an effective level of oral and written communication
skills, numeracy and problem-solving skills, critical and creative thinking, the ability to work
collaboratively in groups, an appreciation of learning, and the ability to make decisions about careers
linked to their interests and skills. New forms of student assessment were introduced in Grades 1, 3, 4, 6,
and 9 in order to provide more valid and reliable measures of performance for diagnosis, placement
and/or certification purposes. School types were reduced from seven to three through upgrading. The
foundation of the reform was built
The Government's White Paper: Education the Way Upward, published in February 2001 after
two years of broad public consultation, took the reform process further. Recognizing that schools must
serve the needs of a diversified student body in an era of globalization and technological change, the
White Paper emphasizes quality education for all and life-long learning.
The White Paper calls for meeting the challenges head on by early intervention from birth (see
Critical Minimum Targets in Box 1). Meeting the targets of one level will impact on the next.
Universalizing early childhood care and education is likely to compensate for a disadvantaged home
environment and poverty, and improve the school readiness of children in primary education. Raising
literacy achievement by the end of primary schooling would positively impact student performance in
secondary education, reduce dropout, mitigate the youth-at-risk problems, and enhancing the pass rates in
the CXC. This, in turn, would increase the demand for tertiary education. It is the White Paper's
attention to physical facilities that aims to make the school attractive for all children and to provide
connectivity to the outside world. Its emphasis on performance and information stresses results and
strengthens accountability.
The White Paper also spells out the Government's policy with respect to education finance,
textbook provision, educational standards, decentralization and school-based management, incentives and
accountability which are critical to achieving these targets.
Education finance. The White Paper commits the Government to protect the annual allocation to
education at least 15 percent of the recurrent National Budget. Recognition of resource constraints sets
the stage for using a different approach to maximize the cost effectiveness of public finance, such as the
ones supported by ROSE II.
Textbook provision. The MOEYC provides free textbooks at the primary level and operates a
National Textbook Rental Scheme at the secondary level which all students can access. This has been in
operation for a number of years. However, the problem is not the availability of financing for those
unable to afford books, but the take-up rates. Nearly 50 percent of students in Grades 7 to 9 not rent the
Foundation books in core subjects produced for those reading below grade level in junior secondary
education. In addition, there appears to be a significant problem with the timely and sufficient supply of
books to schools.    ROSE II supports the provision of free foundation books to all students in
All-Age and P&JH Schools.
- 10-



Box 1: White Paper: Education the Way Upward
Critical minimum targets
Early childhood care, education and development
Islandwide public education program by August 2001 in support of Early Childhood Care and Early
Stimulation for children between birth and age 4.
Full enrolment of early childhood age cohort ages 4 and 5 by the year 2003.
Primary education:
*     Ninety percent average daily attendance by 2005 at the Primary Level (up from the current 70
percent on average).
Teacher/student ratio in the Primary Schools to be standardized at 1:35 by the year 2003 (in
comparison to the current range of 1:29 in All-age Primary department to 1:38 in Primary and
Junior High Schools). By 2005, Grades 1 and 2 to have more than 30 students to a teacher.
Eighty percent of all Grade 6 completers to demonstrate full literacy by 2003 (in contrast to the
current 70%).
Secondary education:
Five years of secondary education for all students entering Grade 7 in the year 2003 and thereafter.
Five percent annual improvement in the number of students passing English and Mathematics in the
Secondary Examination Certificate (CXC) in relation to the total Grade 11 sitting.
The introduction of a High School Equivalency scheme by the year 2003.
Tertiary education:
Fifteen percent enrolment rate in tertiary education by 2005 agreed by CARICOM Heads.
Physicalfacilities:
All schools to be at a satisfactory level of physical infrastructure by the year 2010; and
To increase the provision of basic infrastructure (i.e. desks and chairs, etc.,) to meet the needs of
enrolled students and teachers by 2003.
Minimum of one computer per primary school, linked to internet or otherwise provided with
Encyclopaedia and other learning software by December 31, 2001.
Performance and Information:
Each school will have specific targets and will be assessed against these targets annually.
Census data for all institutions to be collated and available by December 31 each year for the school
year.
Education standards. To address past deficiency, effective in 2000, automatic promotion of
students in the primary schools is not allowed beyond the grade 4 level. Remediation in reading has been
put in place to ensure that students in grades 5 and 6 are reading at an appropriate level. Principals and
teachers are required to prepare, provide and use the school data for institutional performance
management and to facilitate national policy development, planning and operations. The MOEYC has
developed Standards for Primary Education which encompass input, output, process, content and context
standards. There is also a process of evaluating these standards. Standards for secondary education are
also being developed.



Decentralization, participation and school based management. The MOEYC devolved the
responsibilities for supervision, school maintenance and a very small aspect of media services, and
approval of teachers appointment to six regional offices. This has resulted in a much closer relationship
with the schools and local communities. Since the mid-1990s, an additional step has been taken to
encourage school based management. Each primary and All-Age school is required to formulate and to
operate a development plan, in which annual targets are set. Approved fund-raising is encouraged only
in relation to the achievement of specific educational targets for which the Board and the institution take
full responsibility. This is expected to increase ownership, improve accountability, and improve teachers
and student perfornance. However, schools' planning is uneven and in most cases slightly unreal since
no additional resources from the Ministry have flowed to enable schools to implement their plans.
Performance-orientation and public accountability. Institutional contracts are to be introduced
to establish the charter of service to its clients and constituencies. Examples are contracts between the
MOEYC to other institutions, administrators and staff, parents, students, members of Parliament,
teachers' organizations, the general public and the media; and contracts between the schools and its
parents, teachers and students. The White Paper affirms that the right of parents to access information
about student performance and the responsibility of the school to provide such information. Effective in
2003, the MOEYC will publish relevant information about school performance based on the national
standards set for each category of school.
Rationalization ofjunior secondary education in All-Age Schools. Although the White Paper did
not cover this topic, there is a plan to redistribute students in Grades 7 to 9 in small All-Age Schools to
other schools and to convert these schools to primary schools or primary and junior high schools.
Currently, the 353 All-Age Schools enroll less than 8 percent of junior secondary school students in
Jamaica and only 24 of them have an enrollment in Grades 7 to 9 that exceeds'100 students. This
measure would make better sense in terms of providing junior secondary education in a more cost
effective manner.
In summary, the White Paper provides an enabling policy environment for action. The Bank fully
supports these policies as the basis for ROSE II.
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
ROSE II addresses the issues of uneven quality of secondary education, youths at risk and the lack
of discretionary funds at the school level for improvement, -through providing grants to the schools based
on their action plans (Component I) and provision of pedagogical and other support from the Central
Ministry to the schools (Component 2). The project responds to the challenge of inadequate access of the
poor to upper secondary education through (i) building three new schools and extending three existing
schools to serve communities that have a growing secondary school age population, and (ii) through
public bursaries to places in participating Independent Schools (Component 3). The project addresses the
capacity issue through institutional strengthening (Component 4).
These strategic choices in the design of ROSE II are made not only in response to the issues in the
sector but also by building from the foundation of ROSE I. The previous project succeeded in extending
the core curriculum in junior secondary education from 11 pilot schools to all schools offering.secondary
education nationwide. It provided training on ROSE methodology to some 7,700 existing teachers, over
600 school administrators and 75 education officers, and 1,500 school board members, 380. teacher
educators, and 2,500 pre-service teachers,, and developed distance learning materials. It made available
textbooks and teachers guides to all schools offering secondary education and piloted programs for
- 12-



improving upper secondary education. The project also built one new schools, refurbished 25 schools,
and extended and refurbished 27 schools. It rationalized the examination system, introduced the Junior
High School Certificate Examination (JHSCE), and developed an evaluation system to assess student
performance. The reform was institutionalized through the establishment of the Reform Management
Team and the integration of project activities into all relevant MOEYC functions. The project also
improved the capacity for social policy analysis, for example, through financing the data collection and
analysis of the Survey of Living Conditions.
Notwithstanding these acheivements, ROSE methology has not been fully integrated in
school-level practices and student achievement remain low. The reasons include the following:
*    The lack of parallel improvements in socioeconomic factors mentioned above - poverty,
lack of role model, lack of parental support or book rental, and guidance in homework.
*    Deficiencies in primary education - many primary school leavers simply have not mastered
the requisite skills to succeed in secondary education.
*    School-related factors in secondary education -- insufficient systematic organization of
compensatory education to help the low achievers, insufficient autonomy and
discretionary resources, to address school problems. Without autonomy and resources,
there cannot be accountability for meeting standards.
*    Some weaknesses in the design of ROSE I such as (a) over-dependence on centrally-driven
inputs and insufficient attention to school ownership of the reform; (b) failure to
implement the reading improvement sub-component; (c) insufficient focus on student
achievement as a key outcome of the project; and (d) one-shot teacher training, and training
that focused on methodological issues rather than subject content.
ROSE II aims to deepen the reform in three aspects:
*    focused attention to the students who are not performing in the basic cognitive skills,
especially in reading and mathematics and who may be at risk;
*    a demand-driven and school based approach to improving results on the ground.; and
*    tighter implementation with performance indicators, increased local ownership and a
greater degree of accountability.
International experience has borne out that interventions designed at the school level to meet
specific needs of students will improve the quality of educational outputs and outcomes, as well as the
cost-effectiveness of public finance because participation will increase ownership and accountability.
Integral to the success of ROSE II will be the need for the successful implementation of an instructional
supervision/management program managed by the MOEYC with major inputs from school
administrators.
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 2 for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed cost
breakdown):
- 13 -



The proposed cost of the project is estimated to be US$63.0 million over a five-year period from
2003 to 2007. The World Bank will finance US$39.8 million, and the GOJ US$23.2 million. The
components and financial arrangements of the World Bank loan are as follows:
Component 1. School Improvement Grants
To ensure that ROSE II produce results on the ground and ensure success for all students, the
ROSE program will need to be fully and deeply integrated into school practice. This entails that
interventions must be designed to meet needs identified by the schools themselves. The Project will
support schools to develop School Improvement Plans, based on their identification of their needs, and
provide resources to meet these needs. Plans must seek to improve student outcomes (attendance,
retention and achievement). Particular attention will be paid to how schools tackle weak basic skills
(reading, writing and mathematics) and signs of student disaffection (non-attendance, tardiness,
behavioral issues, etc). Schools are best-placed to identify strategies to tackle their needs, so few
restrictions, beyond a prohibition against rnaor civil works, will be placed on schools. To support
students taking charge of their own affairs and designing programs to address their needs, part of the
grant will be set aside if requested by individual schools in their SIP, to fund activities designed and
managed by students.
The loan will provide grants to all upgraded High Schools and Agricultural/ocational Schools,
and to Primary and Junior Highs and All-Age schools with large enrollments of lower secondary students
which have not benefited from other similar projects (funded by GOJ, or by other external agencies).
Eligible activities for funding by this component would include: Curricular and co-curricular
activities to make learning exciting, to entice students to attend school daily, to build character, and to
provide community services; remedial education conducted after-school, during the weekends, holidays,
and the summer to bring all students up to the same level and to make up for days lost due to weather or
social unrest; building up the library, instructional materials, and educational facilities in school;
de-tracking of students within the same school; parenting education/community outreach to ensure
consistent and comprehensive support to students; teacher professional development to deepen subject
matter knowledge and to update pedagogical practices, to keep abreast of professional trend in education
and counseling related areas (including workshops, national and international conferences);
partnership/twining with other schools in Jamaica or in another country to share good practice and
develop joint teacher and student activities; management training for principals and senior staff,
especially in the use and analysis of student performance data and in financial planning and;
refurbishment to make the school more functional, safe, and attractive.
There is considerable experience at the primary level in Jamaica with various models of school
improvement planning. There is limited experience at the secondary level (MOEYC's Secondary
Enhancement Program which started in 2001/02 financial year and HEART Trust/NTA's project with 14
technical high schools) This project will build on these experiences and seek to harmonize the
procedures to ensure transparency and clarity for schools.
Regional Review Panels will be established in each region, chaired by the Regional Director and
to include Regional Education Officers (Secondary Education), Regional Financial Controller, a ROSE I
Education Officer, principals from schools in other regions, and co-opted experts (such as those from the
teacher training colleges). Panels will be responsible for judging that the School Improvement Plans
(SIPs) are realistic, cost-effective and targeted.
- 14 -



Schools will receive an allocation to support the implementation of their SIP based on the
number of pupils in their school that have low achievement (based on the GSAT) subject to a minimum
allocation for all schools. This will make sure the funds are targeted to those schools with the most
critical needs.
Sub-Component 1.1: Preparation of School Improvement Plans
This subcomponent will fund the following:
*   Training in school improvement planning for Regional Education Officers, principals, teachers,
education officers and school commnunity representatives;
*   Technical assistance for the development of a School Improvement Plan Manual and training
materials;
*   Printing of School Improvement Plan Manuals and training materials.
Sub-Component 1. 2: Implementation of School Improvement Plans
This sub-component will provide funding directly to schools, once their School Improvement
Plans have been approved by the Regional Review Panel. Schools will receive funding for the
implementation of the first year of their School Development Plans in two tranches. Approval of
satisfactory progress and an updated SIP for each subsequent year will be necessary for further
funds to flow.
Component 2. Reform Support from the Central Ministry to the schools
Financing of school-based initiatives for improvement alone is not sufficient for the
transformation of schools. Centrally coordinated initiatives are needed to complement the bottom up
approach. The central ministry will play the role of a standard bearer by rallying schools around national
programs on literacy and mathematics, by providing the tools for teachers to diagnose the specific
learning problems and guidance to help them, enriching libraries and media centers, and supporting
counseling for at-risk youths. The sub-components are as follows:
Sub-Component 2.1: Literacy and Mathematics Enhancement
This sub-component will fimd the following:
*   Technical assistance to develop an effective methodology and supporting materials to bring
students' reading and mastery of mathematics up to grade level so that they can learn the content
of other subjects as well as learn on their own; and technical assistance to develop a strategy to
implement this across all secondary schools. This methodology, materials, and strategy will be
designed in line with the textbooks developed under Secondary Textbook Project (GOJ/DFID)
and used in ROSE I, and coordinated with other agencies, such as DFID, IDB and USAID, who
fund projects which include literacy programs in All-Age schools.
*   Technical assistance in the design of diagnostic tools of student learning problems in specific
content areas and support package for teachers. The project will support technical assistance to
develop valid and reliable diagnostic tools and support packages to guide teachers to address
- 15 -



learning problems in specific content areas. This will focus Grades 7, 8 and 9 so that
interventions can be organized early on to ensure that every student will master the skills at grade
level. The support package includes teachers guide on how to correct common misconceptions
and mistakes in core subject areas; and
*   In-service training organized around these tools and packages within the schools. This will be
organized by the MOEYC working in conjunction with the Teachers Colleges.
Sub-Component 2.2: Strengthening Teaching, Guidance and Student Participation
This sub-component will fund the following:
*   Provision of free foundation books to all students in All-Age and Primary and Junior High
Schools;
*   Provision of instructional and related inputs to schools, including literacy and mathematics
materials, textbooks, library materials and curriculum and teacher's guides;
*   Improve library and media resource centers in schools to support the literacy and mathematics
enhancement programs and to develop the skills for life-long learning;
*   In-service training in curriculum implementation for teachers, education officers and teacher
trainers, and training to strengthen guidance and counseling methods.
Component 3. Expand access to upper secondary education
The 1999/2000 census data revealed that approximately 11,700 Grade 9 graduates did not have
access to a place at Grade 10. The vast majority of these are students from poor families. Thus,
expanding access is essential to meet the equity objective, to alleviate poverty, and to address
youth-at-risk issues. However, due to reduced total fertility rates and the projected decline of the
school-age population starting from the end of this decade, these places will be provided through a range
of options to allow for greater flexibility and cost-effectiveness.
Although Enrollment in Independent Secondary Schools accounts for 6 percent of the total, and
many of these schools have excess capacity as the economic stagnation has made it difficult for families
to keep their children in private schools. Such excess capacity can be utilized to provide immediate
access.
Sub-Component 3. 1: Renovation and construction of new schools
*   Construction of three new schools and extension of three existing schools where the density and
stability of the relevant school-age population justify;
*   Technical assistance for the design and pre- and post-contract supervision of civil works for new
and extended schools;
*   Support for the operation and maintenance of new and extended schools;
*   Staffing (including teaching, managerial and support staff for new and extended schools).
- 16 -



Sub-Component 3.2: Bursaries to participating Independent Schools to expand access
Provision of bursaries to participating Independent Schools to give upper secondary access to
approximately 1,300 students, in accordance with the terms specified in the Loan Agreement and the
Operational Manual for the project.
Component 4. Institutional strengthening.
To implement the above components successfully, the Ministry and the Regional Offices will
need to take on a significantly different role by shifting from an institution that focuses on the
development, acquisition and provision of inputs to schools to one that responds to school-based
demands for technical assistance and continuous support. The strengthening of this new role is key to the
successful implementation of ROSE II. A similar but small activity has begun under the DFID supported
Jamaica All-Age Schools Project. The sub-components are as follows:
Sub-Component 4.1: Management Information System
*   Use of technology to improve management efficiency: Development of a secondary school
management information system and use of imaging systems and digital cameras to improve
documentation of procurement of civil works, goods and services;
*   Training in the use of the MIS and related inputs; and
*   Provision of computer systems to schools and regional offices so that they can utilize the new
MIS system and funding for the operation and maintenance of these computer systems.
Sub-Component 4. 2: Enhancing Efficiency And Effectiveness
*   Institutional strengthening of MOEYC and Regional Offices through fellowships, study tours and
attendance at intemational conferences for professional development of education officers;
*   Provision of computer and other equipment to selected divisions within in the Ministry and
support for the operation and maintenance of this equipment;
*   Provision of equipment and materials to enhance the libraries and/or learning resource centers
and/or science labs of teachers colleges and the regional offices' resource rooms.
Sub-Component 4.3. Maintaining and fully utilizing assessment, monitoring and evaluation
capacity.
This Component will provide support to continue the efforts to enhance the student assessment
unit. It will strengthen test development capacity by providing opportunities for education
officers to upgrade their skills in line with current best practices; standardize test development
processes across testing programs by training several officers in each aspect of test development,
administration, analysis, and data storage and retrieval. This Sub-component will also provide
support for implementation of the Junior High School Certificate Examination that was designed
with assistance from the ROSE I project. The JHSCE will provide diagnostic information on
students and baseline and evaluation data on schools.
- 17-



Table 4: Project Components
Indicative            Bank-      % of
Component                       Costs    %/o of   financing   Bank-
-(US$M)    Total    . (US$M)  financing
1. School Improvement Grant to raise achievement    11.00      17.5     10.00      25.1
of all students
2. Reform support from the Central Ministry to the   11.77     18.7       9.00     22.6
schools
3. Expand access to upper secondary education       28.00      44.4      16.00     40.2
4. Institutional strengthening                       9.12       14.5      4.30      10.8
5. Project Implementation Unit                       2.71       4.3       0.10      0.3
Total Project Costs  62.60    99.4      39.40      99.0
Front-end fee   0.40       0.6      0.40       1.0
Total Financing Required   63.00     100.0     39.80     100.0
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
Two areas of institutional reforms are sought:
School Improvement Grants
Decentralization has been a GOJ policy since the 1990s. School improvement planning in
primary schools has been in practice in Jamaica since the late 1980s. In the late 1990s, it was introduced
to Technical High Schools, which were funded by the HEART Trust. In 2001, MOEYC allocated J$200
nillion to directly fund 21 schools in the Secondary Enhancement Program. Externally financed projects
such as DFID' Jamaica All-Age School Project funds 72 All-Age Schools and USAID's New Horizon
funds 48 All-Age schools. The IDB's Primary Education Support Project provides a small grant to 27
primary schools. However, the majority of All-Age, Primary and Junior Highs, and Upgraded High
Schools, have not received direct financial resources to enable them to implement their school
improvement plans.
The major innovation in ROSE II is requirement by schools to develop a three year (as opposed
to one year) school plan; which would be financed subject to annual reviews. In this way, longer-term
planning will be encouraged which will enable schools to see improvement in student learning and will
move away from the tendency to think about using injections of money for civil works only. In addition,
accountability for school performance will be enhanced through the annual review process; and those
schools who are successful in reaching their targets will be rewarded. By financing school-based
initiatives, the project would potentially change the way central ministry, regional offices and schools
have been operating and might have long term implications on the way public resources are allocated to
schools, if it proves to be effective. Since schools have already been charging fees to defray their
operating costs, with additional resources from the project they could make better and more effective use
of their own resources through a matching mechanism.
Bursaries for Independent School Places
The aims are: (a) to allow immediate access without waiting for new schools to be built; (b) to
provide greater flexibility in supply of school places in view of internal migration of population and
longer term decline of the school-age population; and (c) to improve cost-efficiency and effectiveness of
- 18 -



the provision of educational services. If there is sufficiently strong supply response, the government can
use this mechanism to expand access, without committing too much of the scarce public resources in the
fixed costs of construction and in recurrent cost of repair and maintenance and of salaries and pensions.
Pending the results of the first year of implementation, students in Grades 7-9 in All-Age and Primary
and Junior High Schools can be placed in private, Independent Schools.
3. Benefits and target population:
Different components and subcomponents target different beneficiaries. Table 6 provides a summary.
Table 5: A Summary of the Number of Students Benefiting from
the Project by Component
1. School Improvement Grants                174,477 secondary level students in urban and
rural schools
2. Reform support                           222,363 secondary level students in the 594
schools that offer some form of secondary
education
3. Expand Access                            2,700 students in new schools
1,335 students in extended schools
1,309 students who receive subsidized places in
private schools (Half of these students are likely to
have to repeat Grade 9 due to their lower JHSC
achievement. They will be provided with
subsidized places for 3 years instead of 2 to
complete senior secondary education).
4. Institutional strengthening              160 secondary schools that will receive the
management information system, 6 regional
offices and 6 teachers colleges that will receive
resources to upgrade their libraries.
In addition to the students who will benefit from the project, 24 panel members and at least 792
school representatives will be trained in School Improvement Planning; and 240 teachers and counselors
and 6 college lecturers will receive training in enhanced reading and mathematics methodology and
counseling. Six Education Officers will be trained at the Master's level and 22 Education Officers and
14 college lecturers will be supported to take short courses, study tours and international conferences.
Given the short-term bulge of the secondary school-age population and the continuous trend of
rural to urban migration, it is estimated that a small number of additional places in junior secondary
education would be needed. The new schools to be built therefore are High Schools with 5 years of
education.
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
Implementation Period: 5 years
Project implementation for ROSE n will modify the structure under ROSE I. The matrix
structure of management (staffing and reporting relationship for the ROSE Secretariat are shown in the
Proposed Operational Structure for ROSE II in Annex 17.
-19-



(a)    The Reform Management Committee
The Reform Management Committee chaired by the Permanent Secretary will make policies and
key decisions for the Project. The Committee comprises Division Directors and Unit Heads in the central
ministry (Planning and Development, Core Curriculum, Professional Development, Student Assessment,
Programme Monitoring and Evaluation, Guidance and Counseling, Media Services, Technical Services,
and Technical and Vocational Education) and representatives of Regional Offices. The Units mentioned
above will implement various components of the project as part of their daily operation activities.
Officers in six regional offices have equivalent counterparts to implement the policies and directives.
Where services are not provided by the Ministry, such as construction, firmns will be contracted. The
relevant unit within the Ministry will plan and exercise oversight and monitoring.
(b)    Division of Technical Services and Project Management
This division will oversee the Project to ensure compliance of financial and procurement
guidelines of all externally funded projects, and represent the Project to other Ministries, including the
Project Analysis and Monitoring Coordination Unit of the Ministry of Finance. The Director of Projects
will report to the Director of the Division of Project Management and Technical Services.
(c)    Project Coordination Unit (PCU or ROSE Secretariat)
The PCU or ROSE Secretariat will assume core project management and support functions. The
Project Manager will report to the Director of Projects and coordinate four functions:
*   Education function - 2 education officers (one for school improvement plans; and one for Literacy
and Numneracy Enhancement);
*   Admninistrative functions - an administrator, a training coordinator, a procurement officer, a
secretary, and a driver;
*   Financial management function - 2 accountants and a accounting clerk;
*   Technical services (civil works) - a technical coordinator and 6 clerks of works.
Collectively, the PCU will have the following responsibilities:
i.    coordinate with various units and the regional offices;
ii.   promote the project in regions and parishes;
iii.  maintain project records and prepare bi-annual progress reports;
iv.   prepare terms of reference for consultants and supervise their work;
v.   ensure compliance with the operation manual;
vi.   ensure compliance with Bank procurement guidelines;
vii.  undertake the financial management of the project and ensure the auditing of project
accounts;
viii.o  perate a management informnation system to track process, inputs, outputs and
outcomes; and
ix.  coordinate Bank missions and carry out the mid-term review and end-of-project review.
(d)    A Review Panel at each of the Regional Offices
The introduction of funding for school improvement planning requires a formal but participatory
mechanism to judge the relevance and quality of proposals for funding generated by the schools. It is of
utmost importance that the criteria for approval are transparent, fair and objective. It should be chaired by
- 20 -



the Regional Director and include Regional Education Officers (Secondary Education), Regional
Financial Controller, a ROSE II Education Officer, priricipals from schools in other regions, and co-opted
experts (such as those from the teacher training colleges). The panel will convene to review proposals.
The panel in the second and third year will review the performance of the school over the previous year
against the targets set out in the school improvement plans and evaluate the plans for the coming year to
see whether they should be funded in full. The authority of the panel will be formalized by a letter from
the Permanent Secretary.
(e)    Operational Manual
A draft Operational Manual in four volumes was prepared and discussed with the MOEYC
before Negotiations. Volume I contains the overall information about the Project; Volume II is on
Financial Management, Volume HI is on Procurement, and volume IV is the School Improvement
Planning Manual.   The Manual provides detailed criteria and terms of reference for project
implementation arrangements, including requirements and procedures for implementation of each
component and subcomponent. During negotiations, the draft agreed upon and the final version will be
provided to the Bank as a condition of effectiveness.
(f)    Accounting. reporting, and auditing arrangements
The financial management of the project (including accounting, reporting audits and
disbursements) will be coordinated by the PCU (ROSE Secretariat), which is currently in the process of
finalizing the overall financial management system. To facilitate disbursements, a Special Account will
be established and managed according to Bank guidelines as prescribed in the Disbursement Handbook.
The project will be audited annually by an independent auditor acceptable to the Bank, and special
purpose audits will be carried out on an interim basis to audit the subprojects. Details of all financial
management arrangements are presented.
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
The first is a centrally planned approach (similar to that adopted by ROSE I) which aims to
deliver essential inputs to schools. Although ROSE I has proven that this approach has achieved some
success, it also has limitations.  For the reforms to take root in schools and for teachers and
administrators to change their behaviors, the wider school community (including students) must
participate in planning and decision making for school improvement. When this occurs, stakeholders
take ownership and chart the course of their own destiny. This is consistent with the school-based
initiatives and accountability called for in the White Paper. ROSE H is attempting to strike a balance
between the centrally directed and school-based approach. Institutional strengthening of the central
ministry, the regional offices and teachers colleges and support for ministry-led literacy and mathematics
initiatives has been included as part of the project to complement school-based initiatives to improve
quality and equity.
A second approach that was considered was inclusion of a large scale civil works program.
Although access is a major concem at the secondary level, a primary focus on civil works was rejected
because:
*   The amount of money available through the loan is small compared to the overall construction
needs.
- 21 -



*   It might expand access but would not address quality and efficiency concerns.
*   It would limit the resources that could be made available for quality enhancing initiatives.
* Civil works programs can be slow to implement and take time to improve access.
* Since the absolute size of the secondary school age cohort is projected to decline over the next 20
years, alternatives that do not require large capital investments may be more appropriate in some
geographic locations.
*   The project will support a limited civil works projects but will also finance other more
cost-effective alternatives for expanding access.
A third approach was a fast disbursing adjustment operation to provide budgetary support given
the Bank's commitment to the overall GOJ's strategic vision and reform program. However, that reform
program requires significant changes in the way actors and institutions throughout the system behave;
these changes can best be supported by specific interventions and technical assistance. Furthermore,
there are 3 adjustment operations in the portfolio. An investment operation will provide a balanced
portfolio.
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed,
ongoing and planned).
The Bank is the only development agency focusing across the entire secondary sector. However,
during Project Pre-Appraisal, the Bank chaired a meeting of the international agencies at which the
following areas of collaboration were identified:
School development planning
DFID (the Jamaican All-Age School Project or AASP Project); IADB (Primary Education
Support Project); HEART/NTA (Technical High School Development Project); USAID (New
Horizons for Primary Schools Project).
Literacy
The National Initiative for Literacy encompasses a number of different MOEYC and other
Government programs. With respect to the international agencies: DFID (JAASP project);
UNICEF (Pre-Primary to Primary Schools Transition project [co-funded with USAID]); USAID
(New Horizons Project); UNESCO (pilot Reading by Radio project; literacy surveys); LADB
(integrated Literacy Intervention); World Bank (ROSE I).
Education Management Information Systems
Inter-Arnerican Development Bank (Primary Education Support Project); UNICEF (Early
Childhood Census Data and Quality Monitoring System]); DFID (JAASP regional office
strengthening);World Bank (ROSE 1), USAID (New Horizons Project).
- 22 -



r     Latest Supervision
Sector Issue                    Project                 (PSR) Ratings
(Bank-financed projects only)
Implementation  Development
Bank-financed                                                Progress (IP)  Objective (DO)
Improve efficiency and delivery of  Social Sector Development    S             S
primary education and strengthen  Project, 1989-1996 (US$33.4
management and supervision capacity million)
of MOEYC. Upgraded infrastructure,
trained teachers and principals,
constructed and equipped regional
education offices and trained staff.
Secondary education quality, equity,  Reform of Secondary        S             S
and efficiency and institutional  Education, 1993-2000
strengthening. Supported physical  (US$40.8 million)
upgrading of schools; a common core
curriculum; rationalization of
secondary level examinations;
textbooks and support materials, local
capacity for policy analysis; pilot of
upper secondary curriculum.
Tertiary Education - Student financial Student Loan Project,     U             S
assistance to mitigate the negative  1996-2001
impact on the poor of cost recovery in (US$28.5 million)
tertiary education; improvement of
management efficiency of the
Students' Loan Bureau and financial
sustainability of the Students' Loan
Scheme. (Ministry of Finance)
Institutional development: policy  Early Childhood Education      S            S
framework, standards and certification Institutional Development
system for early childhood workers,  Grant, Closed (US$0.2 million)
regional information resource network 1996 - 1998
(Caribbean Child Development)
Expansion and renovation of      Social Investment Fund           S            S
community owned facilities.      Project, 1996-2001
Health (Ministry of Health)      HIV/AIDS Awareness and
Prevention Project
2002 - 2007
Social Protection (Ministry of Labor  Social Safety Net Reform
and Social Security)             Project, 2001-2006 (US$40.0
million)
Other development agencies
Early Childhood Education and    Basic Education and Early
Development                      Childhood Development
- 23 -



Program UNICEF, 1997-2001
(US$2.9 million)
Early Childhood Education and   Early Childhood Care &
Development and Care of Children  Development and HIV/AIDS
Affected with HIV               Project CIDA, 2000- 2006
(US$3.2 million)
Monitor Developmental Status of  Profiles Project, IADB,
Young Children                  1997-2001 (US$0.3 million)
Early Childhood Education       Enhancement of Basic Schools
Project, CDB, 2001-05.
Primary Education               New Horizons for Primary
Schools Activity, USAID, 1997
- 2004 (US$13.6 million)
Primary Education               Primary Education
Improvement Project nI, IADB,
OPEC, USAID, NDF,
1993-1999 (US$35.0 million)
Primary Education               Primary Education Support
Project, IADB, 2000-2005
(US$39.5 million)
Primary Education               Training of Science Teachers
Project, OAS, 1999-2001
Primary Education               Primary Education Assistance
Project nI, USAID, 1990-1997
(US$5.6 million)
Technical Vocational Education And  TVET Improvement Project,
Training                        JICA, 1994-2002 (US$4.7
million)
Primary Education               Jamaica All Age School
Project, DFID, 1999-2003
(US$4.2 million)
Primary Education               Commonwealth Debt Initiative,
DFID, 1998-2001 (US$15.0
million)
Drug Abuse Prevention           Integrated Drug Abuse
Prevention Program, EU,
2000-2003
Secondary Education             Secondary Schools Textbook
Project, DFID, 1994-2000
(US$3.9 million)
- 24 -



Non-Formal Vocational Training  Non-Traditional Skills Training
For Low Income Women,
LADB/MIF, 2000-2002
(US$ 1.7 million per region)
Non-Formal Vocational Training  Tourism Human Resources
Management System,
IADB/MIF, 1997-2002
(US$1.5 million)
Non-Formal Vocational Training  Strengthening vocational
training system in Jamaica,
GTZ, 1995-2003 (US$6.0
million)
Non-Formal Vocational Training  Skills 2000, World Food
Program, 1995-1999
Non-formal Education and Training  Uplifting Adolescents I,
and Health promotion            USAID, 1995-2000 (US$7.0
million)
Non-formal Education and Training  Uplifting Adolescents II,
and Health promotion            USAID, 2000-2004 (US$4.8
million)
Non-Formal Vocational Training  Human Capital Development
Project, LADB/MIF, Workforce
Development Foundation,
1992-2000 (US$3.5 million)
Non-Formal Education            JAMAL Teacher Workshops,
UNESCO, pipleline
(US$0.01 million)
IP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)
- 25 -



3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
The implementation experience of ROSE I, which was just completed, has highlighted a number
of important lessons. ROSE I focused on expanding access, improving quality, equity, efficiency through
provision of necessary quality inputs and strengthening the institutional capacity to manage and monitor
the reform. While ROSE I laid the foundation for the reform, its model was supply-driven, and the main
challenge for implementation, among other things, was for the Ministry to coordinate and synchronize
delivery of all the inputs. This does not necessarily result in changed behavior of teachers and students in
the education process. The persistent low achievement of secondary school students and the lack of
impact of teacher in-service workshops which focused on methodology (as opposed to subject matter
content) in raising achievement also calls for the follow-on project to change the design and focus.
ROSE II, therefore, emphasizes:
*   high standards for all students, especially those performing below grade level, with a strong
focus on literacy and numeracy to ensure that no one is left behind;
*   greater financial and technical support to schools to address their deficiencies through
school-based management;
*   improvement in the implementation process with performance indicators and greater
accountability; and
* use of diagnostic tools (in the form of tests) to identify learning difficulties and misconceptions
of students in core subject areas in Grades 7 to 9 and to provide a support package consisting of
teachers guide and suggested activities to address the learning weaknesses. In-service training is
to be site based and centered around the specific learning problems of students.
In addition, the considerable experience of various school improvement planning processes has
been used to design component 1.
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
Government commitment. The Government exceeded the ROSE I target of implementing ROSE
curriculum in 72 schools by extending it to 500 schools in 1999-2000 and then to all schools which offer
lower secondary education nationwide in 2000-2001. This common core curriculum across all school
types will continue to equalize educational opportunities for secondary education. The GOJ requested
Bank assistance for a follow-on project to deepen the reform.
Policy environment. The MOEYC's White Paper on Education (February, 2001) adopted policy
and set targets that are not only consistent with ROSE but also push the agenda much further beyond the
original conception to ensure the sustainability of reform in all levels of education in Jamaica.
Institution/management effectiveness. The MOEYC has integrated its reform in its daily
operation and has allocated recurrent and capital budgets to support the continuation of the reform. Unit
heads who have gained so much experience in ROSE will continue to implement the measures in ROSE
II. Regional offices will support the decentralization drive to improve effectiveness of supervision and
support. ROSE trainers have been absorbed as regular staff in Teachers' Colleges, and their experience
and intimate knowledge of the teachers who went through the in-service training will not be lost.More
broadly, the MOEYC has been engaged in a Corporate Planning process which will sharpen management
- 26 -



roles, responsibilities and accountability for results.
Technical viability. ROSE I has contributed significantly to develop technical capacity in
curriculum development, textbook development, planning and student assessment.
Financial viability. The GOJ's commitment to education is not in doubt. In spite of the difficult
macroeconomic conditions, education is likely to receive priority attention in the budget process.
However, it should be noted that much of the increases in recurrent expenditure have been absorbed in
teachers' salaries. It is the non-salary expenditure that needs to be monitored to ensure that educationally
effective inputs are protected.
Stakeholders' participation. Principals, teachers, parents, and the community have been working
together. The Jamaica Teachers' Association representatives meet monthly with senior officials in the
central rninistry to discuss policies and issues. The whole education system is based on partnership.
School-based management approach will further enhance the participation of the stakeholders.
5. Value added of Bank support in this project:
The Bank is the only international agency supporting the comprehensive reform of secondary
education in Jamaica and has been doing so since the late 1980s. While other bilateral agencies have
financed the development of textbooks, technical education in secondary schools, and infrastructure
improvement of a limited number of schools with secondary level students, the Bank's long standing
involvement in ROSE and its complementarity with other development partners are widely accepted by
MOEYC. The value added of Bank support in this project are in four aspects: (i) attending to policy
analysis and policy options; (ii) bringing intentional experience to bear in project assessment; (iii)
emphasizing learning and capacity building (Continuous Learning Framework), and (iv) drawing from
local expertise and stakeholders' knowledge.
Policy analysis. Long before project preparation begaii, a sector study on Jamaican
Secondary Education (World Bank, 1999) was undertaken to identify the issues and options for
intervention. The report was discussed at a stakeholders' conference, which was chaired by the
Minister of Education and attended by officials from the central ministry and regional offices,
representatives of other Ministries, parliamentarians, principals, teachers, school board members,
parents, students, bilateral and multilateral agencies, and the press. The consensus that emerged
provided a sound basis for this operation.
To deepen the analysis of policy options identified in the sector study, the PHRD Grant
was sought to finance six additional work. Three of the studies centered around education finance
with the aims to enhance equity and efficiency of resources use (alternative funding formula,
assessment of impact of cost recovery on students, and a feasibility study of restructuring
teachers' salaries). One study focused on the assessment of the capacity for school-based
financial management and procurement. The other two studies addressed the issues of education
quality (alternatives for use of technology for teacher training and the implications of ROSE in
regional and national examinations). These studies cover a broader range of policy options than
the scope of the final project design, but they point to directions that need to be considered for
the reform to sustain.
International experience. A unique Bank comparative advantage is to bring international
- 27 -



experience to bear in project assessment and design. The task team comprises seasoned professionals
who have worked not only in Jamaica, but in other Caribbean countries, Latin America, Africa, Central
Asia, East Asia, the Middle East, and OECD. Individually and collectively, they shared lessons learned
from other projects with the MOEYC. In addition, representatives from other organizations were invited
to join the preparation missions to share experience with Jamaica, to provide an external perspective and
to validate Bank team's judgement. These individuals are as follows:
*    The Social Sector Specialist of the United Nations' Economic Commission for Latin Arnerica and
the Caribbean, who had assessed the impact of Chile's interventions in 900 disadvantaged schools,
took part in the social assessment to study the school culture and the teaching and learning
environment in Jamaica; and
* The Director-General of the Korean Ministry of Education, who has the combined experience of a
policymaker, planner, and manager of an extremely successful education sector, undertook
institutional analysis and assessment of the issues of tertiary education.
Continuous learning framework During preparation, the Bank facilitated learning and
networking of MOEYC officials and project staff with their counterparts in other projects in other
countries. The team studied Brazil's Fundescola Project, which has time-tested successful experience in
school development planning and has developed a highly sophisticated MIS with which to track process,
inputs, outputs and outcomes in tens of thousands of schools in hundreds of municipalities within 19
states instantaneously. A Jamaican delegation plans to visit Fundescola, while the Brazilians plans to
visit ROSE II during the mid-term review in order to learn from one another.
Lessons in school improvement planning in other countries -- Trinidad and Tobago' Basic
Education Project, HEART/NTA's Technical High Schools Development Project, DFID's Jamaican
All-Age School Project, IADB's Primary Education Support Project, and USAID's New Horizons for
Primary School Project, Scotland's Self-evaluation using performance indicators, and Hong Kong's
Quality Assurance in School Program - were reviewed as an input to design the SIP component.
To strengthen the MOEYC's capacity in civil works management, the Bank sponsored the ROSE
Technical Coordinator to participate in a joint technical assessment of schools in Uruguay, with
architects and engineers from Brazil, Nicaragua, Costa Rica, and Uruguay.
National expertise and stakeholders' knowledge. Last but not the least is that the Bank drew
on local knowledge extensively. The team visited about 60 schools during all the missions combined,
listening to the voices of principals, teachers, students and parents. The best, as well as not so good,
practices were noted and successful interventions at the school level were collected. Advice from
reflective practitioners have been sought during preparation, as it will be sought during implementation.
In a parallel track, all PHRD funded studies paired international consultants with local consultants to
facilitate cross-fertilization of ideas. A senior academic staff in the University of the West Indies was
invited to be the extemal peer reviewer of the Project to ensure Jamaican perspectives are incorporated
into the design.
In summary, the Bank's value added is to mobilize international and national expertise to
strengthen policy analysis and project design, and to facilitate the development of a continuous
learning framework.
- 28 -



E. Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex 8)
1. Economic (see Annex 4):
* Cost benefit    NPV=US$22 million; ERR = IRR 13.4% at a discount rate of 12 % (see Annex 4)
Cost effectiveness
Other (specify)
The Project's economic impact was analyzed by comparing the net increased lifetime earnings
with and without the expanded access component. The net present value and the internal rate of return
(IRR) were computed for three sub-components: construction of new schools, extension of existing
schools and bursaries to participating independent schools. A sensitivity analysis was performed by
changing the basic assumptions about internal efficiency, labor market outcomes, and civil works cost
overrun and delays.
The analysis shows that expanding access to upper secondary education is profitable: the net
present value is US$ 22,104,892 at the discount rate of 12 percent aiid the internal rate of return is 13.4
percent. In fact, all three sub-components have reasonable returns (see Table 6).
Table 6. NPV and IRR of Whole Component and Three Sub-Co ponents, US$
New schools       Extension       Scholarship  Whole component
NPV (12%)       3,029,770       19,232,978       2,227,437       22,104,892
NPV (10%)      29,665,451       54,025,779       7,515,286       83,599,131
NPV (5%)       358,892,312     468,981,673      51,672,605       840,124,281
1RR           12.8%            14.5%            13.4%        13.4%
Source: Mission estimates.
In addition, secondary education has large externalities in Jamaica by producing better-informed
and more responsible citizens, as well as simply by producing better workers. Also quality secondary
education might be necessary condition for economic development, although not a sufficient one. Given
the high rate of broken households, crime and teenage pregnancy in Jamaica, engaging youths in senior
high schools would help reduce the social problems. Lastly, econometric studies also show a positive
impact of education on health for both children and.adults.
In conclusion, the economic analysis shows that the investments in the ROSE II Project are
expected to be highly beneficial both for direct beneficiaries and for,the society as a whole.
2. Financial (see Annex 4 and Annex 5):
NPV=US$ million; FRR = % (see Annex 4)
In 2001/02 the Government of Jamaica budgeted US$426.6 million, or 15 percent of its total
budget, for the education sector. The financing plan includes US$23.2 million in Government financing.
Fiscal Impact:
The Project's incremental recurrent costs correspond to: (i) teacher and administrative staff
salaries for new schools, as well as salaries for specialized staff (counselors) who will be working in the
schools, and project staff contracted during the project implementation period; (ii) reproduction and
printing of materials to carry out the student evaluations; (iii) office supplies; and (iv) maintenance of
- 29 -



civil works, equipment and furniture. The GOJ will fund these recurrent cost as part of its counterpart
contribution.
After the completion of implementation, Project staff will not remain in the Ministry, thereby
reducing the recurrent cost to $6 million per year during the operational period. The incremental
recurrent cost will amount to 1.6 percent of the total recurrent expenditure on education, or 4.7 percent of
the total recurrent expenditure on secondary education. Since all recurrent costs incurred by the project
will be fully financed by the GOJ from the outset, these costs will not represent a sudden increase in
burden after the end of the Project. (The CAS of 2002 has programmed the loan into the external debt
forecast.)
3. Technical:
The following questions were carefully assessed during appraisal:
*   The overall approach to the literacy and mathematics strategies: in particular, their link to
existing literacy programs run by other donors and the MOEYC's Literacy Plan, and whether the
program should support all teachers to teach reading and mathematics across the curriculum or
the creation of reading and mathematics specialists.
*   Seek agreement on financial management process for allocating resources to schools based on
School Improvement Plans
*   The strategy for improving the guidance and counseling system
*   How best to enhance libraries in schools: whether to rely on the School Improvement Planning
process or provide some central support from MOEYC.
*   How the MIS enhancements will be made consistent with the activities of other agency projects.
4. Institutional:
4.1 Executing agencies:
The Ministry of Education, Youth and Culture will be the Executing Agency. It has successfully
implemented Reform of Secondary Education Project I (ROSE I) and has learned useful lessons for this
follow on project. The Permanent Secretary has overseen the reform program through chairing the
Reform Management Committee, which comprises all Division Directors, Unit Heads, and
representatives of Regional Offices.
4.2 Project management:
Project management will improve the matrix model utilized in ROSE I. The ROSE Secretariat is the
PCU that will continue to assume core project management and support functions while the relevant
MOEYC division will be responsible for the implementation of project activities. The PCU will report to
the Director of Projects in the Division of Project Management Technical Services that oversees all
externally funded projects and civil works. There will be more systematic supervision of financial
management and procurement. The structure, staffing and reporting relationships for the ROSE
Secretariat are shown in the Proposed Operational Structure for ROSE II, Annex 18.
- 30 -



4.3 Procurement issues:
Procurement issues with the previous education project were assessed and addressed. Local
planning and contract management capacity will be strengthened as needed. Within the proposed
operational structure for ROSE II, the Project Administrator with the assistance of a procurement officer
will be responsible for all procurement.  The procurement officer will implement all procurement
activities, including procurement planning, procurement processes, contract award and contract
information system. The Procurement Officer will report to the Project Manager while maintaining a
functional relation with the Chief Procurement Officer in the Ministry. Technical assistance will be
provided to strengthen the capacity of schools involved in the project to prepare, appraise, and supervise
their projects. A detailed procurement plan covers the procurement of works, goods and consultants
services according to the Project Operational Manual and with conditions acceptable to the Bank will be
prepared. Procurement records are foreseen to keep track of time taken to implement key steps and to
monitor all activities. (See Annex 6 for detailed arrangements).
.4.4 Financial management issues:
The PCU is adequately staffed to implement the project, and will add additional staff to the
financial management function, as agreed during appraisal. There is an appropriate segregation of duties
within the PCU and MOEYC to ensure the effective and efficient management of all resources. The
PCU is responsible for submitting financial reports to various departments and divisions in the MOEYC
and Ministry of Finance and Planning (MOFP) on a monthly basis, and will report to the Bank on a
semester basis through the submission of the project management reports (PMRs).
To facilitate the disbursement of funds, the GOJ/MOFP will establish a Special Account (SA), to
be operated by the ROSE Secretariat under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank. The project
would be audited annually. Project audit arrangements will also include interim special purpose audits to
review the conmunity-based component of the project.  Details of all financial management
arrangements can be found in Annex 6.
5. Environmental:                Environmental Category: B (Partial Assessment)
5.1 Summarize the steps undertaken for environmental assessment and EMP preparation (including
consultation and disclosure) and the significant issues and their treatment emerging from this analysis.
Environmental assessment has been jointly conducted by the MOEYC's Technical Services
Director, Building Coordinator, and several members of the National Environmental Planning Agency
(NEPA) of the Ministry of Land and Environment and the Bank team. The environmental legislation
governing construction of small civil works was reviewed, and the three selected sites for new schools
were visited. The screening procedures for environmental impacts were in place for site selection and for
construction of schools. The environmental screening process was found to be satisfactory.
5.2 What are the main features of the EMP and are they adequate?
The MOEYC has selected three sites for new school construction based on enrollment
demographics. No significant environmental issues are associated with two of the sites, Riversdale and
Mile Gully. The third site, located in Discovery Bay, is on coastal property and will likely undergo more
intense scrutiny by NEPA during the review process than the other two.
The MOEYC is required to send proposed school construction plans to NEPA for review, once
topographical studies have been completed and architectural models have been drawn. Schools are not
- 31 -



projects which require a permnit from NEPA; however, any proposed new construction requires review by
the Agency, and any project involving effluent waste disposal requires a license. This will be the case
for schools constructed under the ROSE II project: a permit will not be required, but certain licenses
will.
NEPA's screening procedures for site selection involve review by various technical branches,
including the coastal zone management unit, water resources, cultural properties, and protected habitats
and species. The proposed MOEYC sites will be reviewed to ensure that appropriate buffer zones to
water and other resources are respected; that protected areas and/or habitat for endangered species are
not affected, that appropriate water and sewerage systems suitable to the soil and water tables in the area
are designed; and that cultural and historical properties in the area are not adversely affected by erecting
a new school. Minimum review time by NEPA for this type of construction is eight weeks; however, if
additional review is necessary because of issues associated with site selection, the review time may be
longer.
The standard procedure is for the MOEYC to submit its site and construction plans to NEPA
once completed. However, the MOEYC took proactive steps by involving NEPA immediately in the site
selection process, with NEPA staff visiting the three sites prior to the MOEYC submitting design plans to
NEPA. The purpose is to avoid delays at the review stage by the possible rejection of the selected sites,
and to improve project design early in the preparation process.
NEPA, upon reviewing and approving proposed projects, provides guidelines to avoid and
mitigate negative environmental impacts during the construction phase, to which the MOEYC is required
to adhere. These guidelines are based on the World Bank procedures for the construction of small civil
works, and include such standard procedures as keeping dust down through spraying of water during
construction, ensuring proper disposal of construction waste, requiring temporary latrines to be
constructed for workers, etc. A copy of some of the documentation required by NEPA for review of
proposed projects can be found in the Bank's project files.
Architectural designs of the new schools have not yet been completed, although the prototype
design has been done. The MOEYC confirms that materials are locally manufactured, and that designs
are appropriate for the geographical location of the sites. School models will be reviewed to ensure
appropriate design by NEPA. The design will also include features to ensure that physically disabled
students have access to the schools.
The main features of the EMP are found to be adequate.
5.3 For Category A and B projects, timeline and status of EA:
Date of receipt bf final draft: February 28, 2002
5.4 How have stakeholders been consulted at the stage-of (a) environmental screening and (b) draft EA
report on the environmental impacts and proposed environment management plan? Describe
mechanisms of consultation that were used and which groups were consulted?
The MOEYC has consulted with local school principals regarding the necessity and location of
new secondary schools at all three sites. Prior visits by the Bank's architect and consultants had led to
meetings with local residents, who expressed support for the schools due to the opportunities for
education they will bring. The affected communities are aware that the new schools are being built. The
MOEYC has agreed on some kind of standard procedure to follow to inform the three communities of the
- 32 -



proposed schools.
5.5 What mechanisms have been established to monitor and evaluate the impact of the project on the
environment? Do. the indicators reflect the objectives and results of the EMP?
This EA has been submitted to the Bank's InfoShopin April 2002. The GOJ has disclosed this
document to the public in the MOEYC's website.
6. Social:
6.1 Summarize key scicial issues relevant to the project objectives, and specify the project's social
development outcomes.
Youth at risk, particularly in the urban areas, is a key social issue. Intemational experience
indicates that one of the best ways to address the problems of youth-at-risk is to keep adolescents in
school and to improve their academic performance. The project objectives are directly related to these
goals. Poor academic performance, violence in schools and increasing teenage pregnancy - all are risk
factors for youth that will be addressed. Inequalities in access and the high attrition rate among students
from the poorest quintil,s are other key social issues that will be addressed by the project.
The desired social development outcomes of the project are to extend access and participation in
upper secondary education of children from poorer families, to reduce the dropout of children from
poorer families, to improve the quality of the secondary education that they receive while at the same
time providing remedial education to a large segment of the intake, and to raise their performance levels
in standardized examinations. In short, to improve the reading skills of all students, and to ensure that
students from poor families and with reading difficulties are given the extra support they need to become
functional adults upon-graduating from secondary school.
6.2 Participatory Approach: How are key stakeholders participating in the project?
The MOEYC has always taken a participatory approach in discussing its policy and strategies with
stakeholders. The teachers' union is fully consulted on a regular basis and so is the major Opposition
Party. In conducting the ROSE II social assessment, discussions were held with representatives of some
50 schools in all six regions. These discussions and interviews targeted principals, teachers, guidance
counselors, students and parents. Discussions were also held with MOEYC Regional Directors and
Guidance Officers, four NGOs, out-of-school youth, and the Maroon conmnunity in deep rural areas.
The Guidance and Counseling Unit of the MOEYC, co-operated with the social assessment
initiative by conducting interviews with representatives of all critical stakeholder groups, in the six
regions of the Ministry. The aim of these interventions was to learn the perspectives of stakeholders
regarding: (a) The kinds of problems students face in schools and at home, why they become disengaged
in school, as well as the kind of academic and extra-curricular activities which excite them; (b) parents'
expectations of their children and school; (c) teachers' approaches to dealing with students with
behavioral and academic problems; (d) teachers' approaches to dealing with homework; (e) Regional
Offices' approaches to addressing issues of youth-at-risk, and the kind of training that would improve
their effectiveness; and (f) the adequacy of the Guidance and Counseling system. The Guidance and
Counseling Unit of the Ministry of Education, Youth and Culture, has submitted at the request of the
Ministry, its concerns, as well as recommendations regarding the role of the Unit in the implementation
of the ROSE II project which have been taken fully into account. It submitted proposals for its role in the
implementation of ROSE II.
- 33 -



6.3 How does the project involve consultations or collaboration with NGOs or other civil society
organizations?
A number of NGOs and faith-based organizations, working with adolescents and youth, were
consulted during the social assessment. NGOs which operate secondary educational institutions as well
as others which provide critical support services to secondary level students are to be consulted
concerning their possible involvement in the ROSE II project.
Another group of NGOs which could become involved in the project are those offering programs
for out-of-school youth and youth-at-risk such as the YMCA, YWCA, Youth Opportunities Unlimited,
Addiction Alert and the National AIDS Committee. Some of these NGOs already have a close working
relationship with the Government of Jamaica but could be engaged, as a group, through the Council of
Voluntary Social Services (CVSS), the primary umbrella organization for NGOs in Jamaica.
Additionally, the project should endeavor to conduct national, broad-based stakeholder
consultations on a biennial basis, as well as an end-of-project consultation, in order to keep stakeholders
(civil society, business sector and international development partners) informed of new and on-going
developments and to solicit their feedback regarding project outputs and outcomes. Students should be
involved in the process through the National Secondary Schools' Council.
6.4 What institutional arrangements have been provided to ensure the project achieves its social
development outcomes?
The primary social development outcomes for ROSE II involve (i) making schools more
supportive of youth-at-risk through academic and extra-curricula activities and counseling services and
(ii) broaden and deepen stakeholder participation in the secondary education system, thus ensuring
greater access by the poor to upper secondary education.
The institutional arrangements that would facilitate this include:
(a)    The process for developing School Improvement Plans requires the active participation of all
stakeholders, including students and parents. Plans are explicitly tied to improving learning
outcomes, especially reading, with grants available in the second and third years only if
satisfactory progress is made. The grant allocation for each school will be based on the number
of low-achieving and therefore most at-risk students in the school. In addition, it is intended that
students will be responsible for designing activities for and managing a portion of the grant for
their school.
(b)    The role of the Regional Offices will be critical in linking schools with partners, providing
training and exchange of experience on innovative ways to improve school performance within
realistic limits of resource availability. Specific support is being provided to these offices
through the project.
(c)    Strengthening the networking/collaborative arrangements between the MOEYC and NGOs and
other civil society organizations, possibly through the establishment of a Stakeholders 'Planning
and Review Committee which would identify opportunities for joint initiatives and elaborate
arrangements for utilizing such opportunities. The Stakeholders' Committee would also carry
out a monitoring function and feed recommendations into the ROSE Secretariat on an on-going
basis. Secondary school students should be represented on this committee.
- 34 -



(d)    Building the capacity of the Guidance and Counselling Unit of the MOEYC to enable the
division to effectively implement the Guidance and Counselling Policy which is shortly to be
approved by Cabinet. To this end, it will be necessary to increase the staff of the Unit at Centre
to facilitate the training and special projects aspects of the work of the Unit.
(e)    The Regional Offices will be responsible for identifying good practice in the use of School
Improvement Grants, with dissemination of the lessons learned. Discussions will be had with the
principals' and teachers' associations to discuss ways to identify and reward successful schools.
(f)    The one school that offers secondary level education in Maroon communities in rural areas has
equal access to project benefits as the other Primary and Junior High schools in the country.
6.5 How will the project monitor performance in terms of social development outcomes?
The monitoring of social development outcomes will necessarily need to flow from and be a subset
of the overall monitoring plan. It is advisable that it make use of readily available data already being
collected and collated by schools through the Ministry's administrative data collection systems and on a
national population basis using the Survey of Living Conditions through monitoring the percentage of
students by quintile enrolled in secondary (and primary) schools by type. Some elements that contribute
to improved participation and performance, already being monitored, like enrollment rates, rates of
attendance/absenteeism, and teacher qualifications, and performance on standard examinations (GSAT,
CXC, etc.).
The literature on the subject suggests that poorer students in good schools with excellent facilities
require special assistance to be able to effectively use these facilities if their performance is to improve.
Therefore, it is critical to understand as soon as possible the outcomes of placement to assess whether the
intervension is working, and to improve it along the way. Tracking these corrections will also be a part of
the monitoring process. This two-pronged approach will thus allow for the participation of key
stakeholders in a continuous way.
7. Safeguard Policies:
7.1 Do any of the following safeguard policies apply to the project?
Policy                                   Applicability
Environmental Assessment (OP 4.01, BP 4.01, GP 4.01)         * Yes ( ) No
Natural Habitats (OP 4.04, BP 4.04, GP 4.04)                  ) Yes * No
Forestry (OP 4.36, GP 4.36)                                 ( Yes    No
Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                   ( Yes* No
Cultural Property (OPN 11.03)                                  Yes * No
Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)                                (9 Yes * No
Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12)                        * Yes ( ) No
Safety of Dams (OP 4.37, BP 4.37)                           (9 Yes S No
Projects in International Waters (OP 7.50, BP 7.50, GP 7.50)  Q) Yes * No
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP 7.60, BP 7.60, GP 7.60)*     (     Yes  No
7.2 Describe provisions made by the project to ensure compliance with applicable safeguard policies.
- 35 -



Resettlement of Squatters. Twenty-seven squatters (6 families) were on one of the school sites. The
GOJ prepared an abbreviated resettlement plan (Annex 18) for families who have opted to relocate on
their own. Building materials have been provided by the Government to the families and all families
have been relocated by September 9, 2002.
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
Overall, sustainability is highly likely for reasons discussed under Indicators of Borrower
Commitment and Ownership (Section D 4). Reform of Secondary Education has the support of both
major political parties.
The piloting of a scheme to provide bursaries for some places in private schools will increase
flexibility and cost-effectiveness in the use of the public education budget, especially if it is successfully
expanded after the life of the project.
Many of the activities proposed in the project do not increase recurrent spending: teacher
training, provision of books and materials, technical assistance; indeed, improving educational outcomes
will increase the efficiency of resource use in the longer run.
The civil works activities (new and extended schools) will increase recurrent costs. However,
these are estimated to be about 2 percent of total secondary education spending (i.e. the equivalent of
four new schools in a total of 155) and so much less than I percent of overall education spending.
2. Critical Risks (reflecting the failure of critical assumptions found in the fourth column of Annex 1):
Risk                    Risk Rating            Risk Mitigation Measure
From Outputs to Objective
MOEYC's efforts to reduce the               S        Continued coordination with MOEYC's
percentage of primary school graduates               Primary Education Coordinator, IDB, USAID,
reading below the grade level to 20                  and DFID to monitor progress and to be ready
percent may not materialize. Insufficient            to change strategy in secondary education.
prior preparation of students in primary             Initiative under PESP and the remedial
education may negatively impact on the               programme at Grade 4 will mitigate the risk.
achievement in secondary education.
Persons trained under the project may not  M         Ministry works to improve opportunity for
remain in the system due to change of                professional development and career path for
obs, retirement and emigration                      MOEYC staff
Funding for implementation of school       N         Project planning adequately addresses the
development plans is not adequate                    funding requirements for school developing
planning
M
N
From Components to Outputs
Financial management and efficiency        M         Institutional strengthening and training of
measures do not improve the generation               school based staff funded as part of project
- 36 -



and use of resources
The wider school community does not       M         Adequate training of principals in need for
participate in the design and implement-            community participation and public education
ation of school based projects                      carmpaign promote community participation
Counterpart funds are not available when  M         GOJ has made education a priority. In ROSE I,
needed                                              while civil works have to be spread out
throughout the life of the project to comply
with GOJ pre-financing requirement, for most
part, slow implementation of certain
components was less due to the unavailability
of counterpart funds than the speed with which
goods, works, and services were procured
Change in project staff may affect        M         Matrix management structure will reduce loss
implementation                                      of institutional memory.
Overall Risk Rating                       M
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N(Negligible or Low Risk)
3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
Provision of bursaries for private places in independent schools, while not entirely new in
Jamaica, may prove controversial. Public information to ensure that the rationale behind the initiative,
the selection of private schools and the selection of students for these schools, plus information about the
evaluation of the scheme, will be required to ensure full transparency in the implementation of this
activity. The MOEYC made submission to the Cabinet for endorsement of this scheme and written
approval has been given.
The selection of sites for the construction of new schools and the extension of existing schools
has been guided by a set of clearly defined criteria. However, demands for schools and extensions in
areas not selected may create controversy.
G. Main Loan Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition
During negotiations, the Project Operations Manual was agreed upon between the Government and the
Bank.
The remaining conditions are:
*   The independent auditors for the first year's audit have been contracted by the MOEYC.
* The PCU has been fully staffed and is operational.
*   The financial management system for the project has been established.
2. Other [classify according to covenant types used in the Legal Agreements.]
-37 -



H. Readiness for Implementation
ni 1. a) The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the
start of project implementation.
Li 1. b) Not applicable.
, 2. The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of..
project implementation.
3. The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory
quality.
J 4. The following items are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G):
1. Compliance with Bank Policies
1. This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
2. The following exceptions to Bank policies are recommended for approval. The project complies
with all other applicable Bank policies.
Kin Bing Wu/                     Marito                           Orsali    aoia
Team Leader                 /    Sector ManagerlDirector          Counlry MrnagerIDire1or
- 38 -



Annex 1: Project Design Summary
JAMAJCA: REFORM OF SECONDARY EDUCATION PROJECT II
Key Performance        Data Collection Strategy
Hierarchy.of. Objectives         Indicators,        ._  .___._._    ._v_        -Critical Assumptions
Sector-related CAS Goal:   Sector Indicators:        Sector/ country reports:   (from Goal to Bank Mission)
Ensure inclusiveness of    Increase in young persons  MOEYC Annual Statistical  Political will is sustained
growth and building human  entering labor force with  Reports
capital                    higher academic qualifications                       Stakeholders remain
(defined as having passed any  Labor Force Survey; Survey of committed to goals of the
Grade 11 or higher         Living Conditions         reform
certification examination)
from 25.9% of ages 14-19 and                         Significant commitment on
32.5 of ages 20-24 in 2000 to                        part of government, parents
30.9% and 37.5%,                                     and the private sector to
respectively, in 2007.                               pursue targeted educational
efforts to provide educational
access, completion and quality
for the poor
Macro-economic progress is
maintained to ensure job
growth and demand for higher
skills.
Project Development        Outcome / Impact          Project reports:           (from Objective to Goal)
Objective:                 Indicators:
1. Improved secondary school Annual improvement in   JHSC examination results   Recurrent and capital
achievement                average scores on JHSC or  (MOEYC)                   budgetary provisions and
GNAT in Language Arts and                            financial management are
Mathematics in participating  GNAT examination results  adequate.
schools so that by 2007 there (MOYEC)
will be statistically significant
improvement over the 2001
baseline measures. The data
are to be disagregated by
All-Age, P&JH, upgraded
High, and traditional High
schools. Average test scores of
students who receive bursaries
in Independent Schools will be
monitored.
Annual reduction in
percentage of students scoring JHSC examination results  Improvement in primary
below 30% correct in       (MOEYC)                    education (through projects
Language Arts and                                     supported by the IDB, DFID
Mathematics on the JHSC or  GNAT examination results  and USAID) will improve
GNAT in participating schools (MOYEC)                 quality and reduce the
so that by 2007 there will be a                       percentage of pupils reading
statistically significant                             below grade level from 30 to
difference. The data will be                          20% by the time students
disaggrregated by school type                         graduate in Grade 6.
- 39 -



as mentioned above.
Annual increase in the    CXC examination results
percentage of the eligible
cohort in participating schools
passing CXC Examination in
Language and Mathematics so
that by 2007 there will be a
statistically significant
improvement over the baseline
measures.
Annual increase in average  Education Statistics
daily attendance of students in (MOEYC)
participating schools over
2001 baseline.                                       Labor market demand weak
due to bad economic
Students whose places in                             conditions.
private schools are subsidized Education Statistics
by MOEYC have equal       (MOEYC) and CXC
achievement outcomes in CXC examination results
and CESC to those in public
schools, controlling for prior
achievement in JHSC and
comparison of unit cost.
2. Expanded access to upper  Statistically significant  Survey of Living Conditions  Schools are built and extended
secondary education,       increase in the share of                             on time and Independent
particularly among the poor  population aged 15-16 in the                       Schools are willing to
poorest quintile enrolled in                         participate in the busaries
secondary education in 2007                          sub-component.
over 2001 baseline.
Statistically significant  MOEYC statistics          The number of schools
increase in the share of                             offering the CXC curriculum
students enrolled in Grade 11                        and the number of teachers
who sit CXC General English,                         qualified to teach the CXC
CXC Mathematics, SSC                                  curriculum will increase.
English and SSC Mathematics
from 2001 to 2007.
Annual increase in the number                         Students want to attend the
of students in Grade 10.                             new and upgraded schools
3. Strengthened institutional  Establishment and utilization  Instruments to be developed  Trained personnel remain in
capacity in Central Ministry  of a management information  by Evaluation Unit (customer  the education system and use
and Regional Offices       system for secondary      satisfaction)              their new skills and
education that provides                               knowledge.
on-line, real time information
for policy makers.
Feedback from principals and  Special study (MOEYC    MOEYC Corporate Planning
teachers on the timeliness and  Evaluation Unit)      process sharpens management
quality of technical assistance                       roles, responsibilities and
and supervision provided by                           accountability for results
the regional offices. Target:
-40 -



90% satisfaction by project
end.
Feedback from the regional  Special study (MOEYC
offices on the timeliness in the Evaluation Unit)
delivery of inputs to schools
and quality of technical advice
given by the central ministry.
Target: 90% satisfaction by
project end.
Feedback from students on the Special study (MOEYC
extent to which the school  Evaluation Unit)
improvement plans are
effectively tackling the main
issues they feel are barriers to
improved learning. Target:
90% satisfaction by end of
3-year SIP cycle.
-41 -



Key Performance        Data CollectionStrategy 1-
Hierarchy of Objectives |        Indicators        j l                       J  Critical Assumptions
Output from each          Output Indicators:        Project reports:          (from Outputs to Objective)
Component:
Component 1               Number of school          Annual reports of Education  Principals exercise leadership
School Improvement Grants  improvement plans received  Officers               to galvanize teachers, students
from:                                               and parents.
All Age schools (target = 46)
P&JHS (target = 84)
Upgraded High (target =64)
2 voacationaUagricultural
which are approved by the
Regional Review Panels in
first round for each year
Significant commitment on
Copies of SIP manuals, on  Annual reports of Principals  part of stakeholders to assess
which schools and Regional  and Education Officers   needs and to identify and
Offices have been consulted,                        implement relevant
are available to each school at                     interventions
its training session
Percent of schools receiving  Annual reports of Principals
funds from MOEYC with [one and Education Officers
month] of approval of their
school improvement plan, by
school type. Target=100%
Percent of proposals fully
implemented by end of each
school year, by school type.
Target=80%
Component 2               Methodology and associated  Annual reports of Principals  Other projects focusing on
Reform Support from       materials to address       and Education Officers    literacy do not use
MOEYC to the schools      difficulties of patois speaking                      methodologies sufficiently
children at secondary level                          different from that developed
developed, following piloting                        under the project that teachers
in schools                                           and Education Officers are
Annual reports of Principals  confused and cannot
Methodology and associated  and Education Officers   effectively use the ROSE II
materials to help students                           methodologies and materials
overcome aversion to
mathematics and to use math
developed, following piloting
in schools
Project reports
Valid and reliable diagnostic
tools of learning difficulties of
students in Grades 7-9, readily
usable by teachers in the
classroom setting, developed,
printed and distributed to all
schools in the project and
being used by teachers
- 42 -



Annual stakeholder
Number of All Age schools  evaluations
with enhanced libraries and
media resource centers
Regional office's inspection of
Free foundation textbooks for books in possession of  Adequate number of textbooks
all students in All Age schools students             printed and distributed
and Junior Highs
Libraries and media resource
centers in teachers colleges
acquire all the materials they
requested on the agreed
timetable
Libraries and resource centers
in Regional Offices have a
complete set of materials to
support teaching of the ROSE
curriculum, of basic literacy
and mathematics, and of all
examinations within 6 months
of a decision by the panel of
regional offices of what should
be available
JHSC is reliable and valid and
is offered to all students in
each subject, and these results
are returned to schools by the
agreed date.
Component 3:
Expanding access to Grades  At least 1200 annual
10 and 11 cost-effectively  placements of students from
low SES in Grade 10 and 11  MOEYC Annual -tatistical  GOJ recurrent and capital
in independent schools by year Reports and Project Accounts budgetary provisions are
2 of the project at a cost to the                    adequate and counterpart
MOEYC of no more than the                            funds available when needed
average recurrent unit cost in
the public system                                     Private schools take
appropriate measures to ensure
bursary students stay enrolled
3 new schools and extensions
of 3 existing schools are
completed within cost and  MOEYC Annual Statistical
according to agreed project  Reports and Project Account
designs; and are operational
with a full complement of staff
and materials when the first
students are enrolled
Component 4:               Delivery to ROSE schools of  Project reports
Institutional Strengthening  MOEYC inputs (curriculum
guides, textbooks, educational
materials, computers,
- 43 -



furniture, laboratory
consumables) meets service
standards
Meeting physical and       Project reports, site visits  Individuals have incentives to
timeliness targets in                                 stay in education sector and
procurement and use of                                spread new knowledge andc
equipment to increase                                ideas
efficiency in management.
Number of fellowships      Project reports
granted, studies completed,
and beneficiaries returned to
work in the education sector
Project Components I       Inputs: (budget for each   Project reports:           (from Components to
Sub-components:            component)                                            Outputs)
1. School Improvement
Grants                     $11.0 million
2. Reform support          $11.8 million
3. Expand access to upper  $28.0 million
secondary education
4. institutional           $9.1million
strengthening
-44 -



Baseline 2000/2001 Indicators for Monitoring ROSE II on Outcomes
Age                                  Public School Type
Indicator                              Ages      Ages      Ages     All Age   Primary &         Former            Former         Sonme
14-19     15-16     20-24    Grades   Junior High     Comprehensive      Secondary
7-9     Grades 7-9                           High
Persons entering labor force with     25.90/o     NA       32.5%     N/A         N/A              N/A              N/A          SLC 2000
mninimum academic qualificalions
(defined as having passed any Grade 11 or
higher certification examination)
MOEYC .
Average scores on Junior High School   N/A       N/A       N/A     (GNAT)      (JHSC)           (JHSC)           (JHSC)          StMdent
Certification Examination (JHSC) or                                 23.7/o     27.5%            33.3%             45.7%        Assessment
Grade 9 Achievement Test (GNAT) in                                                                                                Unit
Language Arts
MOEYC
Average scores on Junior High School   N/A       N/A        N/A    (GNAT)      (JHSC)           (JHSC)            (JHSC)         Student
Certification Examination (JHSC) or                                 20.0%       22.7%/           25.7%/           37.6%        Assessment
Grade 9 Achievement Test (GNAT) in                                                                                                 Unit
Mathematics
MOEYC
Percentage of students scoring below 30%/a  N/A  N/A        N/A    (GNAT)'      (JHSC)           (JHSC)           (JHSC)         Student
correct in Language Arts on the JHSC/                               32.2%       2X.1%             8.6%             0.1%        Assessment
GNAT                                                                                  _                                            Unit
MOEYC
Percentage of students scoring below 30%  N/A    N/A        N/A    (GNAT)      (JHSC)            (JHSC)           (JHSC)         Student
correct in Mathematics on the JHSC/                                 41.6%       35.3%            14.00o%           0.3%        Assessment
GNAT                                   I__      I__    _  _  __      _   _                                     _     _    _unit
Percentage of the eligible cohort attaining  N/A  N/A       N/A      N/A         N/A             10.3%            59.2%         CXC 2001
grades 1-3 on CXC Examination in
Language



Percentage of the eligible cohort     N/A       N/A       N/A      N/A        N/A             3.5%             29.5%        CXC 2001
attaining grades 1-3 on CXC
Examination in Mathematics
MOEYC
Percentage of the eligible cohort     N/A       N/A       N/A      N/A        N/A             13.2                           Student
attaining grades 4-5 on SSC                                                                                                Assessment
Examination in Language                                                                                  _                    Unit
MOEYC
Percentage of the eligible cohort     N/A       N/A       N/A      N/A        N/A              2.1                           Student
attaining grades 4-5 on SSC                                                                                                Assessment
Examination in Mathematics                                                                                                    Unit
MOEYC
Average daily attendance of secondary  N/A      N/A       N/A     71.7%      76.5%            84.0%            94%          Planning/
students                                                                                          _                         Statistics
Share of population age 15-16 in the  N/A     * 132%      N/A      N/A        N/A             N/A              N/A        Jamaica SLC
poorest quintile enrolled in upper                                                                                            2000
secondary education                    _                                                          _
Share of students enrolled in Grade I I  N/A    N/A       N/A      N/A        N/A       CXC        Maths-   CXC Maths      MOEYC and
who sit CXC General English, CXC                                                        23.7%               79.4%             CXC
Mathematics, SSC English and SSC                                                        23.7  gls%  2.8/    CXC English
Mathmnatics.                                                                            CXC English-29.8°/.  85.3%/
Mathematics.                                                                 SSC Maths-6.4%
SSC English-23. 1%
MOEYC
The number students enrolled in Grade 10  N/A   N/A       N/A       N/A       N/A             23,486           11,413        Planning/
Statistics
Promotion rates from Grade 9 to Grade  N/A       N/A      N/A       N/A       N/A              1 12%            *103         MOEYC
10, as defined as enrollments in Grade 10                                                                                   Planning
as share of Grade 9 enrollment in previous                                                                                   Statistics
year, less repeaters in Grade 9
*   Additional students entering from All Age and Primary and Junior High Schools
* No data available for Upper Secondary Education only



Annex 2: Detailed Project Description
JAMAICA: REFORM OF SECONDARY EDUCATION PROJECT 11
By Component:
Project Component I - US$11.00 million
School Improvement Plans
This component would finance grants to selected schools with secondary age students (upgraded
High Schools, Agricultural/Vocational schools, Primary and Junior High Schools and All-Age Schools)
on the basis of annual work programs and budgets for activities designed to improve student outcomes
(attendance, retention and achievement). The project would finance direct costs associated with
preparing and implementing school improvement plans. (Further details are provided in annex 14.)
1.1.   Preparation of School Improvement Plans. School improvement planning is established in
Jamaica and is being implemented under the following projects: Secondary Enhancement Program (21
Secondary High and Primary and Junior High schools funded by MOEYG); Technical High Schools
Development Project (14 technical high schools funded by HEART Trust/National Training Authority
and JICA); Jamaica All Age Schools Project (48 schools funded by DFID); and New Horizons (72 All
Age schools funded by USAID). Schools eligible for ROSE M support under this component will be
additional to these, and include up to 64 Upgraded High Schools, 84 Primary and Junior High Schools, 2
Agricultural/Vocational High Schools and approximately 46 of the larger All-Age schools; the remaining
All-Age schools will be eligible for support under Component 2 of this project.
This Component would support: technical assistance for preparation of a School Improvement
Plan (SIP) Manual and associated training materials; printing and distribution of the SIP Manual and
training materials to all eligible schools; training in school development planning and school-based
management for principals, school board members, teachers, education officers and school community
representatives; travel and accommodation expenses for school teams involved in training and for
Regional Review Panel members during the review process; and travel expenses for those schools staff
providing advice to other schools.
1.2.   Implementation of School Improvement Grants   The project will provide grants (School
improvement Grants, SIGs) directly to schools for implementation of their school improvement plan,
following its approval by the regional review panel. SIGs will finance, as appropriate, items on a positive
list; major civil works will not be financed. All schools in Jamaica have bank accounts, and regularly
receive operations and maintenance (O&M) allocations from the MOEYC into these accounts. For the
SIGs, a separate account will be opened for each school, an agreement between the school and the
MOEYC will be signed regarding the use of the grant in accordance with the school's approved SIP, and
the MOEYC will release a payment for the first year's grant to the school. Subsequent year funding will
be based on successful implementation of activities under the SIP and payment will be released when the
school has provided a statement of expenditure and receipts to the Project Manager. The SIGs will be
provided in accordance with eligibility criteria and procedures stipulated in the Legal Agreement and
Operational Manual for the project.
Project Component 2 - US$11.77 million
Reform Support from the Central Ministry to the Schools
-47 -



The second component will finance centrally coordinated activities that complement the bottom
up approach and support all-age schools not eligible for SIGs.
2.1    Literacy and Mathematics Enhancement.          This sub-component would support four
activities designed to assist the 20 percent of secondary students who do not demonstrate full literacy to
read and master mathematics at grade level, so that they can learn other subjects and study independently.
First, it will finance technical assistance to devise a national strategy for tackling weak literacy and
numeracy skills in all secondary schools. This strategy will support the implementation of the ROSE I
curriculum and textbooks and be aligned with the MOEYC National Literacy Plan. Second, it will
finance, technical assistance to develop effective methodologies and support materials to address the
conversion difficulty of patois speaking children to standard English, develop in them an interest in
reading for information and for recreation, overcome their aversion to mathematics, and use mathematic
concepts to address real life problems. Third, it will support the development of valid and reliable
diagnostic tools of learning difficulties to help teachers and schools better link assessment to
instructional decision making and learning. Fourth, it will provide a support package for approximately
12,000 secondary teachers, including teacher guides on how to identify and correct common
misconceptions and mistakes in core subject areas. Fifth, it will support in-service training for [50]
education officers, 4800 principals and teachers and for 40 teacher educators organized around these
methodologies, tools and packages.
2.2    Strengthening Teaching and Guidance.    This sub-component will finance the provision
of free foundation books to all students in All-Age and Primary and Junior High Schools. This will
ensure-that the poorest students will all have access to their own textbooks for study and homework. It is
essential that these materials are available to each student at the beginning of the school year. This will
reduce the administrative burden in these schools of collecting this fee, and reduce parent-school tensions
over its collection. As with the existing scheme, students would be expected to return the books at the
end of the school year for use by other students the following year. In place of the parental contributions,
the MOEYC will make a contribution to the Textbook Account to cover the cost of the production and
distribution of books to these students.
This sub-component will finance the provision of instructional and related inputs (literacy and
mathematics materials, textbooks, library materials and curriculum and teacher's guides) to secondary
schools, along with related in-service training for teachers, education officers and teacher trainers. It will
support the provision or upgrading of library and Media Resource Centers for regional offices of the
MOEYC for access to the internet and the World Wide Web.
Improved library and media resource centers in schools are needed to support the literacy and
mathematics enhancement programs and to develop the skills for life-long learning. Some enhancement
of libraries will be funded through school improvement plans (see component 2.1). However, given the
magnitude of the need for enhanced library facilities, there may be a need for direct funding for libraries
from the Ministry outside the SIP activities.  Schools will make decisions on the library materials
required and the MOEYC, through its Library Services facility will procure and distribute the materials.
The libraries of teachers colleges would be upgraded to support the training of teachers in secondary
education, especially in the teaching of reading and mathematics. Those teachers colleges with
secondary education training programs would be invited to prepare a plan to enhance their libraries.
Funds would be allocated to support these plans, based on numbers of full-time equivalent teachers (pre-
and in-service) that they teach secondary education courses to annually, based on the average number
taught over the last three years. The plans submitted by the teachers colleges would be approved by a
committee of all the Heads of Secondary Education in the colleges, chaired by the MOEYC.  The
-48 -



materials would then be procured through the Library Services facility of the MOEYC and distributed to
the teachers' colleges.
The libraries and resource centers of the Regional Offices would be upgraded. A committee of
representatives from each Regional Office would agree on the list of materials that each region needs to
effectively support the ROSE curriculum and the teaching of basic literacy and mathematics. Each office
would identify the resources they lack and the MOEYC, through the Library Services facility would
procure and distribute the items needed.
In-service training in curriculum implementation for teachers, education officers and teacher
trainers could be considered. Furthermore, training to strengthen guidance and counseling methods is
needed. The MOEYC has recently re-organized its provision of support to schools for guidance and
counseling, placing a guidance counselor in each Regional Office. These counselors will be working
increasingly closely with schools. Primary and Junior High Schools and High Schools all have
counselors whose skills and knowledge need to be upgraded according to the new MOEYC strategy and
the new roles identified for counselors. In addition, the MOEYC is determining how to support
counseling services in All Age Schools: this component would fund some activities identified by the
MOEYC.
Project Component 3 - US$ 28.00 million
Expanded Access To Upper Secondary Education.
This component will provide access to upper secondary school to over 5,000 students, including
20 percent of Grade 9 graduates who otherwise would not have access to a place at Grade 10, through
civil works and secure excess capacity in independent secondary schools.
3.1    Civil Works. This sub-component will fund the construction of three new schools and
extension of three existing schools where the density and stability of the relevant school-age population
justify; consultants for preparing the final architectural drawings based on standard designs and for pre-
and post-contract supervision of civil works for new and extended schools; support for the operation and
maintenance of new and extended schools; and staffing (including teaching, managerial and support staff
for new and extended schools). Sites for new construction have been identified and an environmental
assessment has been completed.
3.2    Bursaries for Independent School Places.  This sub-component will provide bursaries for
approximately 1,300 Grade 9/10 student places in independent schools meeting the quality standards of
the MOEYC: the curriculum conforms with that prescribed by the MOEYC, the quality of teachers meet
the required standards, and the proper facilities such as science laboratories, Resource and Technology
rooms are in place. An announcement of the program soliciting interest from the independent school
sector will be published, and qualified schools and number of places identified. These schools will be
listed along with public secondary schools on the JHSC registration form, allowing students to indicate
their preference for these schools along with public schools. Placement would be handled in accordance
with standard procedures. Bursaries to private schools will cover all fees and will be provided in
accordance with the terms specified in the Loan Agreement and the Operational Manual for the project.
(More details are provided in annex 15.)
Project Component 4 - US$9.12 million
Institutional Strengthening
- 49 -



This component, will support the MOEYC and Regional Offices to implement the above
components successfully, as their role shifts from centralized development, acquisition and provision of
school inputs to one that responds to school-based demands for technical assistance and continuous
support and monitors outcomes.
4.1.   Management Information System.   The project will provide-support for the development of
a secondary school management information system and for imaging systems and digital cameras to
improve documentation of procurement of civil works, goods and services; training in the use of the MIS
and related inputs; and provision of computers systems to schools and regional offices so that they can
utilize the new MIS system and funding for the operation and maintenance of these computer systems.
The MOEYC is developing parts of an MIS system for primary schools, as part of its corporate
planning exercise, through a USAID-funded project. This component would complement these other
efforts.
4.2.   Enhancing Efficiency and Effectiveness.  The project will provide support for institutional
strengthening of the MOEYC and Regional Offices through the following: (a) fellowships, study tours
and attendance of international conferences for professional development of education officers; (b)
technical assistance to develop instruments to measure various outcomes, including management
efficiency and cost effectiveness; (c) training to make more efficient use of existing facilities; (d)
provision of computer and other equipment to selected divisions within the Ministry and support for the
operation and maintenance of this equipment; and provision of equipment and materials to enhance the
libraries and/or learning resource centers of teachers colleges and the regional offices' resource room so
that they can support the schools
4.3.   Maintaining and fully utilizing assessment, monitoring and evaluation capacity. This
sub-component will provide support to continue efforts to modemize and strengthen the student
assessment unit. It will strengthen test development capacity by providing opportunities for education
officers to upgrade their skills in line with current best practices; standardize test development processes
across testing programs by training several officers in each aspect of test development, administration,
analysis, and data storage and retrieval.  This Subcomponent will also provide support for
implementation of the Junior High School Certificate Examination that was designed with assistance
from the ROSE I project. The JHSC will provide diagnostic information on students and baseline and
evaluation data on schools.
Finally, the project will support the Project Coordination Unit, by financing the purchase of
fumiture, equipment and two vehicles, totaling approximately US$100,000.
- 50 -



Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs
JAMAICA: REFORM OF SECONDARY EDUCATION PROJECT 11
Local       Foreign        Total
Project Cost By Component                US $million  US' $million  US $million
School Improvement Plans to raise achievement of all student  10.93     0.00        10.93
Reform support from the central ministry to the schools   4.01          6.68        10.69
Expand access to upper secondary education                18.94         6.11        25.05
Institutional strengthening                               6.38          2.26         8.64
Project Implementation unit                                1.87         0.63         2.50
Front-end fee                                             0.00          0.40         0.40
Total Baseline Cost                                      42.13         16.08        58.21
Physical Contingencies                                    1.48         0.91         2.39
Price Contingencies                                       1.35         1.05         2.40
Total Project Costsl             44.96        18.04        63.00
Total Financing Required             44.96         18.04        63.00
Local       Foreign        Total
Project,Cost By Category                US-$million  US $million  US $million
Civil works, equipment and fumiture                         7.78          8.49         16.27
Instructional Materials                                     0.48          4.26     .   4.74
Student Assessment, Training and TA                        11.51          2.93         14.44
Bursaries for places in Independent schools                 2.00          0.00          2.00
School Improvement Plans                                    9.89          0.00          9.89
Recurrent Cost                                             10.47          0.00         10.47
Front-end-fee                                               0.00          0.40          0.40
Physical & Price Contingencies                              2.83          1.96          4.79
Total Project Costs     44.96          18.04        63.00
Total Financing Required     44.96         18.04         63.00
Identifiabic taxcs and dutics arc 0 (US$m) and thc total project cost, net of taxes, is 63 (USSrn). Thereforc, the project cost sharing ratio is 63.17% of
total project cost nct of taxcs.
- 51 -



Annex 4: Cost Benefit Analysis Summary
JAMAICA: REFORM OF SECONDARY EDUCATION PROJECT 11
This annex begins by briefing the project context and description. It then performs a cost-benefit
analysis by estimating the discounted present value of the net benefits and internal rate of return of the
project. To analyze the risks, a sensitivity analysis is also performed by relaxing the basic assumptions.
The section concludes by discussing the externalities generated by increasing the quality of secondary
education.
Project context and description
The ROSE II Project's overarching objective is to build human capital in Jamaica by: (a)
improving the quality and equity of secondary education; (b) expanding access to upper secondary
education; and (c) strengthening the capacity of the central ministry and the regional offices. To achieve
these goals, ROSE II funds the following four components:
*      School improvement plans to improve achievement and to address youth-at-risk issues
*      Reform support from the Central Ministry to the schools
*      Expanded access to grades 10 and 11
*      Institutional Strengthening
While the impacts of the project's four components are intertwined and not easy to separate, this
economic analysis focuses only on the component of expanding access, which provides quantifiable
outcomes and measurable parameters for the cost-benefit analysis. As the other components address the
quality of education, they are very difficult to quantify.
Expanded access to upper secondary education will be achieved through three options in order
to allow for greater flexibility and to maximize cost-effectiveness:
*      Construction of three new schools (US$ 9 million)
*      Extension of three existing schools (US$ 4 million)
*      Bursaries to private, Independent Schools (US$ 2 million)
Bursaries to schools means the financing of places in independent secondary schools with excess
capacity; intended to subsidize lower income families for whom the economic stagnation has made it
difficult to send their children to private schools and are not able to access upper secondary education in
public schools because of limited space. Such excess capacity can be utilized to provide immediate
access.
Summary of Benefits and Costs:
The cost-benefit analysis compares the net increase in lifetime earnings with and without the
project component of expanded access. The discounted expected present value of its benefits, net of
costs, i.e. the net present value (NPV), is computed. To compare cost-effectiveness of building new
schools, extending existing schools and providing bursaries to Independent Schools, the internal rate of
return (IRR) is also computed for each sub-component.
The analysis takes into account all incremental costs to the govemment and beneficiaries in
addition to the fiscal costs of each project sub-component. The public costs considered in the analysis
- 52 -



include the capital investment and recurrent costs such as salaries and benefits of teachers and
administrative/technical staff, equipment, library books, maintenance and utilities. It should be noted
that, in view of the excess capacity at Independent Schools, the computation of the net benefit of the
bursaries does not include capital costs or other incremental costs to the govermment besides its funds for
bursaries to private schools (about US$ 560 per student). The use of these funds is at the disposal of
each Independent School that receives them. Data on students' direct costs of secondary education,
which include tuition and fees, extra lessons, books, transport, lunch and snacks, uniforms and other
supplies, are taken from The Jamaica Survey of Living Conditions. Students' foregone earnings are
computed using the average expected wage of those of an age group who attained junior secondary
education only.
In the entire analysis, the estimated incremental benefits of the project are based on projected
increases in future incomes resulting from attainment of senior secondary education. The earnings
differentials between workers with only primary education, junior secondary and senior secondary
education, respectively, are calculated using 1998 Labor Force Survey (Table 4.3). The analysis uses the
expected eamings differential by educational attainment (multiplied by the current employment rate for
each age group). Given the high unemployment in Jamaica, this should make the analysis more realistic.
(For the unemployment rate and the expected earnings differential see Table 4.3.)
The result of the analysis shows that expanding access has positive present value under the basic
assumptions which are presented below. The net present value is US$ 22,104,892 at the discount rate of
12 percent and the intemal rate of return is 13.4 percent. In fact, all three sub-components expect very
high economic rate of return for its investments, leading to large total net benefits even at the discount
rate of 12 percent. The ROSE II Project thus compares favorably with most Bank projects in other
sectors.
Table 4.1. NPV and IRR of Whole Component and Three Sub-Components, US$
New schools       Extension        Bursaries   Whole component
NPV (12%)       3,029,770       19,232,978       2,227,437       22,104,892
NPV (10%)       29,665,451      54,025,779       7,515,286       83,599,131
NPV ( 5%)      358,892,312     468,981,673      51,672,605       840,124,281
IRR           12.8%            14.5%            13.4%           13.4%
Among the three interventions, the extension of existing schools has the highest intemal rate of
return by a small margin. This is due mainly to the fact that the extended facilities will be exclusively
used by senior secondary students; by contrast, the newly constructed schools are full secondary high
schools, accommodating both junior and senior high students (about 40 percent will be senior high
students). According to Annex 15 of the PAD, the amount of bursary per student is less than 70 percent
of the government's per capita costs of building new schools. Naturally, the program of providing
bursaries turns out more cost-effective than the construction of new schools although less cost-effective
than the extension of existing schools. A half of the bursary funds (about US$ I million) may finance
students who will repeat grade 9 before entering into senior secondary education to ensure their academic
success. (about 40 percent of its beneficiaries are allowed to repeat grade 9.). It should also be pointed
out that since the shadow price for increasing the number of students in private schools is almost zero,
the schools will spend most of the additional funds from the bursary program on desirable measures to
improve the quality of education; these will include hiring more teachers to keep class sizes small or
purchase of books for the library or equipment and materials for classroom instruction. The bursary
program may thus be able to contribute to improved quality of education particularly in private schools;
- 53 -



this is not captured in the current cost-benefit analysis.
Main Assumptions:
The basic assumptions are that: (a) there is no repetition and no drop-out given the automatic promotion
policy in Jamaica; (b) the civil works will take a year; (c) the school buildings newly constructed or
expanded in existing schools will function for thirty years; (d) wage coefficients are considered fixed at
the current level.
Sensitivity analysis / Switching values of critical items:
There are various possible sources of overestimation of the net benefits of expanded access. The
various sensitivity tests have been undertaken to take these issues properly into account; their results are
summarized below in Table 4.2.
Table 4.2 Results of Sensitivity Analysis, US$
no automatic       decline in earnings    problems in civil
promotion*           differential* *         work* * *
New Schools
NPV (12%)                 -205,192             -2,166,577            -2,968,473
IRR                        11.97%                  11.7%                 11.6%
Extension
NPV (12%)               15,308,747             12,878,091            10,513,695
IRR                         14.1%                  13.8%                 13.7%
Scholarships
NPV (12%)            2,227,437****              1,748,355             n.r.*****
IRR                         13.4%                  13.1%                   n.r.
*     repetition rate=10%, drop-out rate=5%
**   repetition rate=10%, drop-out rate=5%; 5% discount in earnings differential between junior and
senior high school graduates
** *  repetition rate= 10%, drop-out rate=5%; 2 year delay in the civil works, 25 year life span of the
school buildings and 20% cost overrun
**** The same as the basic assumption of repetition (40 percent of the beneficiaries will be grade 9
repeaters.)
n.r. : not relevant
The sensitivity analysis changes the basic assumptions. First, it is assumed that the project tries to
ensure that learning is occurring, with an associated repetition rate of 10 percent in senior secondary
school. It may be also be realistic to count about 5 percent who cannot enroll as dropouts. Since the
ROSE II Project addresses, in particular, the youth at risk issue by improving the quality of education,
this seems reasonable, in particular: not too low. Higher repetition and dropout in senior high schools
would slightly lower NPV and IRR for both new school construction and of school extension; but the
ROSE II Project still proves to be a worthwhile investment.
Second, historically, Jamaica has experienced a trade-off between the quantity and quality in its
initiative to expand education. Enlarging the supply of workers with senior secondary education might be
also likely to reduce the earnings differential between junior and senior high school graduates. This is
especially likely if the recent negative growth persists in Jamaica. To take account of this possibility, the
- 54 -



benefit of attaining senior secondary education has been reduced by 5 percent in earnings disparity
between junior and senior high school graduates throughout all working ages (in addition to the
assumption of 10 percent repetition and 5 percent drop-out). The decline in earnings differential again
make little difference to NPV and IRR: IRR lowers about 0.2-0.3 percent for all three sub-components.
Lastly, there are also risks in civil works such as the delay and cost over-run as seen in the ROSE
I Project, and possibly a shortened life span of school buildings due to limited financing of maintenance
(most of the Government's recurrent costs are spent on teachers' salaries and benefits.) It is, then,
assumed that there would be 20 percent cost overrun, a two-year delay in the completion of the civil
works and school buildings' life would span 25 instead of 30 years (in addition to the assumption of 10
percent repetition and 5 percent drop-out). This assumption has slightly more negative impact on the
outcome of the investment than that of the 5 percent discount earning differential between junior and
senior high school graduates; but the overall impact is still slight. The internal rate of return lowers by
0.4 percent for both of the new school construction option and the school extension option.
In sum, the outcome of the cost-benefit analysis is robust, i.e., the investment of the ROSE H
Project will generate acceptable or high economic rate of return even if many plausible risks are
considered.
On the other hand, there are also other factors which are not captured in the cost-benefit analysis
which would lead to an underestimation of net benefits. The use of pretax earnings differential between
junior and senior high school graduates will raise the benefits of the project. The government and
employers can also save money from widely prevalent provision of remedial training program for current
and future employees in Vocational Training Centers and other community centers. In 1999/2000 the
HEART/NTA provided J$ 12 million (US$ 270,000) for remedial training in Vocational Training
Centers only and its cost per trainee was about J$ 7,100 (US$ 160). Positive economic growth would
also increase project benefits.
Given the high rate of debt financing of the Jamaican government, the effect of the project on
public finances should be also considered. However, its overall impact is rather small and the efficiency
gains and improved workers' productivity seem to offset the burden. The government may also consider
raising students' cost-sharing in the future since exclusive public high schools in which wealthy students
predominate have very low tuition and fees compared to private ones.
Externalities
Secondary education has large externalities in Jamaica as in other parts of the world, and as
established by various researches and studies. It is rather obvious that secondary education has
externalities by producing better-informed and more responsible citizens as well as simply producing
better workers. The recent study such as the 2001 OECD PISA, which reviewed students' learning
achievement of many countries, seems to lead to the conclusion that quality secondary education might
be necessary condition for economic development, although not a sufficient one. Furthermore, given the
high rate of broken households, crime and teenage pregnancy in Jamaica, engaging youths in senior high
schools would help reduce the social problems. Econometric studies also show a positive impact of
education on health for both children and adults. Mother's education has a positive effect on child health
independent of household income and community health services; furthermore, students' additional
education significantly reduces the reported incidence of chronic illness, with the impact especially
strong among the adults aged 14-49 (Handa 1998 and 1999). Sudanshu Handa, Gender and Life-Cycle
Differences in the Impact of Schooling on Chronic Disease in Jamaica, Economics of Education Review,
- 55 -



17(3), 1998; and Sudanshu Handa, Maternal Education and Child Height, EDCC, 47(2), 1999..
Conclusion
The economic analysis shows that the Bank's and the government's investment in the ROSE II
Project are expected to be highly beneficial, both for direct beneficiaries and for society as a whole.
Table 4.3. Average monthly earnings and unemployment rate by age and
educational attainment (in JD$)
Primary    Junior     Senior     Earnings     Unemp       Expected
Age                  High       High      Differences    Rate       Earnings
(%)       Differences
A         B          C         D= C-B         E      F=(C-B)*(1-E)
14-19       7,253      8,403      8,197         -206      43.7%           -116
20-24        9,140     8,644      12,880       4,236      28.6%           3,025
25-29        8,184    10,377      13,323       2,946      14.8%           2,510
30-34        7,928     8,622     14,003        5,381      14.8%           4,585
35-39        9,841    11,015     22,821       11,806       9.0%          10,743
40-44        10,399   11,192     30,061        18,869      9.0%          17,171
45-49         8,723    9,886     44,603       34,717       5.2%          32,912
50-54        6,636     9,960    44,255*       34,295       5.2%          32,512
55-59        8,813    10,412     43,448       33,036       4.9%          31,417
60-64        8,603     8,754     47,227       38,473       4.9%          36,588
> 64        6,636      9,960      10,750         790       0.8%             784
* estimated
Source: Labor Force Survey, 1998
- 56 -



Annex 5: Financial Summary
JAMAICA: REFORM OF SECONDARY EDUCATION PROJECT 11
Years Ending
, i   n-a*lMeiMEMENjATIONtPERl IODv = 
Year 1    Year 2     Year 3  | Year 4  | Year 5    Year 6    Year 7
Total Financing Required
Project Costs
Investment Costs           7.6      10.3      16.5       11.5       5.0       0.0       0.0
Recurrent Costs            0.8       0.5        1.0       3.3       6.4       0.0       0.0
Total Project Costs         8.4       10.8      17.5       14.8      11.4       0.0       0.0
Front-end fee    0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0      0.0
Total Financing             8.4       10.8      17.5       14.8      11.4       0.0       0.0
Financing
IBRD/IDA                  5.1        7.4      11.0       9.0       7.3       0.0       0.0
Government                3.3        3.4       6.5       5.8       4.1       0.0       0.0
Central                0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0
Provincial             0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0
Co-financiers             0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0
User Fees/Beneficiaries     0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0      0.0        0.0
Other                       0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0      0.0        0.0
Total Project Financing     8.4      10.8      17.5       14.8      11.4      0.0        0.0
Year I  | Year 2     Year 3    Year 4    Year 5    Year 6     Year 7
Total Financing Required
Project Costs
Investment Costs         2.2        2.2       2.2        2.2       2.2       0.0       0.0
Recurrent Costs          6.0        6.0       6.0        6.0       6.0       0.0       0.0
Total Project Costs         8.2       8.2        8.2       8.2       8.2       0.0       0.0
Front-end fee   0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0
,Total Financing            8.2        8.2       8.2       8.2        8.2      0.0        0.0
Financing
IBRD/IDA                 0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0
Government               8.2        8.2       8.2        8.2       8.2       0.0       0.0
Central               0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0
Provincial             0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0
Co-financiers            0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0
User Fees/Beneficiaries     0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0
Other                       0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0
Total Project Financing    8.2       8.2        8.2       8.2       8.2       0.0       0.0
Main assumptions:
Incremental recurrent costs correspond to: (i) salaries of teachers that will be hired once the schools are
built, (ii) two incremental technical staff at the central level; (iii) staff of the project coordination unit during
- 57 -



project implementation, (iv) student assessments; and (v) teacher training. Incremental recurrent costs will
be covered by the GOJ, through counterpart funds.
After the completion of implementation, Project staff contracted during implementation will not remain
in the Ministry, thereby reducing the recurrent cost to $6 million per year during the operational period.
The incremental recurrent cost will amount to 1.6 percent of total recurrent expenditure on education, or
4.7 percent of total recurrent expenditure on secondary education. Since all recurrent costs incurred by
the project will be fully financed by the GOJ from the outset, these costs will not represent a sudden
increase in burden after the end of the Project.
- 58 -



Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
JAMAICA: REFORM OF SECONDARY EDUCATION PROJECT II
Procurement
(A) Procurement Arrangyements
Procurement for the proposed project would be carried out in accordance with World Bank"
Guidelines: Procurement Under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits", published in January 1995 (revised
January/August 1996, September 1997 and January 1999); and "Guidelines: Selection and Employment
of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" (revised in September 1997, Jannuary 1999, and May 2002),
and the provisions stipulated in the Loan Agreement.
1) Procurement methods: The methods to be used for the procurement described below, and
the estimated amounts for each method, are summarized in Table A. The threshold contract values for
the use of each method are fixed in Table B.
Procurement of Works
Works procured under this project would include construction of three schools and extension of
three schools totaling US$13.3 million equivalent. Works estimated to cost more than US$1,500,000
will be procured following International Competitive Bidding procedures (ICB) procedures, using
Bank-issued standard bidding documents. Works estimated to cost less than US$1,500,000, up to an
aggregate amount of US$3.3 million will be procured following National Competitive Bidding
procedures (NCB) using standard bidding documents agreed in advance with the Bank.
Procurement of Goods
Goods procured under this project would include computer equipment, furniture for schools,
science and electronic labs, technology equipment and instructional materials such as guides and support
materials, and literacy/math & diagnostic materials totaling US$10.5 million equivalent. To the extent
possible, contracts for these goods will be grouped into bidding packages of more than $150,000
equivalent and procured following International Competitive Bidding (ICB) procedures, using
Bank-issued Standard Bidding Documents (SBDs). Contracts with estimated values below this threshold
per contract and up to an aggregate amount of US$1.3 million may be procured using National
Competitive Bidding (NCB) procedures and standard bidding documents agreed with the Bank.
Contracts for goods which cannot be grouped into larger bidding packages and estimated to cost less than
US$25,000 per contract, up to an aggregate amount of US$1.1 million, may be procured using shopping
(National /International) procedures based on a model request for quotations satisfactory to the Bank.
Selection of Consultants
Consulting services will be contracted under this project in the following areas of expertise:
design and construction drawings for the extension of schools, inspection of the construction of the
schools, development of guidance materials, adaptation and installation of MIS, development of
literacy/math enhancement program, development of diagnostic materials, technical assistance to
improve management efficiency and effectiveness, and evaluation of ROSE II Project. These services
are estimated to cost US$5.7 million equivalent and would be procured using Bank Standard Request for
Proposals.
- 59 -



Firms: All contracts for firms would be procured using QCBS, except for contracts costing less than
US$100,000 that would be procured using CQ up to an aggregate amount of US$400,000.
Individuals: Specialized advisory services would be provided by individual consultants selected by
comparison of qualifications of three candidates and hired in accordance with the provisions of
paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines, up to an aggregate amount of US$0.3 million.
Training: Category for training activities does not involve procurement processes. It includes
expenditures for: (i) cost of tuition, venue, food, and traveling to provide and/or attend seminars on: roles
of guidance counselors, continuous assessment, Inter-School Collaboration, maximize use of existing
facilities, Literacy/Mathematics and Diagnosis; and (ii) costs of venue, food, traveling and tuition for
graduate fellowships; and cost of training the MOE's staff on the use of the MIS. Training services are
estimated to cost US$5.8 million equivalent.
School Improvement Subproiects (SIP): The Loan would partially finance the cost of goods
and services for the implementation of demand driven sub-projects to be proposed and implemented by
schools, under agreements signed with the MOE. SIP are estimated to cost US$10.0 million equivalent.
The sub-projects will be selected and implemented following the procedures established in the Project
Operational Manual.
Bursaries: The loan will provide Bursaries for placement in independent schools. No
procurement is involved in this category.
Recurrent Costs, Student Assessment and Other Government financed Costs: Recurrent
costs such as: costs of salaries of the PCU staff, incremental school staff, physical facilities, services and
goods for the PCU, and operation and maintenance will be entirely financed by Government.
.Additionally, the Government will entirely finance the cost of Junior High School Certificate
Examination and contribution to the Caribbean Examination Council Examination. The procurement of
the goods and services included in these categories will be made in accordance with Government
procedures.
2) Prior review thresholds: The proposed thresholds for prior review are based on the
procurement capacity assessment of the Project Implementing Unit and are summarized in Table B. In
addition to this prior review of individual procurement actions, the procurement plan will be reviewed
and approved by the Bank annually.
(B) Assessment of the agency's capacity to implement procurement
A Project Coordination Unit (PCU) to be established under the Minister of Education, Youth and
Culture (MOEYC) will carry out procurement activities. This Unit will be composed a Project Manager,
a Procurement Officer, a Project Administrator and support staff, and work in close coordination with a
Project Financial Manager who will manage the project funds. Staff from the Technical Services
Directorate will prepare technical specifications for works and goods. The Educational Services Division
in close coordination with the Planning Development Division will prepare terms of reference for
consultant services. The proposed organization arrangement and proposed staffing of the PCU are
satisfactory. The Project's Operational Manual (OM) will include standard bidding documents to be used
for each procurement method, model contracts for works and goods procured on the basis of three
quotations or shopping and procurement procedures for School Improvement Projects.
- 60 -



An assessment of the capacity of the PCU to implement procurement actions for the project has
been carried out and was approved by the Regional Procurement Advisor on May 15, 2002. The
assessment reviewed the organizational structure of the proposed Project Implementation Unit within the
MOE.
The main risks identified in the assessment include: (i) The Project Implementation Unit (PCU)
has yet to be established and consequently, its perfornance is yet to be seen; (ii) although the Project
Manager and the Procurement Officer have been selected, they have not yet assumed duties; (iii) the
MOEYC lacks a system to adequately maintain procurement records; (iv) the MOEYC lacks standard
documents for NCB, shopping, and bid evaluation forms; and (v) the MOEYC lacks experience in
managing civil works contracts with in-house resources, although the intent is also to contract out some
services. The following plan to address these risks is included in the PCA report and was agreed by the
MOEYC:
By negotiations: (i) The procurement features that are not consistent with the Bank Guidelines
will be spelled out in the Loan Agreement with a clear indication that on those issues the Bank
Guidelines will prevail. They are (a) requirement for registering in the Government Register for
participating in any Government's tender; and (b) two-envelope system in the submission of bids with an
envelope containing the pre-qualification documents. (ii) The Operational Manual which includes a clear
description of the project management organization, including delegation of authority and functions will
be submitted to the Bank for review. The Operatonal Manual will include procurement procedures,
standard bidding documents and standard bid evaluation forms. The standard bidding documents should
specify submission of bids for goods and works in one envelope only.
By effectiveness: (i) The Operational Manual has been issued by the MOEYC and agreed by the
Bank. (ii) All PCU staff in place, including a qualified Procurement Officer. (iii) Submission to the Bank
of satisfactory terms of reference for the procurement of consultant services due to start during the six
first months of project implementation. (vi) Zubmission to the Bank of satisfactory termns of reference for
the consultant(s) to be responsible for civil works contract management.
During Project Implementation: (i) All TORs to be scrutinized by the Planning and
Development Division before sending them to the Bank. (ii) The Procurement Officer will be trained and
attend a Bank Procurement seminar before starting any procurement action. (iii) Initial Bank's
supervision mission would validate the establishment of adequate filing system of documents, and
electronic data bases on procurement and financial records of contracts financed under the loan; (iv)
implementation of a computerized system for financial management during the first year of project
implementation. (v) Before the bidding process for the construction of civil works starts, the consultant
responsible for the management of civil works should be hired.
The overall project risk for procurement is HIGH. The project is eligible for FMR-based
disbursements on procurement reporting grounds in view that the project includes the implementation of
a Management Information System.
(C) Procurement Plan
At appraisal, the Borrower developed a procurement plan for project implementation that
provided the basis for the aggregate amounts for the procurement methods (per Table A). This plan was
approved by the RPA and is in the project files. At the beginning of each calendar year, the Borrower
will update the Procurement Plan with a detailed procurement schedule for the coming year.
- 61 -



Procurement methods (Table A)
Annex 6, Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(in US$million equivalent)
ExpenditureCategory         Procurement Method                     Total Cost
ICB     NCB         Other      N.B.F
1. Works                 10.0        3.3       0.0 a/                13.3
(8.3)     (2.6)      (0.0)                 (10.9)
2. Goods:
2.a Equipment and         3.9        1.0       0.3 b/                  5.2
Furniture                (3.4)      (0.9)     (0.3)                   (4.6)
4.4        0.3       0.6                    5.3
2.b Instruction Materials
(3.7)     (0.2)      (0.5)                  (4.4)
3. Consultant Servicesc
3.a Technical Assistance                        4.0 c/                 4.0
(3.2)                  (3.2)
3.b Student Assessment                                    5.5          5.5
(0.0)       (0.0)
4. Training Services                            5.8 d/                 5.8
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   __________(5 .3)  (5 .3)
5. School Improvement                          10.0 e/                10.0
Projects                                       (9.0)                  (9.0)
6. Grants (Bursaries                            2.0                    2.0
for placement in                               (2.0)                  (2.0)
independent
schools)
7. Recurrent Costs and                                   11.5         11.5
Other Gov. financed                                      (0.0)        (0.0)
costs
8. Front end fee                                0.4                    0.4
(0.4)                  (0.4)
Total                  18.3       4.6       23.1       17.0        63.0
(15.4)     (3.7)     (20.7)      (0.0)      (39.8)
Note: N.B.F. = Not Bank-financed.
Foot-Notes:
a/ Three quotations
b/ Shopping (National and International)
c/ Consultants Services. Details provided in Table A- I
d/ Include: cost of venue, food, materials, tuition and traveling to provide and/or attend seminars
on. Procurement of training materials with a cost estimate less than US$25,000 will be
procured using shopping procedures.
e/ demand driven sub-projects to be proposed by schools, and to be procured in accordance with
procedures to be defined in the Project Operational Manual
- 62 -



Table Al: Consultant Selection Arrangements (optional)
(US$ million equivalent)
Selection Method
Consultant Services
Expenditure Category . QCBS        QBS       SFB      LCS        CQ       Other    N.B.F.   Total Cost
A. Firms                   3.30      0.00      0.00     0.00      0.40      0.00     0.00        3.70
(2.70)    (0.00)    (0.00)   (0.00)    (0.30)    (0.00)    (0.00)     (3.00)
B. Individuals             0.00      0.00     0.00      0.00      0.00      0.30     0.00       0.30
(0.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)   (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.20)    (0.00)     (0.20)
Total   3.30      0.00      0.00     0.00       0.40     0.30      0.00       4.00
, (2.70)    (0.00)    (0.00)   (0.00)    (0.30)    (0.20)    (0.00)     (3.20)
1\ Including contingencies
Note: QCBS = Quality- and Cost-Based Selection
QBS = Quality-based Selection
SFB = Selection under a Fixed Budget
LCS = Least-Cost Selection
CQ = Selection Based on Consultants' Qualifications
Other = Selection of individual consultants (per Section V of Consultants Guidelines), Commercial
Practices, etc.
N.B.F. = Not Bank-financed
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan.
Prior review thresholds (Table B)
Annex 6, Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
Expenditure         Contract     Procurement       Contracts Subject to
Category            Value         Method            Prior Review
(Threshold)
US $                            US,SmnlHlons
thousands  .
1. Works
> 1,500       ICB        All: 10.0
<_,_500        NCB        All: 3.3
2. Goods
>150          ICB        All: 8.3
< 150         NCB         First three: 1.3
<25        Shopping     First two each year: 0. 1
3. Consultants andTraining
Firms                        >100         QCBS        All: 3.3
c 100          CQ         Audit services
Individuals                  > 25      See Section V of  All (TOR, contract, CV)
Guidelines
<25                     Only TOR
Total value of contracts subject to prior review:  26.3
Overall Procurement Risk Assessment:
High
Average
Low =
- 63 -



Frequency of procurement supervision missions proposed: Based on the overall risk
assessment (HIGH), it is recommended two two full supervision missions per year to visit the
field to carry out post review of procurement actions, in addition to the prior review to be
carried out from Bank offices. The post-review field analysis should cover a sample of not less
than 1 in 5 contracts signed.
- 64 -



Disbursement
Allocation of loan proceeds (Table C)
Table C: Allocation of Loan Proceeds
Expenditure Category        Amount in US$rnillion        Financing Percentage
1. Works                                  10.00                        85%
2. Goods (including instructional          7.70             100% of foreign and 85% of local
materials
3. Consulting Services                     3.00             85% of foreign and 80% of local
4. Training                                4.70                         90%
5. School Improvement Grants               8.00                         90%
6. Bursaries                               2.00                        100%
7. Front End Fee                           0.40                        100%
8. Unallocated                             4.00
Total Project Costs                        39.80
Front-end fee         0.00          __        = _  ______
Total                                     39.80     7_
Annex 6 B: Financial Management and Disbursement Arrangements
Country Issues
The Jamaica Country Financial Accountability Assessment (CFAA) was completed by the Bank
in April 2001 and many of the recommendations made in the report are in the process of being
implemented by the government.   Some of this implementation is supported by the ongoing
Bank-supported Public Sector Modernization Project, which is addressing institutional restructuring of
ministries, streamlining bureaucracy and procedures for service delivery, the automating of public
services, preparation of the regulatory framework for strengthening regulatory agencies and completing
remaining concessions, and development of an efficient civil service.
The proposed arrangements in the project FM Assessment take into account the
recommendations made by the CFAA and the current status of public sector financial management in
Jamaica.
Financial Management and Disbursement Arrangements
Implementing Entities
The MOEYC will be the implementing entity and a Project Coordination Unit (PCU) - the
ROSE Secretariat - will be established within the Ministry to coordinate all activities under this program.
Regarding the financial management arrangements, the MOEYC has appointed an accountant (who has
worked with the ROSE I). During appraisal, it was agreed with the MOEYC that two additional financial
management staff would be contracted. The financial team will handle all aspects of day-to-day financial
management, and also liaise with the MOEYC's Project Management and Technical Services Division
- 65 -



for matters of consolidation of budgetary and accounting infornation, and for monitoring the flow of
funds to the project.
Funds Flow
Procedures for flow of funds from the loan and the required counterpart contribution will be
implemented with due regard to safeguarding project's resources and ensuring timely execution of
payments.
Loan funds will be disbursed to one Special Account (US dollar account for Bank funds), and
this account will be utilized for the purposes of the implementation arrangements agreed. As is the
current practice in Jamaica, the Special Account will be opened by the Ministry of Finance and Planning
(MOFP) and maintained in a commercial bank. In accordance with the recommendations made in the
2001 CFAA, and in an effort to streamline the national account management, this special account, for
accounting purposes only, will appear as a sub-account within the government's general consolidated
accounts. The management of this account will be the responsibility of the PCU.
The PCU has prepared its budget request for the calendar year beginning April 1, 2002. The
Government of Jamaica will allocate its counterpart funding into a local operational project account,
based on appropriation warrants submitted by, the MOEYC. On a monthly basis, a transfer in an amount
equivalent to 30 days of estimnated expenditures will be transferred from the Special Account to the
project account, from which checks or transfers (in local currency) will be issued to the providers of
goods and services. The project will reconcile (monthly) the project account as well as the Special
Account, and submit the documentation regarding both accounts, to the Bank under each withdrawal
application and Statement of Expenditure (SOE).
Additionally, the PCU will advance funds (on a revolving fund basis, similar to the Statement of
Expenditure) to the qualifying schools which, under the project, will receive financial support for
specifically approved activities in their annual work plans, and which are eligible for financing under the
project. To ensure transparency of the flow of funds, this arrangement will require detailed accounting at
the school level, while also likely requiring a bank account at the school level for project funds, since all
financial transactions will flow directly from the PCU's Project Account to the accounts established for
each school. Furthermore, this will allow all expenditures under the project to appear as expenditures for
the MOEYC and in addition will appear in the MOEYC's financial statements. This arrangement will
fall under the normal scope of work for the annual external audit. The accounting and reporting for these
funds will be the joint responsibility of the PCU and the individual schools. The PCU will ensure that
appropriate financial reports are received and approved before continuing to disburse to the schools.
Accounting Policies and Procedures
Detailed project financial management procedures have been prepared by consultants and
compiled into the Operational Manual. This was submitted to the Bank for review during loan
negotiations. The following presents an outline of these procedures.
Administrative procedures will be in place to ensure that financial transactions are made with
consideration to safeguarding project assets and ensuring proper entry in the accounting/monitoring
systems.  For project management and Bank monitoring purposes the PCU will report on detailed
information at the project level, specifically the deposits to the special account and the expenditures
classified by activity/ subcomponent and disbursement category.
- 66 -



It was deemed by both the PCU and the Bank, that the MOEYC's accounting system would not
permit a detailed level of cost allocation, financial control and reporting. Therefore, the project will
draw on the experience of other projects in Jamaica to obtain an off-the-shelf accounting package that
can be adapted to project needs. Regarding the reports produced by the accounting system, please refer
to the Report and Monitoring section below
The project accounting system will have the capacity to record assets, liabilities and financial
transactions of the project, and produce financial statements useful to project management and meeting
IBRD's fiduciary requirements. The accounting system is designed to be able to capture all financial
information and allocate among project components/activities and both types of categories (the Bank's
legal/disbursement categories and GOJ Budget categories) of expenditures. The accounting system will
reflect revised/updated monthly/quarterly/annual actual funding needs and future budget estimates, based
on current work flow and the status of procurement.
Segregation of duties. The project has a clear organizational structure and will operate under
procedures established according to the norms under the Financial Administration and Audit Act (FAA
Act). Said procedures support an adequate segregation of procurement, budgeting, payment and
recording activities, and this was observed within the MOEYC during the appraisal mission. All
payment orders/requests are reviewed and signed by the Project Manager and by the office of the
Director (Director of Projects) of the Project Management and Technical Services Division (in the
MOEYC) before being processed by the Accountant. All detailed procedures are contained in the
operational manual for the project.
Budgeting. The loan agreement and project cost tables will be the main inputs for the project
budgets and counterpart (GOJ) funding estimates under the Capital B Budget. The MOEYC will follow
prescribed governmental budgetary heads, and in adherence to the FAA Act, the PCU/MOEYC will
prepare at least:
* The annual work plan classified by work lines, with goals/objectives, physical and financial
programs;
*   the budget proposal specifying the sources of funds, the summarized and detailed expenditures
by major areas, accounts, and specific objects;
* after approval by Parliament: the budget execution program broken down monthly, and the
quarterly document of budgetary commitment authorization;
* the monthly report on budgetary execution to be issued within 5 days after the end of each
month; and
* the quarterly report on evaluation of budgetary execution to be issued within 10 days after the
end of the quarter
Safeguard over assets. Assets acquired by the project will be in the custody of the respective
institutional departments of the MOEYC. For the proposed project, the PCU will keep detailed subsidiary
records of plant and equipment acquired. The amounts in this register will be reconciled monthly against
the respective accounting balances. At least one annual physical inspection will be undertaken by
MOEYC staff, in addition to checks carried out by the external auditors and the Auditor General's
Department.
- 67 -



Audit Arrangements
Internal Audit. The PCU will be subject to review by the MOEYC's Internal Audit Department
and the country's Auditor General's Department (AGD). Although no internal auditor will be assigned
specifically to the project, it will be expected that they will have some role in reviewing the project,
particularly at the school level. The AGD, under its sampling/material criteria, will audit the project at
least once before completion as part of its required governmental audit.
External Audit. Annual project financial statements will be audited in accordance with
International Standards on Auditing, by an independent firm and in accordance with terms of reference
(TORs) both acceptable to the Bank. In addition to the audit opinions on project financial statements, an
opinion on legal compliance, Special Accounts and Statements of Expenditures (SOEs) will be required,
along with the management letter.
The project is expected to adopt the recommendations of the consultants in determining any
additional audit arrangements. These may include: (i) special purpose reports related to the observance
of the procurement and consultants services provisions of the Loan Agreement; (ii) an audit carried out
on a half-yearly basis to review the subcomponent and activities carried out at the local level by schools
that receive grants; and (iii) a semi-annual memorandum on internal controls ("management letter")
which would also form part of the annual audit. The consultants are expected to recommend the precise
audit requirements, and recommend the most cost-effective means for having these audit activities
carried out, given the three audit entities that will in some way be involved.
The PCU will appoint the auditors (for both the annual and special audits) by loan effectiveness,
with an annual contract to be renewed during the first quarter of each subsequent year. The first audit of
the project would cover funds managed up to March 31, 2003 (including any retroactive expenditures).
The second audit would cover funds managed from April 1, 2003 through March 31, 2004, and all other
subsequent audits would then follow the provisions of Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of the Loan Agreement.
The PCU will prepare, if needed, an action plan to address any issues and recommendations
contained in the audit reports. The action plan and follow-up activities would be communicated to the
Bank.
The table below summarizes audit requirements:
Audit Report      Due Date
Project financial  4 months after the end of the reporting period (coincides. with GOJ
statements                              requirements)
SOE                                     same as above
Special Accounts                        same as above
Special purpose                     Bursaries and SIP Grants
Reporting and Monitoring
Financial statements and reports will be prepared in formats satisfying the Government and
IBRD's monitoring and fiduciary purposes.
On a monthly basis, the PCU will prepare the project's Statement of Expenditure (a government
- 68 -



required financial report which is not the same as the Bank's disbursement document), prepared as a
matrix classifying receipts by financing source and expenditures by financing source and disbursement
category. The expenditures would be compared to the projected figures per the quarterly budgets
prepared as indicated in the Budgeting section above. This report is submitted to the MOEYC's Project
Management and Technical Services Division, the MOFP's Financial Management Division. In addition
to Statement of Expenditure, the monthly financial reports will include the Special Account
Reconciliation Statements. Any difference in the amount of expenditures reported under the two financial
statements must be clearly explained.
The project financial statements, along with the physical progress and procurement sections of
the Financial Monitoring Reports (FMRs), will be submitted to the Bank on a quarterly basis, and will be
submitted no later than forty-five (45) days after the end of each quarter. The contents of the FMRs will
reflect planned and actual results in relation to the project's components, activities, and key performance
indicators. FMR format and contents will be agreed between the Bank and the government by loan
negotiations.
The annual financial statements will include the project financial statements as well as the
schedule of Statements of Expenditure (SOEs) presented during the year in support of Withdrawal
Applications, and a reconciliation of the Special Account. It is expected that the format of the audit
reports will be similar to those utilized in the ROSE-project.
Risk Analysis
Strengths and Weaknesses. Overall FM risk is considered to be moderate, although it must be
mitigated by putting place appropriate procedures, particularly in the newer areas of activity (e.g. school
grants). The Ministry's experience with the first ROSE project is a particular strength, along with the
improved organizational structure which ensures oversight by MOEYC officials. Project financial
management will be in effect when qualified staff are assigned to the project (partially completed), the
procedures, controls and systems are properly established under the organization arrangements described
previously, and arrangements for producing certain information relevant to the Bank are in place. The
Action Plan (next page) aims at addressing these issues. The following table summarizes the Bank's
assessment of financial management risk.
- 69 -



Risk                             Risk Rating  Risk Mitigation Measures
Inherent risk
Country specific                 Medium       Establishment of specialized project
[financial] unit (PCU) within MOEYC;
Entity/project specific          Low          Same as above.
Control risk
Implementing Entity           Low          Same as above.
Funds Flow: loan funds        Medium       Appropriate procedures put in place,
especially for the school grants
Funds Flow: counterpart funds Medium       Approval of budget units prior to
commencement of fiscal year.
Staffing                      Medium       Establishment of the PCU; appointment
of experienced FM personnel.
Accounting policies and       Low
procedures
Internal Audit                Low          Agreed cost-effective integration of the
MOEYC's intemal auditors with the
efforts of the AGD and extemal auditors
External Audit                Medium       Appointment of auditors before
effectiveness; interim audits of internal
controls schools (on sample basis) - exact
requirements to be determined prior to
negotiations
Reporting and Monitoring      Medium       Bank support to generation of flexible
draft FMRs prior to effectiveness
Information Systems           Medium       Draw on experience of other Bank-
financed Jamaica projects, and receive
technical advice from PHRD-financed
consultants
- 70 -



Financial Management Action Plan
Action                     Responsible Entity          Completion Date
1. Set up the PCU's new    PCU                        Before effectiveness; software
financial management system.                           obtained and procedures
manual in draft by
negotiations
2. Set up the system to classify  PCU with support from  Board date
accounting information by  PHRD-financed consultants
project disbursement
categories and
subcomponents.
3. Approve the budgetary units MOEYCH/PCU              Before effectiveness/
in the National Budget.                                Before commencement of
each year (country's fiscal
year) of project
implementation
4. Perform physical         PCU, with the participation of  Ongoing through project
inventories, at least annually,  the external auditors  implementation
of the project's register of
assets.
5. Finalize financial      PCU                         Before effectiveness (draft by
management section of the                              negotiations)
Operational Manual
6. Submit audit TORs and   PCU/WB                      Before negotiations
short list of firms for approval
7. Appoint the external    PCU/MOEYC                   Before effectiveness
auditors
8. Submit draft Financial  PCU/MOEYC                   Before effectiveness (agreed
Monitoring Reports (FMRs).                            to format and content by
negotiations)
9. Submit first FMR        PCU/MOEYC                   45 days after the end of the
quarter in which effectiveness
takes place
- 71 -



Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule
JAMAICA: REFORM OF SECONDARY EDUCATION PROJECT 11
Project Schedule                                  Planned                     Actual
Time taken to prepare the project (months)      16                           17
First Bank mission (identification)             04/30/2001                   04/30/2001
Appraisal mission departure                     01/14/2002                   02/15/2002
Negotiations                                    08/26/2002                   09/04/2002
Planned Date of Effectiveness                   01/01/2003
Prepared by:
Ministry of Education, Youth and Culture
Mrs. Marguarite Bowie, Permanent Secretary
Mr. Wesley Barrett, Chief Education Officer
Mrs. Valerie Been, Director (Planning and Development Division)
Mrs. Beverley Lawrence, Director (Project Management and Technical Services Division)
Mrs. Adelle Brown, Deputy Chief Education Officer (Curriculum Support)
Miss Barbara Allen, Assistant Chief Education Officer (Educational Planning Unit)
Mr. Dwight Hamilton, Senior Project Economist (Educational Planning Unit)
Mrs. Gertrude McKenzie, Education Officer (Educational Planning Unit)
Mrs. Janet McFarlane-Edwards, Senior Statistican, (Educational Planning Unit)
Mr. Lauriston Wilson, Director (Technical Services Unit)
Mrs. Jacinth Gordon, Director (Projects)
Ms. Claudette Marn, Director (Project Finance)
Mr. Arlie Dyer. Assistant Chief Education Officer (Technical Vocational Unit)
Dr. Deloris Brissett Assistant Chief Education Officer (Guidance and Counselling Unit)
Mrs. Phyllis Reynolds, Assistant Chief Education Officer (Curriculum Unit)
Mrs. Freda Jones, Registrar (Independent Schools)
Mr. Dennis Morrison, Chief Architect (Architectural Section)
Mr. Delroy Alleyne Assistant Chief Education Officer (Student Assessment Unit)
Mrs. Beverley Thompson, Assistant Chief Education Officer (Professional Development Unit)
Mr. Winston Farquharson, Planner (Educational Planning Unit)
Mr. Philbert Dhyll Assistant Chief Education Officer (Tertiary Unit)
Mrs. Shirleen Greenland, Project Administrator (ROSE Secretariat)
Mr. Noel Brown, Technical Coordinator (ROSE Secretariat)
Miss Marcia Daley, Project Accountant (ROSE Secretariat)
- 72 -



Preparation assistance:
A PHRD Grant in the amounts of US$300,021 was approved for project preparation. The Grant finances
six studies and five consultative workshops. The studies and their authors are presented below.
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Name                                     Speciality
World BankTeam:
Kin Bing Wu                        Task Team Leader
William Experton                   Caribbean Sector Leader
Marlaine Lockheed                  Monitoring and Evaluation
Peter Moock                        Bursaries for Private School Places
Toby Linden                        School Improvement Planning
Karla McEvoy                       Environmental Assessment
Rajeev Kumar Swami & Daniel Boyce Financial Management Assessment
Marcelo Osorio                     Procurement Assessment
Janet Cupidon-Quallo               Social Assessment (NGOs, Counseling, Maroons)
Yang-ro Yoon                       Economic Analysis and TVET
G. F. Brest van Kempen             Architect
Lorraine Blank                     Implementation Manual
Maria Elena Anderson               School Improvement Planning Manual
Maria Elena AndersonProgramn Assistant/Costab
Aracelly Woodall                   Program Assistant
Julie Nannucci                     Legal Agreement
Eduardo Brito & J. Augusto Carvalho  Legal Agreement
Edward Daoud                       Disbursements
Participant on secondment from the
Korean Ministry of Education:      Institutional Analysis and Tertiary Education in Jamaica
Gwang-jo Kim
Participant from the Economic
Commission for Latin American and
the Caribbean:                     Social Assessment (School Culture and Teaching and Learning)
Beverly Carlson
PHRD Grant funded Studies:
Stephen Barro and Wesley Van Riel  Design of Funding Formula
Vanus James and Colin Williams     Assessment of the Impact of Cost Sharing
Ricardo Valderrama & Ewan Million  School-based Management Assessment -- Financial Management
Jorge Cavero and Winston Anderson  School-based Management Assessment -- Procurement
Kirsten Busch and Monica Brown     On-line, Distance Education for Teacher Training
Carol Dwyer and Loretta Anderson   National and Regional Secondary Level Examinations and ROSE II
William Jack and Robert Wynter     Feasibility study of restructuring of teacher salaries
Marion Blake                       Facilitator of Consultative Workshops
- 73 -



Ruby Royer                         Facilitator of Consultative Workshops
World Bank Peer Reviewers:
Elizabeth King (DECRG)
Jacob Bregman (AFTH3)
Christopher Thomas (EASHD)
External Peer Reviewer:
Patricia Anderson (University of the
West Indies
- 74 -



Annex 8: Documents in the Project File*
JAMAICA: REFORM OF SECONDARY EDUCATION PROJECT II
A. Project Implementation Plan
Project Operational Manual
Project Financial Management Manual
Project Procurement Manual
School Improvement Planning Manual
B. Bank Staff Assessments
Institutional Assessment
Financial Assessment
Procurement Assessment
Social Assessment
Environmental Assessment
C. Other
Blank, Lorraine. Youth-at-Risk in Jamaica. (Draft) December 2000
Caribbean Examination Council, Statistical Bulletin, 2001. Barbados, 2001.
Kim, Gwang-jo, Tertiary Education in Jamaica: Trends and Policy Issues for Development. (Draft)
June 2002.
MOEYC, Jamaica Education Statistics, Kingston, various years.
MOEYC, ROSE 2 School Layouts, Kingston, September 2001
MOEYC, Education: The Way Upward. A Path for Jamaica's Education at the Start of the New
Millennium. Kingston, February 2001
MOFP, Estimates of Expenditure. Kingston, various years.
NEPA documents for review of proposed projects
PIOJ, Jamaica Survey of Living Conditions. Kingston, various years.
PIOJ, Economic and Social Survey Jamaica 2001.
Statistical Institue of Jamaica. The Labor Force Survey. Kingston, various years.
World Bank, Jamaica Secondary Education (in 2 volumes). Grey Cover Report No. 19069-JM.
Washington, D. C. December, 1999.
World Bank, Country Assistance Strategy. Report No. 24689-JM. Washington, D. C., September,
2002.
World Bank, Country Assistance Strategy. Report No. 21187-JM. Wasington, D. C. November, 2002.
Yoon, Yang-Ro, Technical and Vocational Education and Training (TVET) in Jamaica. (Draft) October,
2001.
*Including electronic files
- 75 -



Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits
JAMAICA: REFORM OF SECONDARY EDUCATION PROJECT 11
09-Aug-2002
Difference between expected
and actual
Original Amount in US$ Millions                    disbursements
Project ID  FY   Purpose                                IBRD      IDA                      Cancel.  Undisb.    Orig  Frm Revd
P074641     2002 2ndAPL_JM:HIV/AIDSPREVANDCONTROL DO       15.00    0.00                       0.00     15.00    0.00     000
P087774     2002 JM- Social Safety Net Projed              40.00    0.00                       0.00     38.60    -1.40    0.00
P007490      1997 JM PU SCTR MODERNIZ                      28.40    0.00                        0.00    10.34    10 34    10 34
Total:    83 40      0.00                      0.00     63.94     8.94    10.34
JAMAICA
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Held and Disbursed Portfolio
Jun 30 - 2002
In Millions US Dollars
Committed                             Disbursed
IFC                                  IFC
FY Approval           Company                            Loan    Equity    Quasi    Partic    Loan    Equity     Quasi    Partic
1995                  Jam Energy Prtnr                  13.72     0.00      0.00    30.50     13.72     0.00      0.00    30.50
2002                  MBJA Limited                      20.00      0.00     0.00     25.00     0.00     0.00      0.00     0.00
2001/02               Mossel                            12.00      8.00     0.00      0.00    12.00      8.00     0.00     0.00
Total Portfolio:            45.72     8.00      0.00     55.50    25.72      8.00      0.00    30.50
Approvals Pending Commitment
FY Approval           Company                               Loan     Equity      Quasi       Partic
Total Pending Commitment:              0.00       0.00       0.00       0.00
- 76 -



Annex 10: Country at a Glance
JAMAiCA: REFORM OF SECONDARY EDUCATION PROJECT II
Latin   Lower-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                         America    middle-     _______
Jamaica   & Carib.   Income      Development diamond'
2000
Population, mid-year (millions)                       2.6      516      2,046                Life expectancy
GNIpercapita (Atlas method. USS)                    2,630     3,680     1,140
GNI (Atlas method, USS billions)                      6.9     1,895     2,327
Average annual growth; 1994-00
Population (%)                                        0.8       1.6       1.0     GNI
Labor force (%)                                       1.4       2.3       1.3     GeI                             Gross
per     --    --primary
Most recent estimate (lateat year avallable, 1994.00)                             capita                      enrollment
Poverty (% of population below national poverty line)
Urban population (% oftotalpopulation)                 56        75       42
Life expectancy at birth (years)                       75        70       69
Infant mortality (per 1,000 live births)              20         30       32
Child malnutriUon (% of children under 5)               4         9        11          Access to Improved water source
Access to an improved water source (% of population)   71        85        80
Illiteracy (% ofpopulation age 15+)                    13        12        15
Gross primary enrollment (% ofschool-age population)  100       113       114        -Jamaica
Male                                                100                116              Lower-middle-income group
Female                                              99                 114
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1980     1990      1999      2000           - 
Economic ratlos
GDP (USS billions)                           2.7      4.2       7.2       7.4
Gross domestic investment/GDP               15.9     27.9      25.6      26.8                    Trade
Exports of goods and services/GDP           51.1     52.0      42.0      44.1
Gross domestic savings/GDP                  15.9     23.8      15.6      15.8
Gross national savings/GDP                  10.8     18.2      20.0      20.8
Current account balance/GDP                 -5.2     -7.7      -3.4      -4.8     Domestic                    nvestment
Interest payments/GDP                        4.6      4.8       4.5       2.5       it
Total debt/GDP                              72.1    110.3      54.6      57.8     savings
Total debt servicelexports                  19.6     28.4      20 2      16.5
Present value of debtlGDP                                      54.1
Present value of debtlexports                                 106.9
Indebtedness
1980-90  1990-00     1999      2000   200044
(average annual growth)
GDP                                 2.0      0.5     -0.4       0.8       1.8         -    Jamaica
GDP per capita                      0.8     -0.4     -1.3      -0.1       1.1              Lower-middle-income group
Exports of goods and services       5.4      0.3      0.2       4.4       4.2
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1980     1990      1999      2000     Growth of Investment and GDP(%)
(% of GDP)
Agriculture                                  8.2      6.5       7.0       6 5
Industry                                    38.3     43 2      30.8      31.3      o
Manufacturing                              1606    19.5       13.5     13.4                                        00
Services                                    53.5     50.4      62.2      62.2     .5
Private consumption                         63.8     62.2      67.5      67.9    -10
General govemment consumption               20.2     14 0      16.9      16.2                 _GDI       -t   GOP
Imports of goods and services               51.0     56.1      52.0      55.1
1980-90  1990-00      1999      2000     Growth of exports *ad importa(%j
(average annual growth)
Agriculture                                  0.6      1.9       1.3     -11.2    20
Industry                                     2.4     -0.5      -0.3       0.2    s       ;
Manufacturing                              2.7     -1.9      -0.9       0.7      o
Services                                     1.8      1.1      -0.8       3.0                                       00
Private consumption                          4.3     -1.1      -2.6       2.7    as
General govemment consumption                6.2      2.7      -2.6      -2.1    so
Gross domestic Investment                   -0.1      4.4       0.1       0.4                  Exports     2  Imports
Imports of goods and services                9.2      1.1      -2.4       4.3
Note: 2000 data are preliminary estimates.
The diamonds show four key indicators In the country (in bold) compared with Its Income-group average. If data are missing, the diamond will
be Incomplete.
- 77 -



Jamaica
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1980     1990      1999     2000     InuatUon(4'.-
'Domestic prices
(% change)                                                                      40
Consumer prices                             27.0    22.0       8.4       6.9    30
Implicit GDP deflator                       18.3    23.7       7.7      10.6    20
Govemment finance                                                               10
(% of GDP, includes current grants)                                              0 - ' --- -- _         ._l 
Current revenue                             24.7    30.4       30.4     31.0            95   9s    97    98    99    oo
Current budget balance                        ..     5.9       -2.4      1.1            -    GDP deflator  *0CPI
Overall surplus/deficit                    -15.5     2.6      -4.3      -1.0
TRADE
1980     1990      1999     2000
(USS millions)                                                                   Export end Import levels (US$ mill.)
Total exports (tob)                         963     1,157     1,247    1,293    4
Alumina                                    537     625        627      744
Bauxite                                    198      103       56        46     3,000
Manufactures                                57      71        42        49
Total imports (cif                         1,170    1,850     2,960    3,192    2,000  *    *      '
Food                                        72     126        274      263     1000
Fuel and energy                           447      404       416       585
Capital goods                              198     580      .470       509       o
Export price index (1995=100)                52       86       113      118           94   9s   ss   97   98   99
Import price index (1995=100)                52       86       113      117                  mExports     *Imports
Terms of trade (1995=100)                   100      100       100       101
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
1980     1990      1999     2000                   ---____   ______
(US$ millions)                                                                   Current account balance to GDP (%)
Exports of goods and services              1,369   2,247      3,367    3,250     2
Imports of goods and services              1,368   2,340      3,928    3.973
Resource balance                              1      -93      -562      -723     o
Net income                                  -229    -506      -333     -410
Net current transfers                        91      271       649      780     -2
Current account balance                    -138     -328      -245      -353                  '  l     i    i    i
-4
Financing items (net)                        58      408       123      643
Changes in net reserves                      79      -80       122     -290     48
Memo:
Reserves including gold (USS millions)        ..       ..      801     1,082
Conversion rate (DEC, localIUS$)             1.8     7.2       40.1     43.3
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1980     1990      1999     2000          
(USS millions)                                                                   Composition of 2000 debt (USS mill.)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed       1,913   4,674      3.913    4,279
IBRD                                      176      672       393      415                           A:415
IDA                                         0        0         0         0              G: 748           C: 60
Total debt service                          280      662       732       577
IBRD                                       18      120        99       83                4 
IDA                                         0        0         0         0             ,_D:708
Compositon of net resource flows                                                         !
Official grants                            13      117        24        ..                      ;
Official creditors                        280       41      -104       29               7;r
Private creditors                         -19      -46       -99      442         F; 1,263, .-
Foreign direct Investment                  28      138       524                                         E-1,oas
Portfolio equity                            0        0         0°                                          ,
World Bank program
Commitments                                 0       60         0       75      A- IBRD                    E - Bilateral
Disbursements                              55       35        64       98      B - IDA  D - Other multilateral  F - Pnvate
Principal repayments                        6       62        75       61      C- IMF                     G - Short-term
Net fows                                   50      -27       -11       37
Interest payments                          13       58        24       22
Net transfers                              37      -85       -35        15
Development Economics                                                                                            9/17/01
- 78 -



Additional Annex 11: The Education System
JAMAICA: REFORM OF SECONDARY EDUCATION PROJECT II
The Ministry of Education, Youth and Culture (MOEYC) has overall responsibility for early
childhood education, primary, secondary and tertiary education, although universities are autonomous.
The MOEYC exercises its oversight through six regional offices for 14 parishes.
Secondary education is considered a transition stage with the dual mandates of preparing
adolescents for the world of work and of equipping the academically inclined for the pursuit of tertiary
education. These two mandates have segmented seven years of secondary education into three cycles
with different entry requirements and exit points. In the recent past, the secondary curriculum was
divided into various tracks -- (a) academic, (b) mixed academic and technical, (c) mixed academic and
vocational, and (d) prevocational. This multi-track system was the British legacy which provided a
classical/academic education for the elite and a vocational bent for the majority. (Table 1 1. 1).
Table 11.1: Secondary Education by School Type, 2000/2001
Grades   Old School Types       # of   Enrollment  Current    MOE&C      New School Types
offered                       Schools             Pupil:      Guidelines
Teacher     ' Pupil:
Ratio       Teacher
Ratio
7 to 9   All-Ages              353      14,998       23:1       35:1     All-Age
7 to 9  Primary and Junior      89      20,526        19:1      30:1     Primary & Junior
Highs (upgraded from                                            High
All-Ages)
7 to 11  Comprehensive Highs    75      77,913        19:1      25:1     Both now known as
(upgraded in 2001)                                              High Schools (135)
with total enrollment
7 to     SecondaryHighs         59      89,185        17:1      20:1     Of 174,093 and a
11/13   (traditional, academic)                                         pupil/teacher ratio of
25:1
7 to 11  Technical Highs        14
or 9 -11  (mixed academic &
technical, vocational)                                          Technical Highs
10 to   Vocational and          3         498        10:1       25:1    Vocational &
11 or   Agricultural Highs                                              Agricultural Highs
12
Various  Independent Schools   70         Na          n.a.               Independent Schools
Source: MOE&C statistics.
Education Finance
- 79 -



Public expenditure on education constitutes the most important source of education finance,
rising from 2.9 percent to 7.6 percent of the Gross Domestic Product (GDP) between 1992/3 and 1999/00
(Figure 6). This level is higher than the average'of 4.6 percent in the Latin American and the Caribbean
Region, and higher than countries of similar income level. The rising level of public expenditure on
education in the 1990s was mainly due to negative growth of the economy while government spending
and deficit have continued to increase, as well as to increase in real terms of teachers' salaries. Between
1992/3 and 1999/00, budgetary allocation to education has fluctuated between 9.8 percent and 12.6
percent of total government spending when debt servicing was included. Excluding interest payment of
public debt, education expenditure ranged 13 and 19.5 percent over the same period (Figure 6).
Figure 6: Public Expenditure on Educe +   Education
Expenditure as % of
GDP
25.0%
20.0%       .          --U- Education as %
15.0%                               of Total Govt.
10 0%                                Expenditure
5.0%            1                   (exclude interest)
00%  ~ ~ ~  ~   ~      -h--~~~Education as %
of Total
,4     %       l#  \ Z\          Expenditure
,.,2  .. 697 69-2 697  w  697 99&  (include interest)
Figure 7: Total Public Expenditure on Education
Constant 2000 Prices, JM$'000
7000.0
6000 0                             -     Early Childhood
6000.0                             -U- Primar
40000              =                    Secondary
3000 
2u^0000                              X _ _  -*  Tertiary
t00 1O  .                           W SenesS
Fig. 8: Per Student Recurrent Expenditure,
Constant 2000 Pnces, JM$
250000 ..-
200000                          -4-  Eary Childhood
150000    .  _    -      -  t         Primary
100000                          --Secondary
50000   ..          f - =           Tertiary
Between 1992/3 and 1999/00, the MOEYC's recurrent expenditure on early childhood education
has increased from 2.2 to 3.2 percent and that on primary education from 28 to 27 percent, while
- 80 -



recurrent spending on secondary education declined from 36 to 34 percent, and that on tertiary education
remained constant around 26-27 percent. Recurrent expenditure on special education, adult education,
and library services remained unchanged around 1.3, 0.3 and 1.3 percent. Recurrent expenditure on
central and regional administration and common services (such as student assessment) increased from 5
to 6.4 percent over the same period. Expenditure on nutrition fluctuated between 1.4 and 3 percent.
Per student recurrent expenditure increased in real terms over the same period: more than double
in primary education and secondary education, respectively, and by 79 percent in tertiary education. This
is made possible due not only to increase in public expenditure but also a decline in school-age
population, particularly at the primary level. In 1999/00, per student recurrent spending amounted to
US$85 in early childhood education, US$313 in primary education, US$1,925 in special education,
US$533 in secondary education, and US$3,284 in tertiary education.
Secondary education accounted for the largest share of total education spending, amounting to 34
percent in 1999/00. Within secondary education, the average public allocation to various types of school
differ. Within secondary education, per student spending varies across school types: US$338 in the junior
high level in All-Age and Primary and Junior High schools, US$515 in upgraded Secondary Highs,
US$590 in traditional secondary highs, and US$744 in Technical and AgriculturalWVocational Highs.
Given the constraints of public resources, to improve quality, expand access and pursue reform
requires raising funds from both external borrowing and introduction of cost sharing in Comprehensive
Highs and Secondary Highs in 1993/4 and to raise tuition fees at tertiary education institutions in 1996/7.
External funding amounted to 7 to 10 percent of total public expenditure on education. Tuition fees
account for an additional 14 percent of the total public spending on secondary education and about 20
percent at the University of the West Indies. Tuition fees are not chargeable in primary schools, All-age,
and P&JHs. There are compensatory payments from the MOEYC to all high schools where students
cannot pay fees. Table 11.2 below shows that different types of schools offering secondary education has
received different types of grants from GOJ to provide education services. Given that All-Age and
Primary and Junior Highs do not charge fees, they also have the least discretionary resources for
improvement. Consideration to equalize education finance across school types is one of the rationale
behind the provision of the school improvement grants in ROSE II.
- 81 -



Table 11.2: Types of Education Expenditures Covered by Different Grants to Different School Types
Accounts Opened by  Expenditure type    All-Age        Primary and     Upgraded     Traditional High
Schools                                 Schools       Junior High      High Schools Schools
Schools
Grants              Operation                 X
Subvention          Operation                                 X
Admin & ancillary                         X             X
staff salaries
Subvention          Maintenance &                             X
Operation
Admin & ancillary                                       X
staff Salaries
Fees                Instructional                                            X             X
materials, utilities
Subvention          Admin. ancil. staff                                                    x
teacher salaries                                       .
Fees                Instructional                                            X              X
Bursar__________________  materials, utilities         _   _x_      _
Bursar               ____________________82X                                 X             X
- 82 -



Additional Annex 12: Institutional Analysis
JAMAICA: REFORM OF SECONDARY EDUCATION PROJECT II
I. Institutional Management Capacity of the MOEYC and the Regional offices
Education Policies and Strategies. The MOEYC sets out its education policies and strategies in
the White Paper for the Year 2001 and the Corporate Plan 2001-04. The education sector strategy is well
expressed in terms of vision, objectives, targets, indicators, key projects, and major priorities. In the
White Paper, the policy goals are stated in the seven strategic objectives that encompass a wide range of
activities from 'literacy for all' to 'use of ICT in education'. The objectives are then translated into
operational measures and targets, strategies, and corporate actions (outputs) in the Corporate Plan. These
are largely shared and understood by the officials of the MOEYC (Ministry of Education, Youth and
Culture) and of its ROs (Regional Offices).
Despite the impressive plans, several questions could be raised regarding the linkage between
policy needs, planning and implementation. First, it appears that education sector strategy is very much
confined within the sector, and as such it is unclear how the education policies will serve socio,
economic and political needs of Jamaican society. The plans draw attention to a rising trend of primary
students and attempt to retain these students in the formal school system while maintaining a desirable
pupil-teacher ratio over time. Yet they are not linked to the macroeconomic realities and do not address
the issue of, for example, what Jamaican schools could do to better prepare youngsters for an economy
which has been deteriorating over the last ten years. Second, the issue of feasibility is not adequately
assessed in the plans. The plans do not provide a realistic evaluation of the extent to which the current
system of governance and resource allocation is prepared for the implementation of the stated objectives
within the planning time frame (2001-2004). The target date is Dec. 2002 and so far only 6 schools are
without computers which they will get by the target date Further, although the Corporate Plan tries to
clarify how and by whom the progress will be monitored intemally, it is unclear how the general public
will be informed of the progress to make judgments about the system performance hence ensure external
accountability.
Organizational Structures of the MOEYC and the ROs. The MOEYC is in charge of
provision of education as well as portfolios of youth and culture. The educational administration is
carried out by the Ministry along with a number of statutory bodies, agencies and various Boards of
Management appointed by the Minister for each public education agency. The education functions of the
MOEYC are organized around five major functions, i.e., educational services, planning and development,
human resource management, project management and technical services, and financial management.
Issues pertaining to sub sectors of education (i.e., early childhood education, primary education and
secondary education) are being taken care of by the Chief Education Officer (CEO), the head of the
educational services division. The MOEYC has created post for early childhood education who reports to
the CEO, primary education and secondary education report to the DCEO, a recently created post. As an
attempt to strengthen the corporate planning and monitoring capacity, the Ministry has also decided to
create a Strategic Reform Division (SRD) under the permanent secretary. (See the Organization Chart in
the main text of the PAD).(There is no MOEYC Chart in text, only for the Regional Offices)
Compared to an alternative format of the Ministry organized around sub-sectors (e.g., primary unit,
secondary unit), this type of organization could provide more specialized and integrated services such as
text book delivery, and examination administration. However, the administrative arrangement may not
help to adequately address sector-wide issues such as lifelong learning, vocational education and
education reform. (Vocational education is addressed under Educational -Services and in the Regional
- 83 -



Offices. For example, the divisions in the Ministry are primarily concerned with primary and secondary
school education while vocational training for out of school population is under the jurisdiction of the
HEART/NTA, a statutory body that reports directly to the Minister. Also notable is that substantial units
of the MOEYC are devoted to direct service delivery (e.g., acquisition and allocation of school
resources) rather than planning and monitoring, an indicative of centralization. (There are units that are
involved in planning and monitoring In this vein, it could be a right move to create a Strategic Reform
Division that will be responsible for cross cutting issues more effectively while not duplicating the
function of the existing planning units.
The ROs are responsible for K-12 school supervision, school personnel services and school
maintenance. Each regional office is headed by a regional director who reports to the deputy CEO in
charge of regional offices in the central Ministry. The ROs are uniformly organized around two main
functions: managerial/support functions (personnel, financial, building officers) and professional
education support functions. Some functions such as supervision and training are overlapping with the
MOEYC without clear role division. Other daily operational functions are carried out without sufficient
authority. For example, decisions pertaining to teacher's salary, leave and travel are not made by the ROs
but by the central Ministry. In this regard, it is encouraging that the MOEYC has recently begun to
provide each region with a J$1 -J$1.5 million emergency repair fund. Dependency on central decisions
appears to leave little incentives for the REOs to be held accountable for the quality and relevancy of
their own services. Delegation of authority is needed for a timely, creative, flexible and spontaneous
solutions to various problems.
Organization Structure of Regional Offices
| Rgonal 
Financial   School    Conununity   Chicf      Director
Controller  Supernsiws  Rclattons  Building     of
Officers    Officr     Ofliccr    Peronnel
Human Resource Capacity. The MOEYC is currently employing more than 900 regular staff
and 200 project staff. Of the senior managers, the majority will be retiring within next 3-5 years.
Considering senior managers' extended job tenure, their retirement could mean a significant loss to the
MOEYC and need special attention. It appears rare for middle managers to act on behalf of their bosses
hence they have less opportunities to upgrade their managerial and leadership skills while on the job.
Junior officials in the Ministry seems to be lacking some rudimentary managerial skills such as planning,
data management/interpretation and ICT. This all could mean a capacity gap between senior and junior
staff. While the staff size at the MOEYC is substantially large, skill composition could be an issue as
there are less technical staff than needed. The MOEYC does not have a long-term systematic plan to
upgrade skill levels of the MOEYC staff except for a succession plan to replace retiring directors.
- 84 -



Each regional office employs 50-60 staff including administrators and education officers.
Compared to the MOEYC, there is evidence of understaffing at regional level. For instance, each
education officer supervises as many as 20-30 schools. One possible solution would be to have education
officers of the central Ministry deployed at the regional offices. All the directors and education officers
of the ROs are recruited from educators such as principals and senior teachers. The managerial and
support staff are recruited from people with some tertiary level qualification including first and second
degrees (division heads) and people with CXC (Caribbean Examination Council) 4+ credentials (clerical
and assistant staff). Skill/capacity gap is also observed at regional level between senior and junior staff.
Opportunities for training are scarce for regional staff in general and for support/administrative staff in
particular. Basic ICT skills for computer applications are most often acquired through self learning.
The current practice of open recruitment for senior posts may increase competition hence provide
pressure to junior staff to improve their performance. It would be more so if the open recruitment is
somewhat linked to performance measures in a transparent, fair and relevant manner. Notwithstanding
the manifestation of the targets and indicators for educational attainment in the White Paper and the
Corporate Plan, there are' no clearly defined perfornance indicators for administration and management
at both the MOEYC and the ROs.
Management, Communication and Information Infrastructure. The MOEYC with donor
contributions has already made some progress towards improving managerial capacity. These include the
installation of the School Census, and the EMIS at the central Ministry, and distribution of computers to
regional offices and schools. Nevertheless, the capacity of quality decision making and management is
severely limited due to lack of appropriate infrastructure for communication and infornation processing.
Information flows mainly through face to face contacts such as meetings and workshops within the
MOEYC and between the MOEYC and the ROs. For a given month, regional directors have to travel to
Kingston for 4-5 days. Moreover, the regional offices have difficulties in contacting principals and
schools under their jurisdiction on a daily basis. 15 primary schools in the Region I can not be accessed
without a four-wheel drive vehicle. 81 of 145 primary and secondary schools in the Region IH can not be
reached with telephones. This is troublesome because a RO is the link between the schools and
communities, and the central Ministry, and communication is key to its proper function.
Senior officers including regional directors are apparently overloaded with decisions (MOEYC
directors), and routine queries and meetings (regional directors). Delegation of authority to middle
managers and junior staff seems rare. There is also evidence of coordination problems which could lead
to a duplication of effort. Taken together, there is much to be gained through both vertical and horizontal
coordination and integration.
At present, most jobs at both the MOEYC and the ROs are carried out manually. Typical
examples are works related to teachers' personnel records, teachers' payroll, and accounting services.
Coupled with lack of delegation of responsibilities and authority, this makes it difficult for regional
offices to respond more efficiently to the budgetary and management needs of principals and schools.
Evidently, there is a large room for cost-saving through investment in telecommunication infrastructure.
Staff time could be better utilized to provide technical services to schools and principals. (This is being
treated under the PESP Project)
The MOEYC has launched various initiatives to upgrade its information infrastructure. The
MOEYC has (from the mid 1990's)developed an EMIS system for the school census with a server, and
34 workstations connected to the server in the Planning and Development Division. However, the MIS is
- 85 -



not integrated with other systems in the MOEYC, and not linked to the ROs and schools. As such the
School Census data for example are not collected electronically but manually. This causes the time gap
between the collection and reporting of data. Lack of accurate timely data makes it impossible to inform
budget preparations and other important decisions. As of now, all members of the Planning and
Development Division have the access to information stored on the EMIS. At the ROs, no MIS is set in
place with only a few stand alone PCs which are used to compile school census data and some crude DBs
(e.g., school personnel) for regional directors. Even worse, the existing ICT facilities are not fully
utilized due to lack of training and technical support. In sum, management capacity is severely limited
due to lack of coordination, integration of ICT into work process and poor quality of infrastructure . The
PESP project is to establish a WAN for the central offices and the regional offices which will include
databases for personnel( including schools) and infrastructure which will be developed under the project.
The school census and Student Assessment database and the will be linked to the WAN. It is planned to
increase the staff in the MIS Unit and tointoduce IT staff in the six Regional Offices.
Table 12:1: ICT Infrastructure of the MOEYC and the ROs
Descriptions                    MOEYC                            RO
LAN         5 Separate LANs: MIS unit, Personnel Unit,  No LAN
Media Service Unit, Projects Unit,Student
Assessment Unit
MIS & DB     GOJ: HRMIS, FMIS *                           oEMIS
School Census, Special Education, Tertiary, School No DBs
Personnel
Caenwood: School Administration System, National
Assessment, Early Childhood Education database
# Technical Staff 4 in the MIS unit,2 in Media Services Unit and 1 in None
Student Assessment
# Computers   34 Workstations connected to the EMIS +      6-7 PCs/RO
Webpages      http:/Hwww.moevc.gov.jm                     Being
constructed
Source: 1) MOEYC, MIS Unit.
2) Educational Management Information System (Final Report of the PESP, MOEYC & IDB, 2000)
Note: The Office of the Office of the Services Commission operates the HRMIS(Human Resource
Management Information System)and the Ministry of Finance is responsible for FMIS(Financial
Management Information System).
- 86 -



I. Ongoing Projects for Institutional Strengthening
Current initiatives to strengthen institutions fall into three key areas: decentralization of decision
making and management, professional development and integration of ICT into management. Table 12.2
below summarizes various donor initiatives to improve institutional capacity.
Table 12:2: Major Components of Institutional Strengthening of Various Donor Projects
Projects          PESP                  New Horizons         DffD's CDI, JAASP
(IDB, 2000-2005)       (USAID, 1998-2004)  (2000-2004) and
. others
Decision making  Pilot School District   School Based Reform  Support Strategic
& Management      oard of Management,   and Development      Planning by Creating
Site-based Management  Plan                 a Strategic Reform
Governance in 12                          Division under
'Lighthouse Schools"                        Permanent Secretary
(DffD)
Training &       Support for the Succession Teacher Training in  In-service Training for
Professional      lan of the MOEYC       Literacy & Numeracy Untrained Teachers
Development      Management Training for                    (JAASP)
Regional Officers                           I consultant for 2 ROs
Diploma Programs for 800                   (JAASP)
Primary School Principals
ICT &            EMISConnect:           School Census       2PCs /RO (JAASP)
Management        eb-enabled personnel,  Networking of       300 PCs to Sec.
Information      inance & infrastructure  Schools, ROs and the Schools, 20 PCs to
System (MIS)      Bs linked to School    MOEYC              MOEYC (Government
Census                   3 PCs to each RO  of China)
ICT Training & LAN/
WAN infrastructure
Source: 1) Corporate Plan 2001-2004 (MOEYC, 2000), http://www.moeyc.gov.m
2) Various Project Documents of the PESP (IDB, 2000)
As for the decentralization projects, the MOEYC is currently experimenting and plans to pilot
two similar but different decentralization projects as described in the table below.
These are the Cluster Board Form of School Management (GOJ initiative); and an IDB proposed
project for Pilot School District Board of Management. While the move towards decentralization is
generally consistent with the GOJ's vision and commitment, caution may be needed for extending the
concept of school board beyond individual schools because 1) representation of schools could not be
easily attained; and 2) it may require extra resources which could otherwise be used to strengthen the
existing regional offices.
The training programs are mainly targeted at primary school principals and teachers, and senior
managers at the MOEYC. Attention should be brought to the training need of junior and regional offices
to bring about bottom-up changes. The ICT initiatives are being implemented without sufficient
coordination, and have resulted in a fragmented system in which each system serves its own purpose. All
in all, donor impact is yet to be seen in all three areas.
- 87 -



Table 12:3: Comparison of Broad-based Board of Management
Descriptions  Cluster Board Form of School     Pilot School District Board of
Management (GOJ, since 1998-1999)  Management (IDB, conceptualization
stage)
Rationale/M  Dearth of qualified persons for   Effective deployment of teachers,
ajor Concern  School Boards, collaboration among  improving financial management
schools
Pilot Sites  Greater Portmore, St. Ann (Region  Two pilot districts (one rural, one urban)
HI)                               in Region VI in St Catherine and
Claremont, St. Catherine (Region VI)  Clarendon.
Number of    6 Schools. in Greater Portmore (4  One district consists of 25-30 schools up
Schools      Primary, 2 Upgraded Highs)        to
5 Schools In Claremont (4 All Age, 1  15,000 students
High)
Organization  11 mem,bers including Chairman, and  Supported by a superintendent of the
Structure   Representatives of Government,    district education office appointed by the
Principals, PTAs, a past student  MOEYC
association, students, academic staff  Chief Financial Officer
&communities                      Other Staff: reallocation of the staff of the
No secretariat, no support staff  MOEYC or regional offices and schools
Will have two school boards for schools
instead of 46.
Key          Financial Management: determnine  Administer and manage educational
Functions   ceilings of expenditure at school  affairs eg procurement, staff recruitment
committee level, appoint procurement  Supervision and control over schools
and finance committees, etc.       Provide & maintain school facilities, etc.
Personnel Management: appoint vice  Employ teachers, and administrative staff
principals, approve vacation leave, etc. and allow for shared educational services
for specialized educational services
especially in small schools.
Determine school attendance policies
Develop its own operating/capital budget
Source: I) MOEYC, Deputy CEO.
2) A Pilot Study of the Cluster Board Form of School Management (National Council on Education,2000)
3) PESP Jamaica Institutional Strengthening Component (MOEYC & IDB, 2000)
III. Conclusions and Next Steps
On the basis of the preceding analysis, the following conclusions can be drawn:
(1) despite the progress that the MOEYC has made toward strengthening its capacity for planning
and policy making at the central Ministry, there is room for improvement by linking the
education sector strategies to macroeconomic policies;
(2) both the MOEYC and the ROs need reformns of, and changes in their coordination structure as
well as work process;
(3) human resources need to be upskilled and better utilized through training and systematic
long-term staff development plans; and
-88 -



(4) management infrastructure in general, and MIS and ICT in particular should be updated and
integrated to maximize the use of the existing infrastructure.
Looking ahead, the following could be considered as components of institutional strengthening in the
ROSE n1.
Technical assistance to support the MOEYC's commitment to transfer responsibilities
from the MOEYC to the ROs. The areas of activities are: (1) to determine an appropriate level of
distribution of authority between senior and middle managers in the central Ministry, and between the
center and the region in the area of overlap (a quick survey on the state of internal delegation of
authority, role differentiation between individual units and officials, and the extent of decentralization to
assess the types and modes of decisions made at both the MOEYC and the ROs); and (2) to evaluate
operating procedures, job requirements, staff's preparedness for their jobs, and training need for generic
skills such as project preparation/ management/ monitoring, and ICT skills.
Provision of opportunities for professional development and training in core
managerial/professional skill areas. Needed skills are in data management, ICT literacy, project
management, curriculum guidance, and student assessment. Target group is middle managers and junior
staff at both the MOEYC and the ROs. Training could be provided through international workshop and
study tour, and short modular courses in partnership with various training providers (UWI, teacher's
colleges, UTECH., HeartlNTA).
Technical assistance to support the MOEYC's commitment to transfer responsibilities
from the MOEYC to the ROs. The areas of activities are: (1) to determnine an appropriate level of
distribution of authority between senior and middle managers in the central Ministry, and between the
center and the region in the area of overlap (a quick survey on the state of internal delegation of
authority, role differentiation between individual units and officials, and the extent of decentralization to
assess the types and modes of decisions made at both the MOEYC and the ROs); and (2) to evaluate
operating procedures, job requirements, staff's preparedness for their jobs, and training need for generic
skills such as project preparation/ management/ monitoring, and ICT skills.
These areas will complement other on-going projects' institutional strengthening components, for
example, DFID's technical assistance in the development of performance indicators to support MOEYC's
Corporate Plan, and PESP's support to improve ICT and transport for regional offices.
Provision of strategically critical infrastructure to meet the transportation and
communication needs of regional offices such as telephones and 4 wheel drive vehicles. Technical
assistance could also be provided to have an effective and accurate assessment of technical capabilities
including the MIS (H/W, S/W &DBs, network), connectivity and technical manpower. (This is being
done with PESP support.)
Development of performance indicators to support the MOEYC's commitment to
performance management as stated in the Corporate Plan. Indicators will be developed in key
management/service areas such as: 1) distribution of textbooks; 2) collection of school census and other
critical data; 3) disbursement of budgeted funds; and 4) delivery of supervisory/technical services to
principals and schools. (This will be done with DFID technical assistance.)
Provision of opportunities for professional development and training in core
- 89 -



managerial/professional skill areas. Needed skills are skills in data management, ICT literacy, project
management, curriculum guidance, and student assessment. Target group is middle managers and junior
staff at both the MOEYC and the ROs. Training could be provided through intemational workshop and
study tour, and short modular courses in partnership with various training providers (UWI, teacher's
colleges, UTECH, HeartlNTA).
- 90 -



Additional Annex 13: Social Assessment
JAMAICA: REFORM OF SECONDARY EDUCATION PROJECT II
Social and economic situation
Jamaica is one of the poorest countries in the Latin American and Caribbean region. Only 7 of the
32 countries in the region are poorer-Bolivia, Cuba, Ecuador, Guyana, Haiti, Honduras and Nicaragua.
Jamaica is currently undergoing a recession and its GNP annual growth rate throughout the nineties was
the second lowest in the region with only Haiti doing worse (comparable estimates are not available for
Cuba).
Yet it has pre-primary and primary enrollment ratios that come close to matching the best countries
in the region. Furthermore it has a household income distribution that is by far the most equitable of any
country in the region. In facing the challenge to find ways to expand access to upper secondary educaticn
while improving the equity and quality of secondary education with particular reference to the poorest
populations, these two positive characteristics of the country might serve as strategic starting points.
There is a very positive attitude to schooling by households-families and government. Enrollment
rates are very high in primary education (97%) and still comparatively high in the years immediately
prior to upper secondary education (78%). No country in the region with a population of over one million
spends more than Jamaica on education from public sources as a percentage of total government
expenditure. No country at all in the region spends more overall on education as a percentage of GDP
than Jamaica. Only Brazil, Costa Rica and Cuba in the region are spending more than Jamaica from
government funds per secondary pupil as a percentage of GNP per capita. No country in the region is
spending more than Jamaica from government funds per tertiary student as a percentage of GNP per
capita. In Jamaica, education is seen as a public good to be sought and supported to the extent possible.
On the equity and distributional aspect, Jamaica's comparatively equitable income distribution is
an anomaly in a region that has the most inequitable income distribution in the world. Jamaica's income
distribution is much closer to that of the United Kingdom than to that of any country in the Latin
American and Caribbean region. Also, Jamaica has no major ethnic, language or religious divisions like
Trinidad, nor has it sustained the historical divide between the descendants of the colonizers and the
descendants of the colonized like Mexico.
Jamaica has a male-dominated social value structure. Domestic violence and child abuse are not
uncommon. It has a high rate of juvenile crime, particularly in inner city and low income areas,
considerable unplanned teenage fertility, child-shifting (nearly 20%), particularly in rural areas, and a
very destabilizing pattern of single female parent families which is very disadvantageous especially for
providing the necessary support to and supervision of children as they grow up and try to become
educated. Many children have one or both of their parents working permanently abroad, providing
financial but not nurturing or educational support.
Jamaica shares with almost all countries in the region a major socioeconomic division between the
rural and the urban population. This is very important for education reform because the 44% of the
population that live in rural areas in Jamaica account for nearly 80% of its total poor. In fact, the
geographical distribution of poverty is even more concentrated with the four parishes of St. Andrew, St.
Mary, Westmoreland and St. Ann accounting for half of Jamaica's poor.
91 -



Education situation
The educational structure is historically highly stratified and remains so in spite of policy
interventions in the 1990s to reduce stratification. At the end of primary education (grade 6) students are
tracked into different types of secondary schools of clearly different levels of quality. Children of poor
families in the rural areas and the inner cities receive a low quality education that the high enrollment
rates mask. It is here that the problem of school dropout in the later years of secondary education begins,
with poor quality teaching and poor attendance. This particularly affects young boys. Girls score better
and stay on longer at school. This is in contrast to the male-dominated social pattem.
The secondary school structure adds to the urban-rural division. Secondary departments in All-Age
and Primary and Junior High Schools, which account for 16% of secondary school enrollments, do not
currently go beyond grade 9 and thus do not offer upper secondary education. A large percentage of these
schools are small rural schools. Universal enrollment is maintained up to age 11 and net enrollment is
still nearly 80% by the age of 14. Age 14 is equivalent to grade 9 i.e. the end of the first cycle of
secondary education and the highest grade offered by all secondary schools. It is after this point that there
is a quick fall in enrollment, partly due to the lack of upper secondary school facilities insomuch as some
35,000 pupils are currently attending schools that do not go beyond grade 9. It is estimated that 11,000
grade 9 graduates, with a large proportion coming from poorer families, do not have places in grade 10.
This is particularly problematic for rural schools with small catchment populations.
Another reason for the swift drop-off in upper secondary enrollment, which begins slowly at the
lower secondary level, is the lack of motivation to stay on in school and the various costs and foregone
earnings involved. This particularly affects lower secondary pupils from poorer families. Pupils from
'richer families usually continue to grade 11 but for the poorer students the drop-off begins after grade 9.
So upper secondary places need to be made more available and, in particular, accessible to and affordable
by children of poorer families, and secondary education needs to be made more relevant and more
attractive so that poorer pupils will want to stay on.
Another important objective is to improve the quality of secondary education. This is more
difficult to achieve than improving availability and accessibility, particularly in a country that has been
suffering from a recession for more than ten years. Examination performance has not been very good
throughout the education system and improvement for the poorer students in such circumstances is likely
to be slow.
By far the most serious problem is students' reading abilities. Deficient reading starts in the lower
primary grades and continues to build, year-on-year. Poor reading abilities are concentrated among boys.
By the time students reach grade 6, 30 percent of students read below their grade level. By grade 9 a
huge divide has occurred-large numbers of students, especially boys, cannot read or write, some are
functionally illiterate. Because. of their reading deficiency, they cannot learn the content of various
subjects. This is the tremendous paradox of Jamaican education that standard statistics do not
reveal-high enrollment rates through lower secondary but low leaming, interest and participation. These
factors add up to a huge challenge to secondary education which must correct for these incapacitating
deficiencies among a large segment of most school populations while trying to provide a quality
education to students who are ready. According to Hyacinth Evans' social analysis, "...boys and girls
enter grade I in equal numbers and with roughly the same kinds of experiences and skills, though we
know nothing about their attitudes to school work at this age. ...By the time they reached Grade 5 and 6,
major distinctions were detectable in their attitude to and interest in work, the quality of work which they
produced and in the academic performance ...In many of the schools, the streaming decisions made at the
grade 3 and 4 level influenced the students' CEE chances for the remainder of the primary years. By
- 92 -



Grade 5 boys were over-represented in the low streams according to the reports of the teachers (and to
the pre-appraisal mission) ... we conclude that the primary school contributes to this differential
socialization"
To sum up, the desired social development outcomes of the project are to extend access and
participation in upper secondary education of children from poorer families, to reduce the dropout of
children from poorer families, to improve the quality of the secondary education that they receive while
at the same time providing remedial education to a large segment of the intake, and to raise their
performance levels in standardized examinations so that all students can reach the standard. To illustrate
the challenge, one only has to look at the student performance in the CXC General Proficiency exam in
secondary high schools. In June 2001, for example, in ten secondary schools (two of which were visited
during the assessment), only 10% or less of eligible students passed the mathematics exam while at the
top end, in one school (also visited) 98% of the students passed. Of course part of this is due to the
stratification of the student intake but a good component is due to the quality of the education offered by
the institution. In a fourth school, having a 60% pass rate (also visited), the school principal was proud to
point out that their 'top girl' came from a very poor background yet had received nine distinctions.
Youth at risk
Youth at risk is a key social issue. International experience indicates that one of the best ways to
address the problems of youth-at-risk is to keep adolescents in school and to improve their academic
performance. The project objectives are directly related to these goals. Poor academic performance,
violence in schools and increasing teenage pregnancy - all are risk factors for youth to be addressed.
Inequalities in access and the high attrition rate among students from the poorest quintiles are other key
social issues that will be addressed by the project.
In order to improve the cognitive skills of the secondary school-age population it is necessary to
understand the many factors that block children from taking full advantage of educational opportunities.
International research in some 32 countries has shown that the most important factor in student
achievement is not the level of resources provided to schools; it is how students use them. Students' use
of school resources is more strongly associated with students' economic, social and cultural status than
any other school variable. Less advantaged students do not tend to use school resources as regularly as
students of higher socioeconomic status do. Socially advantaged students do not necessarily get more
resources, they use them more.
What this tells us is that socially disadvantaged students need more attention than socially more
advantaged students to prosper in school and yet it is these very same students that face increasing
barriers as they progress through the school system. Why is this so and what are these barriers that build
up like a high brick wall that stands between pupils and their school opportunities?
Academic tracking by school type has been, in effect, stratification by socioeconomic background.
In 2000, 43% of students in All-Age schools belonged to the poorest quintile and as many as 73% from
the two bottom quintiles, while only 3% of the top quintile attended these schools. On the other hand,
over half of the students in the traditional, academic Secondary Highs were from the top two quintiles.
Many students, and especially boys, simply cannot read, or read sufficiently well, to prosper when
they enter secondary school. By the end of the primary cycle about 30% of Grade 6 students are
functionally illiterate. These students tend to be those that come from low socioeconomic backgrounds
and have other -youth-at-risk- factors. It means that they are at an instant disadvantage in many other
subjects as well as language and reading and unless they receive focused attention to help them catch up,
- 93 -



they fall further and further behind and eventually leave the school system before completing secondary.
This creates a permanent barrier to a productive life, causing low self-esteem, leading to dependence and
possibly inappropriate adult behaviors. Low reading achievement is probably the biggest risk factor that
the secondary education system and the youth in society face. Children start to fall behind in the early
grades and their reading deficiencies need to be identified early on to prevent them from growing steadily
worse. Educators and students throughout Jamaica know this and readily identify sub-standard reading as
the most serious risk factor that the education system must tackle at both the primary and secondary
levels. There are efforts to address this at the primary level through a number of interventions such as:
a grade 1 readiness inventory; diagnostic test at grade 3; grade 4 literacy test; summer classes to assist
students performing at unacceptable reading levels and non-promotion to grade 5 if summer classes have
not resulted in acceptable reading levels. At the secondary level, foundation textbooks have been
developed and distributed to students in grades 7, 8 and 9 reading below their grade levels.
In large part the severe reading gap of poorer students is further widened by the very fact that
poverty keeps youth at a disadvantage. How is this so? Students do not have the money to pay for travel
to school on a consistent basis. As more places have been made available in comprehensive and
secondary high schools, students and parents are wanting to take advantage of this opportunity and travel
further to school, involving more time and more cost. This is a -deep widespread problem in all
educational regions. It results in poorer students not being able to afford to attend school every day.
According to educators if students can afford bus fares only three days per week they would still rather
attend schools that are "perceived: to be more prestigious, i.e. the high schools as opposed to the All-age
schools. As well as travel costs, there are book costs, uniform costs, school fees, lunch money, special
assessments, costs associated with extra-curricular activities, As a consequence, students from lower
socioeconomic backgrounds tend more often to not have any textbooks, or not all of them, often despite
the availability of cost sharing arrangements which a substantial number of students do not take
advantage of.
A further risk factor is that a very high number of students live with only one parent, almost
always the mother, and not infrequently live with neither parent, often because one or both parents have
migrated for work, being left in the care of grandmothers, aunts, sisters, brothers, or others. The impact
of this incomplete family environment is yet another stress factor on students and may well be a pressure
on older children to start working.
Finding a place to study may be hard as well with cramped living conditions and cramped school
conditions which themselves are presenting additional barriers to educability, especially of socially
disadvantaged students. Secondary schools and departments are not able to keep up with the demand for
places. Many schools are way, way beyond their capacities and holding two shifts and still taking on
more students. It is not uncommon for pupil-teacher ratios to exceed 40, 45 or 50 in certain classes in
locations such as Mandeville, Montego Bay, and certain areas of the North Coast. Space is the problem
most often singled out by educators and students alike. Classrooms are so few that two classes (each
exceeding 40 students) occupy the same classroom so in effect the student-classroom ratio is 80 in single
shifts. Not a whole lot of learning can go on in this circumstance, one which is especially acute along the
north coast of Jamaica where many are migrating for work and for access to secondary education.
Throughout the country, and in Kingston, especially, the risk factors are even more acute. Urban
terrorism', to quote the Security Minister, Dr. Peter Phillips, whose root cause is the illegal drug trade,
accounted for 1,138 persons killed last year, the highest in the Caribbean, with Jamaica being one of the
largest drug trans-shipment points in the region. High schools do not always have enough students
because of fear of violence from gangs and political boundaries that cannot be crossed without high risk
of physical danger. Many have already dropped out and live on the street or are among the unemployed:
- 94 -



46% of youth between the ages of 14 and 19 and 30% of youth between the ages of 20 and 24 are
unemployed. 30% of all births are to teenage girls and teenage fertility rates are increasing. The number
of reported new HIV infections in adolescents has doubled each year since 1995. Over half of all major
crimes are committed by youth (mostly males and 30% of inmates sentenced to adult correctional
facilities are between the ages of 17 and 24). Preventing students from leaving school early and giving
them the necessary support to prosper in school and be engaged by it are very important ways of keeping
youth out of risk.
Anatomy of a school at risk: A Primary and Junior High School in the Hills above Montego
Bay has a tremendous challenge to bring the 50% of its students which its principal estimates are reading
at sub-standard levels up to grade level. Overcrowding and large class size are a huge problem. This
Primary and Junior High School, with its 1,568 students in a physical plant with a capacity of 645
students, is bursting at the seams. It was forced to move to a double shift and the shift system has
provided a "blow" to extra-curricular activities, according to its principal. 4th grade classes average 50
students and some classes reach 60 and more. Sometimes already large classes share a room with more
than 80 students in the same room. The crush of students is such that there is permanent noise
(classrooms are open to the outside) and a great deal of loitering, kids coming to school late, restlessness,
etc. It is a physically unappetizing school plant located on a dusty, busy road in the hills above Montego
Bay.
Many students come from the nearby squatter communities whose parents cannot afford the school
fees, uniform costs, transportation costs, and attendance is very low (60%) on Fridays because many
students do not have the money to pay for transportation to school. When it rains, even a little,
attendance is always low, said the principal. This may in part be due to the lack of a "holding facility" for
the next shift as they arrive at school because they have no place to wait that is covered from the rain.
Nevertheless, he asserts that "the set of children doing well will always be here, rain or shine". Tardiness
is a daily problem for a large number of students and incentives to arrive early haven't worked so far
since the "exam classes", the principal's term for the top stream at grade 6 and 5, are the ones that always
win because they are motivated to come to school to prepare themselves for the exams in order to
continue their schooling in the best school possible, according to the principal. This is not surprising: the
'exam students' are the 'elite' in the school who have been selected as the ones that merit special
preparation (to score highly on the Grade Six Achievement Exams exams). Conversely the remainder of
the students receive less attention and know they are not in this elect group and this knowledge lowers
their self-esteem and their will to work. They know they are the "slow set", a tern heard frequently and
used frequently by principals, teachers, and students themselves.
Since the introduction of the GSAT exam at grade 6 to select better performing students into high
school, many principals take the view that the GSAT is creaming off their best students who are headed
for secondary schools while leaving them with the lower achievers. Rather than see this as a positive
development, leading to better opportunities for their better students, and taking the pressure off large
junior high classes, allowing for more attention to these needier students, they see it as a loss to their
schools. Principals also express the view that parents are selecting schools based on the perception that
schools closer to town are better schools, perceptions coming often from their children who hear this
from their friends. It is hard to know whether this perception is a reality in terms of achievement since
the achievement test results are not available to the public. What it has led to is a great student population
pressure on some schools while the rural schools are losing students. Students and parents are choosing
these schools over nearby schools and are willing to have their children only attend some days of the
week (as long as the money holds out) because they think it gives their children a better education or
- 95 -



social advantage even taking into account the financial hardship.
Overcrowded schools like this Montego Bay Junior High School must compress the school day in
order to accommodate two shifts, start early and expect their students to virtually attend back-to-back
classes in order to cram in the necessary number of hours of class time to meet government standards (5.5
hours). Students on the morning shift start school before 8 am when public transportation is not always
available that early, thus children arrive at school late. Students don't seem to be concerned about
tardiness. Like other double shift schools visited, all lacked a play area. All would benefit from paving a
space for play which would have a tremendous cost-benefit for giving students a place to exercise within
the school compound. And this space could be covered with an aluminum open roof to provide a dry
place for kids when it rains. A Rural High School in the Mandeville parish, which authorities said was
one of the poorest schools in the region, had paved its play area and it was being used extensively by
students running and playing. Enquiry was made as to the cost which was just over US$ 4,000.
Another chronic concern for secondary schools is the need to raise funds to make needed repairs
and improvements, to equip the library and to construct the hard porch for play. They need to equip their
school so as to provide more classes in 'practical' areas where students can gain experience in order to
prepare them for jobs later on; The Primary and Junior High Schools have tried to raise funds in a
number of ways, for example, by getting adopted by a company like other schools have done, but so far
they have had no luck.
On the positive side the Montego Bay area junior high school principal asserts that his teachers are
still highly motivated, caring teachers who work hard and are taking advantage of opportunities to
upgrade their skills and pursue university training which is very generous: two years of study leave with
one year of full pay. The paradox is that students at the same time are deprived of the books they need,
often cannot afford to come to school, do not have proper classroom facilities or sufficient teacher time
nor extracurricular activities or sports. There is a need to redress this imbalance and a funded School
Improvement-School Development plan is a good way to do this.
What have we learned from schools, students, principals, teachers and parents?
The reality of school reform is played out in schools, classrooms and at home by students,
teachers, administrators and parents. These are -the actors who know first hand about the barriers and
challenges of schooling and learning in Jamaican schools. They are a tremendous source of relevant
information and ideas about the problems faced in getting a good education as well as being a source of
innovation and experience in how they have coped with problems and have overcome them and
introduced creative solutions. An important part of the design of ROSE II is drawing from discussions
with students, principals, teachers, and regional education authorities. Their views and recommendations
are central inputs in the design of the focus of ROSE II and its implementation. These actors have an
ongoing role to play in participating in decisions about project objectives, activities, and inputs, as well
as desired outcomes. The project is structured to ensure the continuing participation of these key actors.
During project design and pre-appraisal All-age, Primary and Junior High, forrner Comprehensive High
Schools and Traditional High Schools were visited and discussions held with these schools in all six
regions. Meetings were held with each of the six Regional Education Offices and their supervisory staff.
Consultations were held in each regional office with teachers, principals, parents. As well, intensive
consultations were held with some 15 to 20 students coming from 5 to 10 schools at each of the Regional
Offices.
- 96 -



Voices of students: from problems to solutions
Students, being the beneficiaries of education, are the actors in the best position to assess the
education they are getting. The student consultations identified what they see as the important problems
that need correction. They also shared creative, innovative ideas and doable practices for enhancing
education. Students are a great untapped resource for providing ideas on what they want from education,
what excites them and what to do about it. They should be active participants in the ROSE II process.
The majority of students that were consulted are leaders in their schools: student council
presidents, head girls, head boys, prefects, for example, they represent their peers and also regularly work
with school administrators and are in a good position to have an overview of their schools. These
students demonstrated remarkable maturity and judgment.
For students in Region 4 (Montego Bay) streaming is the major problem holding back student
achievement. They characterize streaming as "destructive". The streaming of students into classes
according to their performance on GSAT scores, or tests designed and evaluated by the school itself,
highly stratifies students into classes of children of purportedly similar learning capacity. Although
Jamaican education policy states that streaming is not to be practiced it is, in fact, an almost universal
practice that is deeply engrained. Streaming was observed in every school visited to the extreme extent of
6 to 7 individual streams according to "ability". Students once in a given stream stay in that stream
throughout their secondary school years, an enormous disincentive to better performance. Everybody in
the school knows who is in which stream and they know what that means about expectations for their
performance and their futures. Although students in principle are supposed to be able to elect to take the
CXC exam should they choose to, the top students in a Montego Bay High School stated that students not
in the CXC stream were not permitted to do so. They felt that students in lower streams were stigmatized
and should have more opportunity, for example in being offered as many subjects as the top stream. They
suggested that students wanting to take the exam should be tested to see if they are improving even if
they aren't in the "CXC" stream. Students also thought that counselling should encourage students to risk
the challenge. Streaming was a concern mentioned in numerous other regions and schools as well.
Some schools have creative programs to help prepare their students for the working world. For
example, mock job interviews where students dress up and business people come in to interview them
and give feedback on their manner, their resumes, and their dress. They take field trips to observe work
settings, have rap sessions and watch training videos, etc. These activities complement the three week
work experiences in hotels and factories, etc. and all help to prepare students for successfully getting
jobs. And they are doable in any school with a little preparation.
Computers: Students all want access to computers. They understand that computer literacy is a key
competency for success. Computers excite them and allow them to pursue active learning, explore,
problem-solve. They feel it is a key part of their secondary education and students in lower grades feel
they should have equal access to limited computers in their schools where computers are currently
reserved for upper classmen preparing for the CXC exams. Students made the correct assessment that
more than a couple of years exposure would be necessary for them to pass the CXC.
Students want more "practical" subjects and equipment: visual arts, equipped science labs, a
music room, home and family management, industrial arts. They feel that students need more types of
outlets for their skills and interests. It was truly astonishing to realize what is possible with creative
teaching and sensitivity to students. The remarkable innate artistic talent of students in Rural High
School in the Parish of Manchester, a school that is counted among the more disadvantaged schools, has
been brought out by one first-class creative art teacher. In just four months he has involved all grades, 7
- 97 -



though 11, in his art classes and students are producing professional quality art works. When the team
arrived to visit the school, the teacher was outside, surrounded by students watching him paint a large
mural on one of the school buildings, the first of many he planned. He had fashioned a small cubicle into
a studio where his students' work was proudly displayed, representing many art forms he had taught them
with low cost or no cost materials: charcoal, colored pencils airbrush techniques using a simple
toothbrush, cutouts, stencils. Each student had constructed his own portfolio, in itself a work of art made
from simple cardboard and decorated. One student had already started a money-making project stenciling
t-shirts and selling them. The school was set to compete in the Chamber of Commerce scholarship
competition. The art teacher is a beacon for this Rural High school, a living statement of what it is
possible to achieve with ingenuity, talent, discipline and little cost.
Students were adamant that expelling should be abolished because it destroyed a student's future.
They felt that more counseling was needed and ways to get already expelled kids back in school. Ways of
preventing behaviors that lead to expulsion were discussed, especially the roles that fellow students can
play and are playing such as student councils and peer counsellors and prefects. It is interesting to note
that when these views and proposals were shared with their principals and teachers these authorities had
the exact opposite view: that these students deserved what they got. The Ministry's new PASS
(Programme for Altemative Student Support) which is intended to provide an opportunity for these
students to modify their behavior and complete their education without further interruption is an
important step forward and should be made widely available as soon as possible.
An innovative, simple idea for building positive strengthening relationships has been designed by
students at a high school in the 5th region and it could easily be done anywhere. The problem arose from
the large size of the class. Students proposed to their form teacher that they split the class into groups of
6 to 8 students, each student would pick a name for itself, a positive name, and function as a
friendship-support group for each other for at least a year. Each group would set its mutual goals and
rules, carry out projects. One group chose to call themselves "The Tapanauris Family" a local term
meaning to always stay on top and not settle for anything below that.
Students talked a lot about what they called "the big family inpuf in student outcomes, support
and building self esteem. Many students find it hard to communicate with their parents about their
problems-parents don't want to be bothered and don't listen for various reasons. Apparently this is a
widespread problem and one that leads to youth looking outside to other role models, frequently bad
influences. How to cope with this? Aside from peer counselling in schools other solutions proposed (and
being done) were youth leaders giving talks to parents at church, at school, for example on parents day,
and going out to workplaces to talk with employers about problems children are facing and the need for
employers to take into account that their parents had child care responsibilities that sometimes competed
with work responsibilities.
Teachers. There was a very serious divide between schools where students respected and
embraced their teachers, giving them much credit for their school success and very sad cases where
students felt let down, disappointed, taken advantage of by their teachers. In one high school students
comments were: teachers are totally negative; they show favoritism to some students; they fight students
(specific examples provided and confirmed by others present); they talk down to students; they lock
themselves in the teachers' room and chat, etc, etc. In this same school students complained that they had
no access to their library since there was no librarian and the books in the library could not be checked
out. Students from another high school in the parish that were present in the same meeting said they
loved their teachers. What is this second school doing right? Discussions were held with the principal
and teacher present at the meeting who were happy to share their experiences. It is a large, two shift high
school with a large teaching staff. It is recommended that ROSE II follow this up, meet with the teachers,
- 98 -



students and principal and ask them to document how they have developed this climate of mutual trust
and respect.
Good practices in Jamaican Schools
When it found that 60% of its intake had GSATs below their standard, a Girls' Traditional High
School in Kingston gave them extra classes to bring them up to par and even to repeat an additional year
but it paid off and most went on. A special class addressed problems of self-esteem and motivated
students to better their performance. The weaker ones were given fewer subjects and the best teachers.
The top girl is from a very poor background and has 9 distinctions which shows that the poorest child can
come to that school and learn well. *"Students appraise their teachers" according to the principal which
has been useful for adjusting their teaching styles. The school has a very clear 'behavior policy' and each
student has the local High School for Girls Student Handbook which sets the standards. Students receive
a 'homework grade' for every subject. The principal's recommendation for ROSE II is to test students
beginning at grade 2 and not wait until grade 4 in order to improve reading as early as possible. High
school teachers are not trained to bring students from illiterate and semi-literate reading to grade levels.
The principal of a recently upgraded Primary and Junior High School in Kingston parish places
great emphasis on reading at all levels and tests his students at the end of each term to evaluate their
reading competencies and make mid- course corrections. He stated that he has specialist reading teachers
who develop other teachers. He uses the MICO instrument.
When consulted by the social assessment team, the students of another Traditional High School in
Kingston stated they would be interested to serve as peer counselors in other schools and the principal
and Board supports this idea, provided that security could be guaranteed to the students. At this school,
counseling classes are referred to as 'personal development classes'. One innovation is 'career week'.
Students have a sense of pride in their school that is built on traditions and standards. This idea could be
applied anywhere in school with good leadership and discipline.
The active, energetic principal of a High School in Buff Bay has upgraded the science lab and
brought in a lab assistant, introduced the CXC in first form, emphasizes English in order to compete, and
is setting a higher standard for the school. Many students suffer from having one or both of their parents
living abroad. Her view about low reading is that there has been a social contract: teachers don't expect
too much and students don't have to do too much in return.
The Vice-Principal at a High School in Browns Town introduced an innovative "Parent
Involvement and Student Achievement" programme. Parents gave their time free, supervising classes
when teachers were absent (since the school had no substitute teachers) or planning for known absences,
for example for training courses (another occasion when students are not being taught. It would be useful
to conduct a study to find out how often teachers are absent for various reasons.) The program was very
effective but unfortunately it had to be discontinued due to lack of funds to pay parents for their travel
which after many months became too much for them. This type of program could become part of the
School Development-School Improvement plan in future by setting up a modest revolving fund to pay the
parents' modest out-of-pocket expenses to allow them to continue giving their time to the school.
Everyone recognizes the important role of guidance counsellors. Many Primary and All-Age
schools don't yet have a guidance counsellor but more counsellors are being assigned to high schools to
keep up with their increasing enrollment. The impression from school visits was that in general guidance
counsellors are under-utilized and their roles need to be redefined to provide more relevant support to
students, especially students at risk. A good development is the very recent decentralization of
- 99 -



supervisory officers from Kingston to each of the regional offices so that each of the six regions will
have a Counselling Officer. As one of these new staff commented: "I think of myself as a student
advocate; the role of guidance counsellors is to advocate for their students. This is a more appropriate
modem function given the types of risk factors that students are experiencing. However, it is still true
that guidance counselling is seen as a female function: no men were found among all the guidance
counsellors with whom discussions were held. It is recommended that the image of guidance counselling
needs a facelift and an effort to restructure the responsibilities and to attract men to the profession. This
is particularly important in view of the fact that most children, and certainly most boys, do not have a
male role model to look up to at home. Perhaps guidance counsellor is not the right name for the job
either. Perhaps 'Student Development Officer' would have a more neutral and more positive image. Boys
need a male figure they can go to confide in at school. As it stands, students refer to counselling class as
"a sleeping session".
Participatory approach: How are key stakeholders participating in the project?
In conducting the ROSE II social assessment, discussions were held with representatives of some
50 schools in all six regions. These discussions and interviews targeted principals, teachers, guidance
counsellors, students and parents. Discussions were also held with MOEYC Regional Directors and
Guidance Officers, four NGOs, as well as out-of-school youth.
The Guidance and Counselling Unit of the MOEYC, co-operated with the social assessment
initiative by conducting interviews with representatives of all critical stakeholder groups in the six
regions of the Ministry to learn the perspectives of stakeholders regarding: a) the kinds of problems
students face in schools and at home, why they become disengaged in school, as well as the kind of
academic and extra-curricula activities which excite them; b) parents' expectations of their children and
school; c) teachers' approaches to dealing with students with behavioural and academic problems; d)
teachers' approaches to dealing with homework; e) Regional Offices' approaches to addressing issues of
youth-at-risk, and the kind of training that would improve their effectiveness and f) the adequacy of the
Guidance and Counselling system. The Unit has submitted its recommendations for the role of the Unit
in the implementation of ROSE II.
How does the project involve consultations or collaboration with NGOs or other civil society
organizations?
Many NGOs, faith-based organizations and civil organizations have cooperated with the education
system and schools in Jamaica and youth out of school for some time. These organizations and their
skills are a great resource for extending the reach of the education system and its schools, especially to
deal with difficult social questions and youth at risk.
A number of NGOs and faith-based organizations, working with adolescents and youth, were
consulted during the social assessment. NGOs which operate secondary educational institutions such as
the Jamaica Association for the Deaf and the Salvation Army School for the Blind, as well as others
which provide critical support services to secondary level students, such as the Jamaica Association for
Children with Learning Disabilities, are to be consulted concerning their possible involvement in the
ROSE II project.
Another group of NGOs which could become involved in the project, are those offering
programmes for out-of-school youth and youth-at-risk such as the YMCA, YWCA, Youth Opportunities
Unlimited, Addiction Alert and the National AIDS Committee. Some of these NGOs already have a
close working relationship with the Government of Jamaica but could be engaged, as a group, through
- 100-



the Council of Voluntary Social Services CVSS, the primary umbrella organization for NGOs in Jamaica.
Additionally, the project should endeavor to conduct national, broad-based stakeholder
consultations on a biennial basis, as well as an end-of-project consultation, in order to keep stakeholders
(civil society, business sector and international development partners) informed of new and on-going
developments and to solicit their feedback regarding project outputs and outcomes. Students should be
involved in the process through the National Secondary Schools' Council.
What institutional arrangements have been provided to ensure the project achieves its social
development outcomes?
The institutional arrangements that would facilitate this could include:
a)     The preparation of School Improvement Plans explicitly tied to improving learning outcomes,
especially reading, and incorporating specific ways in which students will be assisted, especially
youth at risk and students with deficient reading levels, making cosi-effective simple changes in
school management and school practices that are within the control and realistic budget of
schools.
b)     The role of the Regional Offices will be critical in linking schools with partners, providing
training and exchange of experience on innovative ways to improve school performance within
realistic limits of resource availability.
c)     Strengthening the networking/collaborative arrangements between the MOEYC and NGOs and
other civil society organizations, possibly through the establishment of a Stakeholders' Planning
and Review Committee which would identify opportunities for joint initiatives and elaborate
arrangements for utilizing such opportunities. The Stakeholders' Committee would also carry
out a monitoring function and feed recommendations into the ROSE Secretariat on an ongoing
basis. Secondary school students should be represented on this committee.
d)     Building the capacity of the Guidance and Counseling Unit of the MOEYC to enable the division
to effectively implement the Guidance and Counseling Policy which is shortly to be approved by
Cabinet. To this end, it will be necessary to increase the staff of the Unit at the Centre to
facilitate the training and special projects aspects of the work of the Unit.
e)     Town hall meetings will be organized annually in each region for the review panel and regional
officers to report to the community on the progress made in school development planning, to
review whether the targets have been met, and to discuss how to move forward.
Monitoring performance in terms of social development outcomes
The monitoring of social development outcomes will necessarily need to flow from and be a subset
of the overall monitoring plan. It is advisable that it makes use of readily' available data already being
collected and collated by schools through the Ministry's administrative data collection systems and on a
national population basis using the Survey of Living Conditions through monitoring the percentage of
students by income quintile enrolled in secondary and primary schools by type. Some elements that
contribute to improved participation and performance are already being monitored, like enrollment rates,
rates of attendance/absenteeism, and teacher qualifications, and performance on standard examinations
(GSAT, CXC, etc.).



The literature on the subject suggests that poorer students in good schools with excellent facilities
require special assistance to be able to effectively use these facilities if their perfornance is to improve.
So it is important that we know as clearly and as soon as possible the ongoing outcomes of placing
students in good schools so as to be able to understand how the intervention is working and then to
correct on the spot those aspects that are not working as anticipated. In this way we will be not just
monitoring the intervention but also improving it as we go along. Tracking these corrections will be also
be a part of the monitoring process. This two-pronged approach will thus allow for the participation of
key stakeholders in a continuous way.
MOEYC's guidance and counselling policy and programme
It is expected that the draft Guidance and Couselling Policy of the MOEYC, dated March 2000,
will be approved by the GOJ's Human Resource Council and the Cabinet during 2002. The policy is
based on the principle that guidance should be recognized as an essential and visible component of the
total education programme, owned and supported by policy makers, curriculum developers, programme
implementers, teachers, parents and students. The primary objectives of the policy are to highlight
guidance as a social engine for curriculum development and delivery and to define the parameters of the
national guidance and counselling programme.
It is evident that there is great disparity in the quality of guidance counsellors and this should be
addressed. The new policy calls for the establishment of acceptable minimum qualifications for
counsellors. Although most secondary schools have two counsellors, they still have not achieved a
realistic ratio where most students may be assured of access to counselling services. The policy
stipulates a ratio of 450 students to 1 counsellor, a significant improvement.
In spite of the provisions of the GOJ and the interventions of schools and the private sector, many
children were still hungry at school, have no textbooks, need bus fares, school uniforms and other
supplies. Attendance is affected by the lack or insufficiency of resources which are often the reason
given by youth at risk for dropping out of school. Schools address this problem with varying levels of
efficiency. The more committed, compassionate and innovative counsellors, principals and teaching staff
have greater success in addressing the problems of needy students. Welfare programmes have greater
success when the counsellor had a good relationship with the teaching and administrative staff and the
school nurse. Also very useful is the networking with NGOs and entities such as the MICO CARE
Centre. (It would appear that it is necessary to expand the services of the MICO CARE Centre, as it
appears to be highly-utilized by the school system and others and has difficulty coping with the demand
on its resources).
Co-ordination with the NGO sector needs to be facilitated by providing counsellors, principals and
teachers, students and parents with an up-to-date directory of NGO services in written and electronic
form. This could be supplied through collaboration with the Council of Voluntary Social Services. This
directory would be made available to all staff in the education system at all levels beginning with the
Ministry in Kingston, the Regional Offices and Officers, and all schools. Best practice School-NGO
collaboration should be made available.
Enhanced coordination is needed for the Programme for Alternative Student Support (PASS)
which provides special diagnostic and treatment services for maladjusted students with behavioural and
discipline problems. It is recommended that the PASS methodology be adapted for use in assessing
student behaviour in situations other than the presentation of maladjusted behaviour, in order to broaden
- 102-



the scope of diagnostic services to the student body.
A survey conducted by Guidance Officers at the start of the school terrn, which sought the opinion
of 120 students randomly selected across the six regions, indicated that students felt that they had
problems at home. These were problems which could and do impact on student behaviour at school.
They included -- not getting along with siblings and other family members; no place or opportunity to
study without disturbance; not getting along with parents; not being trusted; and exclusion from
decision-making.
The survey further indicated that students lost interest in school because they felt that they were --
not accepted by teachers; inferior or less capable than other students; not dealt with fairly and not reading
at their Grade level.
Strengthening critical aspects of school life will assist in enhancing the guidance and counselling
programme. The survey conducted by Guidance Officers indicated that students identified major
problems with school to include noise levels; indiscipline of students; poor attitude of students towards
school; negative peer pressure; lack of understanding academic material and teachers' attitude towards
students. Students were excited by school when they had good quality teachers; recreational and cultural
activities; clubs and societies; the option to select the subjects of their interest (special interest was
expressed in vocational subjects and computer classes) and could be proud of their school.
The findings of the survey, which was conducted to provide information for the ROSE n1 Social
Assessment, confirmed some of the findings based on appraisal social assessment visits to several
schools island-wide. It is recommended that the excellent work completed by the Guidance Officers be
fully documented and shared throughout the education system.
Solving the problems identified by the Social Assessment
School Improvement Plans
The most immediate way to improve the school environment through the project is through the
School Improvement Plans which are to be developed through a consultative consensus-building process
involving students, teachers, parents, principals, guidance counsellors and the community. It should not
be forgotten that students are critical participants in this process since they are the beneficiaries of it. The
goals of the school improvement plan need to be explicitly defined in terms of student leaming goals
such as strategies to improve standards of achievement and personal development goals. Cost effective
innovations to spark the interest and involvement of students will be especially important and the Social
Assessment has described some of the current innovations that students, teachers and principals have
already put in place. It is hoped that these innovations can be tapped and that their creators can be called
upon in the preparation of School Improvement Plans and project initiatives. The names of these people
have been duly recorded and everyone has expressed a strong interest in sharing their experiences with
other schools and working with ROSE II, within and beyond their schools and regions to the benefit of
secondary education for all. These innovators are principals, teachers, counsellors, and students alike.
Expanding access to upper secondary education
The Social Assessment confirmed that overcrowding, together with streaming, are the most
intractable and damaging factors facing the reform of secondary education and the quality of and access
to secondary and upper secondary education. The project will tackle these factors in two ways: through
the construction of new schools and through public financing of private school places. The placing and
- 103-



funding of students in private schools which have excess capacity is a cost effective, immediate and high
quality solution that will greatly benefit students and reduce pressures on school populations in
overcrowded schools. Interviews conducted during the Social Assessment with private school principals
and students themselves confirmed that poor students can thrive in these conditions and can be given the
additional help needed to benefit as much as possible from the educational offerings in their schools.
REPORT ON THE MAROONS
Background. Special investigations were carried out, as an integral part of the social assessment,
to ensure that Maroon communities will have equal access to the benefits of the project.
The Maroons are the descendants of African slaves who were brought to the Caribbean during the
time of the Spanish occupation of Jamaica (1494-1655). When the British captured the island in 1655,
the Spaniards, before fleeing, freed their slaves who made their habitation in the deep interior of the
island. The Maroons proved to be a serious challenge to British authority. In 1738, after many fierce
battles, a peace treaty was signed between the British and the Maroons outlining the benefits that would
accrue to the Maroon population. Some benefits included free land, exemption from paying property
taxes and partial self-govemment. The Maroons have been regarded as freedom fighters in the long
struggle against slavery. They are featured as such in Jamaican secondary school textbooks and their
historical leaders are honored as "national heroes".
Today, the Maroons are located in four towns in 3 Parishes: Accompong in St. Elizabeth, Scots
Hall in St. Mary, Charles Town and Moore Town in Portland, with a total estimated population of several
thousand persons. Many, however, do not live in the community and are integrated into the general
population or have emigrated.
There are two schools offering secondary level education within the Maroon communities - Moore
Town Primary and Junior High and Accompong Primary and Junior High. There are no differences in
the characteristics of these schools from other rural schools. They have the same curriculum and teacher
qualification requirements. Both have been upgraded from All-Age schools to Primary and Junior High
Schools, along with some 90 other schools of the same type in the second half of the 1990s. Because the
school in Moore Town has been a beneficiary of British DFID's Jamaican All-Age Schools Project
(JAASP), the social assessment focused on Accompong, which is also in the largest Maroon community.
Accompong, located in a deep rural area of Westem Jamaica, is reputedly the foremost Maroon
settlement in the country and a location of great historical significance. Like other Maroon townships in
Jamaica, the community is headed by a Colonel and Deputy Colonel, who are the elected representatives
of the town's residents. The town boasts a population of less than 1,000 persons. Most residents eam an
income from agriculture. To a much lesser extent, tourism, commerce and Govemment are among the
sectors which also provide income-eaming opportunities. Many community members are dependent on
the financial support of relatives who have migrated to First World countries.
ROSE II Consultation. Accompong Primary and Junior High, established in 1968, did much to
facilitate this consultation. The principal of the school kindly arranged for the Deputy Colonel of
Accompong to participate in the consultation, as well as students of the school, the President of the
Parent Teachers' Association, most members of the school's teaching, administrative and ancillary staff,
a community health worker and other active members of the community. Apart from some members of
the small teaching staff, all those consulted (approximately 50 persons) were Maroons or residents of
Accompong.
- 104-



The goals of ROSE II were explained to stakeholders, as was the purpose of the consultation.
Questions regarding ROSE II were posed and appropriate clarification was provided.
Background on the Accompong Primary and Junior High: The Accompong Primary and Junior High
has an enrolment of 180 students and an average attendance of 172, with a fairly equal mix of males and
females. Fifteen students are accommodated in a "competency shelter" (remedial class). The school
reported 30% (2001), 53% (2000) and 93% (1999) of students placed in high school upon completion of
the Grade Six Achievement Test (GSAT). Of the 19 students who sat the Junior High School Certificate
(JHSC) examinations in 2001, 16 were awarded places in high schools. The reading competency for
female students (based on the GSAT results) was higher than that of the national average, while for boys
it was slightly below.
Needs of the Accompong School: In response to a question posed to each group of stakeholders,
persons cited thefollowing as the challengesfaced by the school and students --
*   Poor economically disadvantaged households (the school, as well as individual teachers assist
needy students on a weekly basis)
*   No Guidance Counsellor and no counselling room
*   Poor attitude of some parents towards education
*   Poor parent-child relationships
*   Inadequate office space for the principal and the school's administrative staff
*   Inadequate toilet facilities (Both students and teachers use pit latrines)
*   No library (The school's stock of books are accommodated in a closet)
*   No computer room facilities and equipment (The school had been told some time ago that the
National Housing Trust would be assisting with the building of a computer lab)
*   No Home Economics room
Students mentioned several of the above but also named the following as needs--
*   A science laboratory
*   More classrooms
*   Tennis and netball courts
o   Baseball field
Students identified the following as activities that they wished to see more of in school -
*   Clubs and associations
*   Drumming
*   Dancing
*   Speech and drama
*   Agriculture
*   Sewing
Impact and Benefits of ROSE I: The school reported that it had benefited from ROSE I and through
that programme had acquired the following-
*   A Competency Shelter (for remedial education)
*   Administrative staff and equipment
*   Security for the school compound
- 105-



Mention was also made of the fact that the ROSE curriculum promoted the Maroon culture Students
were particularly proud to find in their textbooks pictures of persons that they recognized.
The school had expectations of receiving more, however. This included a science laboratory,
guidance and counselling room, home economics room, computer laboratory and equipment,
administrative offices and a library. According to the staff, professionals had visited the school and had
taken measurements in order to prepare building plans but nothing had been forthcoming.
Potential support from the ROSE II programme: Stakeholders could not identify anything in
the ROSE II program that might in any way adversely affect the Maroon community. They hoped to
benefit from the civil works component of ROSE II, as they needed more space/facilities as indicated
above under Needs of the Accompong School. They further suggested that an arrangement be arrived at
whereby Accompong could share the services of a Guidance Counsellor with a school in close proximity.
It was also proposed that members of the school board and other interested persons be trained to assist
the teaching staff with the school's remedial teaching program.
Conclusion of the special assessment Accompong Primary and Junior High will be a beneficiary
of ROSE H, like any other Primary and Junior High Schools, from the literacy and mathematics
enhancement programs, diagnostics tools and strategies to address learning problems, textbooks, and
teacher training in curriculum delivery and in guidance and counselling. In addition, Accompong will
participate in the School Improvement Planning (SIP) Program and receive grants based on
school-generated proposals. Moore Town Primary and Junior High has already been a beneficiary of
British DFID's Jamaica All-Age Schools Project. It will not be part of the SIP prograrn. Under ROSE II,
the learning outcomes of each school will be monitored, including these schools in the Maroon
communities.
-106 -



Additional Annex 14: School Improvement Grants
JAMAICA: REFORM OF SECONDARY EDUCATION PROJECT II
Eligibility for Participation
Participating schools are those which serve a higher proportion of students from lower
consumption quintiles. These school types have been identified by the Jamaican Survey of Living
Conditions. They should also not have benefited from other similar projects which provide direct funding
to schools. The eligible schools will include:
*   Upgraded High Schools which have not benefited from similar GOJ Projects
*   Primary and Junior High Schools which have not benefited from similar GOJ Projects
*   Vocational high schools
*   All Age Schools which have large enrollment and have not benefited from other externally
funded projects
Although there are a total of 75 upgraded High Schools, 16 of them have been upgraded during
the 2001-2002 school year through the GOJ's Secondary Enhancement Programme (SEP). These schools
received between JA$5 and 9 million (US$110,000 to US$200,000). Schools were required to produce a
school improvement plan in order to receive funding through this initiative. These schools will therefore
not need to be included in ROSE II. [The GOJ has included a further round of its SEP. If so, any schools
receiving funding will not be funded from loan proceeds but will be considered as counter part funding.]
All Primary and Junior High Schools, except the two already funded through SEP, will be
included in this component of the project.
Approximately 46 All-Age Schools will be included in this component of the project. The
Age-All schools selected will be those which have the largest enrollments in the lower secondary grades
(7-9). It is expected that all those schools with over 75 students in these grades will be included. It is
estimated that this would leave about 15,000 secondary students in the remaining All-Age Schools. One
hundred and twenty of these are receiving support through DFID and USAID supported projects, using a
school improvement planning process. While the remaining schools are generally in the poorest and in
rural areas, they will have access to support and improvement through other ROSE H interventions, such
as the reading and mathematics programs and the library initiative. Including too many All Age schools
in this component of the project risks spreading the additional resources too thinly and failing to make an
impact. In addition, the number of students in the All-Age schools not included in the project is
declining.
Technical High Schools and traditional High Schools are not included in this component.
Technical High Schools are well-versed in developing and using school improvement plans and have
recently received significant additional resources through the Technical High Schools Development
Project, funded by the HEART Trust/National Training Authority (and JICA). Traditional High Schools
are the most well-funded and highest-achieving schools in the Jamaican public system and receive
students with the highest achievement and from the most affluent backgrounds. Most of them are already
using schools improvement plans.
The schools involved in the SIP process will be phased in, to ensure that the mechanisms
established for preparation, review and funding of the SIPs is effective. Approximately half of the
schools will be included in the first year, with the remaining schools participating in the following year.
- 107 -



A mix of schools will be included in the first year to enable schools' experiences in school improvement
planning to help others and to test the effectiveness of the SIP process with each type of school. The list
of schools to be included in the first and subsequent years were agreed before effectiveness.
Activities eligible to receive funding
To ensure that ROSE 11 produce results on the ground and ensure success for all students, plans
must seek to improve student outcomes (attendance, retention and achievement). Particular attention will
be paid to how schools tackle weak basic skills (reading, writing and mathematics) and signs of student
disaffection (non-attendance, tardiness, behavioral issues etc). Examples of interventions eligible for
funding are as follows:
* Curricular and co-curricular activities to make learning exciting, to entice students to attend
* school daily, to build character, and to provide community services;
*   Remedial education conducted after-school, during the weekends, holidays, and the summer to
bring all students up to the same level and to make up for days lost due to weather or social
unrest;
*   Building up the library, instructional materials, and educational facilities in school;
*   De-tracking of students within the same school;
*   Parenting education/ community outreach to ensure consistent and comprehensive support to
students;
*   Teacher professional development to deepen subject matter knowledge and to update
pedagogical practices, to keep abreast of professional trend in education and counseling related
areas (including workshops, national and intemational conferences);
*   Partnership/twinning with other schools in Jamaica or in another country to share good practice
and develop joint teacher and student activities;
*   Management training for principals and senior staff, especially in the use and analysis of student
performance data and in financial planning and
*   Refurbishment to make the school more functional, safe, and attractive.
*   Student activities developed and managed by students. (Student activities will encourage active
engagement by students and create innovative solutions. This approach has been tried
successfully in the Bank-financed secondary education projects in Argentina and Chile.)
Civil works will not be funded.
Funding Formula
The amount of money that schools will receive to support the implementation of their SIP will be
determined through a formula based on the percentage of students who scored below 30 percent correct
on the grade 6 GSAT, taking into account total enrollment in the school and subject to each school
receiving a minimum amount. The formula and indicative allocations to schools will be finalized before
effectivenessl. In this way, resources can be more effectively targeted at lower achieving students and
schools can prepare realistic SIP based on their expected allocation. Finally, this should speed up the
transfer of funds to schools since the amount will be known ahead of time.
School Improvement Planning Process
There is considerable experience in Jamaica in using school improvement plans, through various
initiatives: Secondary Enhancement Programme (funded by MOEYC); Technical High Schools
Development Project (funded by HEART Trust/National Training Authority and JICA); Jamaica All Age
-108-



Schools Project (funded by DFID); and New Horizons (funded by USAID). The process and
documentation used in the various projects has tended to converge over time, even though the last two
projects are at the primary level. The School Improvement Planning process used in ROSE II will be
derived from all these experiences. It is hoped that by the second cycle of school improvement plans
under ROSE II a common set of materials and procedures will be in place for all school planning in
Jamaica: The Bank and MOEYC will be discussing this with the other donors.
The SIP process will have several steps.
1.     Orientation and training
Teams from clusters of schools (probably 5 or 6 schools of different types) will be trained
together so that they can support each other while they develop their SIPs. Teams from each school will
consist of those charged with developing the SIP. Schools will be required to establish a SIP Committee
consisting of: the principal, a member of the teaching staff, a member of the School Board, and a parent.
Other members can be co-opted, including a student.
The expertise at the workshops will come from the Regional Education Officers, the ROSE II
Education Officers and from other that have been involved in the SIP process previously (such as
principals, senior teachers and possibly some teachers). Resource persons would be co-opted as required.
The main training tool for the cluster workshop will be the SIP Manual. Training would focus on
those aspects identified as weak in existing SIP process; especially, setting targets, and monitoring and
evaluation. Training should include preparation of cash flows and work plans with activities on a
quarterly basis For schools that have been through the training, in subsequent years a lighter touch will
be needed, focusing'on problems that emerge during the initial cycle of SIPs.
2.     Consultation on and preparation of SIP
Following the cluster workshops, the school teams will return to their schools to consult widely
in the school community on their SIP. The School Manual will provide comprehensive infornation
about how to complete these SIPs. Schools will get additional assistance from other schools in their
cluster and from the Regional Education Officers. Given the number of schools involved, additional
technical assistance may need to be purchased.
Schools will be required to explain, in their SIP, how they consulted with staff (including
non-teaching staff), parents and students.
Schools will be require to identify strategies and goals that relate to improving student
performance on national assessments; they will have to cost out the plan, with price quotations, cash flow
for each year. Schools will need to track intermediate indicators like student attendance. Schools already
have access to student attendance and national assessment data to provide baseline statistics for their SIP.
Schools will be provided with the formns to be completed (templates included at the end of this
annex). These will be provided in electronic form to schools.
Schools will produce a three year SIP, which will also identify in detail the strategies proposed to
be carried out in the first year, their cost, the performance indicators for each strategy, with cash flow for
the first year, and work plan which reflects the spread of work on a quarterly basis. At the beginning of
each year, the cash flow for that year will be presented. Performance indicators of the previous years will
- 109 -



be reviewed.
3.     Regional Review Panel
Schools' SIPs will be reviewed by a Regional Review Panel to ensure they are realistic,
cost-effective and targeted at improving student outcomes. Detailed criteria for evaluating SIPs will be
set out in the Operations and School Manuals.
The Review Panel will be chaired by the Regional Director and include a Regional Education
Officer (Secondary Education), the Regional Financial Controller, a ROSE II Education Officer, and 1
school principal from another Region. Additional technical input will be sought as necessary by the
Panel.
If the Panel approves a school's SIP, the Panel Chair will notify the Deputy Chief Education
Officer so that funds can be disbursed to the school. If the Panel is not satisfied with the SIP, it will
notify the school in writing, given the reasons for rejection. If SIP is rejected, the school will revise the
plan in light of comments from the Panel and resubmit its plan. The Panel will be reconvened to review
the revised plan.
4.     Disbursement to and Procurement by Schools
Once its SIP is approved, a school will receive two tranches of funding that reflect the
implementation schedule in the plan over the course of a year; each tranche will be the equivalent of six
months' funds. Schools will make all their own purchases for goods and services, as they currently have
experience doing from funds raised locally (either through school fees or fund-raising) in keeping with
GOJ /World Bank procurement procedures.
5.     Accountability
Schools will be held accountable for the strategies they use to improve student learning
outcomes, through the performance indicators set out in the SIP. At the end of the first year, during the
preparation of their SIP for the second year, schools will be required to show the progress they have
made towards their targets. Funds will not be made available for the second and third years unless (a)
the Regional Review Panel is satisfied with the progress the school has made in its previous year, (b) the
funds for the previous year are accounted for, and (c) its proposals for the year are realistic,
cost-effective and targeted.
The procedures and criteria for the operation of the Regional Review Panel will be set out in the
School Manual to ensure transparency and objectivity to its operations.
6.     Transfer of funds to schools
Once a school's SIP has been approved by the Regional Review Panel, the Chair of the Panel
will submit a copy of the approved plan together with a request for payment of the initial tranche of
money to the PCU. The first tranche will cover half a year's work plan. A check will then be sent directly
from the Finance Department of the Project Management and Technical Services Division to the school,
for deposit in its bank account. In the second and third years, the same cycle will be repeated.
7.     Procurement by schools
- 110-



All goods and services that need to be purchased to support the implementation of a school's SIP
will be procured by schools themselves. While it is tempting to think that some economies of scale might
be achieved through centralized purchasing, the experience of the Technical High Schools Development
Plan project was that school-based purchasing resulted in significantly more efficient use of resources.
All schools, including All Age and Primary and Junior High Schools, have experience of
purchasing goods and services. Upgraded High Schools currently receive a subvention from the
MOEYC to pay salaries of staff and for maintenance, they collect tuition fees, and raise additional
resources themselves. While All-Age Schools do not collect money in these first two ways, they do raise
resources locally. The SIP process will require schools to secure at least two quotations for the goods
and services they propose to purchase.
8.     Audit
The current procedures for auditing schools' spending will be followed by ROSE II. In addition,
a random selection of school's will be audited by internal and external auditors.
Operations Manual and other documentation
A School SIP Manual has been prepared (see Project Files)
- 11-



Additional Annex 15: Bursaries for Independent School Places
JAMAICA: REFORM OF SECONDARY EDUCATION PROJECT II
The Government's White Paper of February 2001, Education the Way Upward, sets a target of
"five years of secondary education for all students entering Grade 7 in the year 2003 and thereafter."
The 2000 Survey of Living Conditions (SLC) reported close to universal enrollment in primary
education, with 97 percent of 6-11 year olds enrolled. The placement rate of students who sit the Grade
Six Achievement Test (GSAT) at the end of primary education is 100 percent. Nevertheless, despite the
guarantee of places in lower secondary education, parents who are not satisfied with schools their
children are placed in may choose not to send them there. They may find a place in a private school, or
they may find a place in another public school. Public schools can reserve 5 percent of the places to
exercise discretion as to whom to admit.
According to the SLC, the net enrollment ratio for 12-14 year old children falls to 78 percent.
This could be due to a number of factors. First, it could be due to the definition and way of calculating
the net enrollment ratio (the number of the students of a particular age enrolling in the grade designated
for that age). Because of the past policy of automatic promotion, Jamaican students are promoted based
on whether they have reached certain age, not on whether they have mastered the skills. Thus, the
age-by-grade variation is very narrow. Between 82 to 70 percent of students in primary education are of
the appropriate age and the rest are mostly one year behind. By Grade 7, because some parents do not
want to send their children to the schools in which they were placed, many opt for repeating the child in
grade 6 (most probably in independent schools) in order to improve their chance of being placed in a
better secondary school. Net enrollment in lower secondary education of children in the richest income
quintile remains at 100 percent.
An even bigger reduction in enrolment occurs after lower secondary education, since the number
of government places in upper secondary is inadequate currently to absorb all of those who complete
Grade 9, and the Junior High School Certificate (JHSC) examination has been used to select students for
entry into Grade 10. In order for universal secondary education, the White Paper's target, to be achieved,
additional places will have to be created in secondary education. The reduction in enrollments after
Grade 6 and after Grade 9 would be even greater were it not for the large number of independent schools
in Jamaica, many of these owned and operated by different church organizations, and many willing to
take students who are failing from the public system.
Of Jamaica's 1,279 educational institutions, 283 (22 percent) are independently owned and
operated. The typical private institution is, however, much smaller than the typical governnent
institution. According to MOEYC's 2000 School Census, only about 6 percent of pre-school pupils and
10 percent of primary school pupils are enrolled in private institutions. In secondary education, private
school students accounts for only 1 percent. (See Table 15.1 for the distribution of public and private
(independent) schools by region.
-112-



Table 15.1. Distribution of Public and Independent Educational Institutions by Region, 2000-01
King-  Saint  Saint Port- Saint Saint Trel- Saint Han- West- Saint Man-  Clar-  Saint  All
ston  Andr. Thom. land  Mary  Ann  awny James over more. Eliz.   hstr endon  Cath  Jatnaica
Public Educational Institutions
Infant/Primary/Special  25    41    30    21   31     19   14    15   13    25    35    22    42     51    384
All Age                 4     26     9    20    24   46    16   21     19   28    35    34    35     36    353
Primary/Junior High     3     16     4     6    7     6    2     7     3     5    5     5     11     11     91
Secondary High          12    28     4    5     6     7    5     7     3     6    9     10    15     17     134
Voc./Agr./Technical     2     1      1          2     1          1     2     1    2     1      1     2      17
Colleges/Universities         7            1          2          2                1     1      1     2      17
Total Public    46    119    48    53   70    81    37   53    40    65   87    73    105    119    996
Independent Educational Institutions
KG/Preparatory/Special  5     57     5     5    1     10    3    21    5    12    5     12    6      16     163
Preparatory/Secondary   I     10           1    1     2          7     1           1    2     2      3      31
Secondary High          2     14                      2          2                2     4            2      28
Voc./Agr./Business      7     21     0     1    0     3     0    8     0     4    0     1     4      12     61
Total Independent  15   102    5     7     2    17    3    38     6    16    8    19     12    33     283
Grand Total            61    221    53    60    72   98    40    91   46    81    95    92    117   152     1,279
Source: MOEYC, Planning and Development Division, Statistics Section, Jamaica: Directory of Educational Institutions 2000-2001.
A principal explanation for the small number of children enrolled in independent secondary
schools is the difference in tuition fees between the public and private sectors. In 2000/01,under the
Government's system of "cost sharing" in secondary education, the highest fees paid by some students in
the government traditional High Schools (the most prestigious of the public secondary schools) was
approximately JMD 8,000 (about USD 170) each academic year. The average fees for the upgraded High
Schools were about JMD 4,800 (about USD 100). The least expensive (and usually of less quality)
independent secondary schools charge about JMD 24,000 per year, and the most expensive ones charge
up to JMD 150,000 per year - three to twelve times as much as a traditional High. For poor families, the
private school fees are prohibitive. This, together with the fact that many of the public Secondary Highs
have excellent reputations, makes the competition for entry into these schools very intense.
Not surprisingly, many of those admitted to the traditional Secondary High Schools come from
Jamaica's wealthier homes, since these students tend to score well on the GSAT. Their high scores
reflect their enriched and intellectually stimulating home environments, but also the fact that many of
those who later attend public secondary schools were sent earlier to private primary level schools (known
as Preparatory, or Prep, Schools) in order to give them a leg up on the placement/screening examinations
at the end of primary education. Ironically, poor students, who cannot afford the high private costs of a
Prep School, are sometimes left with just two choices at the end of their basic education - to drop out, or
to attend one of the higher cost private secondary schools. This is well understood by all Jamaicans, and
it is a troubling equity issue that MOEYC must face.
The Ministry is planning a two-pronged strategy for increasing the number of secondary level
places, especially in Grades 10 and 11, at which level the enrollment ratio for children from the poorest
consumption quintile is below 70 percent. The Planning and Development Division of MOEYC
estimates that an additional 22,000 students will need to be enrolled in Grades 10 and 11 in order to
achieve universal secondary education.
First, some new government schools will be built, and some existing government schools
expanded - in areas where the out-of-school problem is most severe and where there is little excess
capacity in existing (public and private) schools. Current civil works plans to be financed with support
from ROSE-Il call for three new government schools to be built and three existing government schools to
be expanded. These interventions would add approximately 4,950 secondary school places in the public
- 113-



sector.
The second part of the Government's two-part strategy for expanding educational access will be
to enter into a new partnership with the independent schools. The idea of a public-private partnership in
education is by no means a new one in Jamaica. At one time, most secondary schools in Jamaica were
church owned and operated (and a smaller number owned and operated by private, non-religious
companies and trusts). Over time, however, the Government expanded education in Jamaica by opening
many new schools of its own. The lower fees in these subsidized, public schools put increased pressure
on the independent schools, which had to struggle to cover their operating costs. Some turned to
Government for help, and in the 1960s, agreements were reached with some such schools whereby the
Government took over the payment of teachers' salaries and, in effect, began running these schools,
using administrators assigned by the state. Ownership of the facilities, and some level of oversight,
however, remained with the churches. Approximately one-third of Jamaica's 996 existing public
educational institutions are housed in buildings owned by private institutions such as churches,
companies and trusts, and the other two-thirds are in buildings owned, rented or leased by the
Government.
The new partnership between Government and the private sector will be based on a different
model. Rather than taking over the operation of schools that are now independent, MOEYC will provide
bursaries to these schools, which will continue to be privately operated. Teachers will continue to be
hired, and their salaries paid, by the private owners. Each private school will continue to enroll
fee-paying students, retain its own special character, or may choose to modify it in ways acceptable to the
board and attractive to potential students. However, those participating schools will accept placement
from MOEYC for the excess spaces for which they are willing to accept bursaries.
The way the new partnership will work is as follows. First, MOEYC assesses how many
additional students need to be accommodated in each Jamaican community, and how many of these can
be accommodated in the government schools now serving these communities. This has been done
through the annual placement at the end of GSAT and JHSC examinations. Second, MOEYC will
advertise in the newspaper to invite independent schools in areas with a growing school-age population
who cannot be placed in the public system to express an interest to participate in the scheme. An
independent school cannot be forced to offer places over and above the total enrollment that the school
administrators and governing board believe can be accommodated "comfortably" - that is, without
changing the character of the school or lowering its quality of instruction. However, once an agreement
is reached, a memorandum of understanding will be signed by which the participating schools will
commit to educate students that are placed by MOEYC through the JHSC placement system. Some of
these students who come from All-Age Schools may have to repeat Grade 9 before they can take on the
CXC curriculum in Grades 10 and 11. The table below illustrates how the process might work.
Table 15. 2. Cost of Partnership Program Under Certain Assumptions
Variable                               Value    Assumption                  Who?
Independent schools offering CXC        50      MOEYC to confirrn           Registrar of Inde. Schs.
Schools acceptable to MOEYC             20      MOEYC to assess             Permanent Secretary to decide
Excess capacity in G7-9                    1,200 average 60 places in each school  Reg. of Inde. Schs. to confirm
Excess capacity in G10- 1                   800 average 40 places in each school  Reg. of Inde. Schs. to confirm
Of these, in places where needed           1,000 MOEYC to assess            Planning Department
Places to be subsidized                     650 Half needs repeating G7     Minister/Permanent Secretary
Total amount of subsidy  (JMD/yr)      18,200,000 JMD 28,000 per place      Minister/Permanent Secretary
(USD/yr)            387,234 JMD not depreciate against USD (JMD 47 = USD 1)
Additional revenues for schools (JMD/yr)  22,100,000 Cost sharing @ JMD 6,000 per yr  Minister/Permanent Secretary
-114 -



The likely participants of this scheme are schools which are currently operating below their
capacity (and below enrollment levels reached in the 1970s and 1980s) in the Montego Bay, Mandeville,
Kingston and Spanish Town areas where would-be students cannot be accommodated in the public
schools. The ROSE II Project will pay a bursary at a single rate to the participating schools for each
student they enroll. The bursary will be the equivalent to the per student recurrent expenditure on
secondary education in the public system.
This single rate bursary has the advantage of being simpler and fairer to apply, irrespective of
how much the school charges its regular students. The eligible schools must satisfy the Ministry's
standards in curriculum offering, teacher qualification and physical space and safety. The scheme is
expected to give a boost to schools which are struggling to survive.
The size of the bursary paid for each new student enrolled should at least cover the school's
marginal cost. Because of scale economies, however, the marginal cost will be lower than the school's
average cost, which is approximated by the school's current tuition fee level. In the case of the eight
independent schools visited by the World Bank mission in October/November 2001, current tuition fees
ranged between JMD 24,000 and JMD 96,000, and the average tuition fee charged by these schools was
JMD 45,000. It is proposed here that Government offer a bursary of JMD 30,000 for each additional
student taken by the nation's independent schools. This is about the same as the average unit operating
cost in public education today, and it is lower than the total unit cost in public education, which includes
the cost of capital as well (covered by the church owners in the case of many government schools - see
above). The cost comparison between the two approaches for expanding access will be discussed further
below.
If a private school participates in the scheme, it will be required to accept the bursary offered by
the Government (i.e., the proposed JMD 30,000) as payment for tuition fees at the school (including
tuition, any 'voluntary' PTA contributions, extra-curricular activity, etc). Parents would pay any fees
normally paid in public schools (such as cost sharing fees) but they should pay an average of the fees
charged by the public schools in and around the area.
The total cost to Government of the partnership program  depends on:  (1) how many
independent schools participate, and (2) the total number of bursaries provided in these schools.
Assuming that there are 50 independent schools currently offering Grades 7-11 and following the CXC
curriculum, but that only 20 of these can currently satisfy the Ministry's standards and are willing to
participate in the scheme, and that the average excess capacity in these 20 schools is 60 places in Grades
7-9 but only 40 places in Grades 10 and 11, this suggests that there are 2,000 suitable secondary places in
the private sector. Some of these places may not be in the communities where they are most needed,
however. Assuming that half of the places are where the Ministry decides there is need, and that 65
percent of students placed are willing to go to the schools, 650 additional students can be placed in the
private schools.
Some of the students, however, who will attend an independent school after finishing Grade 9
would have performned poorly on the JHSC examination. Those who have performed well in rare cases,
improve their situation by transferring into one of the prestigious traditional High Schools. An estimated
half of the JHSC placed students will have to repeat Grade 9 before moving to Grade 10. Therefore, the
number of students that Government will provide bursaries for in private secondary schools will be
1,300.
- 115 -



This means that, over the five years of the ROSE-Il project, the cost would amount to JMD 96
million (USD 2.0 million). Students who attend independent schools under the bursary scheme will
contribute to cost-sharing in the same way as students in the public system. So, the total revenue to
independent schools is not only the JMD 30,000 per students but JMD36,000, if they charge of a fee of
JMD 6,000 per year, for example.
The cost of the bursaries is certainly less than would be needed for Government to accommodate
the same number of additional students in (new or expanded) government secondary schools. Table 3
estimates the unit cost of secondary education in one government school that accommodates 1000
students. The approximate construction cost of a school of this size would be $3.0 million. The annual
cost of the building consists, therefore, of three components - (1) the opportunity cost of the funds used
for construction, (2) an amortization cost, assuming here that the building has a 30-year useful life, and
(3) the cost of routine maintenance (re-painting, repairs, etc.). According to the estimates in Table 3, this
amounts to $259,000 per year. The annual operating cost of the school comprises at least three
additional components: (1) the personnel costs, (2) the cost of utilities, and (3) other non-salary recurrent
costs. Table 15.3 assumes that these three components will require the following amounts annually: (1)
$550,000, (2) $10,000, and (3) $180,000. It is further assumed that the last of these components (other
non-salary recurrent costs) will be financed, not by Government, but by the cost sharing fees contributed
by families who send their children to the school. This suggests an annual cost to Government of
$819,000, and an annual cost to Jamaican society of $999,000. The annual unit cost to Government,
assuming 1,000 students in the school, will be $819 (or JMD 40,950). Of this amount, $259 (JMD
12,950) represents the cost of capital, and $560 (JMD 28,000) represents the operating cost of the school
that is borne by the Government. The proposed subsidy to private schools under the partnership program
would also be JMD 30,000, which is less than 70 percent of the Government's cost if it chooses instead
to build new schools.
The placement of students in independent schools will be exactly the same as placement by
JHSC/GNAT - based on student/parental choice and test scores. The current placement system in GSAT
as in JHSC allow families to provide three choices of schools during the registration period. Whether
students will be placed in a school of their choice depends on their test scores. Most families would
prefer a traditional High School. However, since these schools are highly selective, the second choice for
many is an upgraded High School. The last choice for most families is an All-Age School or a Junior
High School, where only 3 years of secondary education are provided and their child has to go through
another placement exercise at the end of Grade 9. Because of the much higher price, a private secondary
school is not affordable to many, except for those who can afford the tuition fees, or the school is
perceived to be especially "good," because of high CXC (Caribbean Examination Council) results or
because of its "special character" (e.g., safe environment, small class sizes, and particular values or
particular religious orientation). In this scheme, the list of participating schools will be provided during
registration so that they can be listed as one of the choices.
The partnership program seems to offer a real "win-win" situation. The Government will
achieve its objective of getting more students into secondary education (and at a lower cost than if it were
to build new classrooms), and the independent schools will be helped to operate more efficiently, at a
level closer to their full capacity, which will enable them operate at a lower average cost.
-116-



Table 15. 3. Cost to Government of Building and Operating New School for 1,000 Students
Total             Per student
(USD)         (USD)        (JMD)
Up-front capital cost (school construction)         3,000,000       3,000       150,000
Annual cost
Capital cost, of which                            385,000         385        19,250
Opportunity cost of capital (7.5%)             225,000         225        11,250
Amortization of school building (30 years)     100,000         100         5,000
Maintenance (2%)                                60,000          60         3,000
Teachers and administrative staff, of which       550,000         550        27,500
Salaries (50 @ $10,000)                        500,000         500        25,000
Teachers benefits (10% of salaries)             50,000          50         2,500
Utilities                                          10,000          10           500
Non-salary school inputs (student cost-sharing)    150,000         150         7,500
Total cost                                       1,095,000       1,095       54,750
Total cost borne by Government, of which          945,000         945        47,250
Capital costs                                  385,000         385        19,250
Operating costs                                560,000         560        28,000
- 117-



Additional Annex 16: Monitoring, Evaluation and Assessment
JAMAICA: REFORM OF SECONDARY EDUCATION PROJECT II
A. Monitoring and Evaluation
Monitoring and evaluation of the ROSE H project will build on existing examination, survey and
evaluation capacity, in part supported through ROSE I, and will focus on quantifying the impact of
ROSE II:
*   On upper secondary access and achievement as measured by standardized tests administered by
the MOEYC and the CXC at grades 9 and 11.
*   On upper secondary access for students from households in the lowest consumption quintile as
assessed through the Jamaican Survey of Living Conditions
*   On the quality of secondary education as assessed through interviews, observations and focus
groups undertaken by the MOEYC Evaluation Unit.
Responsibility for assembling semi-annual monitoring and evaluation reports from these various units
would be assigned to the Programme Monitoring and Evaluation Unit.
Upper secondary access and achievement. Access to upper secondary education is controlled
initially through placement at the end of grade six (based on performance on the grade 6 Achievement
Test-GSAT). Generally, higher scoring students enter programs offering grades 7-11+, while other
students enter Junior High or All Age programs offering grades 7-9. Access to senior secondary programs
(grades 10-11+) for students in Junior High and All Age programs is controlled through two placement
examinations administered at grade 9: (a) the Grade 9 Achievement Test (GNAT) for students in All-Age
schools and (b) the Junior High School Certification examination (JHSC) for students in Primary and
Junior High Schools, Upgraded High Schools and Traditional High Schools (now all designated High
Schools). As these tests are standardized and equated for difficulty across forms and years, they provide
suitable indicators for monitoring achievement change over time and across school types. In addition, the
number of placements from these tests is a suitable indicator for monitoring access to grade 10. The
project will provide support to the Student Assessment Unit to sustain these tests and to continue
rationalization of the MOEYC testing and assessment, to ensure key project impact indicators are
available.
Achievement at the end of upper secondary is measured by two certification examinations
administered typically at grade 11: (a) the Caribbean Examinations Council Certificate of Secondary
Education for students studying the CXC syllabus, and (b) the MOEYC's Secondary School Certificate
for students studying the Jamaican secondary school curriculum. The shares of the relevant grade cohort
(grade 11) who attain Grades 1-3 or ranges 4 and 5 in English Language and Mathematics subject tests in
CXC or SSC, respectively. are suitable indicators for assessing improvements in the quality of the labor
force. Grade 11 cohort data will be provided annually to monitor project impact; age cohort data will be
available in conjunction with the SLC.
A special study would be commissioned on the impact of the student tuition payment scheme,
which would finance additional upper secondary places on the basis of student choice and JHSC scores.
One possible study design would involve placing qualified students in independent schools or public
schools at random, when the student's first or second choice school is not available. Utilizing a
- 118-



randomized control study design would greatly enhance the evaluation of the impact of the student
"voucher" on student achievement.
Poverty focus. The Jamaican Survey of Living Conditions (SLC) provides data on children from a
national sample of households. It has been proposed that in 2003, the education module would be revised
slightly to aid in monitoring the impact of ROSE II on children from various household consumption
quintiles; the focus would be on children in the poorest households. Proposed revisions include: (a)
adding a question asking if the child has taken the JHSC, (b) adding a question about the child's first
enrollment in grade 9, (c) revising a question about school completion to indicate the final grade level
completed, and (d) various revisions to questions on school costs. The revised SLC data would be
available after 2003 only, so SLC data from the 2001 survey will provide limited baseline indicators for
children of households in various consumption quintiles.
Ouality of secondary schools. The MOEYC Evaluation Unit has undertaken a number of studies of
ROSE I, focusing on the qualitative aspects of the reform. These include focus group discussions with
parents, teachers, administrators, school board members and students, as well as observations of
classroom processes. These evaluation methodologies would be employed to assess such qualitative
issues as: (a) teacher and headmaster's perceptions regarding the timeliness and quality of the technical
assistance and supervision provided by the regional office in supporting the school development process,
(b) regional officer's perception of the timeliness of the delivery of inputs to schools and the quality of
technical advice given by the central ministry, (c) students' perceptions of the usefulness of the school
development process, and (d) observations of school improvement, including classroom and
school-based observations.
B. Assessment
Jamaica has long recognized that assessment can play a vital role in educational decision making.
In the past, testing was valued for its role in providing seemingly objective means for allocating scarce
secondary school places to all children on the basis of merit, regardless of their background. Tests such
as the Common Entrance Exam were viewed as providing incentives for many primary school children to
try harder and as motivating parents to support their children's efforts. With expansion of access and the
availability of more school places, the role of assessment has shifted. Exams are now used for placement
rather than selection and for diagnosing and tracking children's skills and instructional needs.
Significant accomplishments in improving the efficiency of the Jamaican testing system were
achieved over the past decade, supported in part by ROSE I, in two ways: (a) technical improvements and
(b) examination rationalization.
Technical improvements. Under ROSE I, modernization of test development, administration, and
analysis processes improved efficiency. In-house capacity for test development has been upgraded. Test
forms from year-to-year are equated and the psychometric properties of the test have been evaluation and
validity supported. SAU officers have gained important skills in item development and vetting, item
pretesting, maintaining an extensive item. bank, and providing feedback to schools. The registration
process was streamlined and reporting processes are being standardized. The process used to place
students in grades 7 and 9 was computerized to incorporate student performance on GSAT and JHSC
exams, respectively, student choice, and school space availability. The placement algorithms were
developed and tested at the pilot level, parameters were refined, and the process is now fully
implemented and operational. These processes would be sustained under ROSE II.
-119-



Progress in rationalization. Significant progress has been made in modernizing and streamlining
the overall Jamaican testing program, with support from ROSE I. The Common Entrance Exams (CEE
11 + and CEE Technical) have been eliminated. The Grade 6 Achievement Test (GSAT) which replaced
the CEE 11+ altered the nature of the exam from a purely selection test to a more curriculum-based,
placement test. The Grade 9 Achievement Test is being phased out and currently All-Age school
candidates from non-ROSE schools sit the mathematics and language arts sections of the Junior High
School Certificate (JHSC) exam. The JHSC exam was developed as a psychometrically sound exam
program that supports the ROSE curriculum and is fully implemented in ROSE school; ROSE II would
continue to support this exam.
Since 1993, eighteen of the 29 Jamaican School Certificate (JSC) and two of the Secondary
School Certificate (SSC) exams have been eliminated, and practical and school based components have
been dropped from most of the exams. Non-academic SSC tests have not been fully replaced by the
HEART/NTA (National Vocational Qualifications of Jamaica (NVQJ) level 1 certificate with the
subsequent elimination of these SSC tests because many workshops do not meet the standards required
for certification. The volume of the JSC examination has more than doubled since 1992, with more than
11,000 candidates taking the English and Mathematics exams, suggesting that a greater number of out of
school candidates are aspiring for some form of certification. An High School Equivalency Examination
is being developed by HEART Trust /NTA for out of school persons .Pilotting will begin in
September2002. It is to be administered by the JAMAL Foundation.To replace the remaining JSC
academic subject exams with similar JHSC exams would necessitate making ROSE syllabi and materials
for these subjects available to the out-of-school test candidates. The limited availability of ROSE
curriculum materials has been an issue for some time, and ROSE II could consider supporting this reform
in access to materials.
Table 16.1: Summary of Jamaican TestlExamination Programs, 2002
Name         Age/      Purpose      Description                       Recommendations
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ G rad e   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
Grade 1     Beginning  Provides     Administered by teachers who send  1. Provide support to
Readiness   of grade 1  diagnostic  results to MOEYC for data entry and  teachers in using the results.
Inventory             information   analysis.                         2. Selectively sample
to teachers                                     school results for national
for                                            monitoring
instructional
use
Provides data
for national
monitoring                       _
Grade 3      End of    Provides     Administered by teachers who send  1.  Shift
Achievement 3rd grade  student      results to MOEYC for data entry and  administration to
achievement  analysis.                          eginning of 3rd
information                                    grade
Provides data                                   .  Provide support
for national                                   o teachers in using
monitoring                                     esults
3 . Selectively
ample school results
- 120 -



for national
monitoring
Grade 4      End of    Assesses     Includes 3 subtests: Word recognition, 1.  Consider test
Literacy Test Grade 4  literacy     reading comprehension, and writing;  administration date
levels of    Students are classified as Not at risk,  to determnine if end
children and  Uncertain risk, or At Risk.     of 4th grade is
identifies                                    optimal
those                                         2.   Consider
children who                                  adding category:
are "at risk"                                 possibly add
for purposes                                  "partial" or
of                                            "minimum risk"
intervention                                  label
(summer
school and
possible
repetition)
Grade 6      End of    Placement    Curriculum-based test covering maths, I .  Alignment with
Achievement Grade 6    test for     language, science, social studies, and  iew primary
Test (GSAT)            secondary    communication. (mix of multiple  curriculum was done
school       choice and constructed response   with PESP.
programs;    fonnats)                          2.  Identify
Provides data                                  sub-component for
for national                                  literacy monitoring
monitoring
Junior High  May of    Selection/pla  Curriculum-based test covering  I .  Support
School       Grade 9   cement test  language, maths, science, and social  continued capacity
Certificate           for upper     studies (multiple choice format) as  building (and better
(JHSC)                 secondary    well as Extended Writing and     succession planning)
programs for  Resource & Technology            n test development
students in  (constructed/open response format)  and equating.
ROSE junior                                    2.  Use results to
high schools;                                  monitor progress in
Provides                                       educing percentage
achievement                                    of low performers.
record/certifi                                 3.  Add question to
cate for                                       registration or test
school                                         form about where the
leavers                                        candidate sat the
Provides data                                  GSAT.
for national
monitoring
Grade 9      May of    Selection test Being phased out; Currently it  Eliminate
Achievement Grade 9    for senior   comprises the Math and Language
Test (GNAT)            secondary    sections of the JHSC exam
programs for
All Age
school
- 121 -



students from
non-ROSE
schools
Secondary    End of    National     Tests academic and vocational      1. Volume is growing
School       Grade 11  level        subjects; only Language and Maths  consider implications
Certificate            Certification  have school based                2 Review feasibility of
(SSC) Exams            Entry to                                        using selected academic
tertiary and                                    tests for high school
selected civil                                  equivalency
service                                         3 Eliminate low volume
subject tests
CXC-Basic    End of                                                    Phase out/CXC
grade 11                                                 transitioning to modular
.__ ___ ___  _____approach
CXC-General End of     Regional     Tests academic and vocational
Grade 11  certification  subjects; January testing has
Entry to     alternative to school based; Language
tertiary     and Maths don't have school based
CXC-Advanc End of      Entry to     Offers advanced level certification;  Replaces GCE A levels
Proficiency  grade 13  University   candidates need not have finished
Examination                         grade 13.
(C A PE )_    _  _ __                 _  _ _  _  _ _  _  _ _  _ _  _   _ _ _ _  _  _ _  _   _ _
Jamaican     Out of    National     Certificate exam covering academic  Volume is growing
School       school    certification  and vocational areas. Low volume  Re-evaluate the potential
Certificate            for out of   vocational tests have been eliminated.  for out of school candidates
(JSC)                  school                                          to access JHSC exam or for
Exams                  candidates                                      JSC to focus on minimum
competency assessment in
literacy/numeracy.
Grade I Readiness and Grade 3 diagnostic: These instruments have been applied nationwide
every year since 1996. They are administered and scored by teachers. Subtest scores for individual
students are sent to the MOEYC with approximately a 40-50% return rate. Scores received by the
MOEYC are entered into a data base for potential analysis however the low return rate greatly reduces
the utility of the results for national monitoring. A more efficient and sound method would be to select
specific schools from whom to collect data and monitor results. Also, since the tests are intended to
provide diagnostic information for teachers to use in planning instruction, the timing of the tests and
support provided to teachers for using the results should be revisited.
Grade 4 Literacy Test-This test was introduced in 1999 and is administered by teachers at the
end of 4th grade. It's purpose is to classify children into one of 3 categories with regard to literacy: Not
at Risk, Uncertain, At Risk. There are 3 subtests: word recognition, reading comprehension, and writing.
A student must perform well on all 3 subtests to be considered Not at Risk. Students performning poorly
on all 3 subtests are considered At Risk. All other students are classified into the Uncertain category.
Recommendation: Each exam should be re-evaluated in terms of its intended purpose. Many
exams have persisted in the system despite the fact that users have lost sight of their intended utility. In
some instances, the exam no longer serves the intended purpose. In these and other cases, small changes
could substantially increase the utility of the exam results.
- 122-



Additional Annex 17: Operational Structure for Rose II
JAMAICA: REFORM OF SECONDARY EDUCATION PROJECT II
n~~~    a1
FCU RMr14ENrA7M* %FU
L~~~                                       ~~~~ 123-
|;U9>l Ln C 1 XWW
liLFJT   ~ ~S 9;kl   C NIL   S}e5N1T   BA   J S   +1ll 5mI a  RN   ITCNL
SE  9 Bw alu  =   iuc   am                          RZF5 WN I
A_OM  _FM     \    _              T
\\  ~~~~~~~~~~~Cri R
=                '\\   =          l J          lemm mmm
I  I   I      ''\ ~~~~123 - 



Additional Annex 18: Abbreviated Resettlement Plan for the Rivesdale Site
JAMAICA: REFORM OF SECONDARY EDUCATION PROJECT II
The site for the construction of a High School in Riversdale, St. Catherine have illegal occupants.
As a result, a survey was conducted in the beginning of March from which the following infornation was
obtained.
Table 1: Status of Settlements
Household     No. of
Number        persons in     No. of     Employment      Evaluation of  Comments
Household     Children    Status          Assets
1 I           none        unemployed      $8,000        Willing to be
relocate d
2             7             5           Domestic        $20,000        Willing to be
Helper                        relocated
3             5             3           Higgler         $15,000        Willing to be
relocated
4             4             3           unemployed      $10,000        Willing to be
relocated
5             6             4           Carpenter       $15,000        Willing to be
relocated
4             2           Labourer        $20,000        Willing to be
I______________   I______________   ________________   I______________   relo cated
The findings of the survey indicate that the dwellings occupied by the settlers are in a state of
disrepair arising mainly from the fact that they were not properly constructed in the first place. The
dwellings are board structures with no proper utilities in place.
Table 2: Resettlement Schedule
Activities             Dates             Budget                     Comments
Conduct census survey  February, 2002     1 household @ $15,000     $15,000 - $25,000 in
of persons on site                        2 households @ $20,000    kind, per household
3 households @ 25,000     depending on size of
Total of $130,000         households. This will be
in the form of building
materials.
Identify alternate site(s)  February, 2002                          Site identified, but
settlers prefer to find
their own sites
Serve official notice  May, 2002                                    Will be done by the
National Land Agency
Persons relocated      By July 31, 2002
Visit from the Estate  September 9, 2002                            Visit will be to confirm
Management Division of                                              relocation of settlers.
the National Land
Agency
-124-



Discussions were held with the settlers and they indicated a willingness to be relocated. With this in
mind, a location was identified for the households to be relocated. The settlers, however prefer to choose
their own site. Consequent upon that, they have identified locations in different areas in Riversdale and
some have started their construction and are making preparation to relocate.
In order to aid in the relocation process, the households will be provided with assistance in terms
of building materials. The families have indicated their agreement with the terms offered and have also
indicated a willingness to work with the relocation timetable discussed.
The Estate Management Division of the National Land Agency will be responsible for the
monitoring and imnplementation of these activities.No later than 12 months after the relocation date, the
MOEYC will make reasonable efforts to locate and follow up on the relocated families to determine if
they have been able to reestablish their livelihood and living situation. If this is not the case for any or all
of the persons relocated, further assistance will be provided by the relevant Govermment institution.
-125 -



- 126 -



Ii         Io                                   I i  i                                            I               I   
85                      %750            7035       77O30'           7701 5          77000            76045           76030            761    15
250  .A 7THE                                                       JAMAICA
-      ; BA     \BAHAMAS                          REFORM OF SECONDARY EDUCATION PROJECT 11
MEXICO                        . 
- 20°                                                  20'-                                    A     NEW SECONDARY SCHOOLS
N     1 *0001                           0     SECONDARY SCHOOL EXTENSIONS
JAMAICA                                                                      MAIN ARTERIAL ROADS
.B!IE           ,    CCaribbeon     Sea                                                             MAIN SECONDARY ROADS
-15 HONDURAS  ,                                      15'-                                           P I I . RAILROADS
,   / f f      --I-- INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES                                             MAIN PORTS
E~f"NICR   UA      80            5            0          84'18045-
85°  I        80'          71'          70'       1 8045                            4'    INTERNATIONAL AIRPORTS
78°15'           78°000          77°451
18030
18000H                   BlUceARIvEr RoIer 1By00B
170451         11EEVATIONS:                                             Rocky Point                           0    5    10   15   20   25 Miles        17045P
Neg  I                                                                                                    A ~~~~1,00it BoI
0     10    20    30    40 Kllometers
..   7,000
-1-15   --   300n                                                                         Taump o p                  Buffce Bay th1opD8inUntofTe oldBn
cn             I  3°°Caribb ea n                                       .,S ea                                 The houndore1s colors,denomntins Der;Jdn Umytof7her Wnnorldn howno
og          I I ooo~,00                                                                                  on this map do not imiply, on the pod of The Wyorl Bank GrCoup, any r
0 Lagmn-nMhaeglratsofaytertryo                                                                                        nyedryee oil
°                                                                    o~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~cceptance of sockhbouindaries  r
O -17030'     78015'           78'000          770450           770301          77015'           77°001           760451          760301           760151  170302 O
0r              I                I0I                  o
I-  18                                           I               IlocIRier                                                                           ive    80 '









IMAGING
Report No.:         24782   JM
Type:      PAD



