Report No. PID10745
Project Name                     Janaica-Second Reform Of Secondary EducatiOn Project
(ROSE II)
Region                           Latin America and Caribbean Region
Sector                           Secondary Education
Project ID                       JMPE71589
Borrower(s)                      Government Of Jamaica
Implementing Agency
Ministry Of Education And Culture
Address: 2 National Heroes Circle, Kingston 4
Contact Person: Ms. Marguerite Bowie
Tel: (876) 922-1400
Fax: (876) 922-6328
Email:Edpersec@Cwjamaica.Com
Environment Category             C
Date PID Prepared                October 25, 2001
Projected Appraisal Date         February 01, 2002
Projected Board Date             April 16, 2002
1. Country and Sector Background
Jamaica is a country of 2.6 million people and with a GNP per capita of
under $2,400 in 1999.    It stands out among lower middle income countries
as one of the few that has attained 93 percent coverage for early
childhood education for children between the ages of 3 and 5, and
practically universal enrolment in primary and lower secondary education
The formal education system serves about 767,000 students at all levels,
or about 30 percent of the total population. About 95 percent of the
students are enrolled in the public secondary education system, and 5
percent in private institutions. These accomplishments reflect a
successful focus of education policy, as well as a strong household demand
for education. Government commitment to education is reflected in the
growth in public expenditure on education from some 4 percent in the early
1990s to 7.6 percent of GDP by the late 1990s. Household spending on
education is high, amounting to about US$624 per household per annum. per
household. Challenges, however, are formidable. The key issues are uneven
quality of primary and secondary education; youth-at-risks; inadequate
access to upper secondary education by the poor; constraint in public
expenditure on education; and constraints in institutional capacity.Uneven
quality of primary and secondary education. There is enormous disparity in
students' mastery of basic cognitive skills: At the end of the Primary
Cycle, over 30 percent of Grade 6 students are functionally illiterate. At
the end of Junior Secondary Education, nearly half of the students do not
fully master Language Arts and Mathematics. Large differences existed
across various school types. At the end of Senior Secondary Education,
pass rates in English and Mathematics in the Caribbean Examination Council
Examination were less than satisfactory. From the employer's point of
view, the inadequate cognitive skills impacted on their work-preparedness



and productivity. Overall, this negatively affect the country's
competitiveness in the global economy.Youth-at-risk. Students from the
first quintile tend not to be in the school system after age 14. As they
tend to be tracked into poorer quality schools, they easily lose interest
in schooling all together and are at risk of falling into delinquent
behavior and getting trap into a cycle of poverty. Poor quality of school
interacts with pre-existing disadvantaged home environment.Inadequate
access to upper secondary education by the poor. The sharp drop off of
enrollment of students from the first quintile after age 14 can also be
attributable to the lack of school places in Grades 10 and 11. For many
students in All-age and Primary and Junior High schools, which offer only
3 years of junior secondary education, there is little opportunity to
continue on with senior secondary education. These schools tend to
concentrate in rural areas which have difficulty recruiting qualified
teachers in the first place and where the dispersion of population makes
building upper secondary schools extremely costly. It is estimated that
about 11,000 Grade 9 graduates do not have a place in Grade 10.Constraints
in education finance. Although GOJ has made education a high priority, the
high level of public debt has put enormous pressure on education
expenditure. Between 1996 and 2000, the budgetary allocation to education
has fluctuated between 11 and 15 percent of the GOJ's budget with debt
servicing and 20 to 30 percent without debt servicing. Of the subvention
provided by the MOEYC, about 95 percent went to salaries and related
expense and of the remaining 5 percent, only about 1.5 percent was slated
for instructional materials and the rest for the other operational areas.
Constraints in institutional capacity. Over the years, the central
ministry has strengthened its capacity in many aspects, including reform
management, curriculum development, textbook development, student
assessment, evaluation, education statistics, policy analysis, civil works
supervision and project account keeping. However, with expanded mandate
and policies of decentralization of services to six regional offices,
school-based management, and accountability, the institutional capacity
needs to be deepened and broadened to ensure that the Ministry can shift
from its traditional role of service supplier to provider of technical
assistance and advice to schools. Summary and outlook. These challenges
are formidable. However, the population trend also provides a window for
improving the system in this and the next decades. The total fertility
rate is trending down (in spite of rising teenage pregnancy) and the
age-group of 3-to-5 is projected to go into decline by 2006, to be
followed closely by the age group of 6-to-11. The cohort for secondary
education will see an increase throughout the first decade of the 21st
century and then go into a decline. The eventual reduction in the
school-age population would lift the pressure on public resources, make
possible universalization of upper secondary education and improvement of
quality simultaneously. Within this decade, however, the age group of 12
to 16 will continue to increase modestly, thereby requiring additional
places in the school system in Grades 7 to 9 as well, in additional to
places in Grades 10 and 11.
2. Objectives
This Reform of Secondary Education Project II (ROSE II) (2002-2007), is a
follow-on of the first project, which implemented the first phase of a
15-year program to reform secondary education from 1993 to 2000. ROSE II
aims to achieve the following: (a) to continue to improve the quality and
equity of secondary education through school-based initiatives and reform
-2 -



support from the center; (b) to expand access to upper secondary education
in a cost effective manner through building new schools and extension and
refurbishment, public financing of private provision and time-tabling of
use and extended day or double shift; and (c) to strengthen the capacity
of the central ministry and the regional offices to manage the reform. The
overarching objective is to improve the cognitive skills of the secondary
school-age population in order to build human capital, which is essential
to alleviate poverty and to facilitate social and economic development.
3. Rationale for Bank's Involvement
The Bank is the only international agency working to strengthen the
overall quality and efficiency of and access to secondary education in
Jamaica and has been doing so since the late 1980s. While other
international agencies have provided or are providing support to improve
the infrastructure of a limited number of secondary level schools,
technical education in secondary schools and/or the supply of textbooks,
the Bank's comparative advantage in the secondary education subsector and
its complementarity with other development partners are obvious. The
Bank's experience in the development of education, including secondary
education, in other countries has influenced the design of the ROSE II
project and will brought to bear throughout implementation of the project.
4. Description
The total project cost is $50 million, of which World Bank finances $40
million and GOJ $10 million. The project has four components:School-based
initiatives to improve achievement and to address youth at risk issues
($10 million). To ensure that ROSE II produce results on the ground and
ensure success for all students, the ROSE program will need to be fully
and deeply integrated into school practice. This entails that
interventions must be designed to meet needs identified by the schools
themselves. The Project will support schools to develop an action plan,
based on their identification of their needs, and provide resources to
meet these needs. Plans must seek to improve student performance along a
limited number of dimensions (attendance, retention and achievement).
Eligible activities for funding by this component are as follows: (a)
teacher professional development (including conference attendance, study
tour); (b) experiments with school-within-a-school arrangement; (c)
partnership/twinning with schools in another country; (d) Remedial
education conducted after-school, during the weekend and holidays to bring
all students up to the same level and to make up for days lost due to
weather or social unrest; (e) Extra-curricular activities to build
character, provide community services, and make learning exciting; (f)
Parenting education/ community outreach to ensure consistent and
comprehensive support to students; and (g) Making school environment
physically clean, attractive and safe. Support from the Central Ministry
to the schools ($5 million). Financing of school-based initiatives for
improvement alone is not sufficient for the transformation of schools.
Centrally coordinated initiatives are needed to complement the bottom up
approach. The central ministry will play the role of a standard bearer by
rallying schools around national programs on literacy and mathematics, by
providing the tools for teachers to diagnose the specific learning
problems and guidance to help them, creating learning circles for teachers
and students from different schools to learn from each other, enriching
libraries and media centers, and supporting counseling for at-risk
youths. The subcomponents are as follows: (a) Literacy and mathematics
-3 -



enhancement programs - The project will support technical assistance to
develop an effective methodology to help students reading and mastering
mathematics at grade level so that they can learn the contents of other
subjects, as well as, learn on their own; (b) Diagnostic tools of student
learning problems in specific content areas and support package for
teachers - The project will support technical assistance to develop valid
and reliable diagnostic tools and support packages to guide teachers to
address learning problems in specific content areas. This will focus
specifically Grades 7, 8 and 9 so that specific interventions can be
organized early on to ensure that every single student will master the
skills at grade level. The support package includes teachers guide on how
to correct common misconceptions and mistakes in core subject areas.
In-service training can be organized around these tools and packages
within the schools; (c) Library and media resource centers in schools -
These are needed to support the literacy and mathematics enhancement
programs and to develop the skills for life-long learning.(d) Technical
assistance for the preparation of school based improvement project,
connectivity for dissemination of best practices and cross support for
teachers and creation of learning circles among schools - The project will
support professional networking between schools in order to break the
isolation of teachers, to facilitate exchange of good practices to address
common ideas, and to sustain the morale and commitment in teaching; and
(e) Providing instructional and related inputs to schools (e.g. curriculum
guides, laboratory equipment and consumables, furniture).Expand access to
upper secondary education ($15 million). The 1999/2000 census data
revealed that approximately 11,700 Grade 9 graduates did not have access
to a place at Grade 10. The vast majority of these are students from poor
families. Thus, expanding access is essential to meet the equity
objective, to alleviate poverty, and to address youth-at-risk issues.
However, due to reduced total fertility rates and the projected decline of
the school-age population starting from the end of this decade, these
places will be provided through a range of options to allow for greater
flexibility and to maximize cost-effectiveness: (a) Construction of new
schools and extension of existing schools where the density and stability
of the relevant school-age population justify, or reconfiguring and
refurbishing of trailers and equivalent to be utilized as classrooms where
a decline in the relevant age cohort in the area within 5 to 7 years can
be foreseen; (b) Public purchase of places in independent schools. -
Although enrollment in independent secondary schools only accounts for 5
percent of the total (much less than 10 percent in primary education),
many of these schools have excess capacity as the economic stagnation has
made it difficult for families to keep their children in private schools.
Such excess capacity can be utilized to provide immediate access. (About
$2 million is allocated for this subcomponent; and (c) Making more
efficient use of existing facilities -- This entails the conversion of
some of the All Age Schools into Junior High Departments through
clustering of neighboring schools. Where schools cannot be merged with
others because of the size of the enrolment or distance, stand-alone
departments will be introduced. Introduction of extended day and multiple
shifts could also expand enrollment capacity of existing schools.
Institutional strengthening. ($7 million) To implement the above
components successfully, the Ministry and the Regional Offices will need
to take on a significantly different role by shifting from an institution
that focuses on the development, acquisition and provision of inputs to
schools to one that responds to school-based demands for technical
- 4 -



assistance and continuous support. The strengthening of this new role is,
nonetheless, key to the successful implementation of ROSE II. The
subcomponents are as follows: (a) Institutional strengthening of MOEYC and
Regional Offices through technical assistance, fellowships, study tours
and attendance of international conferences for professional development
of education officers, decentralization and simplification of
administrative procedures; (b) Use of technology to improve management
efficiency: Development of a secondary school management information
system and use of imaging systems and digital cameras to improve
documentation of procurement of civil works, goods and services; (c)
Technical assistance on student assessment and on evaluation to develop
instruments to measure various outcomes, including management efficiency
and cost effectiveness; and (d) Enhancing the libraries and/or learning
resource centers of teachers colleges and the regional offices' resource
room so that they can support the schools.The remaining $3 million is
unallocated for contingency.
5. Financing
Total ( US$m)
BORROWER 10.0
Total Project Cost Estimated to be 50.0 million
6. Implementation
Project implementation for ROSE II will modify the structure under ROSE
I. While the modes of operation will remain unchanged as regards the
management structure and the project implementation unit, a panel to
review school development plans and make decisions for funding will be
formed in each region to advise the regional directors on the
acceptability of the proposal. An Operational Manual is to be prepared to
guide implementation of each component and subcomponent, procurement,
financial management, and disbursement.
7. Sustainability
Overall, sustainability of the reform is highly likely because of
demonstrated government commitment and because the ROSE curriculum for
Grades 7 to 9 has already been implemented in all secondary schools
nationwide. Although an election will occur during the life of the
project, past history has shown that a change in Government's does not
result in a change in policy priorities in the education sector. In
fact, ROSE I was planned and piloted under a Labor Government in the late
1980s in the Education Programme Preparation and Student Loan Project
financed by the World Bank (1989-1993) before ROSE scaled up the pilot.
Reform of Secondary Education has the support of both political parties.
8. Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
The implementation experience of ROSE I, which has just completed, has
brought to the fore a number of important lessons. ROSE I focused on
expanding access, improving quality, equity, efficiency through provision
of necessary quality inputs and strengthening the institutional capacity
to manage and monitor the reform. While ROSE I laid the foundation for the
reform, its model was supply-driven, and the main challenge for
implementation, among other things, was for the Ministry to coordinate and
synchronize delivery of all the inputs. This does not necessarily result
in changed behavior of teachers and students in the education process.
The persistent low achievement of secondary school students and the lack
- 5 -



of impact of teacher in-service workshops which focused on methodology (as
opposed on subject matter content) in raising achievement also calls for
the follow-on project to change the design and focus.
9. Program of Targeted Intervention (PTI)      N
10. Environment Aspects (including any public consultation)
Issues         This proposed project does not envisage any
significant environmental issues.
11. Contact Point:
Task Manager
Kin Bing Wu
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 473-3275
Fax: (202) 522-1201
12. For information on other project related documents contact:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax: (202) 522-1500
Web: http:// www.worldbank.org/infoshop
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components may
not be necessarily included in the final project.
Thid PID was processed by the InfoShop during the week ending November 2,2001
- 6 -



