                    DATA SHEET PROJECTRESTRUCTURING
                                      -

    PROJECT PAPER FOR THE REFORMOF SECONDARYEDUCATIONI1
                               PROJECT(LOAN 7149-JM)


 Date: February 10, 2006
 Country: Jamaica                               Sector Manager: Eduardo Velez Bustillo
 Project Name: Reform o f Secondary             Country Director: Caroline Anstey
 EducationI1                                    Environmentalcategory: B

tProject ID:PO71589
       --
 Borrower: The Government o f Jamaica



FY             I 2002-2005 I        2006            2007           2008


Current closing date: June 30, 2008




Revised project development objective/outcomes

The ROSE I1Project will buildon the achievements o fthe first Reformo f Secondary
Education (ROSE) Project through continued improvement o f quality and equity o f
secondary education and expanded access to secondary education. These will be achieved
through: (i)provision o f school improvement grants to approximately 100disadvantaged
schools; (ii)
            provision o fpedagogical support to all secondary schools; (iii) expansion o f
two existing schools to create 800 additional places; and (iv) public financing o f 450
student places inIndependent Schools.

No further activities will be carried out underthe thirdobjective ofthe originalproject
design, strengthening central and regional capacity, and the objective will no longer be
included.




                   Source                         Local         Foreign           Total
Borrower                                                9.3             0.0            9.3
IBRD/IDA
                                                        9.5 I


   REFORMOF SECONDARY EDUCATIONI1PROJECT [LOANNO. 7149-JM]
                         PROPOSALFOR RESTRUCTURING

                                        Introduction

 This Project Paper seeks the approval o f the Executive Directors to introduce the
 following changes to the Jamaica Reform o f Secondary Education I1(ROSE 11) Project
 (Loan No. 7149-JM, Project ID: P071589) and any accompanying amendments to the
project's legal documents. The proposed changes are necessary because the Government
 o f Jamaica has been unable to meet its financial obligation to the project as defined inthe
 signed Loan Agreement in 2003. The Government has been faced with a large public
 sector debt which has reached a current level o f 133 percent o f GDP. In addition, public
investment has been squeezed to less than 2 percent o f GDP, a level inadequate to
 support sustained private sector growth. As part o f its strategy to reduce the debt burden,
the Ministry o f Finance and Planning (MOFP) decided to balance the budget in FY
2004/2005 and 2005/2006. This has required more strict control o f expenditures in key
areas o f the economy, particularly in health and education. Efforts to balance the budget
have considered loan monies as part o f the budget line. This has led to significant
reductions inthe use o f national and donor funds for ROSE I1and other projects.

Inadequate budgetary provisions have hampered the project from progressing at the
intended pace. As a result o f an 80 percent reduction inbudgetary allocation to the ROSE
I1Project for FY04/05, the scale o fplanned activities was cut back significantly, resulting
invery low disbursements duringthe past year. The MOFPmakesbudgetary decisions on
an annual basis, so the Ministry o f Education, Youth and Culture (MOEYC) has been
unable to project the availability o f future funding. This has negatively affected their
capacity to plan or initiate large-scale project activities. For example, they delayed the
biddingprocess for civil works given that funds might not be available to pay contractors
inthe current and subsequent years.

When the Government requested a restructuring o f the project, one concern was that the
MOFP would need to make adjustments in order to provide the necessary national and
loan funds to the M O E Y C to fully implement the project in the remaining time frame.
The MOFP has given the Bank and the MOEYC written assurances that it will make the
monies available to carry out the adjusted activities.

Under these circumstances, the Government and the Bank have agreed to downsize the
project significantly to bring the project scope in line with the Government's current
fiscal capacity. US$27.3 million o f the original US$39.8 million loan will be cancelled,
and the Government will reduce its contribution to the project from the original US$23.2
million to US$9.3 million (including recurrent costs for MOEYC staff assigned to the
project). The majority o f cancelled funding reflects a cancellation o f planned school
construction and rehabilitation and corresponding equipment. It i s expected that the
project will still achieve its objectives in terms o f improving the quality and equity o f
secondary education and expanding access to upper secondary education. However, the
degree to which these goals are attained will be significantly less than originally
projected, and the number o f schools and students directly benefiting from the project
will decline. Further activities under the original third objective, strengthening central

                                              1

 ministry and regional capacity will not be carried out. However, the Government and
 other donors continue to provide support for capacity buildinginthe education sector.

                        BackgroundandReasonsfor Restructuring

 A loan for the ROSE I1Project was approved by the Bank's Board on October 24, 2002
 and became effective on March 21, 2003. Its original objectives were to: (a) improve the
 quality and equity o f secondary education through funding school improvement plans and
 through providing pedagogical support to schools; (b) expand access to upper secondary
 education through building new schools, extending existing schools and through public
 financing o f student places in Independent schools; and (c) strengthen the capacity o f the
 central ministry and regional offices to manage and monitor the reform.

 Project design and scope: As originally designed, the project was composed o f four
 components: (1) a secondary school grants component (US$11 million) supported the
preparation and implementation o f school improvement plans and was expected to
benefit about 175,000 secondary students countrywide; (2) a quality enhancement
 component managed by the central ministry (US$10.7 million) was expected to improve
 literacy and mathematics skills and provide educational materials to about 222,000
students in the nearly 600 schools that provide secondary education; (3) a component
aimed at expanding access to upper secondary education (US$25 million) was expected
to finance construction of three new schools benefiting about 2,700 students and
extension o f three existing schools benefiting about 1,300 students, and to provide
bursaries to about 1,300 students to attend (non-government) independent schools; and
(4) an institutional strengtheningcomponent (US$8.6 million) was expected to finance a
secondary school management information system and generally increase the capacity o f
central and regional officials to manage the system and undertake monitoring and
evaluation, including standardized learning assessments.

Performance to date: The project i s incompliance with audit requirementsas there i s no
outstanding audit report. No major accountability issues have been identified, and minor
observations on the part of the auditors are being addressed. However, since the loan
agreement was signed in February 2003, the Government o f Jamaica has been unable to
adequately fund most project activities. This has necessitated a reduction in staffing o f
the Project Coordinating Unit (PCU). As a result, project implementation has suffered.
Only US$2.13 million of the US$38.9 million loan have been disbursed from the loan
account inthree years, including the funding o f the Special Account and the one percent
front-end fee. The Government reports that it i s not meeting its funding obligations to the
project because to do so would cause it to exceed Government-mandated expenditure and
debt ceilings.

Inadequate Government funding has inevitably led to significant implementation delays.
However, despite the reduced funding, some progress hasbeenmade. Following i s a brief
status o f implementationfor each component:


     0  School Improvement Plans. School improvement planning has begunin 99 o f the
        original 198 schools, 91 o f which have received a school improvement grant
        under the project. The Ministry o f Education and school officials view these

                                             2

         activities as essential to raise literacy levels, and the Government i s committed to
         continuing this activity.
     0   Reform Support. Diagnostic tools are being developed to be used across all
         secondary schools. Training has been provided to 932 Heads o f Department on
         the management o f the ROSE curriculum and student assessment. Some related
         books and materials have been developed and made available to schools. The
         tendering for the printing o f textbooks is in progress, and they will be printed in
         FY05/06.
     0   Expanded Access. Pre-construction work was carried out for all six construction
         sites and initial procurement preparations have begun for the two sites to be
         included under the restructured project, although civil works have not started. To
         date, 440 bursaries have been awarded to students to attend independent schools.
     0   Institutional Strengthening. There has been little activity under this component.
         Small amounts o f training were provided to maximize the use o f school facilities
         and equipment. The major activity o f this component, the development and
         implementation o f a secondary school management information system (MIS), i s
         being carried out with funding from the Inter-American Development Bank
         (IDB). This will build on an IDB-funded initiative already started at the primary
         school level. In a resource-constrained environment, the decision to expand the
         M I S from primary to secondary schools under the IDB project allows for
         economies o f scale.

Giventhe delays to date and the imposed restrictions on the availability o f fundingto the
Ministryof Education, the project as designed cannot be implemented by the June 30,
2008 closing date o f the loan. The Government o f Jamaica and the Bank are faced with
two alternatives: (i)  significantly reduce the scope o f the project within the current time
frame, or (ii) cancel the loan.

The proposed project changes would allow the Ministry o f Education to continue to
support improvements inthe quality o f secondary education and provide additional, albeit
limited, spaces for disadvantaged students. In a country with high levels o f youth
violence, education is seen as a key alternative to engage young people in constructive
activities and provide them with opportunities for the future. Forward movement in
education reform is essential. A reduction in the scope o f the project, as opposed to a
complete loan cancellation, would permit the Bank to continue to support Jamaica's
education sector and make a direct contribution to benefiting schools, teachers and
students inreal time. The valued partnership between the Government o f Jamaica and the
Bank would be maintained.

ProposedChanges

The proposed project changes would reduce the scope o f all project components to fit
within the Government's capacity to provide counterpart fundingto the project duringthe
original duration o f the project, that is, until June 30, 2008. The Government and the
Bank have agreed that US$27.3 million will be cancelled from the original US$39.8
million loan. The Government's financial commitment will be reduced to US$9.3 million
for the final two and a halfyears o f the project.


                                                3

 The project development objective has been revised as follows: the ROSE I1Project will
 build on the achievements o f the first Reform o f Secondary Education (ROSE) Project
 through continued improvement o f quality o f and equity in secondary education and
 expanded access to upper secondary education. These will be achieved through: (i)
 provision o f school improvement grants to approximately 100 disadvantaged schools; (ii)
provision o f pedagogical support to all secondary schools; (iii) expansion o f two existing
 schools to create 800 additional places; and (iv) public financing o f 450 student places in
 Independent Schools. Changes proposed to the specific project components are as follows
 (amounts are for the total project cost and include Government counterpart funds):

        School Improvement Plans (reducedfrom US$ll million to US$5.8million). The
        scope o f the school grants program would be reduced by half, from 198 schools to
        99 schools. In addition to alleviating the Government's financial commitment,
        this reduction in scope represents a better fit with the institutional capacity o f the
        central ministry and schools involved. The number o f students who would benefit
        fi-omthis support would also be halved to approximately 90,000.

        Reform Support (reduced from US$IO.7 million to US$3,6 million). The
        Government remains committed to achieving the goals o f this component.
        Diagnostic tools and materials would still be developed for all students in Grades
        7-9, Foundation textbooks would be provided, Guidance and Counseling would
        receive materials and training support, and teachers would be trained inthe use o f
        the ROSE curriculum. In addition, limited training would be provided in
        maximizing school capacity, and some equipment would be provided to the
        MOEYC. These additional activities were originally envisioned under the
        Institutional Strengthening component. Library and resource centers would not
        receive additional support at this time.

        Expanded Access (reduced from US$25 million to US$7.8 million). The
        Government has decided to cancel financing under the project for the construction
        o f three new schools and the expansion o f one school. Project hnding would be
        used to finance the expansion o f the two remaining schools, the Annotto Bay and
        Paul Bogle High Schools. These two construction projects are expected to
        increase the capacity o f upper secondary education by approximately 800 places,
        rather than 3,700 places as originally envisioned. The number o f students to
        receive bursaries to attend independent schools would total about 450, as opposed
        to 1,300 inthe original project design.

        Monitoring, Evaluation and Assessment formerly Institutional Strengthening)
        (reducedfrom US$8,6million to US$2.3 million). The design and introduction o f
        a management information system would no longer be financed under this project,
        since it would be included under the expanded EMIS supported by IDB funding
        as described above. This component would comprise the final evaluation o f the
        project, which would include specific assessments o f the school grants and
        bursaries programs.

Disbursements: The Government financial management and accounting procedures for
the World Bank loan have been identified as a source o f delay inproject implementation.
                                              4

These procedures require that all funds paid from the Special Account be reimbursed by
the M O E Y C to the Consolidated Fund through the warrant process. Project
implementation is therefore affected by inadequate cash flow from Government
resources. To eliminate this problem, the Accountant General will be required to directly
reimburse the Consolidated Fundusing the MOEYC's warrant funds.

Procurement: Schedule 4 o f the Loan Agreement would be amended to adopt the new
WB Procurement and Consultants Guidelines o f May 2004. Thresholds for prior review
would be raised in accordance with the maximum for the region. The method o f Direct
Contracting would be introduced for exceptional cases when suppliers/contractors are
limited. A new procurement plan has been approved for the restructured project. The
Operational Manual would also be updated to reflect simplified methods aimed at
expediting disbursements under the School Improvement Grant component.

Analysis

The reductions in funding for each component are mirrored by proportional reductions in
expected outcomes. The exception i s the Reform Support component, which should still
impact some 220,000 secondary students and nearly 600 schools although funding has
declined by some 67 percent. Thus, the premises o f the economic analysis remain the
same, and the investments inthe restructuredROSE I1Project should produce substantial
economic and social benefits. The reduction in scope would reduce the financial burden
that the project has placed on the Government. The Ministry o f Education continues to
pursue the original reform program, albeit more slowly than expected, and, the project's
technical approach remains well justified. Finally, the project is still expected to have a
positive social impact through the expansion o f upper secondary education and the
continuation o f the bursaries program, which is aimed at promoting upper secondary
access by disadvantaged students.

The proposed changes would have no adverse impact on the environment, and the
environmental category (B) would not change.

ExpectedOutcomes

Project funding would be decreased by about two thirds. As a result, the total number o f
schools and students expected to benefit directly from the project would decrease. The
school grants component would benefit 99 schools and approximately 90,000 students, as
opposed to 198 schools and about 175,000 students in the original estimates. Since tools
and materials would be developed for the entire system, the quality enhancement reform
support component i s expected to reach its goal o f benefiting all 220,000 secondary
students and all approximately 600 schools that offer secondary programs. In the
component aimed at expanding access to upper secondary, the number o f beneficiaries
would be significantly reduced. The project would no longer finance new school
construction to create places for 2,700 new students, and only 800 places would be
created through expansion o f two schools, as opposed to about 1,300 in the original
design. The number o f students receiving bursaries to attend independent schools would
be reduced from 1,300 to about 450.


                                           5

 Despite downsizing, the project i s expected to have a positive impact on many o f the
 indicators originally defined under the project. Through its school expansion and
 bursaries components, the project would contribute directly to increasing enrollments in
 upper secondary education, specifically for disadvantaged students. The reform support
 and school grants components are also expected to contribute to improvements in
 standardized test scores. In order to monitor the newly restructured project's overall
 development impact, the Ministry of Education and the Bank agreed o n a list o f key
 indicators.

         The percentage o f the age cohort enrolled in grade 10 (all schools) (the MOEYC
         target for 2008 i s to increase from 79.2% in 2004 to 81.2% in 2008, although the
         project would only contribute 1,250 places);
         Improved results on the Grade Nine Achievement Test (GNAT) scores for
         English and Mathematics in schools with SIPS(baseline data will be collected for
         2004 by March 2006, and a target will be established at that time; data will be
         collected by school type - All Age, Junior Highand High School); and
         Percentage o f schools using the new diagnostic tools by 2008 (70%).

 In addition, the Government and the Bank have agreed to track two higher-level
 indicators that would not be used to evaluate the direct outcomes o f the project: (a) the
 percentage o f Grade 11 students who sit the CXC exam inEnglishand Mathematics and
 attain a grade o f Ito 111; and (b) the percentage o f 15-16 age group enrolled in upper
 secondary education, disaggregated by consumption quintile (the poorest quintile has
 increased from 64.9% in2001 to 76.6% in2004).

Benefitsand Risks

The principal quantifiable benefits o f reducing the scope o f the project are discussed
above. The principal risks associated with the reduction in scope o f the project and the
steps to be taken to mitigate those risks are described below.

Risk                              Rating      RiskMitigation Measure
The Government o f Jamaica        Moderately  The Ministryof Finance has agreedto this
would be unable to provide the    High        smaller contribution and current financial
reduced counterpart funding                   projects show that this commitment i s withinthe
(US$9.3 million) now required                 Government's expected fiscal capacity over the
under the project over the next               nextthree years.
three years.

Institutional capacity inthe      Moderate    Financial resource issues have beenresolved, and
MinistryofEducation andat                     the numberof activities and schools involvedin
the school level could continue               the school grants scheme would be reducedto a
to slow project                               more manageable number.This should allow
implementation.                               those responsible for project implementation to
                                              focus and to meedUD imdementation.




                                              6

