                               Document of
                             The World Bank




                                                   Report No: ICR00001238



         IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                         (IBRD-7149 JM)



                                  ON A

                                  LOAN

                  IN THE AMOUNT OF US$ 39.80 MILLION


                                    TO

                                JAMAICA

                                  FOR A

             REFORM OF SECONDARY EDUCATION PROJECT II



                              March 25, 2010




Human Development Sector Management Unit (LCSHD)
Caribbean Country Management Unit
Latin America and the Caribbean Region
                   CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

               (Exchange Rate Effective March, 2010)

               Currency Unit = Jamaican dollar (JMD)
                       US$ 1.00 = JMD 89.08
                       JMD 1.00 = USD 0.01

                          FISCAL YEAR
                         April 1 ­ March 31

               ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

CAS     Country Assistance Strategy
CXC     Caribbean Examinations Council
DFID    Department for International Development (UK)
DTS     Diagnostic Tools and Strategies
EMIS    Education Management Information System
EO      Education Officer
ESW     Economic and Sector Work
GNAT    Grade Nine Achievement Test
GOJ     Government of Jamaica
GSAT    Grade Six Achievement Test
ICB     International Competitive Bidding
ICR     Implementation Completion and Results Report
IDB     Inter-American Development Bank
JHSC    Junior High School Certificate Examination
MOE     Ministry of Education
MOF     Ministry of Finance
M&E     Monitoring and Evaluation
PAD     Project Appraisal Document
PCU     Project Coordinating Unit
PDO     Project Development Objective
PIOJ    Planning Institute of Jamaica
RO      Regional Office
ROSE    Reform of Secondary Education (projects I and II)
SIG     School Improvement Grant
SIP     School Improvement Plan
USAID   United States Agency for International Development
UTECH   University of Technology
UWI     University of West Indies



                   Vice President: Pamela Cox
                 Country Director: Yvonne Tsikata
                  Sector Director: Evangeline Javier
                  Sector Manager: Chingboon Lee
             Project Team Leader: Cynthia Hobbs
                ICR Team Leader: Cynthia Hobbs
                                            JAMAICA
                              Reform of Secondary Education Project II

                                                Table of Contents
1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design ............................................... 1
2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes .............................................. 7
3. Assessment of Outcomes .......................................................................................... 15
4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome......................................................... 25
5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ..................................................... 26
6. Lessons Learned ....................................................................................................... 29
7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners .......... 30
Annex1 - Project Costs and Financing ......................................................................... 31
Annex 2. Outputs by Component ................................................................................. 32
Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis ................................................................. 37
Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes ............ 38
Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results ........................................................................... 40
Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results................................................... 42
Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR ......................................................................... 43
Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders ....................... 54
Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents ...................................................................... 55
Annex 10 Outcome and Intermediate Outcome Indicators as set in the PAD .............. 56
Annex 11: PDOs Weighted Rating ............................................................................... 62
MAP .............................................................................................................................. 64
A. Basic Information
                                                                          JM - REFORM OF
                                                                          SECONDARY
Country:                Jamaica                 Project Name:
                                                                          EDUCATION
                                                                          PROJECT II
Project ID:             P071589                 L/C/TF Number(s):         IBRD-71490
ICR Date:               03/29/2010              ICR Type:                 Core ICR
Lending Instrument:     SIL                     Borrower:                 JAMAICA
Original Total
                        USD 39.8M               Disbursed Amount:         USD 12.2M
Commitment:
Revised Amount:         USD 12.5M
Environmental Category: B
Implementing Agencies:
 Ministry of Education
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:

B. Key Dates
                                                                               Revised / Actual
     Process             Date             Process           Original Date
                                                                                   Date(s)
Concept Review:       09/27/2001     Effectiveness:          03/21/2003           03/21/2003
Appraisal:            05/15/2002     Restructuring(s):                            02/10/2006
Approval:             10/24/2002     Mid-term Review:        12/30/2005           09/23/2005
                                     Closing:                06/30/2008           09/30/2009

C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                       Moderately Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                    Moderate
Bank Performance:                               Moderately Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                           Moderately Satisfactory

C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                   Ratings               Borrower                    Ratings
                        Moderately                                        Moderately
Quality at Entry:                               Government:
                        Unsatisfactory                                    Unsatisfactory
                                                Implementing
Quality of Supervision: Satisfactory                                      Moderately Satisfactory
                                                Agency/Agencies:
Overall Bank                                    Overall Borrower
                        Moderately Satisfactory                           Moderately Satisfactory
Performance:                                    Performance:




                                                i
C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                           QAG Assessments
                             Indicators                                              Rating
     Performance                                 (if any)
 Potential Problem Project                         Quality at Entry
                           No                                               Satisfactory
at any time (Yes/No):                              (QEA):
 Problem Project at any                            Quality of
                           No                                               None
time (Yes/No):                                     Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before
                           Satisfactory
Closing/Inactive status:

D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                  Original                 Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Secondary education                                                   100                  100


Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Access to urban services and housing                                   25                    1
Education for all                                                      25                   10
Other public sector governance                                         25                   35
Rural services and infrastructure                                      25                   54

E. Bank Staff
        Positions                         At ICR                             At Approval
Vice President:            Pamela Cox                           David de Ferranti
Country Director:          Yvonne M. Tsikata                    Orsalia Kalantzopoulos
Sector Manager:            Chingboon Lee                        Marito H. Garcia
Project Team Leader:       Cynthia Hobbs                        Kin Bing Wu
ICR Team Leader:           Cynthia Hobbs
ICR Primary Author:        Maria R. Puech Fernandez


F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
The Reform of Secondary Education Project (ROSE II) was a follow up to the ROSE I
Project (1993-2000). These two projects supported the Jamaican Ministry of Education,
Youth and Culture's (MOEYC, now named Ministry of Education - MOE ) 15-year
program to reform secondary education. The Project aimed to: (i) continue to improve the
quality and equity of secondary education through funding school improvement plans and
through providing pedagogical and other support to schools; (ii) expand access to upper
secondary education through building new schools and extending existing schools and


                                               ii
through public financing of student places in independent schools; and (iii) strengthen the
capacity of the central ministry and the regional offices to manage and monitor the
reform.

  The Project was restructured in March 2006 (the date of 02/10/2006 reflected in section
B above was actually the date of the restructuring mission to finalize the details; the
restructuring proposal was approved by the Board in March 2006, and the letter of
agreement was signed with the Government on 03/24/2006). The objectives to improve
quality and expand access remained but were scaled down, while the objective related to
strengthening the capacity of the MOE at the central and regional levels was dropped.
Outcome and output indicators for the first two objectives were revised to better reflect
the Project's new scope.

  Given that very little disbursement took place before restructuring, and restructuring
was quite drastic (the loan was reduced from US$39.8 million to US$12.5 million),
evaluation of project performance in this ICR will focus on post-restructuring indicators.
The outcome and intermediate outcome indicators for the restructured project are shown
below. Annex 10 lists the original set of outcome and intermediate outcome indicators as
shown in the Project Appraisal Document.

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)
The ROSE II Project will build on the achievements of the first Reform of Secondary
Education (ROSE) Project through continued improvement of quality and equity of
secondary education and expanded access to secondary education. These will be achieved
through: (i) provision of school improvement grants to approximately 100 disadvantaged
schools; (ii) provision of pedagogical support to all secondary schools; (iii) expansion of
two existing schools to create 800 additional places; and (iv) public financing of 450
student places in Independent Schools.

(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                            Original Target      Formally         Actual Value
                                              Values (from        Revised          Achieved at
   Indicator         Baseline Value
                                                approval          Target         Completion or
                                               documents)         Values          Target Years
                Increase in percentage of the age cohort of students enrolled in grade 10 (in all
Indicator 1 :
                schools)
Value
quantitative or 79.2%                      N/A                  81.2%         88.7%
Qualitative)
Date achieved 01/01/2004                   06/30/2008           06/30/2008    09/30/2009
                This is a new indicator that was agreed at restructuring. The MOE target for 2008
Comments
                was to increase from 79.2% in 2004 to 81.2% in 2008, although the Project
(incl. %
                would only contribute 1,250 places. The total number of age 15 population in
achievement)
                2008/09 was 51,545.
                Improved results on the GNAT scores for English and Mathematics in schools
Indicator 2 :
                with SIPs



                                                iii
                  All SIP schools
                                                                              English
                  English
Value                                                          Improved       24.60%
                  22.57%
quantitative or                            N/A                 results in SIP
Qualitative)                                                   schools        Math
                Math
                                                                              21.60%
                17.83
Date achieved 09/30/2001                   06/30/2008          06/30/2008      06/30/2009
Comments        This indicator was modified at restructuring. Results for all SIP schools could not
(incl. %        be captured, since some secondary schools (high schools specifically) did not
achievement) participate in the GNAT in 2007 and 2008.
Indicator 3 : Percentage of schools using the new diagnostic tools by 2008
                                                                               -All secondary
                                                                               schools received
                                                                               the Diagnostic
                                                                               Tools.
                                                                               -76% of teachers
Value
                No Diagnostic Tools                                            surveyed were
quantitative or                            N/A                 70%
                Available                                                      using the tools
Qualitative)
                                                                               -60% of teachers
                                                                               surveyed were
                                                                               satisfied with the
                                                                               usefulness of the
                                                                               tools
Date achieved 03/24/2006                   06/30/2008          06/30/2008      09/30/2009
Comments        This new indicator was introduced at restructuring. An evaluation of this activity
(incl. %        was carried out at the end of the project. An impact evaluation is planned for
achievement) 2011. Results of the evaluation are presented in Section 3.2 of the ICR.

(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                             Original Target                     Actual Value
                                                                 Formally
                                               Values (from                       Achieved at
   Indicator           Baseline Value                             Revised
                                                approval                         Completion or
                                                              Target Values
                                               documents)                        Target Years
Indicator 1 :     Percentage of SIPs fully implemented by project closing
                                                                             -99 schools
                                           - 196 schools per
                                                                             presented SIP
                                           year presenting
                                                                             proposals and
                                           SIP proposals;
                                                                             received grants;
                                           -SIP manuals
                                                              99 schools     -100% of them
                                           distributed to all
                                                              presenting SIP received the funds
Value                                      schools;
                                                              proposals      from MOE and
(quantitative   0                          -100% of schools
                                                              (100%) and 100% fully
or Qualitative)                            receiving the
                                                              receiving SIP implemented them
                                           funds and
                                                              grants         by the end of the
                                           80% of schools
                                                                             Project.
                                           fully implementing
                                                                             -SIP manual
                                           them by the end of
                                                                             elaborated,
                                           each year
                                                                             distributed to all



                                                 iv
                                                                               SIP schools and
                                                                               other secondary
                                                                               schools
Date achieved 01/01/2004                    06/30/2008          06/30/2008     09/30/2009
                The SIP manual was revised before Project completion to improve it further. The
Comments
                MOE will upload it to the MOE website and provide it to schools through
(incl. %
                Jamaica Teaching Council training sessions to teachers, principals, and education
achievement)
                officers.
Indicator 2 : Number of student places available following the expansion in two high schools
Value
                                                                800 places
(quantitative   0                           N/A                                800 places available
                                                                available
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 03/24/2006                    06/30/2008          06/30/2008     09/30/2009
Comments
(incl. %        This is a new indicator that was agreed at restructuring
achievement)
Indicator 3 : Number of students who receive bursaries to attend secondary school
                                                                               -720 students
                                                                               registered in private
                                                                               (independent)
                                            1,309 students
                                                                450 students schools under the
Value           Around 11,700 Grade 9 placed in private
                                                                placed in      bursary program;
(quantitative   students without access to independent
                                                                Grades 9 and -Of those, 459
or Qualitative) a place in Grade 10         schools through
                                                                10             students completed
                                            the program
                                                                               upper secondary
                                                                               education under the
                                                                               program
Date achieved 06/30/2001                    06/30/2008          06/30/2008     09/30/2009
                During implementation, the MOE observed that a significant number of students
Comments
                experienced difficulties to remain in school due to financial constraints. The
(incl. %
                MOE arranged for additional welfare benefits to students to reduce dropout and
achievement)
                absenteeism.
Indicator 4 : Evaluation of project impact, SIP and bursary programs
                                                                               Evaluations on SIP,
                                                                Evaluations
Value                                                                          bursary program
                                                                completed by
(quantitative   N/A                         N/A                                and diagnostic tools
                                                                Project
or Qualitative)                                                                and strategies
                                                                completion
                                                                               completed
Date achieved 03/24/2006                    06/30/2008          06/30/2008     09/30/2009
Comments
                This indicator was included at restructuring. Component 4 did not initially
(incl. %
                include any evaluation of activities and programs financed under the Project.
achievement)




                                                 v
G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                                   Actual
        Date ISR
No.                             DO                             IP              Disbursements
        Archived
                                                                               (USD millions)
  1    12/19/2002         Satisfactory                   Satisfactory                     0.00
  2    06/06/2003         Satisfactory                   Satisfactory                     0.90
  3    12/09/2003         Satisfactory                   Satisfactory                     0.90
  4    06/03/2004         Satisfactory                  Unsatisfactory                    1.32
  5    12/14/2004         Satisfactory                  Unsatisfactory                    1.44
  6    04/24/2005        Unsatisfactory                 Unsatisfactory                    1.54
  7    12/22/2005        Unsatisfactory                 Unsatisfactory                    1.89
  8    04/17/2006     Moderately Satisfactory        Moderately Satisfactory              2.36
  9    10/25/2006     Moderately Satisfactory        Moderately Satisfactory              4.09
 10    05/18/2007     Moderately Satisfactory        Moderately Satisfactory              6.18
 11    12/17/2007     Moderately Satisfactory            Satisfactory                     8.85
 12    06/30/2008         Satisfactory                   Satisfactory                     9.89
 13    12/23/2008         Satisfactory                   Satisfactory                   10.43
 14    06/30/2009         Satisfactory                   Satisfactory                   11.84


H. Restructuring (if any)

                        ISR Ratings at   Amount
                Board   Restructuring Disbursed at
Restructuring                                        Reason for Restructuring &
               Approved                Restructuring
   Date(s)                                              Key Changes Made
              PDO Change DO      IP       in USD
                                         millions
 02/10/2006       Y       U      U            2.13


If PDO and/or Key Outcome Targets were formally revised (approved by the original approving
body) enter ratings below:
                                                            Outcome Ratings
Against Original PDO/Targets                                  Unsatisfactory
Against Formally Revised PDO/Targets                           Satisfactory
Overall (weighted) rating                                 Moderately Satisfactory




                                                vi
I. Disbursement Profile




                          vii
1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design
(this section is descriptive, taken from other documents, e.g., PAD/ISR, not evaluative)

1.1 Context at Appraisal
(brief summary of country and sector background, rationale for Bank assistance)

At the time of appraisal, Jamaica, a lower income country, had achieved 93 percent coverage for
early childhood education (ages 3 to 5) and nearly universal coverage for primary and lower
secondary. These accomplishments reflected the successful focus of education policy and a strong
household demand for education in the country. Public expenditure on education had reached 7.6
percent of GDP in 1999/2000 (from 2.9 percent in 1992/93). Despite meaningful progress,
Jamaica's education sector was facing several challenges. Among the key ones were: (i) uneven
quality of primary and secondary education; (ii) youth at risk; (iii) inadequate access to upper
secondary education by the poor; (iv) constraints in education finance; and (v) constraints in
institutional capacity.

Regarding the uneven quality of primary and secondary education, there was an enormous
disparity in students' mastery of basic cognitive skills. At the time of preparation, about 30
percent of Grade 6 leavers read below grade level. Despite this shortcoming, they were being
automatically promoted to Grade 7. Examinations were used as a placement tool to select the
students with the highest achievement for the best schools. Low educational achievements among
poor performing students persisted at the end of lower secondary education (Grade 9) and at the
end of upper secondary education (Grade 11). Low achievement led, at the time, to low
participation rates on the CXC exam, which was necessary for admission to tertiary education and
some types of professional employment. Low achievement was thought to be a reflection of the
trade-off between enrollment expansion and the maintenance of high standards.

Regarding youth at risk, most of the out-of-school youth ages 14 and older were from the poorest
quintiles of the population. Usually attending poorer quality schools, they tended to lose interest
in schooling, drop out, engage in delinquent behavior and fall into a cycle of poverty. Poor
quality of schooling interacted with poor home environments, characterized by violence and
unstable adult relationships.

Regarding inadequate access to upper secondary education by the poor, this was mainly due to
the lack of school places in Grades 10 and 11. For many students who attended All-Age schools
and Primary and Junior High schools (which offer three years of secondary education), there was
little opportunity to continue on with upper secondary education.

Regarding the constraints in education financing, since the Government had established education
as a top priority, the high level of public debt put enormous pressure on the Government to find
funds for education expenditures.

Regarding the constraints to institutional capacity, Jamaica was facing challenges to deepen
decentralization, implement school-based management, and strengthen the MOE at the central
level.

ROSE I had also supported capacity strengthening of the MOE in reform management,
curriculum development, textbook development, student assessment, evaluation, education
management information systems, policy analysis and civil works supervision. Institutional
capacity needed to be further strengthened to develop a policy-oriented mandate for the MOE,


                                                 1
decentralization of the education system, school-based management and accountability. At the
school level, technical assistance and capacity building were needed as well to enhance
accountability.

The Bank's support through ROSE II intended to build on the work carried out under ROSE I and
respond to the sector challenges. ROSE I succeeded in extending the core curriculum in lower
secondary education from 11 pilots to all secondary schools. It provided training on the ROSE
methodology to the 7,700 existing teachers, 600 school administrators, 75 education officers, 380
teacher educators, 1,500 school board members and 2,500 pre-service teachers and developed
distance learning materials. The Project made available textbooks and teacher guides to all
schools teaching secondary education. It rationalized the examination system and introduced the
Junior High School Certificate Examination (JHSC) and developed an evaluation system to assess
student performance.

ROSE II aimed to deepen the reform in three aspects, focusing on: (i) those students who were
not performing adequately in the basic cognitive skills, especially reading and math, and who
might be at risk; (ii) a demand-driven and school-based approach to improving results on the
ground; and (iii) better linking of implementation with performance indicators, increasing local
ownership and greater accountability.

1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators (as approved)

The Reform of Secondary Education Project II (ROSE II) was a follow-on to the first project,
ROSE I (1993-2000). These two Projects supported the Jamaican Ministry of Education's 15-year
program to reform secondary education, as described above.

The development objectives were to:

(i) Continue to improve the quality and equity of secondary education through funding school
improvement plans and through providing pedagogical and other support to schools;

(ii) Expand access to upper secondary education through building new schools and extending
existing schools and through public financing of student places in independent schools; and

(iii) Strengthen the capacity of the central ministry and the regional offices to manage and
monitor the reform.

The key performance indicators, as included in the Project Appraisal Document (PAD), were the
following:

        Annual increase in average scores on the Junior High School Certification Exam (JHSC)
        or the Grade Nine Achievement Test (GNAT) in Language Arts and Mathematics;
        Annual reduction in the percentage of students scoring below 30 percent correct in
        Language and Mathematics on the JHSC;
        Annual increase in attainment, at the end of Grade 11, in the Caribbean Examination
        Council's Caribbean Secondary Education Certificate Examination (CXC-CSEC) at
        Level 3 and above in Language and Mathematics;
        Annual increase in enrollment in secondary education, disaggregated by consumption
        quintile;
        Annual increase in participation in the CXC-CSEC at the end of Grade 11.



                                               2
1.3 Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators, and
reasons/justification

The Government of Jamaica (GOJ) was faced with a large public sector debt which reached 133
percent of GDP by 2006. As part of its strategy to reduce the debt burden, the Ministry of
Finance1 (MOF) decided to balance the budget in FY2004/2005 and 2005/2006. This required
more strict control of expenditures in key areas of the economy, particularly in health and
education and led to significant reductions in the use of national and donor funds for ROSE II and
other projects.

Inadequate budgetary provisions hampered the project from progressing at the intended pace. As
a result of an 80 percent reduction in budgetary allocation to the ROSE II Project for FY04/05,
the scale of planned activities was cut back significantly resulting in very low disbursements.
Since budgetary decisions were made by the MOF on an annual basis, the MOE was unable to
project the availability of future funding. This negatively affected their capacity to plan or initiate
large-scale project activities, such as school construction.

Under these circumstances, the Government and the Bank agreed to downsize the project to bring
the project scope in line with the Government's fiscal capacity at the time. US$27.3 million of the
original US$39.8 million loan was cancelled, and the Government reduced its contribution to the
project from the original US$23.2 million to US$9.3 million (including recurrent costs for MOE
staff assigned to the project). The majority of cancelled funding reflected a cancellation of
planned school construction and rehabilitation and corresponding equipment.

The PDOs were modified at the time of restructuring in line with the change in scope. While
support continued for improvement of quality and equity in the Borrower's secondary education
system and expansion of access to secondary education, the PDO related to strengthening the
capacity of the MOE at the central and regional levels was dropped. The project development
objective was revised as follows: the ROSE II Project would build on the achievements of the
first Reform of Secondary Education (ROSE) Project through continued improvement of quality
of and equity in secondary education and expanded access to upper secondary education. These
were to be achieved through: (i) provision of school improvement grants to approximately 100
disadvantaged schools; (ii) provision of pedagogical support to all secondary schools; (iii)
expansion of two existing schools to create 800 additional places; and (iv) public financing of 450
student places in Independent Schools.

Outcome and output indicators were adjusted to measure the achievements of the Project. The
outcome indicators were better focused on measuring Project interventions. The key performance
indicators were the following:

         Increase in percentage of the age cohort of students enrolled in Grade 10 (in all schools).
         The MOE target was to increase from 79.2 percent in 2004 to 81.2 percent in 2008,
         although the Project would only contribute with 1,250 places;
         Improved results on the GNAT scores for English and Mathematics in schools with SIPs;



1
  The Ministry of Finance and Development, now named the Ministry of Finance and the Public Service, will be
referred to throughout the document as the MOF.




                                                        3
        Percentage of schools using the new diagnostic tools (target of 70 percent of secondary
        schools).

In addition, the Government and the Bank agreed to track two higher-level indicators that were
not to be used to evaluate the direct outcomes of the Project: (a) the percentage of Grade 11
students who sit for the CXC exam in English and Mathematics and attain a grade of I to III; and
(b) the percentage of 15-16 age group enrolled in upper secondary education, disaggregated by
consumption quintile.

Available data for these indicators were provided from 2001/2002 in order to monitor the trend
since the preparation of the Project (see Results Framework and Annex 10).

1.4 Main Beneficiaries,
(original and revised, briefly describe the "primary target group" identified in the PAD and as
captured in the PDO, as well as any other individuals and organizations expected to benefit from
the project)

The original Project foresaw to benefit the following individuals and institutions:

 School Improvement        174,477 secondary level students in 198 urban and rural schools
 Projects
 Reform Support            222,363 secondary level students in the 594 schools that offer some
                           form of secondary education
 Expand Access             2,700 students in new schools
                           1,335 students in extended schools
                           1,309 students who receive subsidized places in private schools
 Institutional             160 secondary schools to receive the management information
 Strengthening             system, 6 regional offices and 6 teachers colleges to receive
                           resources to upgrade their libraries

The restructuring of the Project reduced project funding by two thirds. As a result, the total
number of direct beneficiaries of the Project interventions was expected to decrease as well. The
restructured Project foresaw to benefit the following individuals and institutions:

 School Improvement        99 disadvantaged schools and approximately 90,000 secondary
 Projects                  level students
 Reform Support            222,363 secondary level students in the 594 schools that offer some
                           form of secondary education
 Expand Access             Creation of 800 new places in two existing schools
                           450 students who receive subsidized places in private schools
 Institutional             Dropped. Component revised to include evaluation of project
 Strengthening             components.

 The ICR mission identified ripple effects of the Project's interventions, in particular the use of
the diagnostic tools and the SIP manual, resulting in more individuals and schools having
benefited from the Project (see section 3.2).

In access to secondary schools, although the Project dropped the construction of the three schools,
one of these was built by the Government and two others are in the process of construction with
GOJ funds.


                                                 4
1.5 Original Components (as approved)

The Project had the following components:

Component 1- School Improvement Grants (US$11.00 million or 17.5 percent of total project
cost). This component would finance grants to selected schools with secondary age students (All-
Age schools, primary and junior high schools, upgraded high schools, agricultural/vocational high
schools) on the basis of annual work programs and budgets for activities designed to improve
students' outcomes.

Component 2 - Reform Support from the Central Ministry to the Schools (US$11.77 million
or 18.8 percent of total project cost). This component would finance centrally coordinated
activities that complemented the bottom-up approach and assisted All-Age schools not supported
by the School Improvement Grants. It had two sub-components: (i) enhancing literacy and
mathematics and (ii) strengthening teaching and guidance.

Component 3: Expand Access to Upper Secondary Education (US$28.00 million or 44.8
percent of total project cost). This component would provide access to upper secondary education
to students graduating from Grade 9 who otherwise would not have access to Grade 10, through
civil works and access to places in independent secondary schools. It had the following sub-
components: (i) civil works, which would fund the construction of three new schools and the
extension of three existing schools; and (ii) bursaries for independent school places for Grade 9
and 10 students.

Component 4: Institutional Strengthening (US$9.12 million or 14.6 percent of total project
cost). This component was to support the MOE and its regional offices to implement the Project,
as their role shifted to providing technical assistance and continuous support to schools and
monitoring of outcomes. It had the following sub-components: (i) development of an education
management information system (EMIS); (ii) enhancing efficiency and effectiveness through the
provision of fellowships and study tours, training on the use of facilities and provision of
computer equipment and learning resources; and (iii) maintaining and utilizing assessment,
monitoring and evaluation capacity through strengthening the student assessment unit.

The Project included a Project Coordinating Unit (PCU) (US$2.71 million or 4.3 percent of total
project cost) and a front end fee of US$0.4 million.

1.6 Revised Components

The Project was restructured in March 20062 for the reasons cited above in Section 1.3. Project
restructuring maintained all of the Project's components, but refocused Component 4 to
Monitoring, Evaluation and Assessment. The changes reduced the scope of all project
components in line with the GOJ's capacity to provide counterpart funding until the original
closing date of June 2008.

Changes to the Project components were as follows:


2
  The restructuring date of 02/10/2006, reflected in the Data Sheet, was actually the date of the mission to finalize the
details. The restructuring proposal was approved by the Board in March 2006, and the letter of agreement was signed
with the Government on 03/24/2006.




                                                           5
    1. Component 1- School Improvement Plans (reduced from US$11 million to US$5.8
       million): The scope of the SIP program was reduced by half, from 198 schools to 99
       schools. The number of students who would benefit from this component was halved to
       approximately 90,000.

    2. Component 2 ­ Reform Support from the Central Ministry to the Schools (reduced from
       US$10.7 million to US$3.6 million): Library and resource centers did not receive any
       support under this component 3 . Limited training in maximizing school capacity and
       provision of some equipment for the MOE, originally included under Component 4 -
       Institutional Strengthening - was to be provided under this component. The originally
       planned activities to enhance literacy and mathematics and to strengthen teaching and
       guidance were to be carried out, though at a reduced level.

    3. Component 3 ­ Expanded Access (reduced from US$25 million to US$7.8 million): The
       construction of three new schools and the expansion of one school were cancelled. The
       remaining funds under the component were allocated to the expansion of two of the schools
       originally included in the PAD: Annotto Bay and Paul Bogle High Schools. This
       intervention was to increase the number of new places by 800, versus the 3,700 places
       originally planned. The number of students to receive bursaries to attend private schools
       was reduced from 1,300 to 450 students.

    4. Component 4 ­ Monitoring, Evaluation and Assessment (reduced from US$8.6 million to
       US$2.3 million): This revised component was to focus on the final evaluation of the Project,
       which was to include specific assessments of the school grants and the bursary programs.
       The design and introduction of an EMIS was dropped from this component and was
       financed by the IDB, which was financing the EMIS at the primary level.

1.7 Other significant changes
(in design, scope and scale, implementation arrangements and schedule, and funding allocations)

The Government and the Bank agreed to downsize the Project from US$63 million to US$21.8
million. A total of US$27.3 million of the original Loan was cancelled and the Borrower's
contribution was reduced from US$23.20 million to US$9.3 million.

During the restructuring, changes were made to Schedule 4 of the Loan Agreement to adopt the
new Procurement and Consultants Guidelines of May 2004. Thresholds for prior review were
raised in accordance with the maximum for the region at that time. The method for direct
contracting was introduced for exceptional cases when suppliers and contractors were limited. A
new procurement plan was approved and the Operational Manual was updated to reflect
simplified methods to expedite disbursements under the SIP component.

There was a reallocation of Loan resources among disbursement categories in 2008. The
reallocation was needed to cover a shortfall of funds for school rehabilitation works, additional
funds required to finance consultants to carry out the civil works supervision and to assist with




3
    Some schools introduced support to libraries and resource centers in the context of the SIP program.




                                                             6
the evaluation of the Project. Resources from Categories 2 (goods), 4 (training), 5 (SIPs) and 8
(unallocated) were transferred to Categories 1 (works) and 3 (consultants).

The original closing date was extended twice, from June 30, 2008 to June 30, 2009 and then again
to September 30, 2009. The first extension served to allow for the completion of civil works,
training in the use of diagnostic tools, and elaboration of the evaluations. The second extension
was granted to ensure successful procurement of equipment for the refurbished schools financed
under Component 3.

Implementation arrangements remained in line with the PAD with three exceptions: (i) the PCU
hired regional monitoring officers to support the implementation of the SIP program, since the
MOE's Regional Offices did not have enough personnel to adequately monitor and accompany
the schools in the fiduciary implementation of the SIPs; (ii) a high number of drop-outs from the
Bursary Programme led the PCU to request additional support to low-income students through a
GOJ welfare program, and the PCU hired a Bursaries Monitoring Officer to oversee this
component; and (iii) the Project Manager took on the procurement responsibilities in the final
stages of implementation, when the Procurement Specialist left the PCU.

2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry
(including whether lessons of earlier operations were taken into account, risks and their
mitigations identified, and adequacy of participatory processes, as applicable)

A Quality at Entry Assessment (dated 10/24/2002) gave the Project preparation, design and
quality at entry an overall rating of Satisfactory. However, it found the monitoring arrangements
to be inadequate, as well as the risk assessment regarding the constraints on availability of
counterpart funds. These findings are in keeping with the following assessment by the ICR team.
While there were positive factors influencing project preparation, some factors had an adverse
effect on the design of the Project and later severely hampered its implementation, which led the
ICR team to its decision to give the Quality at Entry a Moderately Unsatisfactory rating. The
following factors positively influenced Project preparation and design:

Lessons from the ROSE I Project were taken into account. The design of ROSE II benefited
from the experience of ROSE I, which was completed in September 2002. The main lessons
incorporated in the design related to enhancing participation of students and the school
community to achieve real changes in attitudes and behaviors. The lessons helped to focus the
Project on improving school based management, providing financial and technical support to
schools directly. ROSE I had opted for a more centralized approach to provide inputs and support
to schools. The experience from the previous project also helped focus on methodology and tools
to improve teaching, learning and training of teachers.

The Government showed ownership of the project. The Project was in line with the
Government's long-term education strategy for secondary education (1993-2008) and built on
support previously given under ROSE I. The ROSE I Project surpassed its original targets. In
February 2001, the Government prepared a White Paper on Education which set targets consistent
with and supported by ROSE I and II and focused on the sustainability of the reform at all levels
of education.




                                               7
Solid technical preparation was undertaken by the Borrower and the Bank, and the project
design and components were well thought out. Sector issues were identified in a sector study
on Secondary Education (World Bank 1999), and a PHRD grant financed additional studies on
education quality and institutional capacity at the school level, among other areas. The
Government and the Bank worked in detail on the Project's design. Even after restructuring, three
of the main components were maintained and the main activities originally planned were financed
as designed, though at a significantly reduced level. The activities proposed under each
component were adequate to achieve the outcomes sought by the Project.

Project design was coherent with the Country Assistance Strategy (CAS). The Project design
was in line with the main goals of the approved 2002 CAS4. In the education sector, the CAS
endorsed the GOJ's policies of improving the quality and equity of secondary education and of
providing a place for all Grade 9 graduates in upper secondary education by 2007 through ROSE
II. The Project's main goals were to ensure the inclusiveness of growth and build up human
capital. The 2005 CAS, in place at the time of Project restructuring, continued to endorse access
to education opportunities at all school levels and improvements in teaching and learning5.

The following factors had an adverse effect on the design of the Project and later hampered its
implementation:

Risk assessment and mitigation measures were not adequately assessed and taken into
account. The ICR of ROSE I mentions that the macroeconomic situation worsened in the second
half of the 1990s. Failures by some financial institutions triggered a financial crisis. The
Government's support for these institutions worsened the fiscal deficit. During the life of ROSE I,
debt servicing went from 40 percent to 62 percent of total government expenditures. This had
already led to increasing problems during ROSE I for the Government's provision of counterpart
funds. In spite of this context, both the Borrower and the Bank agreed to a Project that was too
big, given the macroeconomic situation and debt burden. In the critical risks section of the PAD,
the potential shortages of counterpart funds were rated as modest. The PAD mentioned that the
GOJ had allocated recurrent and capital budget to the education reforms, which were considered a
top priority by the Government. Nevertheless, the fiscal situation affected project implementation
immediately following effectiveness, and these allocations to the Ministry of Education were
drastically reduced by the Ministry of Finance for the first and second years of Project
implementation, leading to project restructuring (see Section 2.2).

The MOE's human resource capacity to take on the new responsibilities related to the
Project was grossly overestimated. The existing technical units and supervision teams were
unable to adequately monitor and carry out project activities, and this negatively affected
implementation of many of the project components, including the SIPs, curriculum support, the
bursary program, and overall monitoring and evaluation aspects. For example, the Project did not
include enough support to the schools in the preparation and execution of their SIPs, especially
regarding the administrative and fiduciary matters. This issue was identified and remedied during
project implementation.




4
    Doc.R2000-200, discussed on November 30, 2000.

5
 Report No. 31830-JM discussed on May 10, 2005 (R2005-0086) and CAS Progress Report No. 39969-JM, dated July
19, 2007.


                                                     8
The design of Monitoring and Evaluation for the Project, while technically strong, was
overly ambitious (see Section 2.3 on Monitoring and Evaluation). The PAD included an
extensive set of indicators for outcomes and considered a set of monitoring activities, identifying
responsibilities within the MOE. The Project design factored in the inclusion of a component
focused on strengthening monitoring activities. Despite this, the Project did not define targets for
these indicators. It was too optimistic in assessing the existing capacity in Jamaica's education
sector to generate the data and monitor it, and it was ambitious in envisaging the pace of
institutional strengthening where this capacity was not up to level.

2.2 Implementation
(including any project changes/restructuring, mid-term review, Project at Risk status, and actions
taken, as applicable)

A number of factors influenced Project implementation, both positively and negatively. The
positive aspects were:

Project coordination was sound. Effective Project leadership by the PCU was a key factor to
successful implementation of the Project. The Project Manager was capable and was able to move
implementation forward, even during the first three years when resources were scarce. She was
able to identify roadblocks and sought assistance to overcome them, and she managed the
procurement processes for some key Project activities at critical moments when the PCU lost
members of the procurement team.

Resources provided directly to schools acted as a great motivation for teachers. Teachers,
students and principals were encouraged by the availability of resources to tackle the activities
selected in their SIPs to improve literacy and numeracy. The elaboration of the SIP contributed to
create momentum and give focus to the school initiatives. The diagnostic tools and materials and
the textbooks were also greatly appreciated by teachers. ROSE II was the main vehicle to provide
support to secondary schools throughout project implementation.

Local consultants participated in elaboration of the diagnostic tools, which enhanced the
quality of the product. Though the consultant firm who was awarded the contract was an
international company, it relied heavily on local consultants to carry out the preparatory work.
The local consultants reviewed the scope and sequencing of the national curriculum for Grades 7
to 9 and the textbooks for Language Arts and Mathematics. They evaluated the status of teaching
and learning through classroom observations, before designing the diagnostic tools. They
demonstrated good knowledge of the Jamaican education system and this was reflected in the
quality of the materials produced.

Implementation of the diagnostic tools was accompanied by sensitization sessions to school
administrators. Two sets of workshops were carried out to sensitize school principals and
regional Education Officers to their role in the implementation of the diagnostic tools and
materials for Grades 7 to 9. During these sessions, the training dedicated part of the day to the
review of the SIP program for those principals of schools participating in the program. This
produced good synergies during implementation.

Extensive consultations on school rehabilitation favored consensus and sped
implementation. During the design phase of the civil works, a series of meetings and discussions
were held with representatives of the design firms, specialists of the MOE, and the Bank team to
discuss new trends in school design in the region, to be included in the design of the new blocks
for both schools in accordance with Jamaican guidelines and regulations for school design and


                                                 9
construction. School authorities at both schools were presented with the proposed designs and had
the opportunity to give feedback. This consensus process proved to be very effective during the
design phase and construction of the new blocks and ensured satisfaction of the beneficiaries.

The factors that negatively influenced project implementation were:

The Government was unable to fund Project activities at early implementation stages.
Efforts to balance the budget and reduce the debt burden considered loan monies as part of the
budget line. This led to significant reductions in the use of national and donor funds for ROSE II
and other projects. Immediately following effectiveness on April 1, 2003, the MOE had put in
place the instruments to manage the Project and initiated several of its activities. However, the
approved budget for the first year of implementation (April 2003 - March 2004) was 44.2 percent
of what had been programmed (US$1.65 million from the Loan and US$0.58 million in
counterpart funds approved versus US$3.93 million and US$1.17 million budgeted, respectively).
A similar situation ensued the following year. As a result, project implementation suffered
considerable delays. There was a reduction in PCU staff due to the budget constraints. By the
time of restructuring, three years into project implementation, only US$1.89 million of the
US$38.9 million original loan had been disbursed from the loan account (including the funding
for the Special Account and the one percent front-end fee).

Government accounting procedures delayed project implementation. The accounting
procedures required that an amount from the Government Consolidated Fund equivalent to the
loan amount be made available before any expenditure could be made from the Special Account.
Project implementation was negatively affected by the lack of cash flow from the counterpart
resources. This requirement was eliminated during the restructuring. A non-cash transfer was to
be recorded between the MOE and the Accountant General's Department to document the
transaction. This facilitated implementation considerably.

Availability of human resources was a challenge from the beginning, both at the regional and
central levels. The technical units and supervision teams existed within the MOE, but their
availability to take on new responsibilities related to Project activities had been overestimated.
This was the case for the SIPs, curriculum support, the bursary program, and the monitoring and
evaluation aspects. For example, the RO's financial comptroller was intended to monitor the
financial aspects of the SIPs, but the Supervision officer and the financial comptroller had too
many schools to supervise and the geography of the country added challenges to reach the
schools. When the PCU discovered that schools greatly needed more hands-on support, the PCU
hired six regional accountants/monitoring officers, one for each geographic region, to work
closely with schools to support SIP implementation. As a result, the quality and timeliness of the
implementation of SIPs improved.

School accountability for the SIGs required additional training and support. The need to use
and comply with procurement procedures (Bank and GOJ), and the novelty of those procedures
for schools, made it difficult for schools to fulfill their obligations. External audits noted issues
with filing, meeting deadlines and reporting requirements, and providing adequate supporting
documentation for purchases of goods and supplies. This led to "red flagging" of schools, which
had the unintended consequence of temporarily paralyzing the SIP program. The PCU worked
closely with the Bank and the schools to overcome these difficulties, including additional training
in procurement procedures, clarification in reporting requirements, adjustments to the SIP Manual,
and the hiring of the afore-mentioned regional accountants to provide more frequent and direct
support to schools.



                                                10
There were frequent changes in administrative personnel at the schools. This hampered
implementation and required repeat training. In some instances, administrators were immersed in
implementation without having received training. This was the case of some Principals, bursars
and board members at secondary schools. These changes in personnel and the organization of the
training affected the timely implementation of the SIPs.

Cost overruns and inclement weather slowed school construction. Project implementation
was affected by significant increases in prices for oil and structural steel in the international
market. The structural steel for buildings doubled its price in 2007/2008. The increase in oil
prices during the same period affected the cost of all imported materials in Jamaica (pipes, wires,
electrical and plumbing fixtures) due to high prices in transportation and shipping. A 28 percent
cost overrun on the first school, delays in the bidding process and a projected need for extra funds
from the MOF, delayed the start of works at the second school, requiring a project extension.
Once works began, intense rain from August to September 2008 slowed the work pace, and
cement and other key supplies could not be delivered to the site for more than six weeks because
a major bridge along the main route was completely destroyed during Tropical Storm Gustav.

Bursary students required additional support. A high number of drop-outs from the Bursary
Programme led the PCU to request supplementary support to low-income students through a GOJ
welfare program. Additional stipends were delivered directly to the schools to provide services to
targeted students to cover transportation, school lunches, uniforms and other school-related
expenses. The PCU also hired a Bursaries Monitoring Officer to oversee this component, which
facilitated implementation. The Monitoring Officer assisted several students to find
accommodations, counseling and other services to ensure they enrolled and continued with their
studies.

There was high turnover of staff in the MOE's Project Monitoring and Evaluation Unit
(PMEU). High rotation of personnel negatively affected the capacity of this unit to monitor
project implementation and posed difficulties in the management of the final evaluations of the
Project's activities.

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

M&E Design

The Project Appraisal Document (PAD) paid substantial attention to monitoring and evaluation
and included a monitoring and evaluation activity in each of its components. While the design of
the M&E was technically strong, it was ambitious. The PAD included an annex on monitoring,
evaluation arrangements and assessment. It stated that monitoring and evaluation of ROSE II
would build on elements supported by ROSE I: examinations, surveys and evaluation capacity. It
aimed at quantifying the impact of ROSE II. It intended to use the standardized tests administered
by the MOE and CXC at Grades 9 and 11 to measure upper secondary access and achievement;
the Jamaican Survey of Living Conditions (SLC) to measure access for students from households
in the lowest consumption quintile; and interviews, observations and focus groups undertaken by
the MOE's PMEU to assess improvements on the quality of education. It specified:
responsibilities among units, sources of data, and extensive explanations of the tools to be used
for each component. The PAD included baselines for its outcome and output indicators. However,
it did not define targets for the outcome indicators. While the M&E design was ambitious, the
Project included the financing of a component that was focused on strengthening the M&E
institutional aspects in the MOE. This component was dropped at restructuring.



                                                11
The MOE's PMEU was to be in charge of assembling semi-annual monitoring and evaluation
reports with information provided by the different units. The PMEU had undertaken numerous
studies of ROSE I, with a focus on the qualitative aspects of the reform. It used focus groups with
stakeholders and classroom observations, among other tools. This experience was taken into
account when defining the monitoring and evaluation of the quality of education interventions.

M&E Implementation and Utilization

The PCU carried out the regular monitoring of the Project's activities and prepared semi-annual
progress reports and quarterly Financial Management Reports (FMRs). The PCU reviewed the
three evaluation reports prepared by the PMEU, providing useful comments. The ISRs show the
indicators were updated regularly during the supervision missions with the information made
available by the MOE and PIOJ. The PCU was instrumental in gathering the available
information in the MOE to assist in monitoring the Project.

The PMEU also had responsibilities for monitoring the implementation of the activities financed
under the Project. Though it contributed to monitoring of the Project, the unit was not effective in
carrying out this role due to the constant rotation of staff and the fact that the evaluation
framework was defined later in the life of the Project. The PMEU led the elaboration of the final
evaluations for the SIP and bursary programs and the diagnostic tools and strategies. The
evaluations were end-of-project evaluations which captured the benefits and achievements of the
Project's interventions. The PMEU experienced difficulties during the preparation of the
evaluations with gathering data on the schools and students selected for the samples. Data
collection from student records was difficult, both in public and private schools, because records
were not up to date and information was organized in very different ways. In the case of the
bursary program, the data provided by principals on the participating students was sometimes
inaccurate or inconsistent. Interviews were used to cross-check information and ensure the final
data used was as accurate as possible. The PMEU succeeded in analyzing the available data
separately, by type of schools, and was straightforward in explaining the shortcomings in
gathering information. The evaluations were very useful to highlight the main benefits to the
stakeholders, in identifying patterns and in providing recommendations.

There was a degree of difficulty in updating the outcome indicators as proposed in the PAD, as
well as the restructured ones. This was due to changes experienced in the universe of secondary
schools in Jamaica. As an example, at the time of preparation, data was collected for former
comprehensive schools and former secondary high schools. In the MOE's efforts to improve the
quality of secondary schools, during Project implementation certain secondary schools were
upgraded and changed their denomination. This created challenges in making accurate
comparisons of performance by school type at Project completion. Another difficulty was that the
Junior High School Certificate Examination (JHSC) was discontinued after its application in 2006.
Since participation in the alternative Grade Nine Achievement Test (GNAT) is not mandatory,
the traditional high schools did not apply this test and there was no data available for 2007 and
2008 for those high schools that had participated in the SIP program6.




6
  The GNAT is an exam for Language and Mathematics, administered at the end of Grade 9. The results are used
mainly for placement of students in the next grade of secondary education. The JHSC was introduced in the 1990s with
the support of ROSE I, in the context of rationalization of the examination system. The JHSC, applied at the end of
Grade 9, was intended to replace the GNAT and was based on the ROSE curriculum, testing in Language and
Mathematics as well as in other curriculum subjects. It intended to serve not only as a placement exam but also for


                                                        12
2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance
(focusing on issues and their resolution, as applicable)

Safeguards:
ICR Rating: Satisfactory

The Project was rated as a Category B for environment. The original design included the
construction of three new schools. The original loan included compliance with the Bank's
environmental safeguards while complying with the national environmental legislation. The
restructuring did not require any additional environmental safeguard compliance beyond what
was agreed in the PAD and original loan agreement: the implementation of the environmental
manual as agreed under the original loan. The Bank's and the GOJ's environmental safeguards
were complied with during the expansion of the two secondary schools.

Financial Management:
ICR Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

Financial Management was rated as Satisfactory at the beginning of project implementation. The
quality of the FMRs was satisfactory in general during the life of the Project. The audit reports
were rated as clean, though the auditor's reports in 2006 mentioned some internal control issues
related to the SIPs. The Bank thoroughly reviewed the issues with the PCU and determined that
many of the comments were generalized and did not look at the particulars of the school. The
PCU developed an action plan and followed up with each school, and a follow-up audit was
carried out.

Throughout implementation, the Project maintained financial management systems which
provided reasonable assurance that the Project transactions could be properly recorded and this
allowed the preparation of reliable financial statements. Although there were problems at the
beginning, bank reconciliation statements were generally prepared in a timely manner, following
receipt of the bank statements. Accurate records were kept regarding the Project's assets.
However, the MOE invested considerable efforts and expense to acquire AccPac software, and
the Bank and the IDB agreed to use the software for Bank-funded projects. The PCU abandoned
its AccPac accounting software after having input data and trained staff because the program was
not customized to prepare the reports as the PCU had requested. As a result, the PCU relied on
Excel spreadsheets as its accounting platform, which the Bank found to be generally lacking in
having sufficient audit trails and difficult to control with respect to development, updating and
archiving. The reliance on spreadsheets as the primary accounting platform for the project
introduced doubts about the assurance of accuracy in record keeping.

The overall rating for FM is Moderately Satisfactory. The rating is based on the findings of the
final Supervision/Evaluation Mission which took place in June 2009. All of the items related to
financial accounting and reporting were rated as satisfactory, except for Information Systems
which were rated as unsatisfactory because the PCU relies on spreadsheets as its accounting
platform. The timely submission of withdrawal applications was rated as unsatisfactory due to



certification and monitoring/diagnostic purposes. The exam was administered from 1999/2000 onward but was
discontinued in 2007. The GNAT and JHSC had the same content for Mathematics and Languages, and the exams were
considered comparable for these two subject areas. Sitting for these exams was not mandatory for schools, and within
the schools, teachers could choose who would sit the exam.




                                                        13
long lapses of time between withdrawal applications which sometimes affected the amount of
funds available for project activities.

Procurement:
ICR Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

Procurement experienced some issues during the life of the Project which affected timely
implementation of Project activities. Though procurement started with satisfactory ratings until
restructuring, it suffered from a change in procurement officer. The new officer took a long time
to be trained and did not perform as expected. His contract was not renewed and the Project
Manager assumed responsibility for procurement for the last two years of the Project, having
taken Bank procurement training courses in Washington and Jamaica.

While overall procurement is rated as Moderately Satisfactory, there were moments when it was
found Moderately Unsatisfactory (ISRs of November 2006 and May 2007). This was due to the
unsatisfactory performance of the procurement officer during 2006 while the Project Manager
was absent due to a serious illness and did not have adequate back-up during her absence. The
auditor's reports in 2006 mentioned some exceptions to the procurement procedures. The Project
Manager explained in a timely manner the reasons behind these exceptions during a supervision
mission and in a letter addressed to the Bank (October 2006). The supervision missions observed
in 2006 some weaknesses in the documentation of SIP activities. As mentioned above, regional
monitoring officers were hired to help the school bursars and these hires quickly had a positive
impact on the quality of the documentation.

The 2006 ex-post procurement review also found issues related to the cancellation of
procurement processes in the case of the foundation books and the selection of a consultant for
the design and supervision of Paul Bogle High School. There were difficulties with the National
Contracts Commission in the first case, which disagreed with the selection of the winner. This
extended the procurement process which had to be carried out three times, the last one as a prior
review contract in order to avoid problems. The second case required a new procurement process
as well, after finding failures to comply with the procedures.

An independent procurement review carried out in 2007 found poor staffing and poor filing as
issues to be addressed. The PCU Manager oversaw the procurement activities after the
procurement officer left in July 2007 and was assisted by the office administrator in updating the
filing. Further post reviews found improvements in filing and procedures, upgrading the rating to
Moderately Satisfactory.

2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase
(including transition arrangement to post-completion operation of investments financed by
present operation, Operation & Maintenance arrangements, sustaining reforms and institutional
capacity, and next phase/follow-up operation, if applicable)

The MOE is preparing a sustainability plan to provide continuity to the main activities of the
Project, sustain the Project achievements and fully realize the impact of those activities. The
sustainability plan will focus on: (i) establishing proper maintenance systems to prevent rapid
deterioration of school facilities, through the development and adoption of a preventive
maintenance policy and corresponding allocations of funds for all schools to better upkeep school




                                               14
facilities and equipment7. The PCU has provided the MOE's Schools Operations Division with an
inventory of all the goods and equipment acquired by schools during ROSE II to contribute to
better planning and budgeting for adequate support for maintenance to schools; (ii) enhancing
school planning and management, by sustaining the achievements of the SIP program. An
improved and revised version of the SIP manual has been prepared and is intended to be
mainstreamed into the MOE tools8 ; and (iii) improving teaching and learning of the national
curriculum by monitoring and reinforcing the use of the diagnostic tools in the classrooms, as
well as providing additional training, by resource teachers, of teachers who may not have
received formal instruction to use the tools.

A new Bank-financed operation was approved on November 24, 2009 to support the
Government's Education System Transformation Programme. The new operation will provide
capacity building to emerging key agencies to enhance performance and accountability of the
education system. It will strengthen the regional authorities to enable them to provide better
support to schools and will seek to enhance monitoring and evaluation.

The MOE is implementing a School Enhancement Program which shares the objective of the
bursary program of providing access to upper secondary education to a group of students who did
not reach placement through the GNAT exam, and maintaining students in schools.

3. Assessment of Outcomes
ICR outcome rating: Moderately Satisfactory

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation
(to current country and global priorities, and Bank assistance strategy)

Relevance of Objectives: ICR rating: Satisfactory

The relevance of the Project's development objectives was high at the time of preparation
and remains high today. The Project aimed to support an expansion of equitable access to
secondary education and improve the quality of teaching and learning through: (a) the provision
of resources and training directly to schools to prepare their own improvement plans and fund
their activities; (b) the design and use of diagnostic tools and strategies to improve learning; and
(c) the provision of training for teachers and MOE personnel. This continues to be consistent with
the priorities of the current government and with the needs of the country. Access to upper
secondary education continues to be limited. While coverage has increased, the quality and
relevance of public education in Jamaica are low and there is substantial room for improvement.

The Project's development objectives were in line with the Bank's assistance strategy. The
Project was in line with the 2002 and 2005 CASs and continues to be in line with the new
Country Partnership Strategy (CPS) pillar of promoting inclusive and sustained growth and with
the sub-pillar of strengthening human capital.


7
  The development of the policy and manual falls under the Education System Transformation Programme, which is
being partially financed by a new World Bank loan.

8
 The MOE intends for the SIP manual to be used in training by the Jamaica Teaching Council/ National College for
Education Leadership. These new agencies are being partially supported by a new World Bank loan.




                                                      15
Relevance of Design: ICR rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory

The Project design was relevant at the time of preparation and it continues to be relevant today.
The Project activities were designed to deepen the secondary education reforms that were started
and supported by ROSE I. The components' activities focused on schools and students. The main
shortcoming was the failure to adequately capture the country's fiscal capacity at the time to
handle a project of that scope and magnitude. This caused the design to be too optimistic in size.
The design was also too optimistic in assessing the human resource capacity of the MOE to
implement several of the project activities (see Section 2.1).

Relevance of Implementation: ICR rating: Moderately Satisfactory

The Project's implementation arrangements were designed to support the decentralization efforts
in the education sector, in the context of the long term education strategy (ROSE I had been too
centralized and distribution of inputs to schools was challenging). The implementation
mechanisms sought to place schools at the center of decision making, through the SIPs and SIGs.
The SIPs were thought to foster active participation of stakeholders (parents, teachers and
students). The decentralization of educational responsibilities was fostered by giving more
responsibility to Regional Offices. Though their work needed to be complemented by monitoring
officers working directly with schools on the SIP program, the ROs played an important role in
the review of the SIPs during preparation through regional committees. The steering committee
for the Project worked very well and was helpful in providing guidance during implementation.

3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives (PDOs)
(including brief discussion of causal linkages between outputs and outcomes, with details on
outputs in Annex 2)

Original PDOs
ICR Rating: Unsatisfactory

The initial PDOs were to improve the quality and equity of secondary education, to expand access
to upper secondary education, and to strengthen the institutional capacity of the central MOE and
its regional offices.

The achievement of the original PDOs was to be measured by the following indicators, as
included in the PAD:
     Annual increase in average scores in Junior High School Certification Exam (JHSC) or
        the Grade Nine Achievement Test (GNAT) in Language Arts and Mathematics;
     Annual reduction in the percentage of students in JHSC scoring below 30 percent correct
        in Language and Mathematics;
     Annual increase in enrollment in secondary education, disaggregated by consumption
        quintile;
     Annual increase in attainment, at the end of Grade 11, in the Caribbean Examination
        Council's Caribbean Secondary Education Certificate Examination (CXC- CSEC) at
        Level III and above in Language and Mathematics;
     Annual increase in participation in the CXC-CSEC at the end of Grade 11.

The original PDOs were relevant when the Project was designed. However, from Project
effectiveness forward, the Government of Jamaica was unable to adequately fund most project


                                               16
activities. Only US$1.89 million of the US$38.9 million loan was disbursed from the loan
account in the first three years of Project implementation, including the funding of the Special
Account and the one percent front-end fee.

During the first three years, there was some progress in implementation of Project activities: (a)
99 schools had started the preparation of their SIPs, which were considered crucial by schools to
improve their literacy and numeracy levels; (b) the diagnostic tools were being developed; (c)
training was provided to 932 Heads of Department on the management of the ROSE curriculum
and student assessment, and some related books and materials had been developed and made
available to schools; (d) 440 bursaries had been awarded to students to attend independent
schools; (e) small amounts of training had been provided to maximize the use of school facilities
and equipment under the institutional strengthening component; and (f) some preparatory work
for the construction and reconstruction of schools had been carried out.

However, the low level of disbursements of Project funds resulted in imperceptible progress
towards the achievement of the original PDOs which could be attributed to the Project. It was
clear to the Government and the Bank that the original PDOs could not be met under the
circumstances.

Restructured PDOs
ICR rating: Satisfactory

The PDOs were modified at restructuring. The Project would build on the achievements of the
first Reform of Secondary Education (ROSE) Project through continued improvement of quality
of and equity in secondary education and expanded access to upper secondary education. These
were to be achieved through: (i) provision of school improvement grants to approximately 100
disadvantaged schools; (ii) provision of pedagogical support to all secondary schools; (iii)
expansion of two existing schools to create 800 additional places; and (iv) public financing of 450
student places in Independent Schools. All these were accomplished.

The outcome indicators were revised as follows:
    Improved results on the GNAT scores for English and Mathematics in schools with SIPs;
    Percentage of schools using the new diagnostic tools by 2008 (70 percent);
    Increase in the percentage of the age cohort of students enrolled in grade 10 (in all
       schools).

The Government and the Bank also agreed to track two of the indicators included in the PAD for
informational purposes but not to use them to evaluate the direct outcomes of the Project: (i) the
percentage of Grade 11 students who sit for the CXC exam in English and Mathematics and attain
a grade I to III; and (ii) the percentage of 15-16 age group enrolled in upper secondary education,
disaggregated by consumption quintile.

Improvements in Quality of Education

    Improved results on the GNAT scores for English and Mathematics in schools with SIPs.

Improvements in the quality of education were to be measured by improved results in the GNAT
scores in Language Arts and Mathematics in the 99 schools participating in the SIP program.




                                                17
Schools receiving SIPs were those who had not received similar interventions 9 and had a
significant number of students scoring 30 percent or below in Mathematics and Language Arts on
the GSAT in 2003.

The Project proposed to use the results of the GNAT in the areas of Language and Math as a
proxy for improvements of quality, specifically of literacy and numeracy, through improvements
in learning outcomes on these tests. The GNAT is an exam for Language and Mathematics,
administered at the end of Grade 9. The results are used mainly for placement of students in the
next grade of secondary education. Sitting for this exam was not mandatory for schools, and
within the schools, teachers could choose who would sit the exam. The Project carried out an end-
of-Project evaluation of the SIP component. It sought to assess the extent to which the Project
met its objective of improving literacy and numeracy in schools with SIP programs designed for
this purpose.

                  Table 2 - Mean Scores for English and Mathematics in GNAT by SIP schools

                                                         English
                                                 2002      2003     2004      2005      2006      2007     2008
        SIP All-Age and Primary and              20.07    22.19     24.21     24.31     24.39     21.75    24.60
        Junior High schools
        SIP High Schools                         23.27     26.59    28.14     26.27     29.87
        All SIP Schools                          22.57     25.36    27.21     25.76     28.22     21.75    24.60

                                                     Mathematics
                                                 2002    2003    2004         2005      2006      2007     2008
        SIP All-Age and Primary and              17.72 17.81 19.45            18.97     20.89     18.95    21.60
        Junior High schools
        SIP High Schools                         17.87    18.60     20.84     19.40     19.87
        All SIP Schools                          17.83    18.39     20.51     19.29     20.16     18.95    21.60

The evaluation findings refer to the schools with SIPs and SIGs only, and data for other schools
was used for comparison purposes. The evaluation results indicate that the SIPs and SIGs
contributed to improve the quality of education. The GNAT results show improvements in the
learning outcomes for Mathematics and English between 200310 and 2006, as shown in the above
table. Results show that high schools performed slightly better than All-Age and Primary and
Junior High schools11.

Data in the evaluation was disaggregated by school type. Regarding the participating high schools
(there is data for 13 schools of the 36 who participated in the evaluation), the evaluation showed:
(i) overall the levels of attainment were below 50 percent; (ii) there is a general trend of
improvement both in Language and in Mathematics between 2003 and 2006; and (iii) the levels


9
  35 high schools that were selected for the SIP program later participated also in the Secondary Schools Enhancement
Program (SSEP). These schools were included in the evaluation as a comparison group.

10
     The schools used the GNAT/JHSC results as the baseline for literacy and numeracy and set goals for the future.

11
   Within the SIP program, high schools represented one third of the schools and received approximately half of the
funds. Half of the 32 schools which had their last draw downs during 2006 were high schools.




                                                           18
attained in Language are higher than those in Mathematics. Regarding the participating All-Age
and Primary and Junior High schools, the evaluation showed: (i) except for a few schools, there is
not a consistent pattern of improvement of mean scores, though there seems to have been an
improvement in Math mean scores in most of the schools; (ii) there was a pattern of improvement
of Mathematics in All-Age schools, which saw an increase in their mean scores in Math versus
English; (iii) there were some similarities in the evolution of patterns in some schools, which led
the researchers to suggest other compounding factors, such as the leadership at the school.

It is important to point out ­ as the evaluation does ­ that, given that the SIPs were concluding at
Project closing, there was not sufficient time to perceive a significant impact of the SIPs on
improved learning outcomes. An impact evaluation is scheduled for 2011, to be carried out by the
MOE. The benefits from the SIP intervention are appreciated in the improvement in school
management activities, due to an effort to focus on planning and accountability.

Despite the short duration of the intervention, the SIPs contributed to improve the quality of
education, though this has not translated into significant improvements in learning outcomes to
date. The PMEU's evaluation showed that SIP schools experienced a change and improvement in
attitudes and in the quality of classroom participation. The evaluation showed that the SIP schools
benefited from the focus they placed on improving literacy and numeracy through the activities
they defined in their SIP (resources emphasized literacy more than numeracy). Each school
assessed its problems, chose the most appropriate strategies to address those problems, and set
performance targets to measure their progress. As such, the SIP served as a mechanism to
strengthen school-based management and make schools more effective.

With the SIPs, schools acquired a wide range of relevant instructional material; furnished and
equipped learning resource centers; and established and furnished computer laboratories and
enhanced areas of learning such as technology. Schools used SIPs to provide nutritional support
and incentives to students as well. The development of literacy and numeracy skills in the 99
participating schools was done in different and creative ways: integrating mathematics and
language into the home management curriculum; improving literacy and numeracy through
improvements in vocational studies (in the home and family room), integration of curriculum
areas (business, mathematics, accounting and language) to produce agricultural products in the
schools, and so forth.

The evaluation showed that there were benefits for the schools, the students and the community.
The schools saw tangible benefits: improvements in the physical facilities, availability of
resources and, in many cases, creation of reading and computer labs. The resources have been
used daily by staff and students, especially technology for teachers. These elements were and will
be helpful for improving performance. Teachers reported satisfaction with the training received
and students declared positive changes in attitudes, classroom participation and academic
performance. The combination of leadership, readiness by the school, focus provided by the plan,
and the emphasis put on quality and on standards contributed to improve the school environment
for teaching and learning.

Finally, the school improvement planning was a mechanism designed to strengthen school-based
management and make schools more effective. The SIPs contributed to improve management at
the school level (see Section 3.5), with demonstrated improvements in administrative and
financial processes. They promoted a change in the administrative culture, whereby schools had
to seek funds, as well as a change in methods of procurement and recordkeeping.




                                                19
    Percentage of schools using the new diagnostic tools by 2008 (70 percent)

The Project contributed to the elaboration of diagnostic tools to identify learning difficulties
experienced by students in Grades 7-9 in Mathematics and Language Arts and to offer strategies
to teachers to address these problems. The diagnostic tools are tests that focus on the pre-requisite
skills needed to develop the content of the curriculum for those grades. The test can be applied to
a whole classroom or a group of students. The strategies are contained in a booklet and include
different methods to aid students: group dynamics, lesson planning, basic skills in challenging
areas, among others. Training on the Diagnostic Tools and Strategies (DTS) was provided to a
small group of teachers in each school in Mathematics and Language Arts, who were assigned as
resource teachers to train other teachers in their schools. Training was also provided to school
principals and Education Officers to sensitize them.

The final evaluation was carried out before all the training was finalized, but it provided the
following findings: (i) 76 percent of the teachers surveyed were using the DTS in preparing their
lessons; (ii) teachers were satisfied with the quality of the materials and found them user friendly.
All school types were using them; their use appears to be more frequent in Grades 7 and 8 than in
Grade 9; (iii) teachers in All-Age schools and Junior High Schools seemed to be using the
provided materials more for Mathematics than for Language Arts; (iv) about 72 percent of the
teachers interviewed were using questions and answers as an assessment technique during their
lessons, though a smaller number had an assessment technique specifically included in the lesson
plan. In addition, the simultaneous use of the DTS and the SIPs appeared to improve learning in
schools.

The evaluation pointed out the difficulty of perceiving any impact of this activity at the stage it
was carried out. Training had not been fully delivered to the resource teachers, so there had not
been an opportunity to complete the training on-site for the other teachers. Training and
distribution of materials came towards the end of project implementation, as a result of the
implementation delays. The impact evaluation planned for 2011 will be designed to capture
achievements in student learning.

ROSE II was the only instrument supporting secondary education during the years of
implementation. The MOE was focusing much of its attention on primary education, for which it
was receiving support from the IDB and USAID. The ROSE II Project filled an important gap.
The Project supported a set of workshops with principals who were effective in linking ROSE I
and II. The DTS contributed to effectively assist teachers in implementing the curriculum and lay
the foundations to prepare students to learn the curriculum content.

Expansion of Equitable Access to Upper Secondary

    Increase in the percentage of the age cohort of students enrolled in Grade 10 (in all
    schools).

By Project completion, the percentage of age cohort (15-year olds) enrolled in Grade 10 in all
secondary schools had increased from 79.2 percent in 2004 to 88.7 percent in 2008 (versus a
target of 81.2 percent). The Project was directly responsible for adding 800 new spaces in two
existing schools serving mostly low-income students and giving access to upper secondary
education to 459 students through the bursary program. By consumer quintile, there was a
positive achievement. In the poorest quintile, the percentage of students aged 15-16 enrolled in
upper secondary increased from 76.6 percent in 2004/05 to 84.9 percent in 2006/07.


                                                 20
The Project supported expansion of access to upper secondary through several interventions. First,
it financed the rehabilitation and expansion of two existing secondary schools, Paul Bogle and
Annotto Bay. The schools are located in areas where unmet needs for upper secondary were high
(St. Mary and St. Thomas). The interventions included the introduction of technology and
improved facilities for academic and technical subject areas. The additional space allows the
schools to move from double to single shift, responding to an issue of high priority for the MOE
and providing students with more contact time with teachers.

The Project financed a bursary program to increase access to upper secondary (Grades 10 and 11)
by providing access to places in independent schools. Between 2003 and 2008 (school years
2003/2004 to 2007/2008), 720 students were registered in ten independent schools and, of these,
459 students remained enrolled and successfully completed their studies. These students were low
achievers (based on test results) who came from Primary and Junior High schools and All-Age
schools. The majority of the students were boys and a significant number came with disciplinary
problems. Starting in September 2003, students who sat for the GNAT or JHSC exams and did
not get a placement in a public school were identified by the MOE (Student Assessment Unit and
Regional Offices) to be placed in one of the ten participating independent schools. Though upper
secondary is Grades 10 and 11, the students were placed for three years, including a year of
remedial interventions in Grade 9 to ensure their readiness for Grade 10. The participating
schools agreed to take tuition for the equivalent of the per capita cost for public secondary
schools, although this amount was lower than tuition paid by regular students.

The ICR mission asked both teachers and students about issues of stigma from being placed
through the bursary program, and the unanimous response was that students were well accepted at
the schools and were well integrated in the school community. Absenteeism was an observed
problem the first year due to lack of means to reach or stay in schools. The MOE arranged for
some students to participate in a government welfare program that provided additional funds to
cover transportation, meals, examination fees, and in one case boarding, which significantly
contributed to diminish the drop-out rate from the program.

An evaluation of this program was carried out before Project completion. The evaluation showed
that there were differences in quality in the independent schools versus the comparison schools.
The independent schools were not as well equipped, teachers were not as well trained or qualified,
with a smaller number of teachers in Math and English and with less experience; they focused
less on special programs and strategies and they often lacked the tools and equipment to
successfully deliver the subjects for their vocational programs.

Notwithstanding, the evaluation showed that the bursary students, as well as those in the
comparison schools, were happy with their schools and liked being involved in extra-curriculum
activities. Both parents and teachers indicated in the interviews that bursary students improved
their academic performance. The evaluation shows that the results for the GNAT/JHSC
examination for 2005 and 2006 experienced an improvement of 19 and 20 percent in the scores of
the bursary students in Mathematics and English, respectively. The evaluation showed a
difference in the improvement of the Math results between those students receiving financial
assistance and those who did not. Attendance between those receiving financial assistance and
those who did not was not different. The evaluation suggested that the financial assistance had
met its goal.

Benefits to teachers from the program were difficult to capture during the evaluation. Some
teachers were motivated by the presence of a larger number of students and others felt they



                                               21
benefited from having students with different abilities. Principals highlighted the benefit of
receiving more resources through higher enrollment, making the school more known, and
receiving additional financial resources. For the community as a whole, the evaluation pointed
out the benefit of providing opportunities to continue studying to students who had not been
placed in public schools, which led to improvement in academic areas and behavior.

Some shortcomings identified by the principals were the lack of after-school activities, the
shortage of teachers for certain subject areas, and lack of adequacy of learning materials. They
also highlighted the need for the welfare program and cited the inadequacy of the fees. Schools to
participate in the program were not always found in the areas where most places were needed.

Some of the main assets of the program were: the perception by parents that teachers were caring,
well trained and dedicated; the positive academic progress of students as expressed by teachers,
students and parents; improved sense of self esteem by students and in some cases a feeling of
being comfortable in the school; and the opportunity provided to 459 students to complete
secondary school.

Summary of Outcomes: Moderately Satisfactory. The overall achievement of the Project is
rated Moderately Satisfactory based on a weighted calculation of the PDOs (see details in Annex
11).

3.3 Efficiency
(Net Present Value/Economic Rate of Return, cost effectiveness, e.g., unit rate norms, least cost,
and comparisons; and Financial Rate of Return)

Efficiency is rated as Moderately Satisfactory. The Project was unsuccessful in making progress
towards its development objectives during the first period of implementation. After restructuring,
efficient progress was made towards the achievement of the development objectives. The Project
met all of its output indicators (intermediate outcome indicators) by Project completion and did
not surpass the cost estimated at restructuring, although there was a need to reallocate funds
among disbursement categories to cover the increase in cost for the civil works.

The amount of Project costs financed by the Government was lower than expected (see Annex 1
Project Cost and Financing). This is partly explained by the fact that the government financed
several areas not monitored under the project, such as the cost of utilities for different project
activities (i.e. PCU) and the time of MOE personnel.

An economic analysis was not carried out for this ICR. However, at project restructuring the
premises of the economic analysis from the PAD remained the same, and the investments in the
restructured ROSE II Project were expected to produce substantial economic and social benefits.
These were borne out, and the reduction in scope reduced the financial burden that the project
placed on the Government.

The economic analysis done during project preparation centered on comparisons of the net
increase in lifetime earnings with and without the component of expanded access. The analysis
pointed out that the extension of existing schools had the highest internal rates of return, though
by a small margin. The economic analysis determined that the financing of bursary students was
more effective than the financing of new schools. After project restructuring, these two options
were favored to achieve the sought outcome of expanding equitable access. As the analysis
presumed, the independent participating schools invested most of the money received from the



                                                22
bursary program on measures to improve quality. The schools hired teachers and better equipped
libraries and resource centers, among other initiatives.

The economic analysis highlighted a number of positive externalities associated with
improvements in quality and access to secondary education, including producing better-informed
and more responsible citizens and better workers, and reducing social problems (gang-related and
other crime, teenage pregnancy, drug abuse, etc.) as a result of keeping school-age children in
school. Though on a smaller scale, externalities were achieved by increasing enrollment of
students from low-income households through expanded access by school rehabilitation and
financing of bursaries.

Though the size of the project was substantially reduced, there is reason to believe that the
investments carried out under ROSE II were beneficial for direct beneficiaries and the society as
a whole.

3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating
(combining relevance, achievement of PDOs, and efficiency)
ICR Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

The Project's overall outcome rating is Moderately Satisfactory. The Project failed to achieve its
development objectives during the first three years of Project implementation but succeeded in
meeting the revised PDOs after it was restructured. The Project contributed to improving the
quality, equity and access to secondary education in the context of its focused and limited
interventions. Though with a reduced scope, the project activities supported the country sector
goals set by the Government in its sector plan. Once the Project was restructured, the agreed
activities were finalized by Project completion.

The relevance of the Project's development objectives was high at the time of preparation and
remains high today. Project activities were designed in response to the needs of the country's
secondary education and were in line with CAS objectives. These objectives continue to be a
priority for the Government, and continued improvements in quality and institutional
strengthening are being supported by a new Bank-financed project. The design of the Project was
relevant, though ambitious in its scope given the fiscal reality, and it was overly optimistic with
regards to the administrative and human resource capacity at the central, regional and school
levels.

The Project brought about quality improvements in upper secondary education by encouraging
schools to analyze their situation and needs, prepare an improvement plan, and devise a strategy
and actions with a timeline to carry them out. Though the Project scope was reduced, the core of
its activities, especially concerning school-based management and efforts to improve quality,
were maintained. The Project sought to achieve improvements in terms of educational/learning
results, and provided training and tools to assess and work with students with learning difficulties.
The Diagnostic Tools and Strategies have been distributed to every All-Age and Primary and
Junior High school in the country. The Project achieved the strengthening of institutional capacity
in the schools where the SIP program was implemented through significant accomplishments in
management and accountability, and the revised SIP manual is a contribution to the education
system that will be used by the MOE and schools as a planning tool.

Finally, the Project had a less than intended impact on the strengthening of the MOE at the central
level, as the related activities were discontinued after the restructuring of the Project.
Nevertheless the Government worked closely with the IDB to improve institutional aspects, in


                                                 23
particular focusing on the EMIS, expanding it to cover the secondary education sub-system. The
regional offices were strengthened with the additional human resources incorporated during
Project implementation and their participation in the SIP process.

3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts
(if any, where not previously covered or to amplify discussion above)

(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

The Project was intended to have a positive social impact through its school expansion and
bursary programs. The SIPs focused on disadvantaged schools as well. The Project contributed to
increase enrollment in upper secondary education, especially among students from disadvantaged
socio-economic backgrounds. The expansion of schools took place in underserved areas. The
bursary program focused on more disadvantaged students who had attended All-Age or Junior
High schools. These are weaker schools from a quality point of view, as opposed to the traditional
high schools. The bursary program allowed these students to attend private schools, closer to their
homes, and to complete secondary education which was otherwise out of their reach.

In the case of the bursary program, the key consideration and outcome was to address the needs
of youth at risk, especially those from urban areas who were almost always from poor families.
The program focused on improving reading skills and mathematics. Simultaneously, it focused on
ensuring that these students were given the extra support they needed to be able to function and
succeed later in life, upon graduating from secondary school. To make this goal achievable, the
students were given three years to complete the program instead of two, allowing the majority to
repeat Grade 9. With this extra step, the program was successful in keeping students off the
streets, and these "youth at risk", who were mostly boys, were successfully enrolled and
graduated.

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening
(particularly with reference to impacts on longer-term capacity and institutional development)

The SIPs have become a standardized tool. SIPs were part of the strategy to promote quality and
equity of secondary education through the provision of funding and pedagogical support to
schools. Through the Project, the SIP became a management tool and strengthened the
management skills of school administrators who had, for the most part, an education profile. The
Project provided training in the development of plans, procurement procedures and financial
management, and monitored the procurement of goods and services and the implementation of
each activity in the school. The SIPs contributed to strengthen school-based management and to
make schools more effective. Schools were fully responsible for implementation of the strategies
they chose in order to improve students' learning outcomes through the SIPs. The SIP process
contributed to enhance and implement greater accountability, monitoring and reporting on the
results achieved. Schools administered tests in literacy and numeracy (a combination of
standardized tests and teachers' tests) to create a baseline to follow the performance of students.
The SIP manual was revised in September 2008 and is being mainstreamed into the education
system for all the schools.

The SIP also had an impact on participation. It resulted in a process whereby principals, teachers,
students, parents and community representatives gathered to assess the needs of the schools and
to identify factors that negatively affected students' performance, and then designed a plan to
improve it. The implementation of the government policies on decentralization, participation and



                                                24
school-based management were key elements of the design. Though school improvement plans
had existed since 1990, ROSE II for the first time allocated resources for the implementation of
SIPs and focused on achieving their timely implementation.

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative, if any)

The two unintended outcomes of the project were the improvements in school-based management
capacity and the development of the SIP manual, to be used more generally across all schools and
in future training of education leaders. Both are fully described above.

3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops
(optional for Core ICR, required for ILI, details in annexes)

Findings from beneficiary surveys, carried out by the MOE in the context of the final evaluation
of the SIP and bursary programs and use of the diagnostic tools, have been included in other
sections of this document (see Section 3.2, for example) and in Annex 5.

The Bank's Task Team Leader (TTL) participated in a national workshop with regional education
officers (EOs) in November 2008. The workshop focused on a summary of the achievements of
the ROSE II Project and ways to ensure their sustainability. It was a very interactive event and
offered participants the opportunity to reflect on what had been done and what was to come. The
EOs made thoughtful and creative contributions on ways to sustain ROSE II and School
Improvement activities in the areas of curriculum, capital goods, physical plant, and professional
development. They ranged from hands-on work with teachers and school bursars (school
planning, integrating technology, M&E-establishment of realistic targets and ways to measure
progress) to development, oversight and guidance of policies (school maintenance, building
standards, use of goods, procurement and inventory), as well as peer coaching and building of
learning communities in and among schools. The TTL noted a broad understanding of ROSE II/
secondary education reform initiatives among the EOs and a strong commitment to ensure that
the sector (schools, regional offices, MOE) would maximize the potential of the investments
made.

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome
ICR Rating: Moderate

The overall risk to development outcomes has been rated as Moderate. The main reasons for this
rating are the following:

        The Government of Jamaica and the Bank have continued to work together to deepen the
        reforms of the education system. The new Bank-financed project tackles system issues
        and intends to strengthen institutional capacity at the regional level which, most likely,
        will contribute to enhance the outcome of this Project's interventions;

        The schools that participated in the SIP have been strengthened in terms of management
        and participation. The SIP exercise contributed to help schools focus and this exercise
        spilled over to other schools;

        The SIP manual was revised and it will be distributed to all secondary schools and to the
        Jamaica Teaching Council, in charge of professional capacity building;




                                               25
        The diagnostic tools and strategies are being used by teachers in Grades 7-9, though with
        different degrees of training;

        Enrollment in secondary education has increased and the MOE has tested different
        programs to enroll students in Grades 10 and 11.

Though it was still early to measure the impacts of the Project interventions, it is expected that the
levels of literacy and numeracy will improve as the Project's interventions take hold.

5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance
(relating to design, implementation and outcome issues)

5.1 Bank Performance
(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry
(i.e., performance through lending phase)
ICR Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory

The Bank team worked closely with the Borrower during Project preparation, jointly identifying
the key issues in secondary education that the Project should focus on and the strategies to better
address them. The preparation team included a solid core of professionals with relevant
experience in the focus areas (school development projects, disadvantaged students), to define the
scope and the objectives of the Project and design the Project's interventions. The team also
applied the lessons drawn from the implementation of ROSE I. These strengths were all
highlighted in the Quality at Entry Assessment (dated 10/24/2002), as well as the ones that follow.

During preparation, the Bank team worked with the MOE to assure there was consensus among
the different stakeholders around the main objectives of the Project. The MOE had a tradition of
regularly consulting on major policies and strategies. A significant number of secondary schools
were consulted during the preparation of the social assessment. The Bank had a meeting with the
main relevant international development partners (DFID, UNICEF, USAID, etc.) during project
preparation.

The Bank had been providing long standing support (since the 1980s) to the comprehensive
reform of secondary education. The Bank worked with other international actors (mainly IDB)
seeking to complement its assistance and better support the MOE in its efforts to improve the
education sector. The Bank brought extensive ESW with adequate policy analysis and options,
and drew from international experience and local expertise and stakeholders' knowledge for the
Project's assessment. During appraisal, the Bank team visited over 60 secondary schools and
interviewed teachers, principals, students, and parents to take into account their views.

The original Project design was adequate, but too ambitious, in the context of the fiscal
situation of the country. Despite the substantial analysis and the involvement of the Bank in
efforts to reform the education sector, it failed to assess the fiscal space available to carry out the
Project as designed. This, too, was noted as a risk in the QEA. The quality of the design was good,
since most of the Project interventions were kept when the Project was restructured, though
downsized. There were errors of assessment in terms of the capacity of the MOE to manage
ongoing monitoring and evaluation, the capacity of the Regional Offices to handle the tasks
concerning the supervision of the bursary and SIP programs, and the capacity of the schools to
handle the administrative aspects of the SIPs and the SIGs. For these reasons, which led to the




                                                 26
restructuring of the Project, the ICR team decided to give the Quality at Entry a Moderately
Unsatisfactory rating, despite the Satisfactory rating reflected in the QEA.

(b) Quality of Supervision
(including of fiduciary and safeguards policies)
ICR Rating: Satisfactory

The quality of the Bank's supervision was Satisfactory. The Bank carried out regular supervision
missions and, according to the Aide Memoires, dedicated adequate time to review the progress in
implementation. The task team leaders gathered supervision teams with complementary skills and
abilities, which provided adequate support to the Borrower. There were three task managers who
supervised the Project. The transition between them was smooth, and Bank management provided
support at the critical moment when implementation was very slow. There was continuity and
adequate support to the Borrower. The teams worked closely with the PCU to address the initial
shortcomings and ensure the regular monitoring of indicators.

The Bank provided technical assistance in two critical areas. M&E experts helped the MOE to
develop the M&E framework and worked closely with the PMEU to review the instruments and
methods for the final evaluations. An international architect consultant worked closely with the
PCU, MOE, and hired contractors to ensure high quality construction of the school additions and
adherence to environmental safeguards, and he involved the school principals to gain the
beneficiaries' perspective on the school designs.

The Bank team realized early in implementation that the slow start of the Project could
undermine the achievement of the targets and objectives as it had been designed. Once it was
obvious that there were serious delays, the Bank provided substantial support to restructure the
Project. The new task team leader who took over the Project in 2005 carried out positive and
effective dialogue with the Borrower, with Bank's management support, to successfully downsize
the Project and achieve a timely completion of its activities.

The team closely monitored the financial management aspects of the Project, provided support in
the transition to a new accounting system, and followed up on the observations provided by the
auditors. The team looked in depth at the problems occurring during the implementation of the
SIPs and provided support to the PCU coordinator to address them. Regarding procurement, the
Bank procurement specialists provided training and assistance when required, in a timely manner.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance
ICR Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

The Bank's overall performance is rated Moderately Satisfactory based on:
    Thorough work during Project preparation, with participatory methodology, good quality
       sector work and incorporation of lessons learned from other operations;
    Timely response to the country's needs;
    Good working relationship and communication with the Borrower and stakeholders;
    Adequate Project supervision, accompanying the Borrower during implementation and
       responding to its priorities;
    Sustained attention to the Project's procurement and financial aspects, helping the
       Borrower to fulfill its fiduciary responsibilities and overcome shortcomings.




                                                   27
Despite these positive aspects, the Bank failed to adequately assess the risk of the fiscal burden,
aiming for a Project of a size substantially greater than the fiscal capacity of the country at that
moment, but was flexible in working with the GOJ to find a solution. The Project design was
influenced by an overly optimistic assessment of the country's implementation capacity at all
levels.

5.2 Borrower Performance
(a) Government Performance
ICR Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory

The Government's performance is rated as Moderately Unsatisfactory. The Government (GOJ)
showed commitment to the Project during preparation. It supported the development objectives
and provided encouragement throughout the preparation period. The GOJ had elaborated a White
Paper on education (February 2001) and had been working on implementing sector reforms. The
GOJ had successfully implemented ROSE I, which surpassed many of its targets. Nevertheless,
and despite the support during preparation, the Government was not realistic in assessing its fiscal
space to accommodate the loan and its ability to counter-finance the Project. Thus, the GOJ was
unable to fulfill its financial obligations from the initial implementation. The GOJ also did not
remove, in the early stages of implementation, the obstacles to facilitate the flow of funds from
the Loan to the MOE for Project implementation. This was remedied during the restructuring
process, and funds flowed steadily for the last three years of the project.

(b) Implementing Agencies Performance
ICR Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

The performance of the MOE and the PCU are rated as Moderately Satisfactory. The MOE
actively participated in the preparation of the Project, involving and consulting stakeholders
during that time. During implementation, it reacted in a timely manner to the difficulties it had to
face from the beginning of implementation. The MOE, through the PCU, was able to set priorities
for implementation, given the financial constraints it encountered.

The PCU experienced difficulties (see Section 2.2) during the life of the project with the absence
of its director and in finding and keeping an adequate procurement specialist. Nevertheless, the
leadership of the PCU Director was key to achieving the targets set after restructuring and
completing the activities planned.

 (c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance
ICR Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

The Borrower's overall performance is rated Moderately Satisfactory based on:
    Government commitment to the PDOs and targets, inserting the Project as critical to the
       national efforts to reform secondary education;
    Leadership and commitment of the PCU and the MOE to carry out the Project activities,
       despite fiscal constraints;
    Good capacity to react in the face of fiscal difficulties and to work with the Bank to
       restructure the Project, making efforts to provide timely funds for project implementation
       and meet the revised Project Development Objectives;
    Willingness to make adjustments to ensure successful completion of project activities,
       such as the hiring of the regional monitoring officers and the Coordinator for the Bursary
       Program, and arrangements for low-income bursary students to receive welfare benefits



                                                28
        to pay for transportation, school uniforms and other related items that allowed them to
        continue to attend school.

The main shortcoming was the inability of the country to meet its counterpart obligations,
beginning shortly after loan approval. There were also some procurement issues that delayed
project implementation.

6. Lessons Learned
(both project-specific and of wide general application)

A number of general lessons can be derived from both the design and implementation phases of
the Project:

Lessons derived from Project design:

The assessment of implementation capacity needs to be realistic. Though the Bank and the
Government of Jamaica had been working together for a number of years, both parties were
overambitious in setting the targets and expected outcomes, and did not realistically assess the
capacity of the system to carry out the agreed activities. This was the case for the assessment of
the capacity of the Regional Offices to support schools, the capacity of the schools to carry out
decentralized functions, and the capacity of the GOJ to manage the fiscal situation.

Lessons derived from Project implementation:

Improving literacy and numeracy requires strong school commitment and appropriate tools.
The findings of the evaluation on the Diagnostic Tools and Strategies (DTS) showed that the
training was useful and the tools were appropriately developed to tackle learning problems in the
classroom. The findings suggested, as a best practice, to make principals in secondary schools
responsible for monitoring the use of the tools and implementation of tests to better achieve the
goal of improving literacy and numeracy. This would ensure monitoring on a continuous basis.
Since principals received the materials, it was suggested that they be held accountable for their
use. In fact, principals and Education Officers participated in training workshops and received an
orientation to the DTS, thus increasing their ability and willingness to support teachers to use
them in schools. The elaboration of a literacy and numeracy scale would facilitate measurement
of improvements in literacy and numeracy as a result of the use of the tools and tests.

The teacher training method (in cascade versus other methodologies) should be carefully
reviewed to achieve the intended goals of training. The materials for training should be
elaborated and distributed prior to the training or during training sessions to guarantee hands-on
training, and there should be systematic follow-up and an established training schedule to ensure
that resource teachers carry out the training on site. The evaluation (done in 2008) showed that 56
percent of teachers using the materials had not yet been trained. By Project completion a total of
1,062 teachers had been trained.

Strong school leadership is important. The sensitization training to school principals and
regional Education Officers offered additional support to teachers in the use of the diagnostic
tools. However, not all principals have systematically monitored the use of the tools in their
schools, and some materials delivered to them were not passed on in a timely manner. By the
same token, the design and implementation of the SIPs, as well as the results, were heavily
influenced by the leadership of principals and the staff involved. The SIP provided the focus that
enabled ideas and changes to take place at the school level. School principals need more training


                                                29
in effective management of resources, and more support needs to be provided as the education
system moves towards greater decentralization.

The outcomes of SIPs were influenced by the readiness of the schools to receive the
intervention. Not all of the schools were ready to use, implement and benefit from the full
interventions. Yet once the regional monitoring officers were brought on board, implementation
improved significantly. This highlighted the need for more hands-on support for new initiatives.
In cases where funds are administered by schools, sufficient training and support should be
provided to manage the fiduciary monitoring.

Funds for SIGs contribute to make the SIPs a success. Jamaica had a history of using SIPs,
prior to ROSE II. But the Project introduced the allocation of funds, for the first time, to carry out
activities identified by the school community to improve literacy and numeracy among their
student population. The evaluation showed that this was highly valued by all stakeholders and
acted as a strong motivating factor.

7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners

(a) Borrower/implementing agencies (See Annex 7)

(b) Cofinanciers ­ None.

(c) Other partners and stakeholders ­ None.
(e.g. NGOs/private sector/civil society)




                                                 30
Annex1 - Project Costs and Financing
(a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)

                                                                                    Percentage       Percentage
                                  Appraisal                           Actual/           of               of
        Components                Estimate        Restructured        Latest        Appraisal       Restructured
                                  (USD M)           Project          Estimate                         Project
                                                   (USD M)           (USD M)
 1. School Improvement
                                     11.00             5.80             4.93            44.8             85.0
 Grants
 2. Reform Support from
                                     11.77             3.50             1.39            12.0             39.7
 the MOE to schools
 3. Expand Access to
                                     28.00             7.80             7.48            26.7             95.8
 Secondary Schools
 4. Institutional
                                     9.12              2.40             0.90            9.8              37.5
 Strengthening
 5. Project
                                     2.71              1.90             1.80            66.4             94.7
 Implementation Unit
       Total Project Cost            62.60             21.40           16.50            26.3             77.1
              Front-end fee          0.40              0.40             0.40


(b) Financing
                                                                                                 Actual/Latest
  Source of           Type of         Appraisal Estimate Restructured Project
                                                                                                   Estimate
   Funds            Cofinancing           (USD M)             (USD M)
                                                                                                   (USD M)
Borrower                                       23.20                        9.30                       4.26
IBRD                                           39.80                       12.50                      12.24

Note: Around US$390,000 was returned to the Bank. The main reasons for this were the following:

         There were exchange rate gains between 2006 and 2009, which allowed the Borrower to have more resources
         available to finance the Project's activities;
         Some heavy equipment that was programmed to be provided to Paul Bogle High School was not delivered in
         time to be received by the PCU and the schools by Project closing. The size of this equipment created storage
         issues and could not be procured until the building facilities were completed, nearing Project closing. The
         supplier initially indicated that the equipment was in stock but later contacted the PCU to say that it would
         have to be shipped from overseas, thus creating the delay in delivery. The Borrower provided all of the
         critical furniture and equipment to Paul Bogle High School.
         Efficient workshop planning and execution resulted in lower expenditures on training than planned.




                                                        31
Annex 2. Outputs by Component
Component 1. School Improvement Plans and Grants
ICR Rating: Satisfactory

This component financed grants to selected schools with large enrollments of lower secondary-
age students (Grades 7-9) with the objective of supporting the schools to improve literacy and
numeracy. The grants benefited All-Age schools (18), Primary and Junior High schools (46),
upgraded high schools (33) and Vocational/agricultural high schools (2), which had not benefited
from similar projects. The list of schools was agreed during preparation, before Project approval.
The Project financed the direct costs associated with the preparation and implementation of
School Improvement Plans (SIPs) for the 99 schools. Initially, the PAD foresaw that a total of
198 schools would benefit from this component. The restructured Project halved the number to 99
schools. The Project achieved this objective by its completion.

Functioning of the mechanisms for preparation, review and funding: Each school selected a team
of people which included the principal, vice-principal, teachers, the bursar and a PTA member.
The team was trained on the development of the SIP. The training included: identification of
needs, setting the targets, creating a budget, assigning roles and responsibilities, and the
monitoring and verification process. The training began in May 2003. A total of 396 team
members received the initial training. Training was repeated during the life of the Project due to
the turnover of school personnel. By the completion of training, each school had created an
outline of the SIP.

A Regional Review Panel (RRP) was created to review each SIP and approve it, before sending it
to the PCU. Guidelines were prepared to guide this process. The RRP was responsible for
ensuring that the proposed SIP was realistic, cost-effective and targeted. The PCU was
responsible for disbursing funds, once this process was completed. A total of 99 SIPs were
approved and financed under this component.

The allocation amount to each school was based on the number of students with low performing
grades (test scores of 30 percent and below in Mathematics and Language Arts). School budgets
ranged from J$900,000 to J$10 million. The funds were disbursed in three tranches once the
schools had met the disbursement criteria.

The component financed technical assistance to prepare the SIP manual, which was ready by
Project approval. The manual was adjusted during implementation of the Project to respond to
issues that arose. The Ministry of Education (MOE) has determined that the revised manual
would be a very useful tool, in general, to assist schools in preparing SIPs, which are a MOE
requirement. The Project financed training materials, printing and distribution of the SIP manual
to the eligible schools; and training in school development planning and school-based
management for principals, school board members, teachers, and community representatives. The
preparation process was highly participatory; this was not common in schools. The process was
highly valued, and it encouraged and motivated teachers and students, whose inputs were sought.

The main challenge with implementation of the SIPs referred to procurement matters. Schools
had very few discretionary funds and were not held accountable for following procurement rules
or maintaining detailed accounts. They were accustomed to a culture of purchasing from known
sources rather than procuring, that is, asking for quotations and following national and Bank
procurement guidelines. Additional training was required, along with adjustments to allow for
sole source purchases in rural areas where only one provider was available. Schools have used


                                               32
what they learned in other areas of school management and this has enabled them to seek funds
from other sources and use them well.

Component 2. Reform Support from the Central Ministry to Schools
ICR Rating: Satisfactory

This component aimed to finance centrally coordinated activities to complement the bottom-up
approach and support All-Age schools not eligible for the SIGs. Originally, it had the following
sub-components:

Sub-component 2.1 ­ Literacy and Mathematics Enhancement: This component originally
focused on financing a set of activities to assist the 20 percent of secondary students who did not
demonstrate the grade level skills for English language and Mathematics. These activities were to
be carried out across the secondary schools. After restructuring, the Project financed the
development of diagnostic tools and strategies (DTS) to address learning difficulties.

The DTS were prepared by an international consulting firm in close collaboration with national
counterparts, following field work and interviews with teachers and students. These materials
were created to supplement the national curriculum in Language Arts and Mathematics for
Grades 7-9. The curriculum was created with support from ROSE I. Many of the schools using
the curriculum needed support to effectively implement it, and a significant number of students
observed or interviewed when preparing the DTS showed inadequately developed numeracy and
literacy skills. The Diagnostic Tools are tests which focus on the prerequisite skills necessary to
develop the concepts in the curriculum for Grades 7-9. The tests are applied to the whole class, to
groups or to individual children. The Strategies in the booklets contain methods of intervention to
aid or enhance the teaching process. They are a combination of learning activities with teachers'
instructions. They include: planning units and lesson plans on basic skills in the areas identified,
group dynamics with emphasis on cooperative learning, among others.

Training was given to MOE and school personnel (principals and teachers) on the use of the DTS
and corresponding resource materials. Education officers, college lecturers and principals
received orientation sessions, as well, with the purpose of sensitizing them to their role in
supporting the implementation of the DTS and resource materials in the classroom.

The training strategy foresaw to train Math and Language Arts resource trainers. These resource
trainers then trained teachers from each school (heads of departments and four teachers from each
school - two for Math and two for English - for all types of schools except for All-Age schools
which only included two teachers) in a series of five sessions. The trained teachers were to then
conduct on-site training of the other teachers at the school. Teachers who attended the training got
compact disks with all of the training materials. Cluster workshops started in June 2007 and
extended until February 2009. Photocopies were used for the training until the final documents
were printed. Some schools received their materials as late as August 2007. Training took place
as late as May 2009. This had an impact on the results of the evaluation for this activity, since
data was collected in October and November 2008. The MOE intends to carry out an impact
evaluation in 2011, once the DTS is being fully implemented in schools.

Other activities included in the PAD under this component, such as technical assistance to
develop effective methodologies and materials to support the conversion to regular English for
Patois-speaking children to foster reading habits, were not carried out during the first three years
of project implementation and were dropped after the restructuring.



                                                33
Sub-component 2.2 - Strengthening Teaching and Guidance
Under this sub-component, the Project financed:

    (a) Provision of foundation books: A total of 42,000 copies of foundation books, originally
        printed under ROSE I, were financed by the Project in the areas of language arts, science
        and social studies. These covered three of five core subjects of the national curriculum
        for Grades 7-9. The books were distributed to students free of cost. The Project financed
        1,750 supplementary Readers for Grade 7 students, in support of the MOE literacy
        enhancements initiative.
    (b) Training in the national curriculum: The Project financed in-service training for teachers
        in delivery and assessment of five core subjects of the national curriculum for Grades 7-9.
        This training took place between November 2003 and March 2005. Training on
        curriculum management and delivery was provided for 932 Heads of department as well.
        The training was given by MOE technical staff from the Professional Development and
        Core Curriculum Units and professors from the teacher colleges.
    (c) Guidance and Counseling: During the first two years, the Project financed: (i) printing of
        support material for the guidance counseling curriculum. This included 2,500 copies of
        the national guidance curriculum, 60,000 copies of the student portfolio, 2,500 of the
        content book and the counseling handbook, and 1,500 copies of the policy for the
        management of substance abuse in the education sector; and (ii) training of about 414
        school personnel on the roles and responsibilities of guidance counselors and principals
        and on peer leadership.

Component 3. Expanded Access to Upper Secondary Education
ICR Rating: Satisfactory

This component aimed to provide access to over 5,000 students to secondary education by
creating new secondary school places through civil works and securing existing places in
independent secondary schools. In its initial design, the component had two subcomponents:

    1. Civil works: it intended to fund the creation of three new schools and the extension of
       three existing ones. This would have created 4,035 additional places at the secondary
       level;
    2. Bursaries for independent school places: this activity intended to provide bursaries to
       around 1,300 Grade 9/10 students in independent private schools meeting the MOE
       standards of quality.

The implementation of this component was fairly slow during the first three years. By March
2006, pre-construction work had been carried out on all of the six sites included in the PAD.
Initial procurement preparations had taken place for the two sites that were included in the
restructured project. The bursary program had initiated implementation and had placed 440
students in independent schools.

When the Project was restructured in February 2006, the Government decided not to carry out the
new construction of the three schools and the expansion of one of the three schools originally
included under ROSE II. The Project financed the expansion of the other two schools, Annotto
Bay and Paul Bogle High Schools, aiming to create 800 new places. Under the bursary program,
the component aimed to place 450 students in private schools. By Project completion, both targets
had been met.




                                               34
Civil Works: The expansion of both high schools was completed, and the schools were furnished
and fully operational. This allowed the two schools to remove the double shift program and
expand the number of students. In both cases, the main labs (computer, biology, chemistry,
physics, and food and nutrition labs) as well as classroom and staff rooms were rehabilitated
and/or expanded.

Bursary Program: This program was implemented from 2003/04 to 2008/09. A total of 720
students were placed in ten participating independent schools. The number of students placed
(720) was significantly higher than the target of 450 students enrolled. However, a number of
students dropped out of the program before graduating, many due to an inability to sustain
secondary costs such as uniforms, school materials and transportation. The MOE sought
assistance from a Government welfare program to supplement the bursary funding for very low-
income students, and the number of dropouts decreased. The total number of students who
completed upper secondary education was 459 in June 2009. This includes students who sat a
leaving exam (CSEC, SSC, NCTVET or CCSLC) and those students who completed three years
of studies but did not sit for a leaving exam. Students participating in this program were enrolled
for three years (Grades 9, 10 and 11), except for the last group of 26 students.

The schools participating in the program were identified through an expression of interest, after
the MOE published advertisements in newspapers and an assessment of the school facilities was
carried out. Annual assessments were then conducted by the MOE to ensure compliance by the
schools with the program guidelines.

The implementation of the program was coordinated by a Bursary Monitoring Officer (a trained
guidance counselor) from 2004 to 2008. She acted as a liaison between the schools, the students
and the MOE. She assisted in putting in place the student welfare program in 2006, after
attendance and drop out challenges were observed. The Officer identified the students in need of
financial assistance, with support from the schools. This measure contributed to improving
retention among a certain group of students. The MOE's Student Empowerment Program was
created simultaneously and has similar goals. The MOE's decision to develop a similar program
will ensure continuation of this type of support to like groups of students.

The implementation of this activity was very challenging for the MOE and the participating
independent schools. This was due to the multiple socio-economic issues faced by the targeted
student population, the limited amount of resources available to address them, and the
unanticipated nature of the challenges. There were challenges in the placement of students as well.
Private schools participating in the program were not always available in the geographic area
where students lived and students were placed by the MOE in schools that were not close to their
homes.

Component 4. Institutional Strengthening or Monitoring, Evaluation and Assessment (after
restructuring)
ICR Rating: Satisfactory

This component aimed to support the MOE and its regional offices to successfully implement the
activities under ROSE II, in a context of transitioning from a centralized acquisition and
provision of school inputs to a role of providing technical assistance and continuous support to
schools, based on their demands, and monitoring of outcomes. The PAD initially foresaw three
subcomponents:




                                                35
(i)     Education Management Information System (EMIS): the Project would support the
        development of a secondary school management information system, and provide
        training in its use, computers to schools and regional offices, and funds for its
        maintenance. These activities were to complement efforts supported by USAID in
        primary education;
(ii)    Enhancing Efficiency and Effectiveness: the Project would provide support to
        strengthen institutional capacity at central and regional levels by financing training
        for Education Officers, fellowships, and study tours; and by providing technical
        assistance to develop instruments to measure outcomes, efficiency and effectiveness,
        and provision of equipment;
(iii)   Maintaining and fully utilizing assessment, monitoring and evaluation capacity: this
        sub-component aimed at enhancing the MOE Student Assessment Unit's capacity.

During the first years of implementation, this component supported the regular monitoring
activities and the provision of some training for key MOE personnel to maximize the use of
school facilities and equipment. A total of 421 personnel from 213 schools participated in the
training. The training was completed in November 2003. The training helped principals and
school administrators with planning and preparation of timetables. Other than this, little
activity was carried out before March 2006.

In March 2006, this component was largely canceled. The EMIS activities were incorporated
into an expanded IDB-financed operation that was supporting the development of the EMIS
at the primary level. No further institutional capacity training was provided. The component
was to continue supporting monitoring and evaluation of the Project. Before its completion,
the Project financed three evaluation reports, one each for the School Improvement Grants
Program, the Bursary Program, and the Diagnostic Tools and Strategies activities. These
evaluations were prepared by a team of researchers in the MOE's Programme Monitoring and
Evaluation Unit.




                                           36
Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis
(including assumptions in the analysis)


N/A




                                    37
Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

(a) Task Team members
                 Names                      Title             Unit
     Lending
     Kin Bing Wu                Task Team Leader             LCSHD
     William Experton           Caribbean Sector Leader      LCC3C
                                Monitoring and Evaluation
     Marlaine Lockheed                                       MNSHD
                                Specialist
     Peter Moock                Senior Economist
     Toby Linden                Education Specialist         ECSHD
     Karla McEvoy               Operations Analyst           LCSHD
                                Financial Management
     Rajeev Kumar Swami                                      ECSC3
                                Specialist
                                Financial Management
     Daniel Boyce                                            SACNA
                                Specialist
     Marcelo Osorio             Procurement Specialist       LCSPT
     Janet Cupidon-Quallo       Social Specialist
     Yang-ro Yoon               Economist
     G.F. Brest van Kempen      Architect Consultant
                                Consultant/ Implementation
     Lorraine Blank
                                Manual
     Maria Elena Anderson       Consultant/ SIP Manual
     Aracelly Woodall           Program Assistant/Costing    LCSHE
     Julie Nannucci             Program Assistant            LCSHE
     Eduardo Brito              Legal Counsel                LEGLA
     J. A. Carvalho             Legal Counsel                LEGLA
     Edward Daoud               Disbursements Officer        LCSFM
     Gwang-Jo Kim               Education Consultant

     Supervision/ICR
     Kin Bing Wu                Task Team Leader             EASHE
     William Experton           Sector Leader                AFTED
     Toby Linden                Education Specialist         ECSHD
     Lorraine Blank             Consultant                   LCSHE
     Guido Paolucci             Senior FM Specialist         LCSFM
     Fabienne Mroczka           FM Specialist                LCSFM
     Gwang-Jo Kim               Education Consultant         LCSHE
     Alexis de Roquefeuil       Task Team Leader             LCSHE
     Cynthia Hobbs              Task Team Leader             LCSHE


                                     38
                                       Sector Leader/Sector
       Chingboon Lee                                                    LCSHE
                                       Manager
       Jorge Mesa                      Architect Consultant             LCSHD
       Moustapha Ndiaye                Senior FM Specialist             ECSC3
       Emmanuel Njomo                  FM Specialist                    LCSFM
       Evelyn Villatoro                Procurement Specialist           EAPPR
       Norma Rodriguez                 Procurement Analyst              ECSPT
                                       Senior Program
          Aracelly G. Woodall                                           LCSHE
                                       Assistant/Costing


(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                                 Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
              Stage of Project Cycle                                      USD Thousands
                                                No. of staff weeks     (including travel and
                                                                          consultant costs)
Lending
FY01                                                  3.88                  105,127.72
FY02                                                  24.64                 213,036.81
FY03                                                  9.98                   63,794.00
                                       Total:         38.5                  381,958.53
Supervision/ICR
FY03                                                   4.3                   24,440.70
FY04                                                  26.88                 124,400.65
FY05                                                  27.48                 118,948.86
FY06                                                  18.29                  91,824.59
FY07                                                  10.24                  62,945.70
FY08                                                  17.39                  83,109.63
FY09                                                  11.73                  67,105.24
FY10                                                   7.3                   44,480.34
                                       Total:        123.61                 617,255.72




                                           39
Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results

In the context of the MOE's final evaluation of the SIP and bursary programs and use of the
diagnostic tools, beneficiary surveys were carried out. The main findings are the following:

School Improvement Program

       Principals reported that they could see more resources available to schools now. These
       resources were used every day. Principals reported positive changes in management
       practices, in areas of accountability, team work, delegation, financial management,
       procurement and monitoring.
       Very few parents acknowledged involvement in planned implementation.
       Principals rated very highly the contribution of teachers and committee members in
       implementation.
       Parents believed that the experiences of their children would be improved with the
       provision of more resources in the schools, in particular in information technology and
       school trips.
       Teachers strongly valued the training they had received, considering it timely and
       relevant.
       Parents said that attitudes, classroom participation and general academic performance
       had improved.
       Students were aware and accepted that these interventions were geared to help them
       improve their Mathematics and English skills.

Diagnostic Tools and Strategies

       A significant number of teachers (60 percent of surveyed teachers) were satisfied with
       the package they had received.
       Teachers reported that the DTS booklets were easy to use and the tests were being used
       in all high schools (All-Age, Primary and Junior High and High Schools).
       A significant number of teachers (76 percent of surveyed teachers) were using the DTS
       booklets to plan their lessons.

Bursary Program

       Bursary students interviewed for the final evaluation reported that they had positive
       feelings about their enrollment in the schools and about being in the school. They found
       their involvement in special learning interventions meaningful and they liked being
       involved in extra-curricular activities.
       Students, parents and teachers claimed that those students participating in the program
       showed academic improvement. This impression was consistent with the examination
       data from the GNAT/JHSC examinations in 2005 and 2006.
       Teachers in participating schools reported that they were motivated by the increase in the
       number of students in their schools thanks to the bursary program.
       Principals in participating schools reported that the bursary program had brought positive



                                              40
       effects to their schools by increasing enrollment, generating some advertisement for the
       school, and bringing financial resources to the schools.
       Principals spoke of the inadequacy of the fees, insufficient, from their point of view, to
       cover costs. They also expressed concerns regarding the need for more teachers and more
       learning and teaching inputs (including equipment, materials, space, training
       opportunities for teachers, etc.).
       Parents were satisfied with the teachers who, they felt, were caring, approachable,
       adequately trained and dedicated.
       A good number of students expressed experiencing a feeling of comfort in their schools,
       perceiving a positive environment in the schools and an improved sense of self worth.

Principals expressed facing the following challenges: compliance with procurement procedures
and attendance by students. They identified their main ways to sustain the changes in
management practices by: continuing training, monitoring and evaluating their staff.




                                              41
Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results

The Bank's Task Team Leader (TTL) participated in a national workshop with regional
education officers (EOs) in November 2008. The workshop focused on a summary of the
achievements of the ROSE II Project and ways to ensure their sustainability. It was a very
interactive event and offered participants the opportunity to reflect on what had been done and
what was to come. The EOs made thoughtful and creative contributions on ways to sustain ROSE
II and School Improvement activities in the areas of curriculum, capital goods, physical plant,
and professional development. They ranged from hands-on work with teachers and school
bursars (school planning, integrating technology, M&E-establishment of realistic targets and
ways to measure progress) to development, oversight and guidance of policies (school
maintenance, building standards, use of goods, procurement and inventory), as well as peer
coaching and building of learning communities in and among schools. The TTL noted a broad
understanding of ROSE II/ secondary education reform initiatives among the EOs and a strong
commitment to ensure that the sector (schools, regional offices, MOE) would maximize the
potential of the investments made.




                                              42
Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR

The Reform of Secondary Education Project ­ Phase II (ROSE II) commenced in October 2002
as a follow-up to ROSE I and marks the second phase of the government's commitment to reform
the secondary school sector over a 15-year period. ROSE I (which ended in 2000) focused on
developing a Grade 7-9 Curriculum which many still refer to as the ROSE Curriculum but which
name should be abandoned in favour of the National Curriculum for Grades 7-9.

Success in the implementation of this project, coupled with other transformation initiatives which
target this same population, will trigger a chain of results: improvement in the cognitive skills of
the secondary school-age population; building human capital; and poverty alleviation, which will
facilitate social and economic development. 12

Project Administration: A Project Coordinating Unit (PCU), reporting to the Director of Project
Administration, was established in the Ministry of Education (MOE) to manage the
implementation of all project activities. A matrix model for implementation was also envisaged
but because of challenges with personnel resources, the model was not strictly applied, and a
significant level of the work was managed from the PCU with inputs from the various Units and
Departments of the Ministry as availability of personnel resources allowed.

A Steering Committee was also established for the project with representation from all key
stakeholder groups viz:
     Ministry of Education                         Joint Board of Teacher Education
     Planning Institute of Jamaica                 Association of Principals
     Ministry of Finance Planning and the          Jamaica Teacher's Association
        Public Service

The main role of the Committee was to give strategic advice and direction to the implementation
team. The committee was provided with a quarterly report on the progress and status of the
project. Meetings were held regularly on a quarterly basis except in the last year of the project
when several meetings had to be cancelled because of a lack of a quorum.

The project was the subject of annual audits by an external auditing firm, the Ministry of
Education's internal Auditor, and the Auditor General's Department.

The World Bank conducted Supervision Missions two times each year. Procurement Post-
Reviews by the Bank's Procurement Specialists were conducted annually and there was one
Independent Procurement Review during the life of the Project. None of these audits/ reviews
revealed any breaches of the Loan Agreement or other legal covenant. Where minor
operational/procedural discrepancies were observed, corrective action was taken where possible.

Staffing: For the duration of the project, a core staff was maintained. Reporting directly to the
Project Manager were:
              Finance Manager                               Senior Accountant
              Technical Coordinator                         Accounting Clerk
              Procurement Manager                           Secretary


12
     Staff Appraisal Report




                                                43
                     Project Administrator                                  Driver/Clerk
                     Clerk of Works

Four persons were contracted at the level of Education Officer, also reporting to the Project
Manager but working closely with Schools Operations (in particular the Regional Directors and
Officers), Core Curriculum Unit, Independent Schools Unit. These were:
     School Improvement Planning Coordinator
     Coordinator for the Implementation of Diagnostic Tools And Strategies
     Coordinator for the Bursary Programme
     Training Coordinator (first two years)

When the SIG component got into high gear it became necessary to employ six (6) individuals
(accountants/ regional monitoring officers) to help the schools with financial management and
procurement, which were proving to be extremely challenging for many. They remained with the
project for 18 months.

Project Funding and Expenditure: The original investment in the ROSE II project was US$63
million. During the first two years of the project, however, GOJ budgetary allocations fell short of
the expected amounts and as a result a number of major project activities (notably Civil Works
and the preliminary works on the development of the Secondary School MIS) which should have
started during that period were delayed. By the end of 2005, the status of implementation
suggested that it would no longer be possible to complete all the project activities in the
established timeframe. A re-scoping exercise was initiated and in early 2006 the scope of the
project was reduced with a concomitant reduction in the investment portfolio from US$63 million
to US$21.8 (a US$12.5 million loan from the World Bank and GOJ counterpart funds of US$9.3
million13). This exercise resulted in the:
 Reduction in Civil Works from construction of three new schools and extension of three, to
     extension of two existing schools
 Reduction in the number of schools to benefit from the School Improvement Grants from 200
     to 100
 Reduction in the number of bursaries from 1300 to 450
 Deletion of the development of the secondary schools MIS
 Deletion of Institutional strengthening activities (including professional development
     opportunities and upgrading of regional offices)
 Deletion of TA to develop Continuous Assessment Tools.

It was, however, agreed that these activities would be included in the plans being developed for
the Education Transformation Programme, and other on-going initiatives in the Ministry.

In the initial three years of the project, flow of funds was somewhat challenging as the
arrangements were that all expenditures would be made from the local account (warrants from the
Ministry of Finance) which would then be reimbursed (to the Special Account from the Bank).
During 2006 this procedure was changed to a more favourable one whereby eligible expenses
were paid directly from the special account and counterpart amounts from the project account.


13
   Included in the US$9.3 million counterpart funds were cost of accommodation and utilities; cost of administration of
JHSC and GNAT examinations; Secondary School Enhancement Programme (grants) and education Officers' time
spent working on project-related activities. These costs were not tracked by the project.




                                                         44
There were very few cash flow problems from then to the end of the project. Expenditure on the
project is as follows:
IBRD              US$ 12.24
GOJ               US$ 4.26

Procurement: All procurement activities were subject to the procurement rules and guidelines of
the Government of Jamaica and the World Bank. The Procurement Plan, which was continuously
updated, detailed the goods, services and works procured using project funds, procurement
methods, and names of contractors, service providers and suppliers, as well as contract sums.

In cases where procurement activities were subject to scrutiny and approval of both the GOJ and
the World Bank, the process was often lengthy and this contributed to the need for the project
extension, as the planned timelines for these activities could not be met. Notwithstanding these,
all procurements planned for the project were successfully completed by June 30, 2009.

There were two changes of Procurement Manager during implementation of the project. In the
final year, procurement was managed by the Project Manager (one of the changes) with the
assistance of the Project Administrator.

Implementation by Components

Component 1: School Improvement Grants
In keeping with the development objective `to continue to improve the quality and equity of
secondary education through the funding of School Improvement Plans..' this component of the
ROSE II Project targeted schools that had large enrolments of lower secondary (Grades 7-9)
students and had not benefited from similar projects, whether funded entirely by the Government
of Jamaica, or by loans or grants from external funding agencies. A major effort was needed `to
improve the learning outcomes by making the educational experience exciting and supportive so
that students are encouraged to remain in school.'

To access this funding the schools utilised the School Improvement Planning (SIP) methodology,
which is a process whereby principals, teachers, parents, students and community representatives,
assessed the needs of the school and identified the factors that adversely affected the performance
of pupils. This information provided the basis for the development of plans to improve the
situation. These School Improvement Plans facilitated the introduction of changes to improve the
quality of teaching, ownership and accountability, and in so doing improved student-learning
outcomes and addressed the learning requirements of youth-at-risk.

Approximately 200 schools were preselected to participate in this component but the number was
reduced to 100 during the re-scoping exercise.

The SIPs were developed specifically to target the enhancement of Literacy and Numeracy
among Grades 7-9 students in four school types namely: Upgraded Secondary High, Primary and
Junior High, Vocational High and All-Age. The implementation of Government policy on
decentralisation, participation and school-based management were, however, a major design
consideration. It should be noted that although School Improvement Plans were already a reality
of the education system (introduced in the 1990s) at the start of this project, implementation was
a challenge as there were generally no dedicated funds for this purpose. ROSE II provided the
first major outlay of dedicated funds for the implementation of the SIPs in the school types listed
earlier.



                                                45
A SIP Manual was prepared during the Project design phase, used during implementation and
revised at the end of project. The revised document (CD) has been handed over to the Chief
Education Officer, and copies were sent to the Regional Directors to be made available to all
schools.

Component 2: Reform Support from the Central Ministry to Schools

2.1    Literacy and Mathematics Enhancement

2.1.1 Diagnostic Tools and Strategies (DTS) - Preparation and printing of material: Under
this sub-component, Diagnostic Tools were developed to identify learning difficulties that were
being experienced by Grade 7-9 students in Mathematics and Language Arts; support material
was developed for teachers to assist them with correcting misconceptions and mistakes in these
two subject areas; training was provided to teachers. Teacher educators participated in these
training sessions and are therefore well equipped to encourage the use of these tools and
methodologies.

Procurement of consultants for the development of the DTS commenced in November 2003.
After a protracted procurement process, fraught with problems and delays, a contract was signed
with Juarez & Associates in early March, 2005 for a period of eighteen (18) months, which was
subsequently extended to 21 months. Because of the late award of the contract, some planned
activities (classroom observations) had to be postponed until the new school term in September.
Notwithstanding this, the consultants conducted a sensitization workshop in April 2005, to
apprise key stakeholders of the aim of the consultancy and to garner their support.

Over the 21 months of the consultancy, the materials were developed, piloted and approved by
the Core Curriculum Unit. The consultancy ended in November 2006 (after an extension of three
months) with the submission of the materials for printing, and the training of 108 Resource
Teachers (54 in Mathematics and 54 in Language Arts).

The contract for the printing of the DTS was awarded to Von Hoffmann Corporation in April
2007 and the materials delivered in early July 2007. Distribution to schools commenced
immediately.

2.1.2 Implementation of the Diagnostic Tools and Strategies (DTS): The implementation of
Diagnostic Tools and Strategies was one of the major implementation activities of the project,
spanning February 2007 to June 2009. The curriculum support materials (diagnostic tests and
teaching strategies) for Grades 7-9 Mathematics and Language Arts were distributed to 435
schools with Grade 7-9 (including independent/ private schools), and over 1,000 teachers were
trained in the use of the materials. This was one of the three project activities evaluated.

Component 2.2 ­ Strengthening Teaching and Guidance

2.2.1 Provision of Foundation Books: Between March 2005 and December 2007, 42,000
copies of Foundation Books in three (3) subject areas (Language Arts, Social Studies, Science)
were reprinted (previously printed during ROSE 1). These books replenished dwindling stocks of
textbooks for three of the five core subjects of the National Grade 7-9 curriculum, and were
distributed to secondary students free of cost. The procurement process was lengthy as omissions
in the first bidding document necessitated a repeat of the entire procedure.




                                              46
The project also procured 1,750 copies of supplementary Readers (recommended titles) for Grade
7 students, in support of the Ministry's literacy enhancement initiative.

2.2.2    Training in the National Grade 7-9 Curriculum: In-service training for teachers in the
delivery, management and assessment of the five core subjects of the Grade 7-9 Curriculum
commenced in November 2003 and continued through to March 2005. Although originally
planned for November 2003 to June 2004, teachers from only one (1) region were trained during
this period, because of budgetary constraints. Training re-commenced in the September 2004 and
was completed the following March.

932 Heads of Department (HODs) were trained, representing approximately 50 percent of the
numbers planned. This number was, however, over-stated, as many schools had fewer HODs than
reflected in the project plan. In many instances these individuals had responsibility for more than
one subject area. Further to this, a number of schools could not release all of the relevant
personnel to attend training sessions.

Facilitators for this training were from the Ministry's Professional Development and Core
Curriculum Units, and subject specialists from the (six) 6 Teachers' Colleges.

    2.2.3    Guidance and Counselling: Activities under this sub-component were implemented
             in the period October 2003 to September 2005. A major consultancy to strengthen
             Guidance and Counselling in secondary schools was removed from the project when
             it was re-scoped. All other activities under this sub-component were, however,
             completed as follows:

            Printing of support material for the Guidance Counselling curriculum
            o National Guidance Curriculum (2500 copies)
            o Student portfolio (60,000 copies)
            o Content Book & Counselling handbook
            o Content Book (2500 copies)
            o Policy for the Management for Substance Abuse in the Education System (1500)

            Training - 414 persons were trained in:
            o Roles & Responsibilities of Guidance Counsellors and Principals
            o Peer Leadership

In addition, the PCU contracted a short-term consultant in 2004 to cost the implementation of the
National Guidance & Counselling Policy which was developed by the MOE.

Component 3: Expanding Access to Upper Secondary Education
The component was designed to provide upper secondary school places for approximately 5,000
upper school students. The numbers were, however, revised downwards in 2006 as follows:

          placement in private schools to 450 (from 1300)
          new places from construction to 800 (from 3900)

3.1      Civil Works: Civil Works activities commenced in the first quarter of 2003, with
requests for expressions of interest for consultancy services for the six (6) planned school
construction projects. This activity started slowly as there was much debate regarding the use of
external consultants versus Ministry personnel. Having decided to use the former, the PCU



                                                47
proceeded with the procurement of a Land Surveyor, Geo-Technical Engineer, Architect, &
Draughtsman, Quantity Surveyor and Engineers (Civil/ Structural, Electrical/Mechanical).

When the final agreements on the re-scoped project were made, Land Surveys had been done for
five of the six sites; Geotechnical Surveys for the three new sites and preparation of design
drawings had also commenced. The scope of the project was reduced to include only the
expansion of two existing schools (Annotto Bay and Paul Bogle High schools).

A ROSE II Civil Works Committee (comprising ministry personnel and external consultants) was
established in December 2002 with responsibility for overseeing the implementation of the two
construction projects. A Technical Coordinator and Clerk of Works were contracted to oversee
the two school projects.

Annotto Bay High School: Senior's Woodwork and Construction Ltd., was contracted in March
2006 to undertake the extension works to the school. The contract was in the sum of
J$109,000,000, however the final cost of the project was J$145.1 million (after adding variations
and fluctuations). Extension to the school included the following facilities:
    - 4 classrooms                                 - 2 Computer labs
    - Biology lab                                  - Chemistry/Physics Labs
    - Building Technology Workshop                 - Food and Nutrition Lab
    - New Sewerage Plant and bathroom block        - Multi-purpose Court
    - Staff room                                   - Guidance Counsellor's Office

The new facilities were fully furnished and equipped (approximately J$30 million). The Final
Accounts for the project were completed in January, 2008. The school started using the new
facilities in September 2008, and as a result the shift system was discontinued. Approximately
400 new places were created as a result of this extension.

Paul Bogle High School: Senior's Woodwork and Construction Ltd., was again contracted for
J$186 million (after a lengthy tender process), which when fluctuations and variations were added,
totalled J$206 million (latest available estimate). Practical completion of the works was achieved
at the end of June 2009. The new facilities include:
     - 9 classrooms                        - Visual Arts/ Clothing and Textiles
     - Workshop                           - 2 Computer labs
     - Food and Nutrition Lab             - Physics/Chemistry lab
     - Building Technology workshop - Technical Drawing/CAD Room
     - Business Education Room            - Agriculture and Environment Lab
     - Guidance Counsellor's Office       - Nurses Station and Sick Bay
     - Multipurpose Court                 - Sewerage Plant and Bathroom Block

The new facilities were furnished and equipped (approximately J$25 million), and the new areas
are now in use. The school was instructed by the Minister of Education to discontinue the shift
system within one year.

3.2      Bursaries for Independent School places: 720 students who did not receive places in
public school, having sat either of the Grade 9 examinations (JHSC or GNAT), were placed in
private schools and full tuition paid for a period of 2 to 3 years. These students were deemed to be
`at Risk'. Schools were selected based on their expression of interest in participating in the
programme; their ability to satisfy the standards set by the MOE; and their signing of a
Memorandum of Understanding with the MOE which outlined the terms and conditions of the
arrangement.


                                                48
Implementation commenced in September 2003 with the placement of the first group of students
and continued through to June 2009. Resulting from a high drop-out rate, only 459 of those
placed completed the programme. With the exception of the last group of 26 students, who were
placed for 2 years (Grade 10-11), all the other participants were enrolled in a three-year (Grade 9-
11) programme.

A trained Guidance Counsellor was appointed in 2004 to coordinate the programme. After the
first year it was determined that many students needed additional financial assistance and
J$5,000,000 was earmarked for a support programme for individual students.

The Student Empowerment Programme which uses a similar model to this programme, started
mid­way through the implementation of the Bursary programme and has resulted in placement on
a larger scale.

Component 4: Institutional Strengthening, Assessment, Monitoring and Evaluation

This component was significantly downsized during the 2006 re-scoping exercise and preparatory
activities for implementation were discontinued. The component was re-titled `Assessment,
Monitoring and Evaluation.'

4.1      Management Information Systems: All activities in this subcomponent were removed
from the project and were incorporated in the work that was being executed by the Primary
Education Support Project (PESP) and the Education Transformation initiative. Preliminary work
(preparation of TORs for Technical Assistance) was discontinued.

4.2      Enhancing Efficiency and Effectiveness: Training to Maximize Use of Existing
Facilities was the only activity implemented under this sub-component. The objective of this
exercise was to train school personnel in the methodology for calculating capacities for secondary
level institutions. The activity was undertaken by the Planning and Development Division of the
ministry. Four hundred and twenty one (421) persons from 213 schools participated in the
training, which was completed in November 2003. The training received has helped school
principals and administrators in their planning and timetabling exercise.

4.3     Assessment, Monitoring and Evaluation

 Student Assessment
 Although initial meetings were held to discuss TORs for the development of Continuous
 Assessment Tools, and to determine the timelines for the recruitment of a Student Assessment
 Officer, these activities were put on hold and later removed from the project.

Project Monitoring & Evaluation
A Project Monitoring & Evaluation Plan was prepared and discussed during the first Supervision
Mission of 2003. It was recognized, however, that the baseline data in the Project Appraisal
Document needed to be updated. This was done in late 2003, and the education statistics for the
years of the project were again updated towards the end of the project.

During the re-scoping exercise in 2006, it was agreed that the following three (3) project
components/subcomponents would be evaluated at the end of the project:
        School Improvement Grants
        Bursaries
        Development and Usage of Diagnostic Tools and Strategies


                                                49
In June 2007, the evaluation framework was discussed with the World Bank. This was later
agreed by both the Ministry of Education and the Bank. Evaluation instruments were piloted, data
collected and analysed and the final reports submitted in June 2009. The evaluation reports may
be found in the Appendices as indicated earlier.

Performance of the World Bank

After several changes of Task Manager in the first two years of the Project, stability was
established with the appointment of the Sr. Education Specialist, which has lasted to the end of
the project. Her post in-country brought with it a better understanding of the socio-cultural
environment within which the project was being implemented and the attendant challenges, and
resulted in a positive working relationship with the MOE to the end of the project.

The Sr. Education Specialist was supported by an able team from the Bank who were also easily
accessible. They were thorough in monitoring the project, and seemed to be genuinely interested
in the progress and potential impact of the project. Supervision Missions, Procurement Post
reviews, etc., were held as scheduled and were extremely useful in helping to keep the project on
track.

One area of frustration which recurred throughout the project was the apparent challenges in
internal Bank communications. On several occasions, applications for reimbursement were
delayed because supporting documents, which had been sent to the Bank through the regular
channels, were not found and the PCU was required to resend the information.

During the design phase of the Project, assessment of institutional capacity appeared to have been
inadequate, and resulted in delays in start and throughout the implementation of the SIG
Component, as far more training than anticipated had to be done, especially in the areas of
Procurement and Financial Management. Over-estimation of numbers of persons to be trained
under the Reform Support Component was also evident.

Performance of the Government

Regretfully, the decision to re-scope the project in 2006 was made partly in response to low
budgetary allocations in the previous years and the resulting inability to start critical activities, as
well as the perceived inability to complete activities in the remaining years of the project.

The decision in 2006 to make payments (Bank contribution to the project) directly from the
Special Account resulted in immediate acceleration of implementation and there were no further
problems with flow of funds to the end of the project.

Project Achievements and Successes

General
 All project activities were completed by the closing date.
 Facilitation of inter-school collaboration, especially in SIP and DTS implementation.
 Kudos received from the Core Curriculum Unit of the MOE for the work done under the
   Project, as ROSE II was the only major and sustained programme during the life of the
   project which addressed programme delivery at the secondary education level.
 There were no major audit queries for the life of the project.



                                                  50
School Improvement Grants
 Disbursement expenditure and reconciliation of SIG for 99 schools.
 Establishment of all planned facilities and programmes to address Literacy and Numeracy in
   SIP Schools.
 Facilitation of improved management culture in SIP schools especially in procurement,
   regular financial reporting and stakeholder participation.
 Schools were allowed to plan for success based on unique needs rather than prescribed
   programming.
 Employment of Regional Monitoring Officers (Accountants) was a significant innovation in
   moving the project forward.

Diagnostic Tools and Strategies
 Provision of useful and user friendly resource material for teachers of Language and
   Mathematics.
 Goals to have DTS in every secondary school and to train teachers from every school in the
   use of the material were achieved.
 Selection and training of Resource Teachers and their delivery to Math and language teachers
   was well executed. The majority have been recommended to the Ministry's Professional
   Development Unit for provision of downstream training.
 The Core Curriculum Unit of the MOE provided sterling support in the implementation of
   this activity by making presentations and providing guidance to teachers during workshops
   (at least 2 officers attended every training session)
 Materials were welcomed by teachers who emphasized that the use of same will enhance the
   teaching /learning process.

Civil Works
 The Project was fortunate to have engaged a contractor and a team of consultants (same for
    both school extensions) who worked very well together, and consequently there were no
    disruptions at either of the sites. Delays experienced were primarily due to inclement weather.

Challenges to Project Implementation

General
 Low budget allocations in the first two years delayed implementation activities at planned
   level and resulted in project being re-scoped.
 Inadequate support in the Monitoring and Evaluation requirements of the project. Challenges
   with personnel resources and late start in establishing the evaluation framework resulted in
   insufficient information and guidance to the PCU and schools regarding data that was needed
   to inform the final evaluation.

School Improvement Grants
 Identification of reading and math specialists proved to be extremely difficult as the majority
   of them were already in full time employment in the system and could not be paid additional
   sums from the project. Inter-school collaboration on this was difficult and did not alleviate
   the problem to any significant degree.
 Cultural change was required in many schools to effect site-based management principles and
   accountability.
 Use of `Red Flag' was a culturally negative signal which required significant re-education
   and troubleshooting to get affected schools back on track.




                                                51
    Frequent changes in school's administrative personnel resulted in the need for on-going
    training.
    There were delays in starting learning activities as school plants had to be upgraded to
    accommodate new equipment (being purchased with SIP funds) to support instruction.
    Access to Project staff and service providers was difficult for many schools because of their
    geographical location (poor access and communication).
    Inadequate supervision of schools by Regional officers (Territorial Education Officers and
    Financial Controllers) because of large number of schools in their portfolios.

Diagnostic Tools and Strategies
 The Grade 7-9 curriculum in which the Diagnostic Tools and Strategies was grounded was
   unfamiliar to a number of teachers attending the training.
 Principals and Education Officers were not fully represented at the training sessions;
   consequently the extent of communication (including dissemination of materials) within the
   regions and within individual schools was uncertain.

Civil Works
 The Major challenge was the length of the tender process (from issue to contract signing).
 Continued concern regarding on-going maintenance of facilities.

Project Sustainability

A Committee is to be established (reporting to the DCEO Schools Operations) in early 2010 to
prepare a detailed sustainability plan and to oversee its implementation. Some elements of the
Plan will be:

School Improvement Planning:
   1. On-going training of school administrators in SIP and implementation, and rolling out of
       the training to schools that did not participate. This should be done with the leadership of
       the MOE's Professional Development Unit.
   2. Circulation and use of the SIP Manual.
   3. Consistent monitoring of implementation of SIPs, which are a requirement of the MOE.
   4. Allocation of resources for maintenance of equipment and facilities purchased and/or
       established with project funds (Compilation of Asset Registers from all participating
       schools was sent to CEO).
   5. Improved corporate participation in school improvement activities.

Diagnostic Tools and Strategies (Language and Mathematics):
   1. Develop a programme of training in the use of the DTS to reach all secondary Language
       and Mathematics teachers.
   2. Establish a system for monitoring the use of the material by teachers in Lesson Planning.

The Bursary Programme:
The Student Empowerment Programme was partly modeled after this programme and came into
effect during the life of the project. The Ministry of Education will decide if this latter initiative
will become a permanent feature of the system or will evolve and/or be combined with other
initiatives.




                                                 52
Civil Works:
    1. Establishment of proper maintenance systems (plan and resources) to prevent rapid
       deterioration of the facilities.
    2. Provision of staff and resources (where they do not exist) to maintain computer labs in
       working order.
    3. Proper planning for the replacement of disposable items for the science and vocational
       areas to maintain a high standard of programme delivery.
    4. A system of proper security and supervision to prevent vandalism by students and
       community members.

Conclusion
Having completed implementation close to the closing date of the project, it was evident that only
a summative evaluation of project activities could be done at that time. Strong recommendation
has been made to conduct an impact evaluation at a later date, possibly after two (2) years.

Many valuable lessons have been learnt during the design and implementation of the ROSE II
Project, and the Ministry of Education will continue to build on these in its pursuit of improved
access and equity in the secondary school system.




                                               53
Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders



N/A




                                    54
Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents

Bank Preparation Documents:

      Terms of Reference for the Pre-appraisal mission, Aide Memoires and Back-to-Office
      reports. World Bank.
      Terms of Reference for the Appraisal mission, Aide Memoire and Back-to-Office report.
      World Bank.
      Project Appraisal Document. Report No. 24782-JM. World Bank.


Bank and Borrower Project Implementation Documents:

      Aide Memoires for Bank Supervision missions. World Bank.
      Country Assistance Strategy for Jamaica. Doc.R2000-200, discussed on November 30,
      2000. World Bank.
      Country Assistance Strategy for Jamaica. Report No. 31830-JM discussed on May 10,
      2005 (R2005-0086). World Bank.
      Country Assistance Strategy Progress Report No. 39969-JM, dated July 19, 2007. World
      Bank.
      Mid-term Evaluation. World Bank.
      Project and Implementation Status Reports (PSRs and ISRs). World Bank.
      Quarterly Progress Reports. Ministry of Education.
      ROSE II: Project Final Report 2002-2009. Ministry of Education.
      School Improvement Planning Manual, Revised September 2008. Ministry of Education.
      ROSE II Project: Bursary Programme: End of Project Evaluation. April 30, 2009.
      Ministry of Education.
      ROSE II Project: Diagnostic Tools and Strategies Activity: End of Project Evaluation.
      May 29, 2009. Ministry of Education.
      ROSE II Project: School Improvement Grants Component: End of Project Evaluation.
      July 1, 2009. Ministry of Education.
      Secondary School Support Programmes (SSSP). April 2009. Curriculum and Support
      Services. Ministry of Education.




                                           55
Annex 10 Outcome and Intermediate Outcome Indicators as set in the PAD

(a) PDO Indicator(s)
.
                                     Original Target                            Actual Value
                                       Values (from      Formally Revised        Achieved at
  Indicator    Baseline Value
                                         approval         Target Values        Completion or
                                       documents)                               Target Years
            Annual increase in average scores in Junior High School Certification (JHSC)
Indicator 1 examination or the Grade Nine Achievement Test (GNAT) in Language Arts and
            Mathematics in participating schools.
                All-Age Schools, Grades 7-9 A significant increase Improved results on                 All SIPs
                    GNAT: Math: 20%                                the Grade Nine                    GNAT results
Value                Language: 23.7%                               Achievement Test                    English
(quantitative                                                          (GNAT) scores for               24.60%
or               Primary and Junior High
Qualitative)           Grades 7-9
                                                                       English and                       Math
                   JHSC: Math: 22.7%                                   Mathematics in                   21.60%
                     Language:27.5%                                    schools with SIPs
Date achieved         09/01/2001                  06/30/2008                06/30/2008               09/30/2009
             This indicator was redefined as stated above to target the 99 schools with School Improvement Programs
             (SIPs), receiving School Improvement Grants. The baseline data was collected for 2004 in March 2006.
             The MOE was reluctant to establish a specific target then (beyond improved results) because many of
             the SIPs were being prepared in 2006 and it was estimated that most of the activities would just be
Comments
             finishing at the time of Project completion and it would not be possible to measure an impact. The data
(incl. %
             was to be collected by school type (All-Age, junior high and high schools). JHSC and GNAT
achievement)
             examinations included the same questions for math and language and were deemed comparable.
             However, the JHSC was not administered during 2007 and 2008, and some of the primary and junior
             high schools did not offer the GNAT as an alternative. As a consequence, there was no data for some
             schools.


Indicator 2 Annual reduction in the percentage of students in JHSC or GNAT scoring below 30
            percent correct in Language Arts and Mathematics in participating schools.
                    All-Age grades 7-9
                         GNAT
                       Math: 41.6%
Value                Language:32.25
                                                                       This indicator was not
(quantitative                                     A statistically
                                                                         included after the               N/A
or               Primary and Junior High      significant difference
                                                                       Project restructuring.
Qualitative)           Grades 7-9
                         JHSC:
                      Math:35.5%
                    Languages:28.1%
Date achieved         09/01/2001                  06/30/2008                 06/30/2008               09/30/2009
Comments     The information for this indicator is partially captured in the above indicator. The schools participating
(incl. %     in the SIPs had a large number of students scoring below 30% in the GNAT or JHSC.
achievement)


            Annual increase in attainment, at the end of Grade 11, in the Caribbean Examination
Indicator 3 Council's Caribbean Secondary Education Certificate Examination (CXC-CSEC) at
                Level 3 and above in Language and Mathematics.
Value           Baselines for Primary and                                                             2008/2009
(quantitative    Junior High Grades 7-9           A statistically               N/A                 English: 62.8%



                                                          56
or               and Former Secondary                                                                   Math: 40.9%
                                                significant difference
Qualitative)    High were included in the
                         PAD

                   Baseline: 2001/2002
                     English: 28.5%
                      Math: 16.6%
Date achieved            09/01/2001                  06/30/2008                06/30/2008                09/30/2009

Comments
             During restructuring, the Borrower and the Bank agreed to continue to track this indicator for
(incl. %
             informational purposes but not to use it to evaluate the direct outcomes of the Project.
achievement)



            Annual increase in enrollment in secondary education, disaggregated by
Indicator 4 consumption. After restructuring: Percentage of 15-16 age group enrolled in upper
                secondary education, disaggregated by consumption quintile
                Age15-16 enrolled in                                     Baseline:
                upper secondary lowest                                   Poorest quintile:
Value
                quintile: 13.2%        Annual increase on the            2001/2002: 64.9%
(quantitative                                                                                    Poorest quintile:
                                       indicators from the               2004/2005: 76.6%
or                                                                                               2006/2007: 84.9%
                Daily attendance:      baseline value.
Qualitative)
                All grades 7-9: 71.75%                                   Target: increase in
                PJH grades 7-9: 76.5%                                    percentage
Date achieved            09/01/2001                  06/30/2008               06/30/2008                 09/30/2009
                The original PAD (Annex 1) included data for the annual increase in average daily attendance of
                students in participating schools over the 2001 baseline and the share of population age 15-16 in the
                poorest quintile enrolled in upper secondary. There was little data available at the time of preparation.
Comments
(incl. %
             During restructuring, it was agreed that this indicator would be tracked only for informational purposes.
achievement)
             It was rephrased to read as follows: percentage of 15-16 age-group enrolled in upper secondary
             education, disaggregated by consumption quintile.


Indicator 5
                Annual increase in participation in the CXC-CSEC at the end of Grade 11
                Former Comprehensive:
                CXC Math: 23.7%
                CXC English: 29.8%
Value
                SSC Math: 6.4%                                                                           2008/2009
(quantitative                                  Annual Increase by          Annual Increase by
                SSC English: 23.1%                                                                     English: 56.3%
or                                             end of Project                end of Project
                                                                                                        Math: 48.5%
Qualitative)
                Former Secondary High
                CXC Math: 79.4%
                CXC English: 85.3%
Date achieved            09/01/2001                   06/30/2008               06/30/2008            09/30/2009
                Annex 1 of the PAD indicated the need to monitor students whose places in private schools were
                subsidized by the MOE, to ensure they would have equal achievement outcomes in CXC and CSEC to
                those in public schools, controlling for prior achievement in JHSC and comparison unit costs (see
                Section 3.2)
Comments
(incl. %
             During restructuring, the Borrower and the Bank agreed to continue to track this indicator for
achievement)
             informational purposes but not to use it to evaluate the direct outcomes of the Project. At the time of
             restructuring, the baseline was revised. For 2001/2002: the percentage of students sitting for the CXC
             exam at the end of Grade 11 was 53% for English and 46% for Math.




                                                           57
(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                        Original Target                         Actual Value
                                          Values (from      Formally Revised     Achieved at
   Indicator          Baseline Value
                                            approval          Target Values     Completion or
                                          documents)                            Target Years
Indicator 1          Number of SIP proposals received by the MOE from schools, by school type.
                                             198 schools per year                                99 schools presenting
Value                                                                  99 schools presenting
                                             presenting SIP                                      SIP proposals and
(quantitative or                  0                                    SIP proposals and
                                             proposals                                           receiving grants
Qualitative)                                                           receiving SIP grants

Date achieved             01/01/2004                 06/30/2008             06/30/2008                09/30/2009
                   The SIP manual was revised before Project completion to improve it further and it was being used
Comments           by other secondary schools. The MOE plans to upload the revised version to the MOE website and
(incl. %           to provide it to schools through Jamaica Teaching Council training sessions to teachers, principals,
achievement)       and education officers.

                   Copies of SIP manuals, on which schools and regional offices have been
Indicator 2
                   consulted, are available to each school at its training session
                                                                                                SIP manual
                                            SIP manuals
Value                                                                                           elaborated, distributed
                                            distributed to all        99 schools receiving
(quantitative or              0                                                                 to all SIP schools and
                                            schools                   SIP manuals
Qualitative)                                                                                    other secondary
                                                                                                schools
Date achieved           09/01/2001                06/30/2008                06/30/2008                09/30/2009
Comments
(incl. %
achievement
                   Percentage of schools receiving funds from MOE within one month of approval
Indicator 3
                   of their SIP, by school type.
                                                                                                100% of them
Value                                       100% of schools           100% of them              receiving the funds
(quantitative or              0             receiving the funds       receiving the funds       from MOE by Project
Qualitative)                                timely                    from MOE timely           completion. See
                                                                                                comments below.
Date achieved           09/01/2001                   06/30/2008              06/30/2008                09/30/2009          09/30/2009
                   Funds were allocated in US$ but converted and disbursed in JMD. The funds were disbursed in
Comments           three tranches, after it was determined the schools met the criteria for disbursements. The plan
(incl. %           writing and approval process was far more time consuming than anticipated. The first disbursements
achievement        started in January 2004. Schools were dealt with on a case by case basis, it was not until March 2006
                   that all had received their first tranche
                   Percentage of proposals fully implemented by end of each school year, by school
Indicator 4
                   type.
                                            80% of schools fully
Value                                                                 80% of schools fully      100% fully
                                            implementing SIP
(quantitative or              0                                       implementing them by      implementing them by
                                            proposals by the end
Qualitative)                                                          the end of each year      the end of the Project
                                            of each year
Date achieved           09/01/2001                06/30/2008                06/30/2008                09/30/2009
Comments
(incl. %
achievement
Indicator 5        Methodology and associated materials to address difficulties of Patois-speaking


                                                           58
                     children at secondary level developed, following piloting in schools
Value
(quantitative or                     0
Qualitative)
Date achieved                09/01/2001                 06/30/2008                06/30/2008                09/30/2009
Comments
                     This was included in the PAD, but it was not clear how it would be achieved. It was not included in
(incl. %
                     the restructuring.
achievement)
                   Methodology and associated materials to help students overcome aversion to
Indicator 6
                   mathematics and to use math developed, following piloting in schools
Value
(quantitative or                  0
Qualitative)
Date achieved               09/01/2001                   06/30/2008                 06/30/2008                 09/30/2009
Comments
                   This was included in the PAD, but it was not clear how it would be achieved. It was not included in the
(incl. %
                   restructuring.
achievement)
            Valid and reliable diagnostic tools of learning difficulties of students in Grades 7-9
Indicator 7 readily usable by teachers in the classroom setting, developed, printed and distributed
            to all schools in the project and being used by teachers
Value
                       Diagnostic tools and      Developed, printed and Developed, printed and
(quantitative or                                                                                            Complied with
                                                         used
Qualitative)          strategies not existent                                  in use
Date achieved               01/01/2004                 06/30/2008                06/30/2008                 09/30/2009
Comments           An evaluation of the use of the Diagnostic Tools and Strategies, as well as on the training received by
(incl. %           teachers, was carried out under the Project and its main findings are summarized in Section 3.2 of this
achievement)       ICR.
Indicator 8 Number of All-Age schools with enhanced libraries and media resource centers
Value
(quantitative or                 0                                                    N/A                         N/A
Qualitative)
Date achieved               09/01/2001                  06/30/2008
Comments           This activity was not realized during the first three years of the Project and did not receive further Project
(incl. %           resources after Project restructuring, although some All-Age schools did enhance these facilities through
achievement)       the SIPs.
Indicator 9            Free foundation textbooks for all students in All-Age schools and Junior Highs
                                                                                                      42,000 copies printed and
Value                                            A target for foundation 100,000 copies printed       distributed;
(quantitative or                     0           books was not defined and distributed to             930 Heads of Department
Qualitative)                                     in the PAD              students                     trained on management of
                                                                                                      ROSE curriculum
Date achieved               09/01/2001              06/30/2008               06/30/2008                09/30/2009
                      The number of foundation texts to be printed was reduced because there was sufficient stock available.
Comments              Funds were used to print many other types of materials, such as supplementary Readers for Grade 7
(incl. %              students (1,750 copies), National Guidance Curriculum (2,500 copies), Student portfolios (60,000
achievement)          copies), Content Books (2,500 copies), and Policy for the Management for Substance Abuse in the
                      Education System (1,500 copies).
                      Libraries and media resource centers in teachers colleges acquire all the materials
Indicator 10
                      they requested on the agreed timetable
Value                                            Six libraries in teachers
(quantitative or                     0           colleges to receive                  N/A                         N/A
Qualitative)                                     support for this activity



                                                              59
Date achieved            09/01/2001                 06/30/2008
Comments
                   This activity was not realized during the first three years of the Project and did not receive further
(incl. %
                   support under the Project after restructuring of its activities.
achievement)
                   Libraries and resource centers in Regional Offices have a complete set of materials
                   to support teaching of the ROSE curriculum, of basic literacy and mathematics, and
Indicator 11
                   of all examinations within 6 months of a decision by the panel of regional offices of
                   what should be available
Value                                        Six regional offices to
(quantitative or                             be supported under this              N/A                        N/A
Qualitative)                                 activity
Date achieved            09/01/2001                 06/30/2008
Comments
                   This activity was not realized during the first three years of the Project and did not receive further
(incl. %
                   support under the Project after restructuring of its activities.
achievement)
                   JHSC is reliable and valid and is offered to all students in each subject. Results are
Indicator 12
                   returned to schools by the agreed date
Value
(quantitative or                                                                  N/A                         N/A
                             Yes                        Yes
Qualitative)
Date achieved            09/01/2001                 06/30/2008
Comments
(incl. %           The JHSC was created under ROSE I (1993-2000), but was discontinued in 2007.
achievement)
                   At least 1,200 annual placements of students from low SES in Grades 10 and 11 in
Indicator 13       independent schools by Year 2 of the project at a cost to the MOE of no more than
                   the average recurrent unit cost in the public system
                                                                                                  720 registered in private
                                                                                                  schools under the bursary
Value              Around 11,700 Grade 9 1,309 students in             Around 450 students
                                                                                                  program;
(quantitative or   students without access subsidized places in        placed in Grades 9 and
                                                                                                  459 students completed
Qualitative)       to a place in Grade 10 private schools              10
                                                                                                  three years of secondary
                                                                                                  education
Date achieved              09/01/2001               06/30/2008               06/30/2008                 09/30/2009
                   This target was revised at restructuring to 450 students. During implementation, the MOE observed
Comments
                   that a significant number of students experienced difficulties to remain in school due to financial
(incl. %
                   constraints. The MOE arranged for additional welfare benefits to students to reduce dropout and
achievement)
                   absenteeism.

                   Three new schools and extensions of three existing schools are completed within
Indicator 14       cost and according to agreed project designs; and are operational with a full
                   complement of staff and materials when the first students are enrolled
                                           2,700 students
                                           benefiting through the
                                           construction of new
Value              Around 11,700 Grade 9                               800 new secondary       Complied with: places
                                           schools;
(quantitative or   students without access                             school places provided created, furnished and
                                           1,300 students
Qualitative)       to a place in Grade 10                              in two existing schools operational
                                           benefiting from
                                           expansion of new
                                           schools
Date achieved             09/01/2001               06/30/2008               06/30/2008                 09/30/2009
Comments           This indicator was revised to support the expansion of two existing high schools: Paul Bogle and
(incl. %           Annotto Bay.



                                                          60
achievement)
Indicator 15       Delivery to ROSE schools of MOE inputs meets service standards
                   Mandate to deepen
                   decentralization and
Value
                   implementation of
(quantitative or                             160 would receive EMIS              N/A                      N/A
                   school-based
Qualitative
                   management and
                   accountability
Date achieved             09/01/2001                 06/30/2008
Comments           Activities under Component 4- Institutional Strengthening were cancelled after the project's
(incl. %           restructuring in March 2006. Resources (Estimated Counterpart Funding Equivalent to US$13,000)
achievement)       were provided for training on the efficient and effective use of equipment and school facilities.
                   Meeting physical and timeliness targets in procurement and use of equipment to
Indicator 16
                   increase efficiency in management
                                             EMIS for secondary
                                             education developed;
                                             Acquisition of digital
                                             cameras and imaging
Value
                   Constraints in            systems;
(quantitative or                                                                 N/A                       N/A
                   institutional capacity    Training in the use of
Qualitative
                                             the EMIS provided;
                                             Provision of computer
                                             systems to schools and
                                             regional offices
Date achieved             09/01/2001                06/30/2008
                   Activities under Component 4- Institutional Strengthening were cancelled after the project's
Comments           restructuring in March 2006. Resources (Estimated Counterpart Funding Equivalent to US$13,000)
(incl. %           were provided for training on the efficient and effective use of equipment and school facilities. The
achievement)       development of an EMIS system for secondary education was supported by the IDB-funded Primary
                   Education Support Project.
                   Number of fellowships granted, studies completed, and beneficiaries returned to
Indicator 17
                   work in the education sector
                                             Provision of fellowships
                                             and study tours to
                                             education officers (EOs);
                                             Technical assistance to
                                             develop instruments to       Provision of
                                             better measure outcomes;     training to 430
                                             Training in better use of    MOE personnel in
Value              Constraints in
                                             existing facilities;         the use of school    Training provided to 414
(quantitative or   institutional capacity
                                             Provision of equipment       facilities and       MOE personnel
Qualitative)
                                             to key units within MOE;     equipment (school
                                             Provision of equipment       capacity
                                             and materials to enhance     calculation)
                                             six libraries in the
                                             Teachers' Colleges and
                                             six regional offices'
                                             resource rooms
Date achieved             09/01/2001                 06/30/2008                06/30/2008              09/30/2009
Comments           Activities under Component 4- Institutional Strengthening were cancelled after the project's
(incl. %           restructuring, in March 2006. Resources (Estimated Counterpart Funding Equivalent to US$13,000)
achievement)       were provided for training on the efficient and effective use of equipment and school facilities.




                                                         61
Annex 11: PDOs Weighted Rating

Rating          Against Original   Against Revised PDOs             Overall     Comments
                PDOs
Description        Unsatisfactory       Satisfactory
Value                    2                    4
Weight               15.12%                82.48%
                (US$1.89/US$12.50)  (US$10.31/US$12.50)
Weighted               0.30                 3.37                       3.67
Final Rating             --                   --                        4           Moderately
                                                                                    Satisfactory

Explanation for Rating against Original PDOs: After the loan agreement was signed in February
2003, the Government of Jamaica was unable to adequately fund most project activities. At the
time of restructuring, only US$1.89 million of the US$38.9 million loan had been disbursed from
the loan account in three years, including the funding of the Special Account and the one percent
front-end fee. The Government did not meet its funding obligations to the project as a result of its
efforts not to exceed Government-mandated expenditure and debt ceilings. Inadequate
Government funding led to significant implementation delays. Staff of the Project Coordinating
Unit (PCU) was reduced and project implementation suffered. For these reasons, little progress
was made towards achieving the PDOs, and the achievement of outcomes of the Project is rated
as Unsatisfactory.

Explanation for Rating against Revised PDOs: During the implementation period following
restructuring, the Project achieved the revised development objectives, as defined in the Project
Paper approved by the Board. That is, ROSE II built on the achievements of the first Reform of
Secondary Education (ROSE) Project through continued improvement of quality of and equity in
secondary education and expanded access to upper secondary education. It achieved this through:
(i) provision of school improvement grants to approximately 100 disadvantaged schools (99); (ii)
provision of pedagogical support to all secondary schools; (iii) expansion of two existing schools
to create 800 additional places; and (iv) public financing of 450 student places in Independent
Schools.

(i) ROSE II contributed to improvements in literacy and numeracy in the 99 schools which
participated in the SIP, as well as to the process of developing school improvement plans and
managing the related activities. The participating schools carried out an assessment of the literacy
and numeracy level of their students and decided on strategies to improve these levels through the
investments enabled by the SIGs. The end-of­project evaluation of the SIP program showed
improvements in the GNAT results for this group of schools as well as improvements in key areas
of financial management, procurement and planning at the school level.

(ii) A key quality component under the Project was the design of Diagnostic Tools and Strategies
(DTS). The Project succeeded in financing the elaboration of the DTS, which were distributed to
secondary schools across the country. Training was carried out under the Project and this was
highly appreciated by its recipients. Due to some delays in implementation, the distribution of
these materials was carried out in the later stages of the Project. This, together with the provision
of training on these instruments during the last two years of Project implementation, has hindered
an impact evaluation to determine whether the use of the DTS has translated into improvements
in teaching and learning.


                                                 62
(iii) The Project succeeded in contributing to an equitable expansion of access to secondary
education through financing of 1,250 places. The project financed 800 additional places in two
existing high schools, Annotto Bay and Paul Bogle. These schools were located in geographic
areas where secondary-age children did not have access to school and where many of the out-of-
school youth were from low income families. Thus, the additional places contributed to improve
equity in access.

(iv) The Project also financed 459 additional places in secondary independent schools for
students who otherwise could not have attended upper secondary. Again, the Project contributed
to improve equity in access since these students came from rural underserved areas and had
received low scores on their GNAT exams. The Bursary Program under which these school
places were financed allowed the MOE to pilot a program to expand access and compare it to
other ongoing programs with the same goals (Secondary School Enhancement Programme). The
independent participating schools used the funds received to enroll these students, to upgrade
some of their facilities to better teach the curriculum, and to hire teachers in some instances.

For all of the achievements cited above, the achievement of outcomes of the restructured project
is rated as Satisfactory.

Explanation for Final Rating: Once the Project was restructured, implementation increased
significantly. Between April 2006 and June 2009, the Project disbursed more than 80 percent of
the restructured loan amount, and most of the accomplishments under the Project were achieved
during this time period. Based on a weighted average of the PDO ratings, the summary of the
outcomes was determined to be Moderately Satisfactory.




                                              63
MAP




64
