Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 19148-IVC
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ONA
PROPOSED CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF 3.7 MILLION SDR
[US$ 5.0 MILLION EQUIVALENT]
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF COTE D'IVOIRE
FOR
A PILOT LITERACY PROJECT
July 9, 1999
Human Development 3
Country Department 11
Africa Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
C'urrency Unit = CFA Franc (CFAF)
US$1.00 = CFA 593 (April 1999)
Fiscal Year
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ANADER          Agence Nationale pour le Developpement Rural (Rural Development
Agency)
CEPRASS         Centre pour les Etudes Perspectives Appliquees aux Sciences
Sociales (Center for Prospective Studies in the Applied Social
Sciences)
CIRES           Centre Ivoirien de Recherches Economiques et Sociales (Ivorian
Center for Economic and Sociai Research)
CIDT            Compagnie Ivoirienne des Textiles (Cote d'Ivoire Textile Company)
CNAL            Comite  National pour  I'Alphabetisation  (National  Literacy
Committee)
ENSEA           Ecole Nationale de Statistiques et d'Economie Appliquees .(Higher
School :for Economic and Administrative Studies)
FDFP            Fonds pour le Developpement de la Formation Professionnelle (Fund
for the D)evelopment of Professional Training)
FNAA            Fonds National d 'Appui a l 'Alphabetisation (National Fund to Assist
Literacy)
GOCI            Government of C6te d'Ivoire
ICB             International Competitive Bidding
ILA             Institut de Linguistique Appliquee (Institute for Applied Linguistics)
INS             Institut National de la Statistique (National Institute of Statistics)
MENFB           Ministere de 1'Education Nationale et de la Formation de Base
(Ministr-y of National Education and of Basic Training)
METFPA          Ministere  de  1'Enseignement  Technique,  de  la  Formation
Professionnelle et de IA'rtisanat (Ministry of Technical Education
and Vocational and Craft Training)
NCB             National Competitive Bidding
SAA             Service Autonome d 'Alphab&tisation (Autonomous Literacy Service)
SBD             Standard Bidding Documents
SILS            (Summer Linguistics Institute, an international private non-profit
Foundation)
SRFP            Standard Request for Proposal
Vice President                           Jean-Louis Sarbib
Country Director                        Shigeo Katsu
Sector Manager                          Helena Ribe
Team Leader                             Rosemary Bellew



Republic of Cote d'Ivoire
Pilot Literacy Project
CONTENTS
A, Project Development Objective ...........................................................                                                                                                                                                6..
1. Project development objectives ...........................................................                                                                                                                                               6..
2. Key performance indicators ...........................................................                                                                                                                                                    6..
B Strategic Context ...........................................................                                                                                                                                                               6...
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project .....................6
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy ...........................................................                                                                                                                                   7.
3. Learning and innovation expectations ...........................................................1 .0
C' Project DescriptionL ...........................................................12.
1. Project components ...........................................................                                                                                                                                                        12.
2. Institutional and implementation arrangements ........................................................... 12
3. Monitoring and evaluation arrangements ...........................................................                                                                                                                                     13
El Project Rationale ...........................................................                                                                                                                                                         13.
E Summary Project Analysis ...........................................................                                                                                                                                                   13
1. Economic ...........................................................                                                                                                                                                                  13..
2. Financial ...........................................................                                                                                                                                                                  1.4..
3. Technical ...........................................................                                                                                                                                                                  1.4..
4. Institutional ...........................................................                                                                                                                                                              14.
. Social ...........................................................                                                                                                                                                                     15..
6. Environmental assessment ...........................................................1 5.
7. Participatory approach ...........................................................1 5.
F' Sustainability and Risks ...........................................................                                                                                                                                                    L5
1. Sustainability ...........................................................                                                                                                                                                            15
2. Critical Risks ...........................................................                                                                                                                                                             16.
3. Possible Controversial Aspects ...........................................................                                                                                                                                            16
G  Main Loan Conditions ...........................................................                                                                                                                                                        17.
1. Effectiveness Conditions ...........................................................                                                                                                                                                  1.7.
2. Other ...........................................................1..
El Readiness for Implementation ...........................................................                                                                                                                                              1.7
I Compliance with Bank Policies ...........................................................                                                                                                                                              1.7



Annexes
Annex 1.  Project Design Summary
Annex 2.  Detailed Project Description
Appendix A: Implementation Schedule
Annex 3.  Estimated Project Costs
Annex 4.  Cost-Benefit Analysis Summary, or
Cost-Effectiveness Analysis Summary
Annex 5.  Financial Summary for Revenue-Earning Project Entities, or
Financial Summary
Annex 6.  Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
Table A.      Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
Table Al.     Consultant Selection Arrangements
Table B.      Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
Table C.      Allocation of Loan Proceeds
Annex 7.  Project Processing Budget and Schedule
Annex 8.  Documents in Project File
Annex 9.  Statement of Loans and Credits
Annex 10. Country at a Glance



Page 5
Cote d'lvoire
Pilot Literacy Project
Appraisal Document
Africa Region
Country Department 11
Date: May 26 1999                                  Team Leader: Rosemary Bellew
Country Manager/Director: Shigeo Katsu             Sector Manager/Director: Helena Ribe
Project ID: CI-PE-55073                            Sector: Education
Lending Instrument: Learning and Inrovation        Theme(s):
Loan (LIL)
Poverty Targeted Intervention:   [X] Yes  [ ] No
Project Financing Data
[ ] Loan    [X] Credit      [  Grant       [  Guarantee      [I Other [Specify]
For Loans/Credits/Others:
Amount (US$m): US $ 5.0 million equivalent
Proposed terms:   [ 3 To be defined     [  Multicurrency        ) Single currency
] Standard Variable   [  Fixed          [    LIBOR-
based
Grace perliod (years):         10
Years to maturity:             40
Commitment fee:                n.a.
Service charge:                0.75%
Government                                               0 5               0.0              0 5
Beneficiaries                                            0.2               0.0              0.2
IDA                                                      3.6               1.4              5.0
Total:                                                   4.3               1.4              5.7
Borrower: Republic of Cote d'Ivoire
Guarantor: n.a.
Responsible agency: Ministry of National Education and Basic Training
Estimated disbursements (Bank FY/US$M):
Annual       0.5          1.5          2.0          1.0
Cumullative      0.5          2.0         4.0          5.0
Project implementation period: 40 months
Expected effectiveness date: August 30, 1999        Expected closing date: November 30, 2002
Implementing agency: Ministry of National Education and Basic Training
Conritact person: Mr. Ernest Tra Bi, Director, National Literacy Service
Address: Ministere de l'Education et de la Formation de Base
Tel: 21.78.76                 Fax: Same as phone            E-mail: saamenfb(&,africaonline.co.ci



Page 6
A: P'roject Development Objective
1. Project development objective: (see Annex 1)
The objective of the project is to develop and test effective arrangements for the delivery
of demand driven adult functional literacy programs of acceptable quality through non-
governmental providers to the rural poor, notably women and girls in the North, the area of
lowest school enrollments for girls. In this pilot phase, the overall number of beneficiaries will be
small (30,000). The goal is to learn how the programs, systems and procedures can be scaled up
to serve a broader network of programs and providers to achieve a significant reduction in
illiteracy among the 15-40 age group, particularly among women, helping them acquire the
knowledge and skills required to enhance their lives and those of their children.
2. Key performance indicators: (see Annex 1)
The perfonnance of the pilot will be assessed at several levels: (a) outcomes - the
effectiveness of programs in terms of literacy levels achieved, completion rates, and changes in
knowledge, attitudes and practices that contribute to an improved quality of life; (b) lessons
learned - the transparency, fairness and effectiveness of the sub-project evaluation procedures and
criteria; the demand for such a program; the number and capacity of potential providers; the
monitoring and evaluation requirements and management arrangements for establishing a larger
scale program; and (c) the development impact on poverty reduction and on girl's school
enrollment through tracer studies designed with the assistance of national agencies such as the
National Institute of Statistics (INS), the Higher School for Economic and Administrative Studies
(ENSEA) and the Center for Prospective Studies in the Applied Social Sciences (CEPRASS).
B: Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project:
(see Annex 1)
Document number: 17007-IVC        Date of latest CAS discussion: September 11, 1997
The main objective of the CAS is poverty reduction, particularly in rural areas where
poverty is most severe. The strategy involves high, inclusive and sustainable economic growth
and more targeted pro-poor policies. Key elements of the strategy include: (i) assistance to
achieve the targets of the National Poverty Alleviation Plan, (ii) continued, stable macro-
eco.nomic performance, (iii) increased private sector development and investment, (iv)
strengthened institutional and human capacity, and (v) more efficient, innovative, and targeted
expenditures in health, education and basic infrastructure, emphasizing improvements in the
quality of services with special emphasis on women and children. Across all sectors, operations
are to emphasize wider participation through participative pilots. In education, the focus is on
improvements in adult literacy and basic education -- with particular attention to closing the
geographic and gender gaps -- and preparing sustainable strategies for higher and vocational
education.
The proposed credit addresses the adult literacy component of the National Poverty
Alleviation Plan and the CAS. It also supports the other elements of the CAS strategy. It targets
the poor, young women in particular. It develops private sector capacity to provide those services,
and strengthens the capacity of the public sector to develop policy and evaluate program
outcomes. The approach has been highly participatory, with representation from NGOs,
government agencies, development projects and research institutions. Most importantly, the
strategy adopted is that the beneficiaries at the grassroots identify program content and select
their literacy provider (NGO or other agency), ensuring a high degree of relevance to their needs.



Page 7
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
The main sector issues are povertyexacerbated by high population growth, leading to low
participation in formal basic education and a growing pool of illiterates - increasingly in the 15-
40 age group.
Poverty. In 1998, 33.6 percent of the population was estimated to live under the poverty
line. This represents three times the percentage in 1985 but a 9 percent decrease over 1995, the
first period that poverty decreased since 1985. The decrease in the incidence of poverty varied
greatly among regions. While the Forest West area and Abidjan achieved a significant reduction
in poverty, in other cities, and in the East Forest and Savannah regions, poverty increased
significantly. Overall, the prevalence of poverty is highest in the Savannah and East Forest Areas
1(55 and 47 percent of population, respectively), followed by the West Forest area (25 percent of
]population).' Reasons for poverty are many, including economic growth rates below that of
population growth (during the 1985-1995 decade), low wages and productivity for the bulk of the
population, poor access to high cost but low quality health and education services, and low levels
of education among the majority in the labor force.2
Population Growth. With an estimated 2.5 percent population growth, the Ivory Coast's
population, currently about 14 million, is expected to reach 16 million by 2005, and 21 million by
2015. 3
Low Enrollments. With recession, primary school enrollments have stagnated, reaching
only a net rate of 51 percent (45 percent female) in 1997 despite high costs to government,
attributable mainly to high teacher salaries (9 times GNP per capita). The direct and opportunity
costs associated with schooling have limited the participation of the poor. Only 41 percent of
children in poor households are enrolled in primary school, and only 30 percent of children in the
poorest 10 percent of households are enrolled. Net enrollment rates also vary considerably
between urban and rural areas and by region, ranging between 79 percent in Abidjan, 64 percent
in other cities, about 50 percent in the forest regions, and only 29 percent in the Savannah. In the
North, first grade admissions for girls are as low as 12 percent in Korhogo and 23 percent in
Bondouko. In large part, urban/rural disparities are attributable to the inequitable distribution of
educational subsidies estimated at about CFAF 23,000 and 10,000 for urban and rural areas,
respectively. As a result, the poorest quintile of the population captures only 14% of public
spending on education while the highest quintile captures 35%. The direct costs of formal
schooling (CFAF 10-15,000 per child annually), opportunity costs (children's participation in the
informal labor market is ofter key to family survival) and poor quality limit participation and
contribute to the high repetition rates (23 percent in first grade; 42 percent in grade 6) and to the
low completion rate of 40 percent.
IProfil de pauvrete en Cote d 'Ivoire en 1998, Institut National de la Statistique, Ouattara Idrissa, March 1998.
2 Other indicators of poor living standards include the following:
*  In 1995, between 20-40% of the population did not meet minimnum calorie needs.
*  70% of poor households do not purchase or produce sufficient calories to meet FAO
recommendations.
*  Poor households in rural areas almost never have access to clean drinking water, sanitation or
electricity.
*  Only 11 % of the rural population has access to health services.
*  Between 1985-1993, stunting increased from an estimated 30% to 48% of 2 and 3 year olds,
indicating a worsening of malnutrition.
3The 1998 census data - currently being analyzed - will permit a more accurate extrapolation.



Page 8
Table 1. Growth Rates of Population, Literacy and Primary Enrollments
30 
20                  A
C
_ 10i
1985 . 198.6  1987   1T8  ,'1993   1995
-20
-30
+  Population      Literacy rate ..    Net primary enrollment ratio
Sources: Population growth rate, World Bank Live Data Base; Household Survey Data
of 1985,86,87,88, 93 and 95. The literacy rate is defined as adults over 15 years old who
can read and/or write. Net primary school enrollment ratio is children between 6 and 13
years old who are currently attending primary schools.
Illiteracy. The consequence of low primary school enrollment, and in the absence of
adult education programs, is that adult illiteracy remains at a high overall rate of 58 percent
(abcut 4.2 million people), of whom 70 percent live in rural areas and 65% are women. In the
savanna and forest areas 90 and 70 percent of women are illiterate, respectively, while in Abidjan
an estimated 50 percent of women are illiterate. Only 50% of men in the savanna are illiterate.
Although illiteracy rates are lower among younger groups, they remain high. In 1995, an
estimated 45% of the age group 15-40 was illiterate. This represents about 2.5 million people, and
an increase over the 2.1 million estimated in 1985 for this age group. Of this group, 65% are
women, and 67 % live in rural areas.
Government Strategy. The Government of CMte d'Ivoire recognizes that education is an
important tool for poverty reduction and seeks to improve participation and internal efficiency in
primary education. However, given the growth rate for the first grade of primary school
envisaged by the Basic Education Project, full net enrollment of both boys and girls will be
reached only in 2008 for Abidjan and late in the second decade for the other regions. Assuming
achievement of this target, the number of illiterate adults (aged 15-40) will increase from 2.5 to
3.5 million by 2010. Consequently, the Government of CMte d'Ivoire has decided to pursue a dual
strategy in the provision of basic education: (i) in the formal sector, increasing access to primary
education while improving quality, and (ii) in the informal sector, developing a new literacy
initiative aimed initially at priority poverty targets -- young women in poor rural areas in the
Northern Savannah. and the Forest areas where girl's school enrollment is also lowest, followed
by women and youth in the informal sector in peri/urban areas - before extending the program to
the ]Larger pool of uneducated in the 15-40 age group. The two strategies are complementary and
synergistic. Functional literacy will have an important effect on improving quality of life
(income, family health and child development) while literate parents will be more likely send
thei:r children to school and monitor their progress.
Literacy Context in Cote d'Ivoire. Available information on the coverage and
effectiveness of literacy programs in Cote d' Ivoire is poor. However, that available suggests that



Page 9
since 1992, about 220,000 youths and adults have been reached by literacy programs, the
rnajority (80%) through non-governmental providers. Most observers conclude that demand
exceeds supply; projects have not paid attention to the potential need for post-literacy; there is
little collaboration and sharing of information across programs, and poor infornation about the
programs and their effectiveness. The few known successful projects, like the CIDT cotton
company's functional literacy program for farmers, had the following characteristics. They were
functional, relevant, linked to development objectives shared by the beneficiaries and operated
within a controlled budgetary and supervisory framework. Currently, the main actors involved in
the delivery of adult literacy are the Literacy Service and the Literacy Center of the Ministry of
National Education and Basic Training (MENFB), the women's centers operated by the Ministry
of the Family and Women's Promotion, the Ministry of Agriculture and Animal Resources with
the responsibility for young farmers, the churches and local cultural associations (which are
strongly supportive of local languages), major development projects (notably for cotton and soy
beans) and a rapidly increasing number of NGOs who recognize the importance of literacy for
communicating their development messages - health, the environment, small business
development. Most interventions have been small scale (often pilot) projects targeting specific
groups.
The Communication en Conseil des Ministres (March 1998) lays out a new strategy for
the future with the goal of harnessing these individual initiatives to support a nation-wide
program with the potential for significant impact on women, girls and the rural poor. The strategy
takes into account the lessons of intemational experience, notably the importance of functionality,
post-literacy follow-up and participation of the planned beneficiaries in program design. The new
strategy led to the creation of a National Literacy Committee (CNAL) broadly representative of
government, municipalities, NGOs and civil society, with responsibilities for policy and oversight
in the sub-sector. The implementation arm of the CNAL is the National Fund for the Promotion
of Literacy (FNAA). The Fund is an innovation in terms of the delivery of educational services.
It is financially autonomous and has a goveming board which represents govenmment agencies
and NGOs involved in literacy as well as representatives of the beneficiaries appointed by
associations of village literacy centers. The Fund provides technical assistance and funding to
literacy providers and establishes a network for exchanging technical know-how between
providers on a national basis and on a sub-regional basis through cooperative arrangements. The
Fund has established a roster of competent literacy providers and mechanisms for reviewing,
funding and supervising specific proposals put forward by beneficiary groups and their literacy
provider. The procedures are closely based on a similar pilot project operated by Senegal's
M\inistry of Education. Fund staff have visited Senegal and Senegalese staff have assisted them in
adapting the procedures to the Ivoirian context. The Manual of Procedures adopted by the Fund
covers all aspects of implementation form initial registry through proposal review to
disbursements and financial and technical audits. The Fund's financial management and
accounting service is headed by a qualified accountant appointed by the Minister of Finance.
These aspects are discussed in Annex 6. The Fund has a network of pedagogical field supervisors
located at the grassroots in the district-level offices of the MENFB and employs contractual
technical auditors whose responsibility is to make regular checks on both expenditures and
objects of expenditure in the field at the level of literacy sub-projects implemented by the NGOs
and other providers.
The Fund will be able to count on a network of national research and development
iinstitutions well-equipped to help develop the capacity of the literacy providers. They include:
CIRES (economic and social studies), SILS - with strengths in writing and editing tailor-made
texts in the local languages, ILA - the university institute for applied linguistics, ANADER, the
irural development agency, with a comparative advantage in providing content for and targeting
irural populations. Additionally, a strong private sector in publishing and printing can help in the



Page 10
provision of teaching aides and reading materials for literacy and post-literacy needs. Rural radio
and television also have significant unexploited potential for supporting literacy although they
have had impact on agricultural extension (radio) and on community development (television).
Literacy Context and lessons learned from other countries. In the project
identification stage, a desk research paper was prepared, reviewing recent experience worldwide,
including on-going Bank-financed operations. Subsequently, a Learning and Innovation Loan
(LIL) concept paper was prepared to suggest how the lessons identified could be addressed in the
Cote d'Ivoire context5. The relevant documents are contained in the project files. Systematic
evaluations were conducted for only a few programs. Nevertheless, the evidence from
international research suggests the following characteristics of effective literacy programs: (i) a
minimum of 250-300 hours of instruction to attain a level of literacy (fourth grade equivalent)
where skills are acquired and can be sustained over time, (ii) meaningful content for adult
learners, (iii) materials appropriate for adults, (iv) teachers knowledgeable about the content and
trained in adult education approaches, (v) regular in-service teacher support, and (vi) participation
of beneficiaries in program design and implementation. In nearly all cases, national literacy
campaigns of the 1960s and 1970s model provided through government and offering the same
program for all beneficiaries were at best much less effective (if not failures) than tailor-made,
demand driven programs that respond to what beneficiaries wan-ted to learn.
The Pilot Female Literacy Project in Senegal which began in 1995/96 incorporates these
lessons from experience. In order to respond to different needs, it contracts out the provision of
services to non-governmental literacy providers. Results to date with this approach have been
highly positive - good learning outcomes (70% achieving minimum literacy desired), low
dropout rates (maximum 10%), and very high demand. Difficulties encountered were mainly on
the evaluation side (weak capacity and reluctance to recruit technical support), and the capacity of
the providers. For the latter, sustained training is being provided by the Ministry of Basic
Education and by the Association of Literacy Providers to enable providers to become more
professional. The lessons learned from this operation are incorporated in this proposed pilot
project. Indeed, this proposed project draws heavily from the operational manual, and the
strategies employed in the Senegal operation. The designer and director of the Senegal project
was a member of the preparation team.
3. Learning and innovation expectations:
E[conomic  [ X] Financial  [X] Technical  [ X ] Institutional
3 Social  [ ] Environmental  [ X] Participation  [ I Other
(a)    Assessing demand. The project will create a data base on literacy providers as well as
actual and potential] beneficiary groups to monitor the expressed and potential demand. Anecdotal
information as well as trends in surrounding countries suggest that there could be an important
demand for adult ftmctional literacy programs and adult education more generally. However, at
present, it is difficult to assess demand in RCI in part because cwrrent interventions are small,
scattered and largely unobserved. Typically, the demand for literacy is not always evident.
Beneficiary groups may be focused on development issues such as water supply to their village or
sanitary conditions. Only when their ability to do further analysis or take action is frustrated does
literacy become a priority. Thus, it is likely that many of the NG Os and their clients working in
health, on environmental concerns, on micro-enterprise development are in fact latent clients. The
During preparation, the Ministry of Basic Education began to inventory NGOs involved in the
4Recent developments in non-formal education. Implications for Cote d'Ivoire, May 1998.
5 Ivory Coast. Proposed Learning and Inovation Loan (LIL) for Literacy Concept Paper, July 1998.



Page 11
provision of literacy services. Under the project, this inventory will be expanded to include a
larger number of NGOs.
*(b)    Capacity of providers. The project will assess the capacity of adult literacy providers to
deliver functional literacy programs, as well as their staff development needs. It would also create
a technical support network for literacy providers which will play an important role in the
eventual scaling up of the overall program. The capacity of providers varies considerably. Some
like the CIDT and the Ministere de la Promotion Feminine have many years of experience, others
have only recently encountered a demand for literacy among their clients. Through its registry of
providers and through the process of sub-project selection and implementation, the Fund's
technical secretariat will assess provider experience and capacity and draw upon existing
expertise in ongoing operations and in national institutes with relevant experience to develop
capacity-building plans for providers. Implementation of these plans will be assisted directly by
technical workshops (on matters such as design of learning materials, the training of literacy
instructors) operated by the secretariat and by specific interventions by the resource institutions
(for example, assistance in producing materials in local languages from the Summer Linguistics
Institute).
(c)    Learning materials. The project will develop a resource base of adult education and
literacy materials in national languages. The design and development of learning materials is
costly and time-consuming. Thus, it is important to build on what exists. Fortunately, many
reading materials in local languages (and in regional linguae francae) already exist - some
dealing with specific development-related content (notably agriculture, health). These can be
adapted to the needs of beneficiary groups. Similarly, reading materials of a more general
character are available. Local, small publishers can reproduce them easily. The project will
establish a resource base, organized by thematic category and level, of all available learning
materials (including posters, audio and video materials) which will be made available to the
overall network of literacy providers.
(d)    Systems and procedures. The effectiveness of the piloted systems and procedures for
supporting providers, including the fairness/effectiveness of the criteria (technical, financial) for
evaluating providers' proposals will be assessed. The project will provide a test bed for
developing and refining the systems and procedures required to identify, select, finance, and
support the delivery of literacy programs by a decentralized network of providers, responding to
local beneficiary demand.
(e)    Post-literacy strategies. Post-literacy strategies are important to scaling-up and sustaining
the program. Literacy retention can decline if the learner's environment does not encourage the
use of acquired skills. An important element will be establishing links - "bridges" - to formal
education, permitting the newly literate to build on their skills. Radio, combined with printed
materials, shows promise for post-literacy support. The Second Agricultural Services Project
(IDA) will establish community-managed, self-supporting radio stations (small FM transmitters)
in the literacy project area in the North, making the development and broadcasting of local
language, beneficiary group-specific programs possible beginning late 2000. Other vehicles
include low-cost rural newspapers, village libraries, and encouraging government and the private
sector to make uses of local languages
(f)    Monitoring and evaluation. A simple but robust information system for program
monitoring and evaluation will be developed. Monitoring of contract execution will be done by
the FNAA on a quarterly basis during which time performance indicators (both programmatic and
financial) included in the contracts between the FNAA and the providers will be recorded.
During the LIL period, evaluation will focus on (a) automated collection of sub-project data on



Page 12
key effectiveness indicators (e.g., number of hours attended, number who complete, number who
corrmplete with an acceptable level of literacy, instructional material titles) drawn from the FNAA -
data base, and (b) evaluating sub-project impact focusing in particular on the economic,
knowledge and behavior changes as a result of the literacy program. During this time,
arrangements will be made to monitor literacy and economic indicators within the poverty
monitoring system,, and to design tracer studies to assess skill retention and improvement of
beneficiaries three years after completion.
(g)    Participation. Successful literacy programs are characterized by the participation of the
beneficiaries in the design of the program and choice of educational content, and by frequent
proi'essional exchanges between the financing agency and field providers, and among field
providers, in order to improve the quality of programs and their delivery. To this end, the project
would make the organization of local management committees a condition for financing sub-
projects. Intemational experience (Bangladesh, Namibia) underlines the importance of such
comimittees for ensuring participant attendance, monitoring the performance of the literacy
instructors, maintaining facilities and protecting materials. Above all, the committees provide a
voice for concerns which participants might not otherwise express.
(h)    Financial. Costs per participant have been estimated on the basis of recent experience in
similar projects (Senegal), on the basis of local experience in paying field personnel (extension
workers, etc.) and on other factor costs (lamps, kerosene, ball point pens, notebooks, etc.). The
assumption is also that the minimum economy of scale is represented by an intervention targetirLg
10 classes of 30 learners each. The reliability of these estimates will be tested, to derive cost
norms for eventual scaling up of the program.
(i)    Management. The overall management of the Fund, including the adequacy of financial,
contractual and supervisory arrangements will be evaluated after the first year of operation and
every two years thereafter.
C: Project Description
1. Project components Summary
(see Annex 2 for description and Annex 3 for detailed cost breakdown)
1.Testing functional literacy      ..3.2                      56         3.0        94
2. Develogping and testing post-                    0.5         9         0.4        80
literacy-strategies
3. Management, supervision, and                     2.0        35          1.6       80
evaluation
Total Project Costs      5.7       100         5.0        88
Interest during construction      0.0        0         0.0         0
Front-end fee       0.0         0        0.0         0
Total Financing Required              5.7       100         5.0       100
2.    Institutional and implementation arrangements: A N'ational Committee for Literacy
has been established, linked to the Prime Minister's Office, which is broadly representative of
Ivorian society and acts as a consultative body with regard to literacy policy and interventions. As



Page 13
yet it has no executive arm. The different constituencies (government, NGOs, development
projects, specialized research and development institutions) involved in preparation of the
proposed project addressed this issue, reaching a consensus on the type of institutional "home"
which would be best suited to implementation of the proposed National Literacy Program. The
consensus was based on the following criteria: capacity for managing a large number of small
contracts with providers scattered throughout the country; timely disbursements; fair and
transparent treatment of providers; clear contractual obligations on the part of providers and
appropriate sanctions for non-compliance. After studying various institutional mechanisms
available in Ivory Coast, the preparation team opted for a version of an already existing,
successful model, the Fonds pour le D6veloppement de la Formation Professionnelle (FDFP).
'The project would assist in the creation of a fund for literacy - essentially the executive arm of
-the National Committee- and in the development of related systems and procedures for financial
,and contract management. It would also develop the field arrangements for the supervision of
-projects, to be provided by the Service Autonome d 'Alphab6tisation of the MENFB. The
departmental inspectorates for basic education already include budgeted posts for adult education
supervisors (often not filled). Under the project, the SAA would assign existing staff (from the
MENFB and eventually literacy persomnel from other ministries) to fill these positions, with the
functions of field supervision of the sub-projects, data collection, and liaison with both providers
and beneficiaries.
3.    Monitoring and evaluation arrangements:See para. 3 (f) above. Developing a robust
M&E system is a goal of the project. It is a necessary pre-condition of any scaling up.
Government's policy is that all literacy interventions, regardless of their character or funding
source, should be evaluated so that learning experiences are pooled and mistakes avoided. As
noted, the past experience in timely and effective evaluation has been limited. The project will
tap the intemational experience in evaluation, particularly that of the countries/projects involved
in the current IDA-supported "BELOYSIA"6 initiative. The project will finance technical
assistance in the area of M&E with the goal of advising on the design of the M&E system but
also of transferring the "technology" to key resource institutions such as CIRES, ENSEA and
CEPRASS. If the project's approach is successful, non-governmental providers may be
operating a substantial number of projects by 2002, with a commensurate demand for training
their staff in evaluation techniques and for a sustained national," umbrella" effort in analysis and
dissemination.
D: Project Rationale: (This section is not to be completed in a LIL PAD)
E: Summary Project Analysis: (detailed assessments for those analyses applicable to
LIL are in the Project File, see Annex 8)
1. Economic: (supported by Annex 4):
[x] Cost-Benefit Analysis
[x] Cost Effectiveness Analysis
[  Other (specify)
6    Basic Education and Livelihood Opportunities for Young Illiterate and Semi-illiterate Adults



Page 14
At the sub-project level, the goal is to document the cost-effectiveness of different
interventions, with a view to disseminating the most promising approaches to the network of
literacy providers for their subsequent adaptation. Literacy aims at both short and longer term
benefits: for the participant, including enhanced quality of life and increased life-time earning as
well as multiplier effects via schooling and improved health. While the timeframe of the project is
short, the groundwork for assessing longer term benefits can be laid. Specifically, baseline data
would be collected on family income, occupation, current skills/knowledge, social attitudes and
economic behavior through grass-roots "etudes de milieu" with the assistance of CIRES and
ANADER (specialized in the economic and rural development studies. Multi-year tracer studies
would be developed with the assistance of the INS, CEPRASS (applied social sciences survey/
research methods) in order to monitor literacy retention/extension and economic/social change.
The tracer studies would be field-tested in 2001 and applied for the first time in 2002 when
approximately 30, 000 participants would have entered the post-literacy phase.
2. Financial: Not applicable
3. Technical: Not applicable
4. Institutional:
(a) E,xecuting agencies: The ComitW National pour I 'Alphabtisation (CNAL), presided by the
Vice Prime Minister whose deputy is the Minister of Education, is broadly representative of
government, the municipalities, the private sector and development agencies. It is responsible for
overaIll policy in the sub-sector and reviews its financing and results. Hitherto, the CNAL has had
no fornal executive arm and the MENFB's literacy service has played this role, notably in taking
the lead in project preparation. As noted, Government proposes to create a Fund, le Fonds
National d Appui a 1 'Alphabtisation (FNAA - the Fund). The decree creating the Fund details
its organization and responsibilities. The Fund is to be administered by a Management Committee
(MC). The MC is composed of ministerial representatives from the following ministries and
associations: MENFB, MEF, Youth and Sport; Family and Women's Affairs; Culture; the
Delegation for Young Farmers; Planning and Development Programming; the Confederation of
Ivoirian NGOs (CONGACI) and the Ivoirian Federation of Women's Organizations (RIOF), by
representatives nam.ed by their respective presidents; and two representatives of beneficiary
groups, to be designated by their peers, once an association of beneficiary groups is created
(b) F'roject Management: The MC is responsible for the Fund's budget, its commitment and
related payments. The Fund has three technical services: Monitoring and Evaluation; Technical
Support and Finance and Accounting. The heads of the first two are named by the Minister,
MENFB, while the Minister, MEF Tnames the head of Finance and Accounting. Inter alia, the
services are responsible for: reviewing grant requests; managing grants to literacy providers; the
technical and financial implementation of the program and its promotion; developing the capacity
of literacy providers; and disseminating results. The technical services are managed by the
Director of the Fund who is appointed by the Minister, MENFB. He manages the Fund's budget
and iinancial transactions which are delegated to him by the MC. The roles and responsibilities of
all the different partners in the literacy program as well as implementation arrangements are
described in the manual of administrative, technical and financial procedures.
5. Social assessment:. As indicated in the PAD text and annexes, the objectives and design of
this pilot operation are the result of several assessments conducted over the past five years in C6te
d' Ivoire. These assessments include - poverty assessments, social assessments, results of poverty
monitoring surveys and a gender assessment. Based on these assessments, adult illiteracy
particularly among women, and the limited supply of literacy programs for women are identified



Page 15
s important constraints to poverty alleviation and inclusive development and growth. Therefore,
lbasic education, particularly for women, figures as a priority in the country's long term
development strategy and the CAS. In addition to this foundation, the design of the pilot was
imodelled after a highly successful approach in operation in Senegal since 1994. Based on that as
well as other experiences with women's literacy programs in Africa, Asia and Latin America, the
pilot is designed around those features that are clearly identified with successful programs, that is
where attendance and completion rates are high, and literacy is achieved. These features
include: programs are tailored to the learning needs of the beneficiaries who decide on program
content and course scheduling, are consulted on the selection of the facilitator, and manage the
attendance of the group.
6. Environmental assessment: Environmental Category         [ ] A    [ ] B   [X] C
The project is expected to have a direct, positive impact on the effectiveness of the work
of the two national associations of NGOs working on the environment. They were among the first
NGOs to express an interest in the project and have participated in project preparation. Relevant
content related to the rural environment and to sanitation is likely to be included in a majority of
-the literacy programs financed.
7. Participatory approach:
a.     Primary beneficiaries and other affected groups:
Primary beneficiaries include women's groups, village, cultural and environmental
associations, as well as other special interest groups such as farmers who consider literacy as a
functional tool for achieving their social and economic ends. Beneficiary groups typically enter
into agreements with literacy providers (NGOs, government agencies, development projects,
private enterprises) for the latter to deliver specific, functional literacy programs tailored to their
needs. Beneficiaries are closely associated through local management committees with the design
of programs, with their follow-up and evaluation. With the help of the Fund, a broad learning
network of beneficiaries and providers will be established pennitting the dissemination of their
respective experiences through workshops and seminars.
b.     Other key stakeholders: NGOs, representatives from all Ministries involved in the
provision of adult literacy, representatives of development projects, and the national research
institutes have been directly involved in the preparation, pre-appraisal and appraisal of the
project, collectively contributing to the overall design including the institutional arrangements
and the operational manual.
F: Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability: (This section is not to be completed in a LIL PAD)
The project is a pilot project limited in time. The project's approach is based on the
premise that NGOs and other independent operators can take the lead in identifying needs and
delivering programs, obviating the need for new and costly Government delivery structures. The
proposed M&E system will monitor costs and effectiveness and disseminate best practice to
participating operators, effectively reducing their start-up and operating costs. On the financial
side, only a few new positions will need to be created and financed to manage the FNAA. During
the initial pilot phase, beneficiaries and/or operators are expected to contribute 5% to the cost of
the literacy project. Government has allocated a budget for adult literacy which will support the
incremental operating costs of the project.
Longer term sustainability, however, may be an issue. If the pilot project is successful
and merits scaling up, longer term sustainability will depend on sufficient financing, and



Page 16
sufficient interest by the non-governmental sector to provide literacy programs and to integrate
literacy into their development activities. To address these issues in the future, prior to scaling
up, the following areas will be addressed: (a) ability to pay will be assessed with a view to
increasing the operator and beneficiary participation; (b) the FNAA, as an autonomous fund,
would explore the possibilities for receiving grant financing from local organizations and
businesses; and (c) Government will need to assess the importance of adult literacy relative to
other investment decisions, and increase its allocations in accordance with this priority.
2. Critical Risks: (reflecting assumptions in the fourth column of Annex 1)
From Outputs to Objective
Possible resistance from civil servants   H               First build up sufficient
to this clecentralized approach to                        evidence of success and then
program delivery                                          disseminate it.
Insufficient interest on the part of      M               Transparency and faimess in
providers to collaborate with a                           selecting sub-project for
government-sponsored program.                             financing and in contract
management.
Ensuring quality technical
support to providers
From Components to Outputs
Providers may lack the capacity to        M               Criteria for evaluating sub-
deliver effective programs or to                          projects are associated with
expand their operations while                             effective programs.
-maintaining quality
Measures to help providers
develop their capacity
through the provision of
technical support services.
Learning materials may not be             M               Pilot will start in those
available in adequate quality and                         languages for which
number.                                                   adequate materials are
available and accessible.
Evaluation capacity may be difficult to   H               Resource institutions will be
build given the lack of experience in                     contracted to provide
this area.                                                technical services in design,
implementation and analysis
of results.
Overall Risk Rating                       M
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N (Negligible or
Low Risk)
3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
A controversial aspect of the project could be the new role proposed for Government, that of
facilitating rather than implementing, entrusting the delivery of literacy programs to non-



Page 17
,governmental providers. Based on Senegal's experience - the only country that has implemented
this approach - this innovation could meet with resistance from the government staff who
traditionally implemented literacy programs. Strong leadership by the CNAL's president and
vice-president (the Prime Minister and the Minister of Education) will be key to managing this
transition effectively.
G: Main Loan Conditions
1. Effectiveness Conditions:
a. The Borrower has opened a project and counterpart funding account with an initial
agreed upon deposit as indicated in the Development Credit Agreement.
b. A Director and a Financial manager have been appointed for FNAA under terms of
reference and with qualifications and experience satisfactory to IDA.
c. The Borrower has prepared and fumished to IDA an accounting manual for the Project
and recruited a financial auditor under terms and conditions satisfactory to IDA.
2. Other : (classify according to covenant types used in the Legal Agreements)
Technical. Preparation of annual reports based on field supervision and on the results of
ongoing M&E.
H: Readiness for Implementation
[X] 1. The following implementation instruments have been prepared and are deemed
acceptable: an operational manual for the program, a manual for the providers and a
format for presenting project proposals, a draft form of contract between the Fund and the
provider for program delivery and the detailed schedule for the first year of operations
(which will be essentially the same as for the second year).
[X] 2. The procurement documents for the first six month's activities are complete and
agreement has been reached on the standard bidding documents.
[X] 3. The implementation plan has been appraised and found to be satisfactory.
[ ] 4. The following items are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section
G): None.
I: Compliance with Bank Policies
[X] 1. This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
[ ]  2. The following exceptions to Bank policies are recommended for approval. The
project complies with all other applicable Bank policies.
Rosemary   e lew       lena Ribe                  hantal Dejou
Team Leader          Sector Manager/Director    ActingCountry
Manager/Director



ANNEX 1
Page I of 2
Annex I. Project Design Summary
COTE D'IVOIRE: Pilot Literacy Project
Hierarchy of Objectives    Key Performance      Monitoring and    Critical Assumptions
Indicators          Evaluation
(i) Sector-related CAS
goal:
Poverty reduction,    *  Household         *  Poverty survey    *  Continuing
complementing            income of            updates              political
investment in primary    beneficiary       *  Tracer studies of    commitment to
education by a non-      groups (by region,    literacy program    poverty reduction
formal program           urban, rural)        graduates to
*  Occupational data    assess impact on   Available government
*  Children of target   economic and     funding to implement
group in school      social behavior    a scaled-up literacy
(enrolment,      *  School statistics   program (as well as
retention and    *  Beneficiary       maintaining targeted
completion rates)   assessments       level of primary
*  Qualitative                           education investment)
indicators
______________________    (attitudes.
(ii) Project Objectives
*  Tested systems and    *  Effective          * Pilot project     *  Fund mechanism
procedures for scaling   application of        evaluation          works as planned
up the new approach      sub-project       * Operational
(contracting program     selection            reviews
delivery to non-         procedures        * Reviews by staff   *  Decree on
governmental          *  Timely               from BELOYSIA        National Literacy
providers)               disbursements         projects            Council modified
against contracts                         to create Fund and
*  Technical support  *  Audits              technical
to providers high                         secretariat
quality and timely
*  Cost-effective         *  Changes          *  Assessments by
approaches and           registered in        providers
operational know-how      approaches of    *  Feedback from
disseminated              other providers     workshops
(iii) Project Outputs
*  Number of adult       *  + 15,000 p.a. of    *  Semi-annual
literates increased,     which 75 percent     progress reports
particularly young       women/girls       *  Annual joint
women                 *  70% + of             reviews (National



ANNEX I
Page 2 of 2
graduates achieve    Council for
literacy             Literacy,
Providers,
Cost-effective literacy   *  Course hours      Beneficiaries,
programs delivered        delivered            IDA)
*  Literacy results    *  Pilot project
*  Costs per graduate   evaluation
*  Unit costs,       *  Development of a
*  Enrolment and        robust M&E
retention rates.     system
*  Comparison with   *  Literacy tests
skills levels    *  Supervision
achieved by          missions
formal schooling   *  Support in
financial
management by
RMCI
*  Audits
*  Monitoring and        *  Automated data    *  Bi-annual project  *  Evaluation
evaluation capacity      information           reports              capacity may be
built                     system functional  *  Cohort              difficult to build
*  Cohort               completion            given the lack of
evaluations of       evaluation studies   experience in this
adequate scope                            area.
and reliability
conducted
*  Capacity building     *  Providers take on   *  Pilot evaluation
needs of providers met   increasing        *  Independent
responsibility for:  survey of
needs assessment,    providers
program design,   *  Feedback from
evaluation           provider
workshops
(iv) Project Components  INPUTS
1. Testing Functional     US$5 million for     Semi-annual and      *  Continuing
Literacy Programs         goods, provider      annual project reports   community
contracts, technical                          grassroots support
2. Developing Post-literacy  assistance and    Annual financial and    for approach
strategies               operating costs      technical audits
3. Managemen*  Continuing
3. Management,                                                       collaboration with
Supervision, Evaluation                                                national resource
groups
* MEFB
collaboration in
field supervision



ANNEX 2
Page 1 of 5
Annex 2: Project Description
COTE D'IVOIRE: Pilot Literacy Project
Component 1: Testing Functional Literacy Programs - US $3.2 million (US $ 3.0
million IDA)
1.1    Objectives and Scope. The project would support Government's decision to
explore a new approach, that of entrusting NGOs, development projects, regional
associations and other qualified providers with the delivery of literacy and post-literacy
programs requested by beneficiaries at the community level. The goal is to develop
flexible systems and procedures for delivering technical support services and financing to
providers/beneficiaries which would permnit scaling-up to a larger country-wide
constituency, with a potentially significant impact in the reduction of literacy.
1.2   Priorities. The main priorities are women and girls in geographic areas with the
lowest participation of girls in primary school (the North, the South West and the Center
East). The initiative for identifying sub-projects will be taken by the beneficiaries,
however, NGOs and other providers in these areas will be encouraged to explore
community and local association interest in literacy. The objectives of proposals will
typically reflect local concerns - family health, childcare, nutrition and agriculture - are
likely themes.
1.3   Selection of Sub-Projects. A preliminary registry of interested providers (mainly
NGOs) was established in mid-1998 and is now being updated, to include potential
providers in all regions. A preparation team comprising literacy staff from concerned
technical ministries, from NGOs, national research institutes and development projects
worked to prepare a manual of procedures for the selection of sub-projects proposed by
provider/beneficiary groups. The manual provides the criteria for selecting sub-projects.
The technical secretariat of the FNAA provides the technical review committee. Its
assessments are public and must respect specific processing deadlines. Proposals. The
major premise is that the provider will enter into an agreement with a beneficiary group
to deliver a program, to be designed to their specifications. Beneficiary groups are asked
to appoint a local management committee for each literacy center (these may be schools
or other borrowed facilities or even an informal village setting). Proposals include inter
alia the following information: (i) on the Provider, staff training/upgrading needs,
specific technical assistance requirements (for example, in designing evaluation
procedures or as to the use of local languages), the costs of instructors/supervisors,
equipment and materials needed, and the targeted cost per trainee and completer; (ii) on
the Beneficiaries, their agreement with the Provider, their spokespersons, organization,
location, the proposed number of trainees, and their proposed participation in cash or
kind, (iii) the pedagogical approach -- methods, course structure, evaluation plans, and
(iv) the operational plan -- overall timetable from initial preparation of staff and field
mobilization to ex post evaluation, class schedule, class size, and instructor/supervisor
ratios.
1.4   Technical Support Services. The NGOs are generally small and of recent



ANNEX 2
Page 2 of 5
establishment. Consequently, they do not have staff capacity in all the areas of expertise
which will be required, such as in the design of learning materials, evaluation of learning,
training of trainers, local language skills and the capacity to conduct socioeconomic
studies and analyze the results. Early in project preparation, contact was made with local
research and development institutions with the potential for providing technical support
to literacy providers. These include: the Ivorian Center for Economic and Social
Research (CIRES), a university institute, with strong skills in field work and which offers
a doctorate in rural development; the National Institute of Statistics (INS) which is a
partner in the poverty program, conducting household surveys; the Center for Applied
Social Science Research (CEPRASS) has strengths in qualitative surveys and marketing;
the Summer Linguistics Institute (SILS), an international private non-profit foundation
and the university's Institute for Applied Linguistics (ILA) have unique skills and
experience in the development of materials in the local languages and are ready to design
and produce functional literacy materials. The Cote d'Ivoire Textile Company (CIDT)
has extensive experience in literacy and its staff will be a valuable resource for providers
operating in rural zones, particularly in the cotton-growing areas. These institutions will
be contracted by the FNAA to carry out specific tasks in their respective areas of
competence and to provide outreach services to the providers on the ground. The creation
of an operational network of resource institutions is an important prerequisite to the
scaling up of the program.
1.5   Field Supervision Arrangements are tripartite. The beneficiary group supervises
field activities at the level of each center through its management committee. It is free to
contact either the FNAA or the provider on any issue. The committees also meet twice a
year as a group to compare notes - they may be located in villages several kilometers
apart. The provider must specify his own field supervision arrangements - designated
personnel, number and regularity of visits per center, data to be collected (templates/
protocols), report format and a budget. Providers undertake to replace instructors or
supervisors in their employ, should the beneficiaries' representatives or the FNAA so
request. Finally, the FNAA carries out field supervision through its field officers located
in the primary education inspectorates. These posts are budgeted and no new staff are to
be recruited. Participation in the project is based on willingness to accept a field
assignment. While the field supervisor reports to the inspector and to the FNAA, he
remains independent in terms of setting his schedule and has his own transportation
(motorcycle). He verifies reports received from the beneficiaries and from the providers
and troubleshoots operational difficulties. A monthly report is e-mailed to the FNAA and
copied to the Regional Director of Schools, providing a valuable source of information
about community attitudes to formal - as well as informal - schooling. The field
supervisor is responsible for providing statistics (via computer-based templates) and
administers the learning achievement tests.
1.6   Operations. During the year, it is estimated that a minimum of 25 sub-projects
will provide an average of 300 hours of instruction over an 18 month period to 15,000
beneficiaries, mainly women and girls (targeted 75%) between 15-40 years old. In the
first year, sub-projects will be larger (600 beneficiaries per sub-project) than in the
second to permit intensive supervisor/instructor ratios and to keep the contract
management burden reasonable until the FNAA and its supervisors can handle a larger
load. During the second year, 35 new sub-projects with an additional 15,000



ANNEX 2
Page 3 of 5
beneficiaries will be added. These sub-projects will be typically be of a smaller scale and
geographically more scattered, providing a modest but manageable increase in the case
load. The total number of projects underway in the second year will be 60, with 30,000
participants, half in their first 18 months of instruction, half in their second. In addition
to operating the programs, providers will be expected to acquaint neighboring
communities with the project, carry out participatory assessments of their learning needs
(with assistance from CERES, CEPRASS, ILA and other research arms).
Component 2: Developing and testing a strategy for post-literacy - US $0.5 million
(0.4 million IDA)
2.1.  The project will test essential strategies for post-literacy to ensure the scaling up
and sustainability of the program. One lesson of experience is that literacy retention is
greatly affected by the availability of reading materials and the possibility of using
competencies, especially in rural areas. Many successful programs have developed and
operated newspapers - such as "Kybaru", the Bambara language newspaper in Mali
which published regularly for more than 25 years. Often those who have become literate
in a local language seek to make a later transition to the official language. Individuals
have a variety of motives -- the need to be deal more directly with governmnent; to
advance in their education; to pursue their economic activities more effectively, etc.
2.2   Several strategies will be tested. Radio programs supported by brochures and
other printed matter can help consolidate and reinforce the skills of the newly literate and
assist them in making the transition toward the official language. The National
Agriculture Services Support Project (IDA) is presently assisting C6te d'Ivoire in
eatablishing a network of small, FM radio stations which are to be managed and financed
by communities. Starting in September of 2000, small transmitters will established in
several rural areas of the North, with a good coverage of the literacy sub-project zones.
These areas include: Korhogo and Nielle in the Savannah (main languages: Dioula,
Niarafolo, Tchebara), Odienne and Touba (Denguele and Worodougou areas: main
languages:Kokaya, Worodougou and Maou) and in the Northeastern region of Tanda
(main languages: Dioula, Abron and Agni). All these areas contain many "village level
farmer associations") who are the main interlocutors in rural development. Each radio
station will have a program department whose technicians will be responsible for helping
their clients (development projects, ONGs, and local institutions) prepare tailored radio
programs in local languages. The average cost of a 30 mn. radio program will be around
1]50.000 CFAF. The Credit will finance the preparation and broadcasting of post-literacy
programs whose impact will be felt not only by new literates but also by a broader
audience in the listening areas, thereby contributing to the promotion of the Literacy
Program. Another element of strategy could be to prepare a small personal library (four
to five books) containing manuals of practical day-to-day use, be it on health (e.g.
UJNICEF textbook "Know in order to Save"), or agriculture, etc. It would also be
possible to conceive local bilingual newspapers which would have articles printed
simultaneously in the local and official languages. It would encourage the administration
and the private sector to use local languages for official communications and
advertisement. Finally, it would be extremely important to establish links with the formal
education and professional education systems, which are key elements of any post-
literacy strategy. This explains for the most part the success of the BRAC project in



ANNEX 2
Page 4 of 5
Bangladesh: girls participating in this informal program were able to be admitted to
higher-level primary classes and to pursue their education without the formal system.
This will constitute a key element for girls in the poorest areas of Ivory Coast.
Component 3: Management, supervision and evaluation - US $2.0 million (US $ 1.6
million IDA)
3.1   Objectives and Scope. Government has decided to develop an autonomous fund
to support the development of a national literacy program. A National Committee for
Literacy was established in 1998 but as yet it has no executive arm. The different
constituencies involved in project preparation (government, NGOs, development
projects, specialized research and development institutions) addressed this issue, studying
the various institutional models operating in Cote d'Ivoire in terms of specific criteria:
capacity for managing a large number of small contracts with providers scattered
throughout the country; timely disbursements; fair and transparent treatment of providers;
clear contractual obligations on the part of providers and appropriate sanctions for non-
compliance. The consensus reached was the Fonds pour le Developpement de la
Formation Professionnelle (FDFP) presented a viable model. The proposed fund is called
the Fonds National d'Appui a l'Alphabetisation (FNAA). The project would assist the
development of the FNAA. The FNAA is to be established as an autonomous institution
with governmental and private sponsorship, with the authority to receive and manage
public, private and donor funds. Its raison d'etre is to provide technical support and
financing to non-governmental literacy providers in a timely and cost-effective fashion,
without creating any permanent budgetary imposition for government. At this early stage,
its principal task is to develop and field test the systems and procedures required for
delivering a larger-scale program, beginning 2002.
3.2   Organization and Responsibilities. The FNAA would comprise a board of
directors and a technical secretariat staffed by contractual personnel. The board of
directors (Comite de Gestion - CG) would be composed of representatives of the
teclnical ministries, the literacy providers (NGOs and other operators) and the
beneficiary groups. Its principal responsibilities would be to approve the financing of
sub-projects, to monitor the program and to provide coordination with the donors
supporting the sub-sector. The CG would appoint the director managing the technical
secretariat, with overall responsibility for sound financial management and for the
efficient execution of the overall program. The director would be the contact point for
donors. The director would be assisted by a financial controller named by the Ministry of
Eccnomy and Finance. The secretariat would have three operating services:
* Management and accounting: staffed by a financial specialist, an accountant, a senior
book keeper and part-time field evaluators, it monitors contracts, provides timely
disbursements, verifies expenditures, develops unit cost profiles for the different
types of literacy intervention and assists in annual audits
*  Evaluation and research: staffed by a senior evaluation specialist and two analysts, it
supervises learning evaluation, socioeconomic studies and maintains the statistical
data. Working with consultants, its key responsibility is the design of a robust M&E
system



ANNEX 2
Page 5 of 5
Pedagogical services: staffed by a senior specialist in adult education and two
trainers, it develops and maintains a resource base of learning materials; organizes
workshops for providers on such aspects as course design, teaching methods and the
use of media
3.3    All three services are to be represented in the project proposal review committee,
to ensure balanced assessment of the financial, statistical and pedagogical aspects. Each
service works in its area of competence with the resource institutions providing technical
support services to the field providers. Similarly, the services work closely with the SAA
on the organization and reporting procedures of field supervision.
:3.4   Supervision and evaluation. To ensure quality control, the project would
support an annual, field-based review of operations. The principal areas for review would
iinclude: progress on the ground (learning results and cost), the relations between
beneficiaries and providers, the effectiveness of procedures for financing and for field
supervision. To the extent possible, experienced staff from other projects in the
]participating Beloysia countries would participate in conducting the reviews, ensuring
cross-fertilization of learning at the regional level. The annual reviews would give special
attention to progress in streamlining the systems and procedures required for scaling up
the program. Specific evaluation tasks include:
i(a)    evaluation of learning outcomes/costs for a sample of sub-projects in each cohort,
-with special attention to the first, expected to achieve literacy 18 months after project
start-up
(b)   progress in compiling the resource base of literacy materials after years 1 and 2
(c)    at the end of year 2, in order to guide eventual scaling-up of the program, detailed
assessments of: (i) the working relations between beneficiary groups and providers, (ii)
the overall demand, and (iii) the capacity of the current providers for extending their
operations and a review of the potential of newcomers
4.2   In addition to the normal financial parameters, annual audits would have the
responsibility of assessing deliverables and reviewing the findings of the field evaluators,
with regard to objects of expenditure (salaries paid by the providers, learning materials
and supplies, equipment and materials held by the field supervisors) and inventory
controls.



ANNEX 3
Page 1 of 1
Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs
COTE D'IVOIRE: Pilot Literacy Project
1. Testing Literacy Programs                                2.8            0.4             3.2
2. Developing and Testing a Post Literacy Strategy          0.4             0.0            0.4
3. Management, Monitoring and Evaluation                    0.9             0.8            1.7
Total Baseline Cost                                         4.1             1.2            5.3
Physical Contingencies                                    0.1            0.1            0.2
Price Contingencies                                       0.1            0.1            0.2
Total Project Costs                    4.3            1.4            5.7
Interest during construction        --             --              --
Front-end fee        --             --              --
Total Financing Required               4.3            1.4            5.7
Goods                                                       0.3             0.3            0.6
Literacy Sub-Projects             .3.3                                      0.4            3.7
Specialist Services                                         0.2             0.4            0.6
Training                                                    0.3             0.0            0.3
Operating Costs                                             0.2             0.3            05
Total Project Costs                    4.3            1.4             5.7
Interest during construction        --             --
Front-end fee        --             --
Total Financing Required               4.3            1.4             5.7
Note: Totals mray not add up due to rounding.



ANNEX IV
Page 1 of 1
Annex 4: Cost Benefit Analysis Summary
[To be completed only to the extent applicable for LIL]
COTE D'IVOIRE: Pilot Literacy Project
C:ost-benefit Analysis Summary
The project would prepare the groundwork for analyzing the economic impact of
t]he literacy sub-projects. Initial surveys of beneficiaries conducted by literacy providers
with the specialized resource institutions would include household data including number
of workers, occupations, weekly/monthly wages enabling tracer studies of successful
literacy graduates to be to be conducted up to five years after they leave the program. The
first promotion of 15,000 would graduate mid-2001,the second mid-2002. An eventual
scaled-up program (2003) would follow a sample of each promotion by sub-project and
sub-project baseline data through 2007. The two first promotions address women and
girls in priority. Family income and participation of girls in formal schooling (as a proxy
fDr future income) would be explored along with other variables such as child care and
health practices and family budgeting. Beyond 2003, there would be a likely widening of
scope to include other beneficiaries including women, youth and men engaged in farming
and informal occupations, enabling the broader impact on economic behavior to be
gauged. The program content is likely to promote occupation-linked learning
(agricultural/horticultural practices for adult rural populations, for example).
Consequently, current program entry practices would be sampled with changes monitored
by tracer studies.
Cost Effectiveness Analysis Summary
The project aims at identifying cost-effective approaches to literacy as well as at
the testing of delivery systems. The M&E system will record the costs of different
interventions as well as skills and knowledge at the end of program. It should also be
possible to differentiate between similar sub-projects in terms of methodology, instructor
quality, quality of materials and degree of community support. While developing cost-
effectiveness indices for different types of intervention is useful per se, the project aims
at getting participating providers/beneficiaries to study and adopt cost-effective
approaches. The project would finance workshops to facilitate the discussion of results
and processes, enabling providers and beneficiaries to learn from each other.



ANNEX V
Page 1 of 1
Annex 5: Financial Summary
COTE D'IVOIRE: Pilot Literacy Project
Years Ending 2002
Implementation Period
Year 1    Year 2  I Year 3    Year 4  I Total
Total Financing Required
Project Costs
Investment Costs             0.5        1.55      2.15        1.0       5.2
Recurrent Costs              0.1        0.15      0.15       0.1        0.5
Total Project Costs             0.6        1.7        2.3        1.1        5.7
Interest during construction
Front-end Fee
Total Financing                 0.6        1.7        2.3        1.1        5.7
Financing
IDA                          0.5        1.5       2.0         1.0       5.0
Central Government           0.1        0.1        0.2       0.1         0.5
NGOs/Beneficiaries           0.0        0.1       0.1        0.0        0.2
Total Project Financing      0.6        1.7        2.3        1.1        5.7



ANNEX 6
Page 1 of 12
Annex 6: Education and Training Consolidation and Development
Financial Management, Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
COTE D'IVOIRE: Pilot Literacy Project
Financial management
1.    General. Government has decided to create a Fonds National d'Appui a
1'A4phabitisation (FNAA). As an executing agency under the joint responsibility of the
MENFB and MEF, the FNAA will: (i) manage the IDA special account including the
preparation of withdrawal applications, (ii) manage the project account for annual deposit
of the Government' share of project expenditures, (iii) make grants to literacy providers
on the basis of project agreements, making payments after verification of the delivery of
services, (iv) conduct all procurement related to the project, (v) ensure that all reports and
audits are provided to the CNAL and IDA as required, and produce the Project
Management Reports (PMR). During appraisal, the requirements of Government's new
budget and accounting systems were examined with the MEF. The agreed procedures are
as follows: the FNAA will receive an annual budget in terms of investment credits; its
mLanagement committee will be empowered to make commitments and payments, with
these powers delegated to the FNAA director. End-of-year reports on budget
irmplementation will be provided to the MEF. The FNAA would execute its
responsibilities in conformity with the decree creating it, the Development Credit
Agreement to be signed between the Government of Cote d'Ivoire and IDA, its
imaplementation manual (adopted by the Borrower) and its financial accounting manual.
2.    Accounting. The MENFB is seeking proposals from qualified accounting firms to
provide: (i) computer software for monitoring project implementation, contract
management and project accounts, producing reports on a quarterly basis; (ii) develop an
accounting manual; and (iii) train the FNAA staff. Terms of reference have been
approved by IDA. The terms of reference specify that the accounting software should be
compatible with IDA's requirements. In particular, the software should be LACI-
compatible, the manual should reflect those procedures and that staff will be trained to
irnplement LACI as per the time-bound action plan, with full implementation by March
31, 2000. The financial analyst in the Abidjan RM will review the selected proposal and
pirovide operational support during start-up. He will be responsible for determining
whether the new systems and procedures meet the eligibility criteria established under the
LACI. Adoption of an accounting manual satisfactory to IDA is a condition of
effectiveness.
3.    Audits. The FNAA would maintain consolidated project accounts. All project
accounts would be audited annually by an independent auditor acceptable to IDA. Audit
reports of reasonable scope and detail would be submitted to IDA within four months of
the end of the auditing period. In addition to annual financial audits, technical audit
reports on the implementation of subprojects including quality of execution and adequacy
of procurement, in form and substance acceptable to IDA, would be furnished three



ANNEX 6
Page 2 of 12
months before each annual review. As a condition of credit effectiveness, a financial
auditor would be recruited under a multi-year contract acceptable to IDA
4.    Staffing. The director of the FNAA will be appointed by the Minister, MENFB.
The head of the finance and accounting division will be appointed by the Minister of the
MEF and will be a certified accountant. He/she will have full authority to act as the
accountant ("comptable") on behalf of the MEF, streamlining commitments, payments
and. the preparation of IDA disbursement requests. A contractual junior accounting clerk
will also be hired. The FNAA will recruit specialists (either individuals or firms) on a
contractual basis to verify grant expenditures by the literacy providers and assist in
strengthening the capacity of providers in financial management. The FNAA would also
recruit a contractual procurement specialist with knowledge of IDA procurement
procedures. Appointment of the Fund's director and of the head of the management and
financial division would be conditions of credit effectiveness.
Procurement
5.    The finance and accounting division of the FNAA will be responsible for
procurement. In addition, the PCU of the MENFB will provide technical support and
quality assurance to the FNAA during the period of project implementation. The PCU has
substantial (20 years) of experience in implementation and procurement under IDA and
Afl)B projects and is staffed by senior procurement staff. The IDA procurement
specialist in Abidjan RM would provided assistance during start-up. Table 1 summarizes
project costs, including taxes and duties, by disbursement category and procurement
method. Costs include all local taxes and import duties. No special exceptions, permits,
or licenses need to be specified in the Credit documents. Procurement of goods and
consultant services financed by the IDA credit will be carried out in accordance with the
Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits (January 1995, revised in
January and August 1996, September 1997 and January 1999) and Guidelines for the
Selection of Consultants by the World Bank Borrowers published in January 1997,
revised in September 1997 and January 1999.
6.    Grant Agreements. Literacy and post-literacy sub-projects would be delivered by
private literacy providers under grant agreements with FNAA acceptable to IDA. The
total cost of the agreements is estimated at US$ 3.6 million equivalent of which IDA
finances 100% of the amounts paid by the Fund to the literacy providers - these amounts
represent about 95% of the cost of the literacy sub-projects and 85% of the cost of post-
literacy sub-projects. The difference is covered by a beneficiary or provider co-financing
of FCFA 3,000 equivalent per beneficiary for the literacy sub-projects, and 15% of the
total cost of the post-literacy projects. Procedures for the evaluation and financing of
literacy and post-literacy grant proposals are stipulated in the project implementation
manual, deemed satisfactory by IDA.
7.    Goods financed under the Credit (US $ 0.6 million equivalent, including taxes)
include furniture and equipment of which IDA finances 85% of local expenditure and
100% of foreign expenditure; and vehicles of which IDA finances 60% of local
expenditures and 100% of foreign expenditures. Goods will be grouped into packages of



ANNEX 6
Page 3 of 12
at least US$ 50,000 and would be procured through National Competitive Bidding (NCB)
using bidding documents agreeable to IDA with an aggregate total of US$0.4 million.
Goods which cannot be grouped into these packages would be purchased through local
shopping based on price quotations obtained from at least three eligible suppliers,
provided that aggregate amount of such procurement does not exceed US $ 0.2 million
equivalent. IDA-financed contracts for goods above a threshold of US$ 50,000
equivalent would be subject to IDA prior review procedures.
8.    Consultant services financed by the Credit (US$ 0.6 million) would be hired in
accordance with the Bank's Guidelines for Selection and Employment of Consultants by
World Bank Borrowers dated January, 1997, revised in September 1997 and January
1999. The services include training and technical assistance for monitoring and
evaluation, literacy materials and auditing. Prior IDA review would not apply to
contracts estimated to cost less that US$ 100,000 equivalent for firms, and less than US
$50,000 for individuals. However, this exception would not apply to the terms of
reference of such contracts, single-source hiring of firms, assignments of a critical nature
as determined by IDA, or to amendments of contracts raising the contract value to
US$100,000 equivalent or more for firms and US$50,000 equivalent for individuals.



ANNEX 6
Page 4 of 12
DRAFT
Annex 6, Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(in US$ million equivalent including taxes, duties and contingencies) (a)
Expenditure category                    ICB       NCB         Other       N.B.F.       Total
(c)         (d)        Cost
(1) Goods                                          0.2          0.1                      0.3
(0.17)      (0.08)                   (0.25)
(2) Vehicles                                       0.2          0.1                      0.3
(0.12)      (0.06)                   (0.18)
(3) Grants for sub-projects                                     3.6                      3.6
(3.4)                   (3.4)
(4) Consultant Services                                         0.6                      0.6
(0.6)                   (0.6)
(5) Training                                                    0.3                      0.3
(0.3)                    (0.3)
(6) Incremental Operating Costs                                 0.5                      0.5
(0.3)                   (0.3)
Total Costs                                        0.4          5.3                      5.7
Total Financed by IDA                              (0.3)       (4.7)                    (5.0)
(a) Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be fmanced by the /IDA credit. Total may not add up due to
rounding.
(b) Grant agreements for literacy and post-literacy sub-projects
(c) Other Procedures include specific procedures for Sub-Project Agreements with literacy providers based
on procedures stipulated in the Project Implementation Manual agreeable to IDA;
(d) N.B.F. Other donors are likely to make grants to the Fund. In the case of co-financing, the above
procurement methods and review procedures would apply; in the case of parallel financing separate
accounts would be maintained and the grantor's procedures would apply.



ANNEX 6
Page 5 ofl2
Annex 6 Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
Expenditure    Contract Value           Procurement Methods             Contracts Subject to
Category       (Threshold)                                               Prior review *
G                            I =  ICB          NCB          Other   INMO                 N
1. Goods      above US$50,000                 X                       Prior IDA review.
Aggregate amount
US$ 400,000
below US$50,000                             X          Post review
Aggregate amount:
_______ _  _  US$100,000
2. Agreements                                                         Prior review of the first
with literacy    Below US$ 75,000  On the basis of the criteria and procedures  batch of Agreements, post
providers                       in the Implementation Manual          review of the second batch
(total two batches)
3. Consultant  (a) Individuals:  Section V of the Directives          Prior IDA review
services      above $50,000
Local and
international   Individuals - below  Section V of the Directives      Post review
consultants    $50,000                                                Aggregate amount.
(b) Firms         Quality and Cost Based Selection (QCBS}  Prior IDA review
above US$100,000
Finns below       Quality and Cost Based Selection (QCBS    Post review
US$100,000                                             Aggregate amount .
(c) Audit         Least Cost Selection                 Prior IDA review
Disbursements
9.     To facilitate program implementation, the Government will open a Special
Account in FCFA at a local commercial bank acceptable to IDA. The authorized
allocation will be FCFA 250 million and will cover four months of eligible expenditures.
Upon effectiveness, an amount representing 50 percent of the authorized allocation will
be deposited in the Special Account. All replenishment or reimbursement applications
will be submitted monthly. All replenishment applications will be fully documented
except for: (a) contracts of less than US$100,000 equivalent for goods; (b) US$ 100,000
equivalent for consulting firms; US$ 50,000 equivalent for individual consultants; and
(c) grants, training and operating costs, which may be claimed on the basis of Statements
ol Expenditures (SOEs). SOE documentation will be retained at the program
implementation unit for review by IDA supervision missions. The proposed Credit of
US$5.2 million would be disbursed over a three and a half years period. Table C shows
disbursements by category of expenditure and financing percentages.



ANNEX 6
Page 6 of 12
Annex 6, Table C: Allocation of Credit Proceeds
Us$
100% of foreign
(1)  Goods                                   200,000         expenditures
and 85% of local
expenditures
(2) Vehicles                                 150,000         100% of foreign
expenditures and 60%
of local expenditures
(3)   Grants for sub-projects                3,300,000       100% IDA eligible
portion of the grant
agreement
(4)   Consultant's services                  450,000         100%
(5)   Training                               300,000         100%
(6)   Operating costs                        200,000         50%
(7)   Unallocated                            300,000
5,000,000 *
Total (Rounded)



ANNEX 6
Page 7 of 12
Republic of Cote d'Ivoire
National Literacy Fund
Request for Proposals
1.    Proposals are sought regarding:
* the supply and installation of software for Accounting, Procurement, Contract
Management, Budget Monitoring and Auditing;
* the preparation of an Accounting Manual;
* training and support services.
Operational Context
2.    The Government of the Republic of Cote d'Ivoire plans to establish (June 1.999) a
National Literacy Fund (Fonds National d'Appui a l 'Alphab6tisation - FNAA) - hereafter
t]he Fund. The principal legislation governing the Fund will be the Decree establishing it
and Decree No. 98-11 of the 14t of January, 1998 establishing the Caisse Autonome
dL'Amortissement (CAA) as a state enterprise. Pursuant to this legislation
e The Minister of National and Basic Education is responsible for the technical
supervision of Fund.
T The Minister of the Economy and Finance is responsible for the economic and
financial supervision of the Fund.
T The Fund's Management Committee prepares its draft budget three months before the
end of the financial year and is to submit it for approval to the Minister exercising
financial supervision. The Fund's draft budget is included in the overall draft budget
presented to the National Assembly.
The Fund maintains accounts in the CAA comprising an IDA account, an account to
receive government funds as well as individual, donor financing related accounts.
*  The Director of the Fund is the delegated, certifying officer for FNAA's financial and
contractual operations (inter alia: commitments, contract signature and management,
payments).
* The Fund's accountant is appointed by the Minister of the Economy and Finance, and
acts in a full-time capacity as Chief of the Fund's Finance and Accounting Division.



ANNEX 6
Page 8 of 12
*  Financial years end on December 31, and the Management Committee is to forward
Fund's accounts on the following March 31 to the Minister of the Economy and
Finance, for approval.
*  Agreements and contracts financed by the Fund are subject to the oversight of the
Minister of the Economy and Finance.
Accounting procedures
3.    Government has requested the IDA to contribute to the financing of a Pilot
Literacy Project (PLP) in an amount of about US$5.0 million. The Fund will act as the
Government's executing agency. Under this agreement the FNAA is to keep the PLP
accounts in accordance with international procedures and standards acceptable to IDA.
The method used will be cash-based accounting, with sources and applications recorded
in full. The process of budget management will compare appropriations with actual
commitments (by donor, component, and expenditure category). Aggregates will refer
bothi to financial years as a whole, and to the cumulative period since the launching of the
project. IDA Credit disbursements to the Fund will be based on project management
reports. These will take account of the eligibility of expenditures, and of the progress
made in the physical implementation of the project. The systems must be able to generate
financial and management reports and permit the monitoring and reporting of
procurement and contract implementation in line with the principles and specifications
detailed in the World Bank document entitled "The Loan Administration Change
Initiative - Implementation Handbook" (September 1998) - Appendix 1. The following
reference documents will also guide the service provider:
*  the Credit Agreement between IDA and the Government;
*  the World Bank Disbursement Manual (July 1992);
*  The Loan Administration Change Initiative Implementation Manual, World Bank,
September 1998;
*  "Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" (September 1997
edition);
*  "Guidelines: Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers"
(January 1997 edition);
*  the Fund's Manual of Technical, Financial and Administrative Procedures dated May
26, 1999;
* current domestic legislation and regulations governing administrative and financial
procedures in the National Funds.



ANNEX 6
Page 9 ofl2
Finally, in addition to the financing the Government is expected to provide from its
own resources, other external donors have expressed interest in literacy-related activities and
in the FNAA approach. The budget, the expenditure forecasts and accounts should therefore
be capable of maintaining separate project accounts.
Software
4.  The consultant shall supply integrated accounting and budget-management software
operating under Windows 95/98. The specialized software for investment projects must
include, among others, the following functionalities:
* single input of accounting and budget entries;
* journal entry, to precede confirmation of formal entries;
* budget monitoring on an annual basis, as well as for the aggregate period from the
beginning of the project;
* monitoring of donors, in a number of different currencies;
*  monitoring of a series of projects (a "multiproject system");
* contract monitoring;
monitoring of long-term assets;
* automatic issue of applications for withdrawals for reimbursement from the Special
Account;
* generation of appropriations, commitments, and disbursements, by project, donor,
component, and category of expenditure, for each of the projects (cost accounting);
* generation of standard financial statements.
The software program must be capable of providing quarterly reports that are in
line with IDA's new disbursement initiative (i.e. the procedures involved in the Loan
Administration Change Initiative - LACI).
Setting the Program Parameters
5.    The consultant shall prepare an accounts format/lay-out and a budget format that
provide for the necessary breakdown by project, component, category of expenditure, and
geographical area, subsequently setting the parameters of the program so as to make it
compatible with the chart of accounts, the budget plan, and LACI procedures.



ANNEX 6
Page 10 of 12
Preparation of the Manual of Accounting and Internal-Control Procedures
6.    The consultant shall define the Fund's accounting and internal-control procedures.
These must take the following factors into account:
*  use of the integrated accounting and management program referred to above;
*  the likelihood of a large number of small, non-revenue generating project accounts
*  the need to produce quarterly and annual financial statements; in particular, a
statement of changes in financial position (tableau de financement) covering both the
current financial year and also the cumulative period since the start-up of each
project.
7.    The accounting and internal-control systems should respect fiduciary principles
and provide appropriate safeguards for both the Fund's and externally financed project
accounts, ensuring that both accounting entries and the financial statements for the
projects and for the Fund are reliable and complete. They should make it possible to
prevent and detect any errors that could have a significant impact on financial statements.
The systems shall define the responsibilities of the various stakeholders in carrying out
operations and keeping accounts clearly and separately; no single person should deal with
all the elements in a transaction (i.e. there should be a separation of functions). Inter alia,
the systems shall permit documentation and analysis of:
*  cost allocations, input of transactions, monitoring and checking, bank reconciliation of
financial accounts, cash audits, and classification of vouchers;
*  procedures for managing grants for literacy providers;
*  procurement procedures using purchase orders (bons de commande) with respect to
operating costs;
*  procedures for authorizing and executing expenditures for workshops, seminars,
study tours, and consciousness-raising campaigns;
*  procedures for the procurement of equipment through local competitive bidding;
*  procedures for selecting consultants;
*  procedures for disbursement by means of checks, funds transfers, or cash;
*  monitoring of long-term assets.
Rporting
8.    The system will generate quarterly reports in support of disbursement request to
the IDA as follows:
*  project  progress reports comparing implementation and financial progress vs,
forecasts, providing a six-month forecast
*  financial statements; sources and applications of funds; expenditures by category and
special account reconciliation



ANNEX 6
Page 11 of 12
i procurement management: status reports, contract commitment/expenditure
The Manual will include standard documents and exarnples of the forms to be used in
operating the systems.
Training of FNAA Staff
9.                                                                   The
consultant shall provide the following training to the Fund's Management and Finance
service of the Fund;
* training in the use of the software and accounting procedures for the accounting staff
ii training staff in the application of field expenditure control procedures
The principal contact person is the Director of the Fund. The supervision of
consultant services will be carried out by the Chief, Management and Finance Service of
the Fund.
Backup Support for the Use of the Software and the Procedures
L0.   At the request of the Chief of the Management and Finance Service , the
consultant will assist the Fund staff in resolving operational problems after installation
end de-bugging and during the to the implementation of the system and related
procedures. The provision is 15 days of senior programmer/system analyst support.
Qualifications and Experience of the service Provider
11.   The software and services shall be provided by a consulting firm with expertise in
developing/adapting software systems to the specifications of development project and
with a sound knowledge of IDA procedures for accounting, project monitoring and
procurement. The team responsible for providing these services shall consist of a public
accountant of the level of Dipl6me d'Etudes Comptables Superieures - DECS and a
senior programmer/systems analyst. The team must have experience in
preparing/installing accounting procedures for IDA projects in countries with a French
tradition of public budgeting and accounting procedures. The service provider must be
able to provide technical support locally.
Time Frame
12.  The critical path is as follows:
]3eginning of selection                           May 17, 1999
Submission of proposals    + 3 weeks              June 7, 1999
Signing of contract      + 2 weeks                June 21, 1999



ANNEX 6
Page 12 of 12
Start-up of services     + 1 week                  June 28, 1999
Delivery of Manual        + 4 weeks                July 19, 1999
IDA approval of Manual    + 1 week                 July 26, 1999
Encl of services          + 10 weeks               Sept 6, 1999
Estimated Cost
13. The indicative costs established by the Fund to guide proposal selection are:
Software/systems                                                     4,000,000
Design of accounts, budget          2 days                            600,000
forrnat, reports and other
parameters
Pre]paration of Manual of          30 days                           9,000,000
Procedures
Training                           15 days                           4,500,000
Support for implementation         15 days                           2,400,000
TOTAL         CFAF                                                  20,500,000



ANNEX 7
Page 1 of I
Annex 7: Project Processing Budget and Schedule
COTE D'IVOIRE: Pilot Literacy Project
Time taken to prepare the project              NA                   1 1
(months)
First Bank mission (identification)         05/18/1998          06/03/1998
_Appraisal mission departure                04/15/1999          04/30/1999
Negotiations                                05/25/1999          05/25/1999
Planned Date of Effectiveness               07/01/1999          08/30/1999
Prepared by: Ministry of National Education and Basic Training
Preparation assistance: Government financing of preparation teams including NGO, private
sector and development project staff
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Renary Bellew                                     Senior Eduao'n Planner
Michael J. Wilson                              Specialist in Education Policy and Management
Rachidi Radji                                  Human Development Economist
Serge Theunynck                                Implementation Specialist
Nicole Hamon                                   Language Team Assistant



ANNEX 8
Page 1 of 2
Annex 8: Documents in the Project File*
COTE D'IVOIRE: Pilot Literacy Project
A. Project Implementation Plan
Fonds National d'Appui a l'Alphabetisation, Manuel de Proc6dures Administratives, Financieres
et Techniques, mai 1999
B. Bank Staff Assessments
Economic Analysis: Ivory Coast Education Project
Economic Analysis: Ivory Coast Education Project: May 1, 1997 work program
Examen des Depenses Publiques en Cote d'Ivoire/Secteur Education
September 1996
Poverty in C6te d'Ivoire: A Framework for Action, Grey Cover, June 1997
Recent Developments in Non-Formal Education. Implications for the C6te d'Ivoire. May 1998
Mission de Reconnaissance en matiere de l'alphabetisation: Note technique
Proposed LIL for Functional Literacy: Concept Paper, juillet 1999
C. Other
*Including electronic files.



ANNEX 8
Page 2 of 2
Major Related Projects Financed by the Bank and/or other Development Agencies
Sector Objectives                   Project                              Latest Form 590 Ratings
IP            DO
Bank- Ist Bank involvement in financing     First Education Project             Unsatisfactory  NA
Financedinstructional television (ITV), cons-  L0667-IVC, US$13.2 million;
truction and equipt. for primary teacher   signed in 1970 & closed in 1977
trg., centers to expand access; tech. educ.,
voc. trg. & post.-secondary agricultural &
technical education
Supplementary financing for the     Second Education Project             Satisfactory   NA
first education project             LI 125-IVC; US$5.0 million;
signed in 1975 & closed in 1980
Voc. & community development activities; Third Education Project         Unsatisfactory  NA
for middle-level manpower skillstrg.,  LI 777-IVC; US$24 million
teacher trg. to improve quality & access   signed in 1979 & closed in 1986
to primary education
HD sectoral development through     Human Resources Development Program,
structural adjustments              L3428-IVC & Cr. 2323-0, 2323-1 &
2323-2-IVC (total of US$186 million);
signed in 1991 & closed in 1994
Technical assistance to build planning  Human Resource Management Project.
& managament capacity               Cr. 2505-CI; signed in 1993; closing 12/1997
(US$6.7million)
Vocational training development     Labor Force Training Support Project
Fund                                Cr. 2637-CL (US$17million); signed in 1994
Improve sector efficiency & school  Education & Training Support Project
effectiveness/Increase access to basic  Cr. 3079-Cl, signed in 1198 (US$53.3million)
education
Other Development Agencies
African School construction (Primary, secondary)  Education IV (B/CIV/EDU/92/93) FCFA32
Devel. girls'access to educ. & institutional  billion FCFA17 billion for primary & FCFA15
Bank  development (management & planning)   billion for secondary education
France School level support to improve      Ecole 2000, Support Project for Primary Educ.
teaching                            (FCFA3,5 billion) 1993-1997
Institutional support to improve teaching   PARMEN I & II, Adjustment & Mobilization
of French, Maths & Biology          Program of MEN (for Secondary Level)
(FCFA1,750 million 1991-1995
FCFA3,300 million 1995-1998)
Institutional support to assist in  PROSUP: Support Project to Higher Educ.
reform process                      (FCFA600 million+) 1997-1998
Japan  School construction                  Japanese Grant for primary (10 billion ) & the
Tech. & high quality schools Voc. Training
(FCFA10 billion) 1997 - 1999
Germany Private sector school               Grant for school construction activities in private
KfW    construction                         private primary sector (Methodist Church) (FCFA5,000)
Project Cantines scolaires                  School Feeding Program (FCFA1,000
PAM                                         million a year; closes 6/98)
Spain  Construction, suppliers, audils and  Ministry of Technical and Vocational Education
Technical assistance                 1988 ; (US$32 million equivalent)
UNICEF Literacy training & curriculum       Girls' education, literacy training esp. in urban areas
development of primary education    & in the North & Northeast (FCFA34 million)



ANNEX 9
Page I of 2
Status of Bank Group Operations in rote d'Ivoire
Operations Portfolio
Difference Between
expected
Original Amount in US$ Millions                and sctual                 Last PSR
Fiscal                                                                                                                        disbursement3 s/       Supervision Rating b/
Project ID    Year               Borrower                          Purpose
IBRD       IDA      Cancel.      Undisb.      Orig    FLI R-v'd   Dev Obj   Imp Prog
Number of Closed Projects: 68
Active Projects
CI-PE-1207      1992   GOVERNMENT                       PRIVATIZATION SUPPOR                     0.00       15.00        0.00         2.61        2.26        2.r0,     S          S
CI-PE-1187      1993   GOVERNMENT                       ECN MGMT TA                              0.00       17.00        0.00         t.14         .03        0.00      S          S
CI-PE-1210      1994   GOVERNMENT                       RURAL SAVINGS                            0.00        2.20        0.00         1.11         .66        0.00      S          s
CI-PE-1186      1994   GOVERNMENT                       LABOR FORCE TRAINING                     0.00       17.00        0.00        11.01       11.35        5.78      s          S
CI-PE-37581     1995   GOV'T OF RCI                     EXPORT PROMOTION AND                     0.00        5.83        0.00         2.94        1.58         .94     H::         S
CI-PE-1184      1995   REP. OF COTE D'IVOIRE            PRIVATE ELECTRICITY                      0.00       79.66        0.00        28.25       34.40        0.0(fi    HS,
Cl-PE-37575     1995   GOV'T OF RCI                     MUNICIPAL SUPPPRT                        0.00       40.00        0.00        25.61   .  26.64         0.0o      s          S
CI-PE-40115    1996   GOVERNMENT OF COTE D'IVOI         RAILWAYS REHAB                           0.00       20.000       r.(l0        6.77        7.83        0. 00     S          S
CI-PE-1214      1996   GOV. OF RCI                      INTEG HLTH SERV DEVP                     0.00       40.0(1       (.0((       31.55       15.15       (0.01      U          H
CI-PE-1212      1996   GOVERNMENT                       PRIVATE SECTOR DEVEL                     0.00      271.20         (.00        0.00     -84.16         9.12     ::         ::
CI-PE-1194      1997   GOVERNMENT                       RURAL LAND (PNGTER)                      0.00       41.00        O.00        37.12        1.28       (1.0       :
Cl-PE-44912     1998                                    URBAN LAND MGMT                          0.00       10.0(1       (1.00        9.43        -.09        0.011     S          HS
CI-PE-43736     1998   GOV'T                            PSD TA                                   (1.00      12.0(0      0o(I(        12.12         .90         0(1     *:
CI-PE-1177      1998   GOVERNMENT                       TRANSP SECTOR ADJ                        (1.0.o    205.60        (. (l      126.09       20.12     -20. 70
CI-PE-35655    1998   GOVERNMENT                        EDUC. 6 TRG SUPPORT                      0.00       53.3(1       0.(10       51.S8        1.28        (1f(1     :          s
CI-PE-37588     1999   GOV'T                            AGRIC. SVCS. II                          0.00       50.00        0.00        49.99        4.18        0.0(1     S          s
Total                                                                                            0.00      879.79        0.00       397.62       43.41       -3.73
Active Proiects     Closed Projects           Total
Total Disbursed (IBRD and IDA):                459.54            3,364.79            3,824.33
of which has been repaid:                  0.00            1,582.45           1,582.45
Total now held by IBRD and IDA:                879.79            1,774.02            2,653.81
Amount sold                                       0.00                5.10               5.10
Of which repaid              :                0.00                5.10                5.10
Total Undisbursed               :               397.62               0.00              397.62
a. Intended disbursements to date minus actual disbursements to date as projected at appraisal.
b. Following the FY94 Annual Review of Portfolio performance (ARPP), a letter based system was introduced (HS - highly Satisfactory, S - satisfactory, U   unsatisfactory,
HU - highly unsatisfactory): see proposed Improvements in froject and Portfolio Performance Rating Methodology (SecM94-901), August 23, 1994.
Note:
Disbursement data is updated at the end of the first week of the month.
Genemted by the Operations Information Systeml (OIS)



ANNEX 9
Page 2 of 2
Cote d'lvoire
STATEMENT OF IFC's
- Committed and Disbursed Portfolio
As of 3 1-Jan-99
(In US Dollar Millions)
Committed                       Disbursed
IFC                             IFC
FY Approval             Company          Loan   Equity  Quasi  Partic   Loan   Equity  Quasi  Partic
1977/86               Gonfreville              0.00     .42    0.00    0.00    0.00      .42    0.00    0.00
1987/90               SIALIM                   1.68    0.00    0.00    0.00    1.68    0.00    0.00    0.00
1987/93/96            COSMIVOIRE               2.90     .17    2.18    0.00    2.90      .17    2. 18    0.00
1988                  IPS (IVC)                0.00     .83    0.00    0.00    0.00      .83    0.00    0.(J(
1989/93               AEF Pechazur              .09    0.00    0.00    0.00      .09    0.00    0.00    (.00
1993/95/97/98         Block Cl-II              0.00   48.70    0.00    0.00    0.00   40.35    0.00    0.0()
1994                   AEFMultiproduit          .18    0.00    0.00    0.00      .18    0.00    0.00    0.00
1994/96               BACI                     3.23    0.00    0.00    0.00    3.23    0.00    C.00    0.00
1995                  CIPREL                  12.50     .96    0.00    0.00   12.50      .96    0.00    0.00
1995                  FTG                      1.15    0.00    0.00    0.00    1.15    0.00    C.00    0.00
1995                  Laborex                   .33    0.00    0.00    0.00      .33    0.00    CO00    0.00
1995                  Texicodi                  .77    0.00    0.00    0.00      .77    0.00    C.00    0.00
1996                   AEF Petro Ivoire        0.00    0.00     .70    0.00    0.00    0.00      .70    (.00
1996                  Bereby Finances          0.00    3.05    0.00    0.00    0.00    3.05    0.00    0.00
1996                  Multi-Produits           0.00     .40    0.00    0.00    0.00      .35    0.00    0.00
1996                  UA-IARD                  0.00     .31    0.00    0.00    0.00      .31    0.00    0.(00
1998                  Azito                   32.44    0.00    8.06   30.33    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
Total Portfolio:                   55.27   54.84   10.94   30.33   22.83   46.44    2.88    (.00
Approvals Pending Commitment
Loan   Equity  Quasi  Partic
1998                  AEF DROP-IVOIRE          1.26    0.00    0.00    0.00
1996                  BOA-Cl                   0.00     .14     .11    0.00
1998                  FOXTROT                 30.00   10.00    0.00   40.00
1997                  NOVOTEL-ABIDJAN          2.68     .54    0.00    0.00
1998                   SOCOPRIM S.A.          29.84    0.00    4.97    0.00
1997                  TROPICAL RUBBER          3.43    0.00    0.00    0.00
Total Pending Comrnitment:         67.21   10.68    5.08   40.00
Generated by the Operations Information System (OIS) on 03/19/99



ANNEX 10
Page I of 2
Cote d'Ivoire at a glance                                              9P9/98
Sub-
FPOVERTY and SOCIAL                                 C6te  Saharan       Low-
d'lvoire   Africa  income       Development diamond*
1997
FPopulation, mid-year (mitlions)                     14.7       614     2,048                 Life expectancy
GNP per capita (Atlas method, US$)                    690       500       350
CGNP (Atlas method, US$ billions)                    10.1       309       722
Average annual growth, 1991-97
FPopulation (%)                                       2.9       2.7       2.1
Labor force (%)                                       5.4       2.6       2.3   1 GNP                              Gross
per                            primary
Most recent estimate latest year available, 1991-97)                              capita                       enrollment
FPoverty (% of population below national poverty line)
UJrban population (16 of total population)             51        32        28
Life expectancy at birth (years)                       54        52        59
Infant mortality (per 1,000 live births)               83        90        78
Child malnutrition (% of children under 5)             24         .        61               Access to safe water
Access to safe water (% ofpopulation)                  63        44        71
Illiteracy (% of population age 15+)                   57        43        47   i
Gross primarV enrollment (% of school-age population)  70        75        91                  Cote dlvoire
Male                                                 76        82       100                  Low-income group
Female                                               58        67        81
l(EY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1976     1986      1996      1997
Economic ratios'
13DP (USS billions)                          4.7      9.2       10.7     10.3
Gross domestic investmenVGDP                23.0    12.1       13.4      16.0
Exports of goods and serviceslGDP           41.7    39.5       43.9      46.6                     Trade
Gross domestic savings/GDP                  28.5     21.4      22.3      23.1
Gross national savingstGDP                  19.5    10.0        9.1      10.9
Current account balance/GDP                  -5.3    -3.8      -5.5      -5.2     D     t
Interest payments/GDP                        1.5      7.5       4.4       9.2     Domestic                    Investment
Total debt/GDP                              39.2   125.0       182.5    171.8     Savngs                       I
Total debt service/exports                  11.3    35.6       29.6      27.8
Present value of debt/GDP                                      173.8    168.2
Present value of debt/exports                                 367.9    357.2
Indebtedness
1976-86  1987-97    1996      1997   199842
(average annuaf growth)
GDP                                 0.1      1.9      6.9        6.0      5.7                   Cote d'voire
GNP per capita                     -4.2    -1.0       5.7        4.1      3.4                   Low-incone group
Exports of goods and services       7.7      4.4    22.4        13.4      4.4
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1976    1986       1996      1997     Growth rates of output and investment (%)
(%of GDP)
Agriculture                                 24.5    28.5        27.6     27.3    40
Industry                                    16.4    21.3        20.7     21.2    201
Manufacturing                               9.4     17.6      17.4      17.6       '
Services                                    59.2    50.3        51.7      51.5 
93 94   95   95   97
Private consumption                         55.3    63.5        65.6     65.3    -20 -         9
General govemment consumption               16.2    15.1        12.1     1186                 _G            GGDP
Imports of goods and services               36.2    30.2        35.0     39.6
1976-6  1987-97       1996     1997      Growth rates of exports and imports (%I
(average annual growvth)
Agriculture                                  0.5      3.1        1.4       4.7    30
Industry                                     5.6      2.0       12.6      9.3 
Manufacturing                               6.8      1.3       8.6       6.5    1s5
Services                                     -1.5     1.2        8.4      5.3
Private consumption                         -0.4      0,3       -2.6       1.7     0        o93
General govemment consumption                -1.1    -1.5        7.1       2.0
Gross domestic investment                   -11.0     6.4        3.5      28.0   .15
Imports of goods and services                -0.7     2.4       10.0     1864                   Exports   -lniports
Gross national product                       -0.5     2.2        8.5       6.8
Note: 1997 data are preliminary estimates.
The diamonds show four key indicators in the countrV (in bold) compared with its income-group average. If data are missing, the diamond will
be incomplete.



ANNEX 10
Page 2 of 2
Cote d'Ivoire
PRIlES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1976     1986      1996       1997     Inflation (%)
Domrestic prices 
(% change)                                                                           45
Consumer prices                               12.1      6.8        3.5       5.2     30
Implicit GDP deflator                         18.2     -2.0        2.7       3.2
Govemmentfinance
(% ofGDP, includes current grants)                                                           92   93   94   95   99   97
Current revenue                                 ..    29.6        22.5      22.2  -: -1
Current budqet balance                                  1.0        2.8       3.4                  PGDPdeflator   OCPI
Overall surplus/deficit                         ..    -3.8        -2.8      -2.8    !
TRADE
(USI; millions)                              1976      1986      1996      1997      Export and import levels (USS millions)
Total exports (fob)                          1,735    3,170      4,245     4,015     5
Cocoa                                          ..   1,135      1,408     1,203
Fuel                                          ..        ..       143       168     4 000
Manufactures                                   ..    821       1,330     1,213     3000
Total imports (cif)                                   2,047      3,127     3,506     2.000
Food                                          ..      416        563       604
Fuel and energy                               ..      322        589       471     1 000
Ca Dital goods                                ..      549        734       787
Si  92   93  94  95  99  97
Export price index (1995=100)                  31        66        96         88
Import price index (1995=100)                  23        48       107         99               oxExports     *lImports
Terms of trade (1995=100)                     134       136        89        88                         _
BAULNCE of PAYMENTS
(US$ millions)                                                                       Cr976  1986  1996  1997  Curent account balance to GOP ratio(%)
Exports of goods and services                1,970    3,678      5,014     4,788      0
lmpolts of qoods and services                1,802    2,978      4,188     4,064
Resource balance                               168      700       826       724
Net income                                    -158     -690       -916      -813
Net current transfers                        -259      -356       -498      -440
Current account balance                       -249     -347       -588      -528     -10
Financing items (net)                         279       376       626       498
Changes in net reserves                        -30      -29        -39        31        -15
Memo:
Reserves including gold (USS millions)           0       38       650       518
Conviersion rate (DEC, local/USS)            239 0    346 3      511 6     583 7
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1976     1986       1996      1997
(USS mil/lons)                                                                        Composition of total debt, 1997 (USS milliois)|
Total debt outstanding, and disbursed        1,828   11,450     19,523    17,608
IBRO                                         85    1,253       1,304     1,044                  G: 449  A 1,044
IDA                                           3         7      1,019     1,100                                B 4: 1,tA0
Total debt service                            225    1,321       1,495     1344                                      596
IBRD                                          9       158       289       245
IDAL                                                      O O S              8                                     0: 1 042
Composition of net resource tlows 
Official grants                               16       57       187        135
Official creditors                            73      115        -45        70       F: 9,540                      E: 3.537
Private creditors                           198      -181       109        -21
Foreiqn direct investment                    45        71       124       219
Portfolio equity                              0         0       140        68
World Bank program
Commitments                                  48       309       275        138
Disbursements                                 16      117       253        140     A -lIBRD                     E - Bilateral
Principal repayments                          2        57       178        158        D c  -  IMF               G - Phort-terr,,
Net flows                                     15       60        75        -18    I C_-_IMF_G_-_Short-
Interest payments                              7      101       117         95
Net transfers                                 8       -41       -42       -112
World Bank                                                                                                               919/98



ANNEXE I
Page I of 3
Annexe 1. Recapitulatif de la conception du projet
C6TE D'IVOIRE: Projet pilote d'alphabetisation
Objectifs par ordre       Indicateurs cles de        Suivi et evaluation        Hypotheses critiques
d'importance              performance
i) Objectif de la SAP
pour le secteur:
*  Reduire la           *  Revenu des menages       *  Actualisation des       *  Ferme volonte
pauvrete,               parmi les populations       enquetes sur la            politique de reduire la
completer les           beneficiaires (par          pauvrete                   pauvrete
investissements         region, zones           *  Etudes de contr6le
dans                    urbaines, zones            post-programme pour    *  Disponibilite de
1'enseignement          rurales)                   evaluer l'impact sur        financements publics
primaire par un      *  Donn6es                     le comportement            pour mettre en ceuvre
programme               professionnelles            economique et social       un programme
d'education para-    *  Enfants du groupe       *  Statistiques scolaires      d'alphabetisation A
scolaire                cible scolarises (taux  *  Evaluations des             grande echelle (tout en
d'inscription,             bbneficiaires              maintenant les
frequentation et                                      objectifs chiffres
achevement)                                           d'investissement dans
*  Indicateurs qualitatifs                                1'enseignement
(mentalites)                                          primaire)
ii) Objectifs du
projet
*  Bonne utilisation des   *  Evaluation du projet    *  Le mecanisme du
*  Exp6rinmenter des        m6thodes de selection      pilote                      Fonds fonctionne
systemes et des         des sous-projets        *  Examens                     comme pr6vu
methodes en vue      *  Decaissements au            operationnels
d'appliquer la          titre des contrats      *  Examens effectues       *  Modification du decret
nouvelle approche       effectues en temps          par le personnel des       sur le Comite national
a grande echelle        voulu                       projets BELOYSIA           pour l'alphabetisation
(sous-traitance de   *  Accompagnement          *  Audits                      pour creer le Fonds et
1'execution des         technique de bonne                                     le Secretariat
programmes a des        qualite foumi en                                      technique
operateurs non          temps voulu aux
gouvernementaux         operateurs
*  Approches d'un                                   *  Evaluations par les
bon rapport cout-    *  Changements notes           operateurs
efficacite et            dans l'approche des    *  Feed-back des
diffusion du             autres operateurs         ateliers
savoir-faire
operationnel



ANNEXE I
Page 2 of 3
iii) Risultats du
projet
+ 15 000 par an, dont   *  Rapports
.  Augmentation du          75 % de                     d'avancement
nombre d'ac[ultes        femmes/filles               semestriels
alphabetises, en     *  70 % + des               *  Examens annuels
particulier parmi        apprenants sont             conjoints (Comite
les jeunes femmes        effectivement               national pour
alphabetises               I'alphabetisation,
operateurs,
*  Exdcution de          *  Nombre d'heures de          beneficiaires, IDA)
programmes               cours donnees           *  Evaluation du projet
d'alphabetisation    .  Resultats au niveau          pilote
d'un bon rapport         de I'alphabetisation    *  Elaboration d'un
cofit-efficacite     *  Cofits par participant       systeme solide de
.                           suivant le cours             S&E
.                           jusqu'a la fin           .  Contr6le des
.                        *  Cofits unitaires            connaissances
.                        *  Taux d'inscription et    .  Missions de
.                           de retention                supervision
.                        *  Comparaison avec les    *  Soutien en matiere de
.                            niveaux de                 gestion financiere
.                           competence acquis           fourni par la MRCI
dans 1'enseignement     .  Audits
scolaire
.  Capacite acquise      *  Automatisation des       *  Rapports bi-annuels
en termes de suivi       donnees                     du projets
et d'evaluation          d'information           *  Achevement par
*  Evaluations                 cohortes des etudes
effectuees par              d'evaluation
cohortes sur la port6e
et la fiabilite
appropriees
*  Satisfaction cles     *  Les operateurs           *  Evaluation du
besoins de               assument des                programme pilote
valorisation des         responsabilites         *  Enquetes
ressources               croissantes dans les        independantes sur les
humaines des             domaines de                 operateurs
operateurs               1'evaluation des        .  Feed-back donne lors
besoins, de la              des ateliers organises
formulation et de           pour les operateurs
.'evaluation des
programmes



ANNEXE I
Page 3 of 3
iv) Composantes du        APPORTS
projet
1. Experimentation de     USD 5 millions pour les      Rapports semestriels et       *  Maintien de l'appui
programmes                fournitures, les contrats     annuels sur le projet            des populations en
d'alphab6tisation         avec les operateurs,                                           faveur de l'approche
fonctionnelle             I 'assistance technique et                                     choisie
les frais d'exploitation
2.Formulation de                                        Audits financiers et         *  Maintien de la
strategies post-                                        techniques annuels               collaboration avec les
alphabetisation                                                                          groupes de soutien
nationaux
3. Gestion,
supervision,                                                                         *  Collaboration du
evaluation                                                                               MENFB a la
4. Contr6le de la                                                                        supervision sur le
4.Cotrlede la                                                                         terrain
qualite et suivi
financier



ANNEXE 2
Page 1 of 5
Annexe 2: Description du projet
COTE D'IVOIRE: Projet pilote d'alphabetisation
Composante 1: Experimentation de programmes d'alphabetisation fonctionnelle - 3,2 millions
de dollars (3,0 millions IDA)
1.1  Objectifs et portee. Le projet appuiera la dcision-prise par le gouvemement d'etudier
une nouvelle approche consistant a confier aux ONG, aux projets de developpement, aux
associations regionales et autres op6rateurs qualifies l'execution de programmes
d'alphabetisation et de post-alphabetisation demand6s par les beneficiaires a la base. Le but
consiste a elaborer des systemes et des methodes souples pour fournir des services
d'accompagnement technique et des financements aux operateurs/beneficiaires, ce qui
permettra d'elargir le programme A l'ensemble du territoire et, peut-etre, de battre en breche
1'analphabetisme.
1.2 Priorites. Les priorites principales sont les femmes et les filles des zones geographiques
qui ont les taux les plus faibles de scolarisation primaire des filles, a savoir le Nord, le Sud-
Ouest et le Centre-Est). Ce sera aux beneficiaires d'identifier les sous-projets. Cependant, les
ONG et les autres operateurs en place dans ces regions seront encourages a s'enquerir de
l'interet presente par l'alphabetisation pour les populations et associations locales. Les
objectifs ultimes des propositions refleteront les sujets d'interet local: sant6 familiale, enfants,
nutrition et agriculture sans doute.
1.3  Selection  des  sous-projets.  Un  premier  repertoire  d'operateurs  int6resses
(principalement des ONG) a ete ouvert au milieu de 1998. On a commence a le mettre a jour
en y ajoutant des op6rateurs potentiels de toutes les regions. Une equipe de pr6paration form6e
de personnel s'occupant de l'alphabetisation dans les ministeres techniques competents, dans
les ONG, dans les centres de recherche nationaux et dans les projets de developpement s'est
attachee a rediger un manuel de procedures pour la selection des sous-projets presentes par les
operateurs ou les groupes de beneficiaires. Le manuel indique les criteres qui doivent etre
appliques a la selection des sous-projets. Le secretariat technique du FNAA fournit le comite
d'etude technique. Ses evaluations sont publiques et doivent respecter des delais d'instruction
precis. Propositions. Le principe fondamental est que l'operateur a conclu avec un groupe de
b6neficiaires un accord en vertu duquel il s'engage A realiser un programme con,u compte
tenu des specifications du groupe. On demande aux groupes de constituer un comite de
gestion local pour chacun des centres d'alphabetisation (tels qu'ecoles ou autres locaux
d'eimprunt, voire un site quelconque du village). Les propositions contiennent, entre autres, les
informations suivantes : i) s'agissant de l'operateur, les besoins de formation/recyclage de son
personnel, les besoins en materiel et equipement et le couit prevu de la formation complete
d'un individu; ii) s'agissant des beneficiaires, leur accord avec l'operateur, leurs porte-parole,
leur organisation, leur implantation et le nombre d'apprenants prevu, ainsi que la participation
aux frais envisagee en nature ou en especes ; iii) l'approche pedagogique : methodes, structure
du cours, plans d'evaluation; et iv) le plan d'exploitation: calendrier complet, couvrant la
preparation initiale du personnel et la mobilisation sur le terrain, jusqu'a l'evaluation ex post,
les horaires de cours, le nombre d'apprenants par classe, les ratios moniteurs/superviseurs.



ANNEXE 2
Page 2 of 5
1.4 Services d'accompagnement technique. Les ONG sont generalement petites et
recentes, si bien qu'elles n'ont pas de personnel competent dans tous les domaines voulus:
par exemple, elaboration du materiel didactique, evaluation des connaissances, formation des
formateurs, connaissance des langues locales et aptitude A realiser des etudes socio-
economiques et a en analyser les resultats. Des le debut de la preparation, contact a ete pris
avec des organismes locaux de recherche et developpement susceptibles de pouvoir foumir Um
accompagnement technique aux operateurs. On citera A cet egard le Centre ivoirien de
recherches economiques et sociales (CIRES), centre universitaire particulierement competent
dans le domaine des etudes de milieu et qui prepare au doctorat en economie rurale; l'Institut
national de la statistique (INS), partenaire du programme de lutte contre la pauvrete, qui
realise des enquetes aupres des menages; le Centre pour les etudes prospectives appliquees
aux sciences sociales (CEPRASS), dont les points forts sont les etudes qualitatives et le
marketing; le Summer Linguistics Institute (SILS), une fondation internationale priv6e A but
non lucratif, et l'Institut de linguistique appliquee (ILA) qui possedent des competences en
matiere de langues locales et de conception des programmes et sont prets a elaborer et
produire du materiel d'alphabetisation fonctionnelle. La Compagnie ivoirienne des textiles
(CIDT) a une vaste experience de l'alphabetisation et son personnel pourra offrir un soutien
precieux aux operateurs des zones rurales, en particulier dans les regions cotonnieres. Selon
des contrats passes avec le FNAA, ces institutions ex6cuteront des taches specifiques danis
leurs domaines de competence respectifs et fourniront des services d'accompagnement aux
operateurs sur le terrain. La creation d'un reseau operationnel d'institutions de soutien est utne
condition prealable importante a l'expansion du programme.
1.5 Les modalites de supervision sur le terrain comportent trois aspects. Le groupe de
beneficiaires supervise les activites sur le terrain au niveau de chaque centre A travers son
comite cle gestion. Il a toute latitude pour contacter soit le FNAA, soit l'operateur sur un sujet
quelconque. Les comites se reunissent entre eux deux fois par an pour comparer leur
experience (ils peuvent venir de villages situes a plusieurs kilometres les uns des autres).
L'operateur doit indiquer quelles dispositions il a lui-meme prises pour assurer la supervision
sur le terrain: personnel designe, nombre et regularite des visites dans chaque centre, donnees
qui seront reunies (formulaires, protocoles), modeles de rapport et budget. Les operateurs
s'engagent A remplacer les moniteurs ou les superviseurs qu'ils emploient si les representants
des beneficiaires ou le FNAA le leur demandent. Enfin, les agents du FNAA en poste dans les
inspections primaires departementales effectuent des inspections sur le terrain. Les postes sont
inscrits au budget et il n'y aura pas de nouveaux recrutements. Pour participer au projet, les
agents doivent faire savoir qu'ils accepteront un poste eventuel sur le terrain. Le superviseur
sur le terrain fait rapport A l'inspecteur et au FNAA, mais il fixe son emploi du temps A sa
guise et dispose d'un moyen de transport individuel (moto). 11 verifie les rapports envoyes par
les b6n6ficiaires et les operateurs et resout les problemes operationnels. Un rapport mensuel
est envo,ys au FNAA par email, avec copie au directeur regional des ecoles. Ce rapport foumit
des renseignements utiles sur l'attitude de la population locale a l'egard de l'enseignement,
informel aussi bien que scolaire. Le superviseur local est tenu d'envoyer des statistiques
(tableaux informatises) et il administre les tests de contr6le des connaissances.
1.6 Operations. On estime qu'un minimum de 25 sous-projets offriront en moyenne
300 heures d'instruction sur une periode de 18 mois A 15 000 beneficiaires, principalement
des femrnes et des filles (75 % selon l'objectif fixe) de 15 a 40 ans. Les sous-projets seront
plus importants (600 beneficiaires par sous-projet) au cours de la premi&re annee que pendant



ANNEXE 2
Page 3 of 5
la deuxieme, de maniere A permettre des ratios superviseurs/instructeurs plus intensifs et A ne
pas alourdir excessivement la charge constituee par la gestion des contrats, en attendant que le
FNAA et ses inspecteurs puissent assumer une tache plus lourde. Durant la deuxieme annee,
on ajoutera 35 sous-projets de 15 000 participants. Ces sous-projets seront generalement de
dimension plus limitee et plus disperses sur le plan geographique. Ils alourdiront quelque peu
la charge de travail, celle-ci demeurant toutefois raisonnable. Soixante projets seront en cours
d'exmcution pendant la deuxieme annee. Ils totaliseront 30 000 participants, dont la moitie en
serorit A leur premiere tranche de 18 mois de cours, et l'autre moitie en seront a la deuxieme
tranche. Par ailleurs, les operateurs devront aussi faire connaitre le projet aux communautes
des environs, effectuer des evaluations participatives de leurs besoins cognitifs (avec le
concours du CERES, du CEPRASS, de l'ILA et d'autres centres de recherche).
L'appendice A presente le calendrier d'execution et le chemin critique pour la premiere
annee de fonctionnement.
Composante 2: Eiaboration et experimentation d'une strategie post-alphabetisation - 0,5 million
de dollars (0,4 million IDA)
2.1 Le projet envisage prevoit de tester des strategies de post-alphabetisation cruciales pour
1'expansion  et la perennite du programme. L'experience  a montre qu'en matiere
d'alphabctisation, plus on a la possibilite d'utiliser les competences, mieux on les retient,
surtout dans les zones rurales. De nombreux programmes qui ont eu de bons resultats ont cre
des joumaux, par exemple << Kybaru )>, le journal en bambara qui a e  regulierement publie au
Mali pendant plus de 25 ans. Par ailleurs, on constate frequemment que ceux qui ont e
alphabetises dans la langue locale cherchent par la suite A s'alphabetiser dans la langue
officielle. Plusieurs motivations poussent les individus: souhait de traiter plus directement
avec l'administration, de poursuivre leur education, de devenir plus efficaces dans leur fa,on
de gerer leurs activites economiques, etc. Plusieurs strategies seront essayes. Des dmissions
radio appuyees par des brochures et d'autres imprimes peuvent aider a la consolidation et au
renforcement des connaissances des nouveaux alphabetises et A les aider A faire la transition
vers la langue officielle. Le Projet National d'Appui aux Services Agricoles (IDA) est en
cours de creer un reseau de radios rurales locales independantes, gerees et financees par les
communautes. Ces petits emetteurs seront implantes A partir de Septembre 2000 dans
plusieurs zones rurales du Nord avec une bonne couverture des zones d'implantation des sous-
projets d'alphabdtisation. Il s'agit de Korhogo et Nielle dans la Savane (langues principales:
Dioula, Niarafolo, Tchebara), de Odienne et de Touba (R6gions de Denguele et de
Worodougou, langues principales: Koyaka, Worodougou et Maou) et dans le Nord-Est de
Tanda (langues principales: Dioula, Abron et Agni). Toutes ces zones comprennent de
nornbreux < groupements villageois de cultivateurs >> - les principaux interlocuteurs en
matiere de developpement rural. Chaque station radio sera etoffee par un departement des
programmes dont les techniciens seront charges d'aider ses clients (projets de developpement,
ONGs et institutions locales) de preparer des emissions taillees sur mesure dans les langues
locaLles. Le cofit moyen d'une emission de trente minutes serait de l'ordre de FCFA 150,000.
Le Cr6dit financerait la preparation et l'emission de programmes post-alphabetisation dont
l'irmpact serait senti non seulement par les nouveaux alphabetises mais aussi par une audience
plus large dans les zones d'ecoute, aidant A la promotion du Programme Alphabetisation. Un
autre element de strategie pourrait consister en la preparation d'une petite bibliotheque
personnelle (quatre a cinq livres) comprenant des manuels d'une utilite pratique dans le
quotidien, portant sur la sante (par exemple, le manuel de l'UNICEF, << Savoir pour Sauver >)



ANNEXE 2
Page 4 of 5
sur l'agriculture, etc. I1 serait egalement possible d'entrevoir des joumaux locaux bilingues,
avec des articles paraissant parallelement dans la langue locale et dans la langue officielle.
Finalement, il serait extremement important d'etablir des liens avec le syst&rne
d'enseignement formel et de formation professionnelle, element cle de toute strategie de post-
alphab6tisation. C'est en grande partie pour cela que le projet BRAC du Bangladesh a si bien
reussi : les filles participant A ce programme informel ont pu entrer dans les grandes classes du
primaire et poursuivre leur education sans le systeme formel. Ce sera un element important
pour les filles des regions defavorisees de CMte d'Ivoire. Ces strategies comprendront sans
doute la production de petits journaux locaux par les comites de gestion des sous-projets ; des
initiatives analogues a l'intention de groupes plus vastes (dans le cas oui la meme langue
locale est utilisee dans plusieurs sous-projets); l'incitation a l'emploi des langues locales par
l'administration et le secteur prive dans les communications officielles et la publicite.
Composante 3: Gestion, supervision et evaluation - 2,0 million de dollars (1,6 million
IDA)
3.1 Objectifs et portee. Le gouvernement a decide d'instituer un fonds autonomie pour
soutenir le developpement du programme national d'alphabetisation. Il a cr6e  un Comite
national pour l'alphabetisation en 1998 (par. ), mais celui-ci n'a pas encore de branche
executive. Les differentes categories de parties prenantes qui ont participe A la preparation du
projet (gouvemement, ONG, projets de developpement, centres specialises de recherche et
developpement) se sont penchees sur cette question et ont etudie les differents modeles
institutionnels fonctionnant en Cote d'Ivoire selon des criteres specifiques: aptitude A grer
un grand nombre de petits contrats et des operateurs disperses sur tout le territoire;
ponctualite des decaissements ; traitement equitable et transparent des operateurs; obligations
contractuelles claires pour les operateurs et sanctions appropries en cas de non-respect. Il a et
conclu que le Fonds pour le developpement de la formation professionnelle (FDFP) etait -cm
modele viable. Le fonds envisage est denomme le Fonds national d'appui A l'alphabetisation
(FNAA). Le projet facilitera le developpement du FNAA. Celui-ci sera une institution
autonome sous les auspices de l'Etat et du secteur prive, habilitee a recevoir et gerer des fonds
publics, prives et fournis par les bailleurs de fonds. Sa raison d'etre est de fournir un soutien
technique et des financements aux operateurs en alphab6tisation non gouvernementaux cle
maniere efficace et dans les delais voulus, sans augmenter de facon permanente les charges
budgetaires. A ce stade, il a pour principale tache de developper et de tester sur le terrain les
systemes et procedures necessaires pour realiser un programme A plus grande echelle A
compter de F'annee 2002.
3.2 Organisation et responsabilites. Le FNAA sera forme d'un comite de gestion et d'un
secretariat technique dote d'employes contractuels. Le Comite de Gestion (CG) sera compose
de representants des ministeres techniques, des operateurs en alphabetisation (ONG et autres
operateurs) et des groupes de beneficiaires. I1 aura pour principales responsabilites
d'approuver le financement des sous-projets, de suivre le programme et d'assurer la
coordination avec les bailleurs de fonds operant dans le sous-secteur. Le CG nommera le
directeur du secretariat technique, qui aura la responsabilite generale de la gestion financiere
et de la bonne execution du programme dans son ensemble. Le directeur sera le point de
contact pour les bailleurs de fonds. II sera seconde par un contr6leur financier nomme par le
ministere de l'Economie et des Finances. Le secretariat aura trois services:



ANNEXE 2
Page 5 of 5
*   jestion et comptabilite: Le personnel comprendra un specialiste financier, un expert-
comptable, un comptable senior et des evaluateurs de terrain a temps partiel; le service
veille au suivi des contrats, decaisse les fonds en temps voulu, verifie les depenses, etablit
des profils de cofits unitaires pour les differents types d'intervention et aide a realiser les
audits annuels.
* Evaluation et recherche: Le personnel comprendra un specialiste de l'evaluation et deux
analystes; le service supervise l'evaluation de l'acquisition des connaissances, les etudes
socio-economiques et tient les donnees statistiques. Sa principale responsabilite, dont il
s'acquittera avec le concours de consultants, consistera a fonmuler un systeme robuste de
S&E.
* Services pedagogique : Le personnel comprendra un specialiste senior de I'alphabetisation
des adultes et deux formateurs; le service etablit et tient une base de donnees sur le
mnateriel didactique ; il organise des ateliers pour les operateurs sur des aspects tels que la
formulation des cours, les methodes d'enseignement et l'utilisation des medias.
Les trois services seront representes au comite d'examen des propositions de projets, afin
d'assurer une evaluation equitable des questions financieres, statistiques et pedagogiques.
Chaque service travaille dans son domaine de competence avec les institutions de soutien qui
fournissent I'accompagnement technique aux operateurs locaux. De meme, ils cooperent
etroitement avec le SAA pour ce qui a trait a l'organisation et aux rapports de supervision sur
le terrain.
3.3 Suivi et evaluation. Pour assurer le controle de la qualitd, le projet financera un
examen annuel des operations, base sur le tefrain. Les principaux aspects examines seront:
progres realises localement (connaissances acquises et cofits), relations entre beneficiaires et
operateurs, efficacite des procedures de financement et de supervision sur le terrain. Autant
que faire se peut, les examens seront en partie effectues par du personnel experimente affecte
A d'autres projets dans les pays participant au programme BELOYSIA, de facon a assurer un
echange fecond de lecons de l'experience au niveau regional. Les examens annuels porteront
en particulier sur les progres realises en matiere de simplification des systemes et des
procedures en vue de l'expansion du programme. Les activites d'evaluation specifiques
comprendront notamment:
a) L'evaluation des resultats et des couts de l'apprentissage pour un echantillon de sous-
projets dans chaque promotion, surtout pour la premiere promotion, qui est cens6e etre
alphabetisee 18 mois apres le demarrage du projet;
b) L'avancement de la base de donnees sur les materiels didactiques apres les annees 1 et 2;
c) a la fin de l'annee 2, en vue de faciliter l'expansion ulterieure du programme, 6valuation
detaillee des elements suivants:
i) relations de travail entre groupes de beneficiaires et operateurs, ii) demande globale, et
iii) aptitude des operateurs presents a developper leurs operations et examen des dossiers de
nou veaux venus eventuels.
4.2 Outre les parametres financiers habituels, les audits annuels devront evaluer les resultats
quantitatifs et examiner les constatations des evaluateurs, en ce qui concerne les postes de
depenses (salaires verses par les operateurs, materiel didactique et fournitures, materiel et
equiLpement confies aux superviseurs sur le terrain) et inventaires.



ANNEXE 3
Page I of I
Annexe 3: CoOts estimatifs du projet
COTE D'IVOIRE  Projet pilote d'alphab6tisation
l. Pilotage-de programmes d'alphabetisation             -2.8             0,4            3,2
2. Elaboration et pilotage d'une strat6gie post-alpha     0,4            0,0            0.4
3. Gestion, suivi ete6valuation                           0,9            0,8             1.7
Total des couts de base                                   4,1            1,2            5,3
Provisions pour aleas d'execution                   0,1            0,1             0,2
Provisions pour aleas financiers                    0,1            0,1             0,2
Cobt total du projet                 4,1            1,4            5,7
Interets intercalaires
Commission initiale                          --
Total du financement                 4,3            1,4           5,70
necessaire
Fournitures                                               0,3            0,3            0,6
Sous-projets d'alphab6tisation                            3 ,3           0,4            3, 7
Services                                                  0,2            0,4            0,6
Formation                                                 0,3            0,0            0,3
Charges d'exploitation                                    0,2            0,3            0,5
Couttotal du projet                  4,3            1,4            5,7
Interets intercalaires         --             --             --
Commission initiale                          --             --
Total du financement                 4,3            1,4            5,7
n6cessaire



ANNEXE 4
Page 1 of 2
Annexe 4: Recapitulatif de I'analyse cout-efficacite
COTE D'IVOIRE : Projet pilote d'alphabetisation
Le projet foumira les elements d'information dont on aura besoin pour analyser l'impact
economique des differentes actions d'alphabetisation. Les enquetes initiales effectuees aupres
des ben6ficiaires par les operateurs avec les institutions de soutien specialisees comprendront
des donnees sur les menages, notamment le nombre de travailleurs, leur travail, les salaires
hebdomadaires ou mensuels, qui permettront de realiser des etudes de contr6le sur les
participants effectivement alphabetises jusqu'a cinq ans apres qu'ils auront quitte le
programme. La premiere promotion de 15 000 participants terminera au milieu de 2001, la
deuxieme au milieu de 2002. Dans le programme a grande echelle qui suivra (2003), on
observera un echantillon de chaque promotion, par sous-projet et en utilisant les donnees de
base des sous-projets jusqu'a la fin de 2007. Les deux premieres promotions seront
composees en priorite de femmes et de filles. Le revenu familial et la participation des filles
dans 1'enseignement formel (comme indication du revenu futur) seront etudies, en meme
temps que d'autres variables; telles que les soins et la sante des enfants et les pratiques
budgetaires de la famille. Apres 2003, la portee des etudes sera sans doute elargie a d'autres
b6n6ficiaires, tels que les jeunes gens et les hommes travaillant dans l'agriculture ou a des
activites informelles, afin qu'on puisse juger l'impact du programme sur le comportement
economique. Le contenu du programme devrait promouvoir I'acquisition de connaissances
liees au travail (methodes agronomiques ou horticoles pour les populations rurales adultes, par
exemple). Par consequent, les pratiques en usage a l'entree dans le programme seront
incorporees a l'echantillon qui sera soumis aux etudes de controle.



ANNEXE 4
Page 2 of 2
Annexe 4: Recapitulatif de l'analyse cout-efficacite
COTE D'IVOIRE: Projet pilote d'alphabetisation
Le projet vise A identifier des approches d'un bon rapport cofit-efficacite de l'alphabetisation et
A piloter les systemes d'execution des programmes. Le systeme de S&E consignera le cofit cles
differentes interventions, ainsi que les connaissances et les acquis en fin de programme. II devrait
egalement etre possible de distinguer la methodologie, la qualite des moniteurs, la qualite du materiel
et le soutien apport6 par la population dans des projets analogues. L'elaboration d'indices de cofit-
efficacite pour les differents types d'interventions est certes utile en soi, mais le but du projet est clue
les operateurs/beneficiaires participants etudient et adoptent les approches efficaces par rapport au
cout. Le projet financera des ateliers facilitant l'examen des resultats et des processus, ce qui permettra
aux operateurs et aux beneficiaires de profiter de l'experience les uns des autres.



ANNEXE 5
Page I of I
Annexe 6: R6capitulatif financier
C6TE D'IVOIRE: Projet pilote d'alphabetisation
Annees se terminant en I'An 2002
'An nee I  Annee 2Annee 3 1Annee 4 ITotal
Total du financement
necessaire
Cofuts du projet
D6penses
d'investissement          0,5       1,55      2,15        1,0                  5,2
Charges r6currentes       0,1       0,15      0,15        0,1                  0,5
Total des coOts du projet     0,6       1,7        1,7       2,3                  5,7
Int6rets intercalaires
Commission initiale
Total                         0,6       1,7        1,7       1,1                  5,7
Financemient
IDA                       0,5        1,5       2,0       1,0                  5,0
Etat                      0,1       0,1        0,2       0,1                  0,5
ONG/B1neficiaires         0,0       0,1        0,1       0,0                  0,2
Total                         0,6       1,7       2,3        1,1                  5,7
Principales hypotheses:
Plan de financement (1998 -1999) en millions de dollars



ANNEXE 6
Page I of 6
Annexe 6: Renforcement et developpement de l'education et de la formation
Dispositions relatives a la gestion financiere, la passation des marches
et les decaissements
COTE D'IVOIRE: Projet pilote d'alphabetisation
GCestion financikre
1.   Le Ministere de I'Education a propose, et le gouvernement a accepte, de creer un
Fonds national d'appui a l'alphabetisation (FNAA). Ce fonds s'inspirera du mecanisme
du Fonds pour le developpement de la formation professionnelle (FDFP), dont la creation
a ete appuyee par le Projet de formation de la main-d'cuvre (Cr. 2637) de l'IDA et qui a
fonctionne avec succes pendant trois ans. Le FNAA servira d'agence d'execution. I1 aura
pour fonctions de: i) gerer le compte special du credit de l'IDA, et en particulier de
preparer les demandes de retrait ; ii) gerer les contrats avec les operateurs finances par le
credit (c'est-a-dire effectuer les paiements apres avoir constate que les services ont e
fournis conformement aux dispositions du contrat ; iii) recruter les services des
contr6leurs ; iv) administrer la passation de tous les marches lies au projet; v) veiller a ce
que tous les rapports et audits soient dfument presentes au CNAL et a l'IDA, et produire
les Rapports de Gestion du Project (RGP) ; et (vi) produira les rapports de gestion du
projet (RGP). Pendant la mission d'evaluation, les specifications du nouveau systeme
budgetaire du Gouvernement ont e  discutees avec le Ministere de l'Economie et des
Finances. En ce qui concerne le FNAA, les procedures arretees sont les suivantes: le
FNAA est dote annuellement d'un budget sous forme de credits d'investissement; son
comite de gestion en est l'ordonnateur et del&gue ce pouvoir au directeur du FNAA. Un
bilan de l'execution de ce budget est fourni au MEF en fin d'exercice budgetaire. Le
FNAA s'acquittera de ses responsabilitds conformement a la loi portant creation du
CNAL, a son manuel de comptabilite, a l'accord de credit de developpement qui doit etre
conclu entre le gouvemement de la C6te d'Ivoire et l'IDA, et au manuel d'execution du
projet. Pour gerer le Fonds, le CNAL designe un directeur du Fonds.
2.   Comptabilite/Audit. Le MENFB lancerait une consultation restreinte des societes
specialisees en matiere de comptabilite afin de recevoir des propositions pour (i) la mise
en place d'un logiciel pour le suivi de l'execution du projet, la gestion des contrats et des
comptes du proj et, pour la redaction de rapports sur une base trimestrielle; (ii)
l'laboration d'un manuel de comptabilite ; et (iii) la formation du personnel du FNAA.
Les termes de reference, agrees par l'Association, specifient que le logiciel ainsi que les
procedures soient conformes aux procedures de l'IDA, notamment en ce qui concerne
l'initiative "LACI" et un plan d'action. En particulier, les systemes, le manuel et la
formation devraient etre mis en place avant le 31 decembre 2000. L'analyste de la MR
dL'Abidjan donnerait son avis sur les caracteristiques- techniques de l'offre retenue, et
fournira une assistance technique pendant la periode de mise en place du systeme. C'est
a lui qu'il incombera de determiner si les nouveaux systemes et procedures repondent aux



ANNEXE6
Page 2 of6
criteres d'6ligibilit6 etablis par l'initiative LACI. L'adoption d'un manuel de
cornptabilite satisfaisant pour l'IDA est l'une des conditions d'entree en vigueur.
Audits
3.   Le FNAA tiendra les comptes consolides du projet. Tous les comptes du projets
feront l'objet d'un audit annuel, effectue par un auditeur independant juge acceptable
par 1'IDA. Les rapports d'audit, dont la portee et le degre de detail seront raisonnables,
seront presentes a l'IDA dans les quatre mois suivant la fin de la periode d'audit. Par
ailleurs, des rapports d'audit technique concemant l'execution des sous-projets, y
cornpris la qualite de l'execution et la conformite des methodes de passation des
marches, dont la forme et le fond auront e  juges acceptables par 1'IDA, seront
fournis trois mois avant chaque examen annuel. L'entr&e en vigueur du cr;edit est
subordonnee a la preparation d'un manuel de comptabilite satisfaisant et au
recrutement d'un auditeur financier, engage en vertu d'un contrat pluriannuel juge
acceptable par 1'IDA.
4.   Capacite institutionnelle. Le directeur du FNAA sera nomme par le Ministre du
MENFB. Le chef du service gestion/finances du FNAA, a nommer par le Ministre, MEF,
sera un comptable qualifie, duiment habilite par le MEF a engager et payer des depenses
et Ei preparer les demandes de decaissement a l'intention de 1'IDA. Un comptable junior
serait egalement recrute. Afin de v6rifier les depenses effectuees par les Operateurs et
afin de les aider a developper leurs propres capacites en matiere de gestion financiere, le
FNAA recrutera des specialistes contractuels (individus ou cabinets). competents en la
matiere. Le FNAA recruterait un specialiste en matiere de passations de marches ayant
unc experience pratique des procedures nationales et internationales, notamment celles
agreees par 1'IDA. Les nominations du directeur et du chef du service des finances et de
la comptabilite seront des conditions de mise en vigueur.
5.   Passation des marches Le service gestion/finances du FNAA serait charge de la
passation de marches. L'UCP du MEFB assurerait un soutien technique au service
pendant la periode d'execution du Projet. L'UCP a une longue experience en mati6re
d'execution de projets finances par l'IDA et la BAD. L'UCP dispose d'un personnel
hauLtement qualifie en matiere de passation de marches. Le specialiste en matiere de
passation de marches de la MR d'Abidjan pourrait fournir de l'assistance technique dans
la periode initiale de 1'execution du Projet. Le tableau A recapitule les couts du projet, y
cornpris les taxes et les droits, par categorie de d6caissement et par methode de passation
des marches. Les coats comprennent toutes les taxes locales et les droits d'importation.
Les documents du credit n'auront pas & prevoir d'exemption, autorisation ou licence
speciale. La Cote d'Ivoire laisse les procedures de 1'IDA 1'emporter sur toutes
dis:positions contraires contenues dans la reglementation locale. Les marches de
fournitures et les services de consultants finances par le credit de l'IDA seront passes
cornformement aux Directives pour la passation des marches finances par les prets de I16
BIRD et les credits de l'IDA (publiees en janvier 1995 et mises a jour en janvier et
aofit 1996 et en septembre 1997) et aux Directives pour la selection et 1 'emploi de
consultants par les emprunteurs de la Banque mondiale (publiees en j anvier 1997 et
mises ajour en septembre 1997).



ANNEXE 6
Page 3 of 6
6.  Les contrats  de  services  englobent les subventions  aux  sous-projets
d'alphabetisation et aux sous-projets experimentaux de post-alphabetisation executes
par les operateurs. Le montant total est estime a la contre-valeur de 3,6 millions de
dollars, sur quoi l'IDA financera 100 % des montants verses par le Fonds aux
operateurs. Ces montants representent environ 95 % du coat des programmes
d alphabetisation et 85 % du cofit des projets de post-alphabetisation. La difference
sera couverte par un cofinancement forfaitaire (a la charge des beneficiaires ou des
operateurs) equivalant a 3 000 francs CFA par beneficiaire, pour les sous-projets
d'alphabetisation, et a 15 % du cout total des projets de post-alphabetisation. Les
procedures d'evaluation et de financement de ces sous-projets sont expliquees dans le
manuel d'execution du projet. Les demandes de propositions feront l'objet d'une
publicite locale et seront annoncees par voie de campagnes d'information orchestrees
par le Fonds.
7.    Les biens finances par le credit (d'une contre-valeur de 0,6 million de dollars,
taxes comprises) comprennent du mobilier et du materiel, pour lesquels l'IDA
financera 85 % des couts en monnaie nationale et 100 % des couts en devises, et des
vehicules pour lesquels 1'IDA financera 60% des cofits en monnaie locale et 100% des
couts en devises. Les biens, qui seront regroupees en lots d'au moins 50 000 dollars,
feront l'objet d'une procedure d'appel d'offres national (AON) utilisant les dossiers
types d'appel d'offres de la Banque mondiale. L'achat des biens qui ne peuvent pas
figurer dans ces lots pourra etre effectue par consultation prudente de fournisseurs a
l'echelon local, en comparant les devis d'au moins trois fournisseurs dignes de
confiance, etant entendu que le montant global de ces achats ne depassera pas la
contre-valeur de 0,2 million de dollars. Les marches de fournitures finances par l'IDA
dont le montant depasse la contre-valeur de 50 000 dollars seront soumis a la
procedure d'examen pr6alable de l'IDA.



ANNEXE 6
Page 4 of 6
Annexe 6, Tableau A: Cofits du projet par methode de passation des marches
(equivalent en millions de dollars, taxes, droits et aleas compris)
Categorie de depenses              AOI        AON        Autre      N.F.B.        Coiit
total
1) Biens                           (  )        0,2        O,l                      0,3
(0,17)     (0.08)                   (0,25)
2) Whicules                                    0.2        0.1                      0,3
(0.12)     (0.06                    (0,18)
3) Dons pour des sous-projets                             3,6                      3,6
(3,4)                    (3,4)
4) Consultants                                            0,6                      0,6
(0,6)                    (0,6)
5) Formation                                              0,3                      0,3
(0,3)                    (0,)
6) Cout de fonctionnement                                 0,5                      0,5
additionnel                                              (0.,3)                   (0,3)
Cofit total
Total finance par ['IDA                        0,4        5,3                      5,7
(0,3)      (4,7)                    (5,0)
Les chiffres entre parentheses sont les montants qui doivent etre finances par le credit de l'IDA. Le total
peut: ne pas correspondre exactement a la somme des chiffres, ceux-ci ayant et arrondis.
8.   Les services de consultants finances par le credit (0,6 million de dollars) seront
obtenus conformdment aux Directives pour la passation des marches finances par les
prets de la BIRD et les credits de l'IDA publiees en janvier 1995 et mises a j our en
janvier et aouft 1996 et en septembre 1997. Ces services concernent la formation et
1'assistance technique pour le suivi et l'evaluation, le materiel didactique et les audits.
La procedure d'examen prealable ne s'appliquera pas aux contrats dont le couit
estimatif est inferieur A la contre-valeur de 100 000 dollars pour les cabinets de
con.sultants et a la contre-valeur de 50 000 dollars pour les consultants individuels.
Toutefois, cette exception ne s'appliquera pas aux termes de reference de ces contrats,
aux contrats passes par entente directe avec des cabinets de consultants, ou pour des
missions qui, de ]L'avis de l'IDA, presentent un caractere critique, ou a des
modifications qui auraient pour effet de porter le montant d'un contrat a un niveau
egal ou supdrieur a la contre-valeur de 100 000 dollars pour les cabinets de consultants
et de 50 000 dollars pour les consultants individuels.
Les autres bailleurs de fonds verseront probablement des dons au Fonds. En cas de cofinancement, les
Tu6thodes de passation des marches et les procedures d'examen decrites ci-dessus seront appliquees; en
cas de financement parallele, des comptes separes seront tenus et les procedures du donateur seront
appliquees.



ANNEXE 6
Page 5 of 6
Annexe 6 Tableau B: M6thodes de passation des marches et seuils d'examen pr6alable2
Catigories de |Valeur du marche     Methode de passation des march6s      Marches assujettis A
d6spenses _                    _     _(seuil)                       _    examen pr6alable
______    ___________   AOI                AON           Autre
1. Fournitures  Plus de                        X                        Examen prealable
USD 50 000                                               Montant global:
USD 400 000
X          Examen a posteriori
moins de                                                 Montant global:
USD 50 000                                               USD 100 000
2. Accords                                                              Examen prealable
avec les                                                                Pour le premier lot
operateurs en   Moins de         Sur la base des criteres et proc6dures  d'Accords
alphabetisation  USD 75 000      stipul6s dans le Manuel d'Execution    Examen a posteriori
pour le second lot (2 lots en
tout)
3. Services    a) Individus:     Section V des Directives               Examen prealable
de             plus de
Consultants    USD 50 000        Section V des Directives
Examen a posteriori
Consultants    Individuels:                                             Montant global
locaux et      moins de
internatio-    USD 50 000
naux
(b) Cabinets      Selection fondee sur le coGit et la    Examen prealable
plus de           qualite
USD 100 000
S6lection fond6e sur le coltt et la gualite  Examen a posteriori
Cabinets                                                 Montant global
Moins de
USD 100,000
Selection au moindre couit            Examen prealable
(c) Audit
2 ~ ~    ~      ~
2 Tous les seuils mentionn6s dans ce tableau feront l'objet d'une r6vision annuelle par l'Emprunteur et
l'IDA. Des modifications pourront etre convenues sur la base de la performance et de la valeur reelle des
marches executes. 1l sera necessaire de proceder a des amendements de l'Accord du credit a l'issue de la
periode d'ex6cution des deux premieres ann6es du programme.



ANNEXE 6
Page 6 of 6
Dec aissements
9.   Le credit de 5,0 millions de dollars envisage sera decaisse sur une periode de
troisi ans et demi. Le tableau C recapitule le montant des decaissements par categorie
de depenses et par pourcentage de financement. Le decaissement du credit devra etre
accompagne de toutes les pieces justificatives, sauf dans le cas des depenses d'un
montant inferieur a la contre-valeur de 50 000 dollars, qui seront remboursees sur la
base des releves de depenses. Les pieces justificatives pour les retraits effectues sur la
base des releves de depenses seront conservees par le Fonds pour etre mises a la
disposition des missions de supervision de l'IDA et pour les audits annuels. Pour
faciliter les d6caissements, le Fonds ouvrira un compte special dans une banque
commerciale, oA sera deposee la part des d6penses autorisees financ6e par l'IDA. Pour
ses propres charges d'exploitation, le Fonds soumettra des factures avec l'aval
prealable du directeur du CNAL. L'affectation autorisee au Compte special
representera la contre-valeur de 500 000 dollars. L'IDA effectuera un dep6t initial
correspondant a ce montant tire sur le credit envisage au moment de l'entree en
vigueur du credit et reconstituera le compte special sur presentation de preuves
satisfaisantes des depenses autorisees effectu&es.
Annexe 6 Tableau C  Affectation des fonds du credit
Categorie de depenses           Montant en         Pourcentage finance
USD millions
1. Biens                                   0,2           100 % des depenses en
devises, 85 % des
depenses en monnaie
nationale
2. Whicules                               0,15            100% des depenses en
devises et 60% en
monnaie nationale
3. Sous-projets                            3,3            100% eligibles sur la
portion de l'IDA de
I'accord de dont
4. Services de consultants                0,45                   100 %
5. Formation                               0,3                   100 %
6. Cofits de fonctionnement                0,2                   50 %
7. Al(-as                                  0,3
Total du credit de l'IDA                   5,0



ANNEX 7
Page I of 1
Annexe 7: Budget et calendrier d'instruction du projet
C6TE D'IVOIRE: Projet pilote d'alphabetisation
Duree de la preparation du projet                                       1 1
Premiere mission de la Banque                  18/05/1998            03/06/1998
(identification)
Depart de la mission d'evaluation              15/04/1999            30/04/1999
N6gociations                                   24/05/1999            26/05/1999
Date prevue pour 1'entr6e en vigueur           01/07/1999            30/08/1999
Prepar6 par: Le minist&e de l'Education nationale et de la Formation de base
Aide a la pr6paration : Financement par le gouvemement des equipes de preparation
comprenant des ONG, le secteur prive et le personnel des projets de developpement
Membres des services de la Banque ayant contribu6 a la pr6paration du projet:
Rosemary Bellew                              Planificatrice de l'education senior
Michael J. Wilson                            Specialiste de la politique et de la gestion de l'education
Rachidi Radji                                Economiste specialiste du developpement humain
Serge Theunynck                              Specialiste de la mise en aeuvre
Nicole Hamon                                 Assistante d'equipe bilingue



ANNEX 9
Page 1 of 2
Status of Bank Group Operations in Cote d'lvoire
Operations Portfolio
Di fference Lietwee!,
expected
Original Amournt in US$ Millions               and actu,al                Last PSR
Fiscal                                                                                                                  _   disbursements a/        Supervision Ratir,q b/
Project ID    Year               Borrower                          Purpose
IBRD       IDA      Cancel.      Undisb.     Orig    Frm Rev'd   Dev Obi   Imp Prog
Number of Closed Projects: 68
Active Projects
CI-PE-1207      1992   GOVERNMENT                       PRIVATIZATION SUPPOR                    0.00      15.00        0.00         2.61        2.26        2.os      S          s
CI-PE-1187      1993   GOVERNMENT                      ECN MGMT TA                              0.00      17.00        0.00         1.14         .03        0.00      S          S
CI-PE-1210      1994   GOVERNMENT                      RURAL SAVINGS                            0.00       2.20        0.00         1.11         .66        0.00      S          S
CI-PE-1186      1994   GOVERNMENT                      LABOR FORCE TRAINING                     0.00      17.00        0.00        11.01       11.35        5.78     's          S
CI-PE-37581     1995   GOV'T OF RCI                    EXPORT PROMOTION AND                     0.00       5.83        0.00         2.94        1.59         .94      HS         s
Cl-PE-1184      1995   REP. OF COTE DOIVOIRE           PRIVATE ELECTRICITY                      0.00      79.66        0.00        28.25       34.40        0.0      HS         S
Cl-PE-37575     1995   GOV'T OF RCI                    MUNICIPAL SUPP6IRT                       0.00      40.00        0.00        25.61       26.64        0.00      S          S
Cl-PE-40115    1996   GOVERNMENT OF COTE D'IVOI        RAILWAYS REHAB                           0.00      20.00        0.00         6.77        7.83        0.00      S          S
Cl-PE-1214      1996   GOV. OF RCI                      INTEG HLTH SERV DEVP                    0.00      40.00        0.00        31.55       15.15        0.00      U          U
Cl-PE-1212      1996   GOVERNMENT                      PRIVATE SECTOR DEVEL                     0.00     271.20        0.00         0.00      -94.16        8.12      S*
CI-PE-1194      1997   GOVERNMENT                      RURAL LAND (PNGTER)                      0.00      41.00        (.00        37.12        1.28        0.00      s          s
Cl-PE-44912     1998                                   URBAN LAND MGMT                          0.00      10.00        0.00         9.43        -.09        0.00      s          HS
CI-PE-43736     1998   GOV'T                           PSD TA                                   0.00      12.0(1       0.00        12.12         .90        0.00      S          s
CI-PE-1177      1998   GOVERNMENT            I         TRANSP SECTOR ADJ                       O.h00     205.60        0.00       126.09       20.12     -20.7h                  s
(I-IPE-35655    1999   GOVERNMENT                      EDUC. 6 TRG SUPPORT                      0.00      53.30        (.0f        51.98        1.28        0.00      S          S
Cl-PE-37588    1999   GOV'T                            AGRIC. SVCS. II                          0.00      50.00        0.00        49.99        4.18        0.06      S          s
Total                                                                                          0.00      879.19        0.00       397.62       43.41      -3.7Y
Active Proiects      Closed Projects          Total
Total Disbursed (IBRD and IDA):                459.54           3,364.79            3,824.33
of which has been repaid:                 0.00            1,592.45           1,582.45
Total now held by IBRD and IDA:                879.79           1,774.02           2,653.81
Amount sold                                      0.00               5.10                5.10
Of which repaid              :                0.00               5.10                5.10
Total Undisbursed                              397.62               0.00              397.62
a. Intended disbursements to date minus actual disbursements to date as projected at appraisal.
b. Following the FY94 Annual Review of Portfolio performance (ARPP), a letter based system was introduiced (HS - highly SatisfaCtory, S - satisfactory, U - unsatisfactory,
HU - highly unsatisfactory); see proposed Improvements in Project and Portfolio Performance Rating Methodology (SecM94-901), August 23, 1994.
Note:
Disbursement data is updated at the end of the first week of the month.
Generated by the Operations Infinnatitio  System (OIS)



ANNEX 9
Page :2 of 2
Cote d'Ivoire
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Committed and Disbursed Portfolio
As of 31 -Jan-99
(In US Dollar Millions)
Committed                       Disbursed
IFC                             IFC
FY Approval             Company          Loan   Equity  Quasi  Partic   Loan   Equity  Quasi  Partic
1977/86               Gonfreville              0.00     .42    0.00    0.00    0.00      .42    0.00    0.00
1987/90                SIALIM                  1.68    0.00    0.00    0.00    1.68    0.00    0.00    0.00
1987/93/96            COSMIVOIRE               2.90     .17    2.18    0.00    2.90      .17    2.18    0.00
1988                  IPS (IVC)                0.00     .83    0.00    0.00    0.00      .83    0.00    0.00
1989/93               AEF Pechazur              .09    0.00    0.00    0.00      .09    0.00    0.00    0.00
1993/95/97/98         Block Cl-l l             0.00   48.70    0.00    0.00    0.00   40.35    0.00    0.00
1994                  AEF Multiproduit          .18    0.00    0.00    0.00      .18    0.00    0.00    0.00
1994/96               BACI                     3.23    0.00    0.00    0.00    3.23    0.00    0.00    0.00
1995                  CIPREL                  12.50     .96    0.00    0.00   12.50      .96    0.00    0.00
1995                  FTG                      1.15    0.00    0.00    0.00    1.15    0.00    0.00    0.00
1995                  Laborex                   .33    0.00    0.00    0.00      .33    0.00    0.00    0.00
1995                  Texicodi                  .77    0.00    0.00    0.00      .77    0.00    0.00    0.00
1996                  AEF Petro Ivoire         0.00    0.00     .70    0.00    0.00    0.00      .70    0.00
1996                  Bereby Finances          0.00    3.05    0.00    0.00    0.00    3.05    0.00    0.00
1996                  Multi-Produits           0.00     .40    0.00    0.00    0.00      .35    0.00    0.00
1996                  UA-IARD                  0.00     .31    0.00    0.00    0.00      .31    0.00    0.00
1998                   Azito                  32.44    0.00    8.06   30.33    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
Total Portfolio:                   55.27   54.84   10.94   30.33   22.83   46.44    2.88    0.00
Approvals Pending Conmmitment
Loan   Equily  Qi   Paltic
1998                   AEF DROP-IVOIRE         1.26    0.00    0.00    0.00
1996                  BOA-Cl                   0.00     .14      .11    0.00
1998                  FOXTROT                 30.00   10.00    0.00   40.00
1997                   NOVOTEL-ABIDJAN         2.68     .54    0.00    0.00
1998                   SOCOPRIM S.A.          29.84    0.00    4.97    0.00
1997                  TROPICAL RUBBER          3.43    0.00    0.00    0.00
Total Pending Commitment:          67.21   10.68    5.08   40.00
Generated by the Operations Information System (OIS) on 03/19/99



ANNEX 1 0
Page 1 of 2
Cote d'Ivoire at a glance                                              9P9/98
Sub-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                  C6te  Saharan       Low-
divoire    Africa  Income       Development diamond'
1997                                                                            I
Population, mid-year (millions)                      14.7      614      2,048                Life expectancy
GNF per capita (Atlas method, USS)                   690       500       350
GNF (Atlas method, USS billions)                     10.1      309       722                       T
Average annual growth, 1991497                                                                     T
Population (%)                                        2.9       2.7       2.1
Labor force (%)                                       5.4       2.6       2.3     GNP                             Gross
per                           primary
Most recent estimate (latest year available, 1991-97)                             capita                      enrollment
Poverty (% of population below national poverty line)
Urban population {% ofttotal population)              51        32        28
Life expectancy at birth (years)                      54        52        59
Infanit mortality (per 1,000 live births)             83        90        78
Child malnutrition (% of children under 5)            24                  61               Access to safe water
Access to safe water (% of population)                63         44       71
Illiteracy (% of population age 15+)                  57        43        47
Gross primarv enrollment (% ofschool-age populaton)   70         75       91                   Cote d1voire
Male                                                76         82      100                  Low-income group
Female                                              58        67        81
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1976    1986       1996     1997
Economic ratIos'
GDP (USS billions)                           4.7      9.2      10.7      10.3
Gross domestic investment/GDP               23.0    12.1       13.4      16.0
Exports of goods and services/GDP           41.7    39.5       43.9      46.6                    Trade
Gross domestic savings/GDP                  28.5    21.4       22.3      23.1
Gross national savings/GDP                  19.5    10.0        9.1      10.9
Current account balance/GDP                 -5.3    -3.8       -5.5      -5.2     Dmsi
Interest payments/GOP                        1.5      7.5       4.4       9.2     Domesticnvestment
Total debt/GDP                              39.2   125.0      182.5    171.8      Savings                     I
Total debt service/exports                  11.3    35.6       29.6      27.8
Presient value of debt/GDP                                    173.8    168.2
Present value of debt/exports                                 367.9    357.2
Indebtedness
1976-6  1987-97    1996       1997   1998-02
(average annual growth)
GOI                                 0.1      1.9      6.9       6.0       5.7                   Cote d'lvoire
GNP per capita                     -4.2     -1.0      5.7       4.1       3.4                  Low-income group
Exports of goods and services       7.7      4.4    22.4       13.4       4.4 4
STFtUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1976    1986       1996     1997      Growth rates of output and invesbtent (%)
(% of GDP)I 
Agriculture                                 24.5    28.5       27.6      27.3    4Q T
Industrv                                    16.4    21.3       20.7      21.2    201
Manufacturing                               9.4    17.6       17.4      17.6
Services                                    59.2    50.3       51.7      51.5                        s
Private consumption                         55.3    63.5       65.6      65.3    .203
General government consumption              16.2    15.1       12.1      11 6
Imports of goods and services               36.2    30.2       35.0      396                     GDI       0GDP
(am-rage annual growth)                  197646  1987-97       1996     1997      Growth rates of exports and Imports (%)
Agriculture                                  0.5      3.1       1.4       4.7    30,
Industry                                     5.8      2.0      12.6       9.3
Manufacturing                               6.8      1.3       8.6       6.5   1i
Services                                    -1.5      1.2       8.4       5.3
Private consumption                         -0.4      0.3      -2.6       1.7 o      Y,-
General govemment consumption               -1.1    -1.5        7.1       2.0            92
Gross domestic investment                  -11.0      6.4       3.5      28.0   .15
Imports of goods and services               -0.7      2.4      10.0      18.4                  Exports   -0Imports
Grciss national product                     -0.5      2.2       8.5       6.8
Note: 1997 data are preliminary estimates.
The diamonds show four key indicators in the country (in bold) compared with its income-group average. If data are missing, the diamond will
be incomplete.



ANNEX 10
Page 2 of 2
Cote d'lvoire
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1976     1986       1996      1997      Inflation (%)
Domestic prices
(% change')                                                                           45 T
Consumer prices                               12.1       6.8       3.5        5.2     30 +
Implicit GDP deflator                         18.2      -2.0       2.7        3.2       + i
Govemment finance
(% of GDO, includes current grants)                                                 !
Current revenue                                 ..    29.6        22.5       22.2   |                      9     5-          9
Current budget balance                          ..       1.0       2.8        3.4                    GOP deflator  -'CPI
Overall surplus/deficit                          ..    -3.8       -2.8       -2.8    _
TRADE
(USS millions)                                1976     1986       1996      1997      Export and import levels (USS millions)
Total exports (fob)                          1,735    3,170      4,245     4,015      S,OO 
Cocoa                                          ..   1,135       1,408     1,203
Fuel                                                             143       168        00
Manufactures                                   ..      821      1,330     1,213     3.000
Total imports (cif)                             ..   2,047       3,127     3,506      2
Food                                           ..     416        563       604      2               M     L
Fuelancl energy                                ..     322        589       471      1 000
Capital goods                                  ..      549       734        787        o
E r p91  92  93   94  95   96  97
Export pri:e index (1995= 100)                  31       66         96        88
Import price index (1995=100)                   23       48        107        99    |             Exports     nImports
Terms of trade (1995=100)                      134      136         89        88
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
1976     1986       1996      1997    1
(USS millions)                                                                        Curent account balance to GOP ratIo (%)
Exports of goods and services                1,970    3,678      5,014      4 788      0
Imports of goods and services                1,802    2,978      4,188      4,064
Resource balance                               168      700        826       724
Net income                                    -158      -690      -916       -813  | 
Net current transfers                         -259      -356      -498       -440
Current account balance                       -249      -347      -588       -528     -10 t
Financing items (net)                          279      376        626       498
Changes in net reserves                        -30       -29       -39        31    |                                           |
Memo:
Reserves including gold (US$ millions)           0       38        650       518
Conversioni rate (DEC, local/USS)            239.0    346.3      511 6      583 7
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1976     1986       1996      1997
(USS millions)                                                                        CompositIon of total debt, 1997 (USS mtIllons)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed         1,828   11,450      19,523    17,608
IBRO                                          85    1,253      1,304      1,044                  G449   A. 1,044
IDA                                            3        7      1,019      1,100                  ,             s 1 100
Total debt service                             225    1,321      1t495      1,344                                   c 596
IBRD                                           9      158        289       245
IDA                                            0        0          5         80:1,042
Composition of net resource flows
Ofricial grants                               16       57        187       135
Official creditors                            73      115        -45        70        F: 9.540                      E: 3,837
Private creditors                            198     -181        109        -21
Foreign direct investment                     45       71        124       219
Portfolio equitV                               0        0        140        68
World Bank program
Commitments                                   48      309        275       138
Disbursements                                 16      117        253       140      A - IBRD                     E O- Bilateral
Principal repayments                           2       57        178       158      c- IMF                       G - Short-term
Net flows                                     15       60         75        -18    1                              -
Interestpayments                               7      101        117        95
Net transfers                                  8       -41       -42       -112
World Bank                                                                                                                9/9198



T                                                                                                                                                                                                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IBRD 26952
8.                                   To   gor-             6-                                                                                                                      2
ToEroe MALI                                    Sies
TiegroIo  ~             ~                    BU RKINA  FASO
hA.
e,o,diei  Ferkessedougou                                                                                            -     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~PAVED ROADS
od~~~~~~~~~~~~$reo  J ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~EARTH AND GRAVEL RO)Aob
----RAILWAY
NATIONAL CAPITAL
HI DEPARTMENT CAPITALS
0   OTHER TOWNS
k    ~ ~ ~     ~        ~       ~       ~        ~      ~ ~ ~ .     ~INTERNATIONAL AIRPORTS
0                           ~~~~~~OTHER AIRPORTS
* DnbokeIo~~~~~~~~\  -~~~~                                             ct ~~ PORTS
RIVERS
SJ16 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~k                                                           BodooDEPARTMENT BOUNDARIES
W                                                                                                          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
RO9ne~~~~~~~~~~~~~k~~~~~                                                9~~~  20   40   60   80  900  120 KILOMETERS
sheen on, ~ -p e   do -ot On,pIT, 00    port of The World Ba-k G-ep,
ony judg,ne  en dn le-1 Sto$ of -ny erritery, or-y -fd--SOlt
~~~~~~~~~~~~~p  k ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2'
AUR ITANIA
-6- ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~   ~    ~     ~    ~    ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~gel                                                doo'
L I B E R I A                                                                                        p(?~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~    d   SSW)                    "                                ERInA0~Onegi
061o ~                                                                        S)Tn~~O                  iER                       IORE ~ GHN :j~~non.n~  L  y49~9~   IB ~   9 PSOnn
S         cn,lO <~~~~~~~~    ~           ~         nor r> 5.                                       ens kre~~~BRKA  o.,.,
<IT nor TT 10 ~~~~~~~~~~~S9T    n9   'nnn'    -nn~~~~~~~~~~~~Oe  ~~~~  ~ ~   U BePi$~ ~~~~~I 
'6en~non~~  ~   ,,n~n~pn/9ono0rrrT  n~l9~O  T~'~d~1  I                                  LAan
EONE       C6TE~~~~~~~~~UN  19



