                                              Document of
                                           The World Bank

                                       FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY




                                                                                        Report No: 32504

                             IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                                               (IDA-32750)

                                                  ON A

                                                 CREDIT

                         IN THE AMOUNT OF US$ 5 MILLION EQUIVALENT

                                                    TO

                                 THE REPUBLIC OF COTE D'IVOIRE

                                                 FOR A

                                      PILOT LITERACY PROJECT




                                              June 16, 2005




Human Development II
Africa Region

This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.

                              CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                          (Exchange Rate Effective May16, 2005)

                                Currency Unit = CFA Franc (CFAF)
                                    US$ 1.00 = FCA 514

                                      FISCAL YEAR
                                 January 1    December 31

                          ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS


CARA     Chef d'Antenne Régionale d'Alphabétisation (Literacy Regional Branchs)

CIEPA    Conseiller d'Inspection d l'Enseignement Primaire Charge de l'Alphabétisation
         (Inspection Counsels of Primary Education in Charge of Literacy)

CNAL     Comite National pour l'Alphabétisation(National Literacy Committee)

FNAA     Fonds National d'Appui a l'Alphabétisation (National Fund to Assist Literacy)

MENFB    Ministère de l'Education Nationale et de la Formation de Base (Ministry of
         National Education and Basic Training)

PLP      Pilot Literacy Project

RENOPACI Réseau National des Opérateurs en Alphabétisation de Cote d'ivoire (National
         Association of Literacy Providers of Cote d'Ivoire)

SAA      Service Autonome d'Alphabétisation (Autonomous Literacy Service)




                               Vice President:    Gobind Nankani
                            Country Director:     Mamadou Dia
                             Sector Manager:      Alexandre Abrantes
                               Task Manager:      Marcelo Becerra

                                       COTE D'IVOIRE
                                    Pilot Literacy Project


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            6
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                              9
6. Sustainability                                                                11
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 12
8. Lessons Learned                                                               15
9. Partner Comments                                                              16
10. Additional Information                                                       24
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             26
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             27
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             29
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             30
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             32
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                33
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            34

Project ID: P055073                                                  Project Name: Pilot Literacy Project
Team Leader: Marcelo Becerra                                         TL Unit: AFTH3
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: June 16, 2005


1. Project Data
                   Name: Pilot Literacy Project                                   L/C/TF Number: IDA-32750
   Country/Department: COTE D'IVOIRE                                                      Region: Africa Regional Office

        Sector/subsector: Adult literacy/non-formal education (54%); Other social services
                            (46%)
                  Theme: Education for all (P); Gender (P); Rural services and infrastructure
                            (P); Social analysis and monitoring (S); Participation and civic
                            engagement (S)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 10/28/1998                                     Effective: 08/30/1999                05/31/2000
     Appraisal: 04/27/1999                                         MTR:
      Approval: 07/09/1999                                      Closing: 12/31/2002                 12/31/2004



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          GOVERNEMENT OF COTE D'IVOIRE/MINISTRY OF EDUCATION
                      Other Partners:

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Gobind Nankani                                 Jean-Louis Sarbib
Country Director:               Mamadou Dia                                    Shigeo Katsu
Sector Manager:                 Alexandre V. Abrantes                          Helena Ribe
Team Leader at ICR:             Michael Drabble                                Rosemary Bellew
ICR Primary Author:             Marcelo Becerra


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        U
                      Sustainability:      UN
   Institutional Development Impact:       M
                 Bank Performance:         S
            Borrower Performance:          U


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry:                                  S
                     Project at Risk at Any Time:

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:

The Pilot Literacy Project, sought as its development objective, to develop and test effective
arrangements for using non-governmental providers to deliver to the rural poor demand-driven
adult functional-literacy programs that meet acceptable standards. The focus of the Project was
on women and girls in the North, where school enrollment of girls is lowest. With an overall
target of 30,000 beneficiaries, the goal was to learn how the programs, systems and procedures
can be scaled up to serve a broader network of programs and providers and substantially reduce
illiteracy among the 15-40 age group, particularly among women, by helping them acquire the
knowledge and skills required to enhance their lives and those of their children.

Targeting this illiteracy group was realistic and consistent with the Government's overarching
poverty-reduction strategy, as stated in the National Poverty Alleviation Plan. Moreover, the
project objective was fully consistent with the Bank's Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) for FY
98-00, the main objective of which was poverty reduction, particularly in rural areas where
poverty is most severe. In terms of education, the CAS recommended efficient and innovative
targeted expenditures with a special focus on increasing adult literacy and keen attention to
closing the geographic and gender gaps.

In terms of illiteracy, there was evidence in 1998 of a persistently high overall rate of 58 percent
(about 4.2 million people), owing to low primary enrollment and the absence of adult education
programs. In 1995, an estimated 45 percent of the target group (15-40) was illiterate (i.e., 2.5
million people, 67 percent of whom lived in rural areas and 65 percent of whom were women).
Those figures are 90 and 70 percent of women in the savannah and forest areas respectively, while
in Abidjan an estimated 50 percent of women were illiterate. The information available in 1998
suggested that since 1992 about 220,000 youths and adults had been reached by literacy
programs, the majority of them (80 percent) through non-governmental providers. The main
actors involved in the delivery of adult literacy were the Literacy Service of the Ministry of
National Education and Basic Training (Ministère de l'Education National et de la Formation de
Base ­ MENFB -), women's centers operated by the Ministry of the Family and Promotion of
Women, the Ministry of Agriculture and Animal Resources, the churches and local cultural
associations, and a rapidly increasing number of NGOs. Most observers had concluded that
demand outstripped supply; projects had not paid attention to the potential need for post-literacy;
there was little collaboration and sharing of information across programs, and information about
the programs and their effectiveness left much to be desired. All these factors played a crucial role
in the eventual decision to opt for a "faire-faire' approach to literacy provision.

The institutional setting for the PLP included two executing agencies with different levels of
responsibilities: (i) the National Literacy Committee (Comite National pour l"Alphabétisation, or
CNAL, created in 1998) was responsible for overall policy in the sub-sector and reviewing its
financing and results and was chaired by the Vice Minister with the Minister of Education as



                                                  - 2 -

deputy and membership representing a wide cross-section of government, municipalities, the
private sector, and development agencies; and (ii) the National Fund for the Promotion of
Literacy (Fonds National d'Appui a l'Alphabetisation, or FNAA), which was established as an
autonomous fund and the executive arm of CNAL tasked with implementing the new approach
(Section 3.3, Component 3).

Monitoring and evaluation arrangements were designed and measurable indicators identified for
all components. More specifically, a set of both quantitative and qualitative performance
indicators was included in Annex 1 of the Project Appraisal Document (PAD), in accordance with
the monitoring and evaluation arrangements (type of reports, frequency and source of data).

Long term sustainability was identified as one of the main risks.. If the pilot project proves
successful and is worth scaling up, longer term sustainability will require sufficient financing and
interest from the non-governmental sector in providing literacy programs and in integrating
literacy into their development objectives. Other critical risks were identified, including the major
risks of possible resistance from civil servants to the decentralized approach, insufficient interest
on the part of providers in collaborating with a government-sponsored program, and difficulty in
building evaluation capacity. In order to mitigate these risks, the following areas were addressed
prior to scaling up the Project: (i) the need to assess ability to pay, with a view to increasing
operator and beneficiary participation; (ii) the FNAA, as an autonomous fund, needs to explore
the possibilities for receiving grant financing from local organizations and businesses; and (iii) the
Government needs to assess the priority of adult literacy relative to other investment decisions
and increase its allocations accordingly.

3.2 Revised Objective:

The original project objectives were not revised.

3.3 Original Components:

The Project was organized into the following components

Component 1. Testing Functional Literacy Programs

The cost of this component was estimated at US$3.2 million (56 percent of the total project cost).
The objective of this component was to support the Government's implementation of a new
approach, that of entrusting NGOs, development projects, regional associations and other
qualified providers with the delivery of literacy and post-literacy programs requested by
beneficiaries at the community level. The component was designed to develop flexible systems
and procedures for delivering technical support services and financing to providers/beneficiaries
which would make it possible to scale up to a larger country-wide constituency, with a potentially
significant impact in terms of reducing illiteracy.

The design of this component was therefore critical. The procedures for selecting sub-projects
were set out in a manual along with the selection criteria. The technical secretariat of the FNAA
provided the Technical Review Committee for sub-project selection. The major premises were



                                                  - 3 -

that: (i) the literacy providers must enter into an agreement with the beneficiary group to deliver
the program; and (ii) the literacy providers must provide staff/upgrading needs, specific technical
assistance requirements, the cost of instructors/supervisors, the targeted cost per trainee, and
equipment and material needs. Clear technical support services and field supervision arrangements
were established with the Service Autonome d'Alphabétisation (SAA) of the MENFB. Moreover,
specific numbers of sub-projects and beneficiaries, as well as the program schedule were targeted.
In total, the project was supposed to implement 60 projects with 30,000 participants divided into
two cohorts, with 18 months devoted to each cohort.

The component targeted the right population. The main priorities were women and girls in
geographic areas with the lowest enrollment of girls in primary schools (the North, the Southwest
and the Center East). The initiative to identify sub-projects is taken by beneficiaries, However,
NGOs and other providers in these areas would be encouraged to explore community and local
association interest in literacy. The proposals will typically reflect local concerns ­ family health,
childcare, nutrition and agriculture.

Component 2. Developing and testing a strategy for post-literacy

The cost of this component was estimated at US$0.5 million (9 percent of the total cost). The aim
of this component was to test essential strategies for post-literacy to ensure that the program
could be scaled up and that it was sustainable. It was widely known that retention is greatly
affected by the availability of reading material and the possibility of using competencies, especially
in rural areas. Therefore, this component's design was of prime importance in terms of ensuring
the sustainability of the knowledge acquired by beneficiaries.

This component was intended to test several strategies: (i) introducing radio programs supported
by brochures and other printed material; (ii) providing small personal libraries (four or five books
on day-to-day health practices, agriculture, etc); (iii) starting up local bilingual newspapers; (iv)
using local languages for official communication and advertising; (v) establishing links with formal
education and professional education systems.

Component 3. Management, Supervision and Evaluation.

The cost of this component was estimated at US$2.0 million (35 percent of total project cost). It
was intended to support the development of a new autonomous institution known as the FNAA.
The FNAA was intended to be an autonomous institution with governmental and private
sponsorship, with the authority to receive and manage public, private and donor funds. Its raison
d'etre was to provide technical support and financing to non-governmental literacy providers in a
timely and cost-effective manner, without creating a permanent budgetary imposition for
government. The design of this component would prove crucial insofar as it would determine the
institutional and implementation arrangements that would be put in place.

The FNAA comprised a Board of Directors, a Technical Review Committee, and a Technical
Secretariat staffed by contractual personnel. The Board of Directors (Comite de Gestion ­ CG)
would be composed of representatives of the technical ministries, the literacy providers (NGOs



                                                 - 4 -

and operators) and the beneficiaries group. Its principal responsibilities were to approve the
financing of sub-projects (evaluated by the Technical Review Committee), to monitor the
program and to liaise with donors. The secretariat has three operational units: management and
accounting, evaluation and research, and pedagogical services. These units were set up to work
closely with the SAA of the MENFB on the organization and reporting procedures of field
supervision. A Manual of Procedures and Accounting and Financial Management Manuals were
produced, which also contributed significantly to the effectiveness of the Project.

Supervision and quality control assessment were based on an annual, field-based review of
operations. The principal areas of review included progress on the ground (learning results and
cost), relations between beneficiaries and literacy providers, and the effectiveness of financing and
field supervision procedures. Specific evaluation tasks included: (i) evaluation of learning
outcomes/cost for a sample of sub-projects (after the first round of sub-projects was completed);
(ii) progress in compiling the literacy materials resource base (after years 1 and 2); (iii) working
relations, at the end of year 2, between beneficiary groups and providers, as well as overall
demand and capacity of the current providers to scale-up.

3.4 Revised Components:

The original components were not revised.

3.5 Quality at Entry:


Quality at entry was satisfactory. As explained in sector 3.1 the overall project objective was
clear, relevant, and consistent with the Government's literacy strategy to test effective
arrangements for using non governmental providers to deliver to the rural poor ­especially to
women and girls in the North--demand-driven adult functional-literacy programs that meet
acceptable standards. The contribution of the project to testing a new approach and to reducing
illiteracy among a group of 30,000 beneficiaries, as a pilot experiment, was also clear and
reasonable. The project objectives were supported by a concise, but comprehensive presentation
of the economic context of the country, an analysis of the education and literacy situation and
related policy issues. They were also in line with the Bank's FY 98-00 CAS for Cote d'Ivoire
approved by the Board in August 18, 1998. Lessons learned from similar experiences in other
countries were drawn on for the design of the present project (notably the experience of Senegal),
as were studies prepared by the Borrower. Appropriate manuals of procedures and accounting
manuals were developed. The monitoring and evaluation arrangements were designed and
measurable indicators were identified for all components.

The project did prove to have two main bottlenecks during implementation, both identified as
criticals risk at PAD: institutional setting (resistance of SAA to the new approach) and NGO's
delivery capacity ("most NGOs were small and of recent establishment, consequently they did not
have staff capacity in all areas of expertise, such as in the design of learning materials, evaluation
of training, training of trainers, local language skills and the capacity to conduct socioeconomic
studies and analyze the results"). Furthermore, the FNAA was not ready by the time the project
was approved (no alternative ways were found to get even an interim management team in place
for the FNAA prior to Board, which in effect led to a delay of almost a year). However,


                                                 - 5 -

alltogether, it was a well-designed LIL based on the fact that it was very difficult to envisage the
political turmoil at the time of project appraisal.

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:


Unsatisfactory. The development objective, i.e., to develop and test effective arrangements for
demand-driven adult literacy, was partially achieved; and the goal of training 30,000 beneficiaries
in this pilot stage was also partially achieved. Country events significantly affected its chances of
success, in that: (i) there was an IDA portfolio-wide suspension of disbursement from September
2000 to February 2002, (ii) there was a coup in September 2002, resulting in the rebels holding
the northern part of the country--the main target of the project; and (iii) a portfolio-wide
suspension of disbursement re-imposed in June 2004.

The PLP could be tested: institutional and procedural framework were established and one round
of sub-project preparation, selection, and implementation was carried out. The unsatisfactory
rating is assigned based on: (i) inexistence of political ownership and leadership (CNAL did not
operate, highest levels at MENFB did not take decisions); (ii) the institutional difficulties in the
relations between the two key agencies (FNAA and SAA) led to strong weaknesses in
implementation arrangements; and (iii) the non compliance with the indicators set in the PAD to
evaluate the PDO (timing application of sub-project selection, high quality and timely technical
support to providers; timely disbursements, changes register in approach of others providers).
However, in an extremely difficult context, the "faire-faire" approach could deliver literacy to
rural poor in those regions where implemented (61% of beneficiaries were evaluated as literate),
fact that demonstrate that "faire-faire" could be implemented in Cote d'Ivoire with a better
institutional setting and political will as long as future country conditions allows it. In fact, the
"faire-faire" approach was considered satisfactory and accepted by the main stakeholders (literacy
providers, beneficiaries, and communities) and the beneficiaries' demand for participation
exceeded the supply.

Some of implementation weaknesses (a detailed description is given in Section 4.2), stemmed
from the fact that it was a pilot experiment or from the situation facing the country. These
weaknesses could therefore have been corrected to some extent through program continuity or in
a different country scenario. For instance, it would have been possible to enhance to some degree
the NGOs' capacity to develop and implement sub-projects by improving training and technical
support within the framework of a sustained PLP.

4.2 Outputs by components:

Overall achievement of outputs for the project was unsatisfactory

Component 1. Testing Functional Literacy Programs

Unsatisfactory. This component was partially implemented. Therefore, the objective of exploring
a new approach that enlisted the participation of NGOs and other qualified literacy providers



                                                  - 6 -

through a selection of sub-projects based on clear procedures was partially achieved.

During the first period of suspension of disbursements the government used their own funds to
keep the project going, managing to execute many preparatory activities during 2001: (i) training
was put in place for literacy providers, 115 of whom were trained to use the manual of
procedures, identify beneficiary needs, and to develop a social mobilization strategy ("etude de
milieu"); 90 of them were trained in monitoring and evaluation, and 48 in sub-project financial
management; (ii) 10 core MENFB's agents and all the agents of the decentralized units of the
SAA (CARA and CIEPA) were trained in supervision and evaluation; (iii) 193 literacy advisers
were recruited at the decentralized levels.

The first selection of sub-projects was made in November 2001. The FNAA received 146
sub-projects corresponding to 55 literacy providers, 38 of which were NGOs, 15 private centers
and 2 associations. These demands covered the 5 areas of PLP intervention and included 46,775
potential beneficiaries. The selection ended with the approval of 48 sub-projects covering 14,445
beneficiaries. When the suspension of disbursement was lifted in February 2002, the sub-projects
were ready to be implemented. However, the September 2002 crisis made it impossible to
implement sub-projects in the north of the country. As a result, 44 percent of the literacy projects
in Government-held areas were executed for the most part, whereas the remaining 56 percent
belonging to the rebel-held areas of the north could not be implemented at all. Since there was no
second round of sub-project selection, the end result was that only 6,104 beneficiaries were
trained (78 percent of them women), representing a mere 20 percent of the Project's main goal
and a negligible percentage of the country's illiterate. An evaluation of the literacy results showed
that 3,759 (or 61 percent of those trained) were considered literate.

Summary of First Round of the PLP Sub-Projects

     Region           #            #           #            #            %             #
                 Sub-Project    Centers     Benefic.     Benefic.     Women        Trained
                                Created                  Trained                   Evaluated
                                                                                  as Literate
Bas ­ Sassandra        6           60        1,800         1,804        79%
Zanzan                15          150        4,500         4,210        78%
Savanes               13          130        4,212           -            -            -
Worodougou             8           80        2,133           -            -            -
Denguele               6           60        1,800           -            -            -
Total                 48          480        14,445        6,014       78%           3,759

The main positive results of the experiment were: (i) conformity with the general concept of this
new approach to literacy provision, as stated for the main actors (literacy providers, beneficiaries,
communities, and teachers); (ii) demand for participation outstripped supply; (iii) and beneficiaries
were satisfied with the courses, especially those in their mother tongues as shown by the low
drop-out rates (less than 10 percent). As mentioned before, 61 percent were able to read, write
and do basic calculations. This satisfactory result was strengthened by important factors such as
increased motivation to send children to school, increased ability in villages to understand news,
improved understanding of health, hygiene, and agricultural development. However, as described


                                                - 7 -

in the next section, the risk of losing momentum was high since there were no post-alpha actions.

The PLP was also fraught with difficulties at all stages. The main weaknesses encountered during
the preparation and formulation of sub-projects were: (i) participation of beneficiaries in
sub-project preparation was very restricted in that the final selection was generally made by the
village chief in agreement with literacy providers. Beneficiaries, therefore, had no hand in
providing the materials needed or in selecting the teachers. In addition, funds requested for
beneficiaries' participation (around CFAF 900,000 per project) were submitted without discussing
it with them. (ii) The "etudes de milieu" did not reflect the reality in the field. (iii) The
sub-project development process was also problem plagued in that a high proportion of literacy
providers did not abide by the presentation formats set out in the Manual of Procedures;
sub-project length varied greatly (ranging from 6 to 18 months) although the actual course length
in terms of hours were similar (between 300 and 360); all literacy providers copied the same cost
structure indicated in the annex to the Manual of Procedures. Most sub-projects were lacking in
terms of the pedagogical methods proposed, in terms of supervision and evaluation, and in terms
of planning the mobilization of financial resources.

The sub-project evaluation and selection process followed the established procedures and
involved the appropriate units of the FNAA, i.e. the "Comite d'Analyse Technique" and the
"Comite de Gestion". They fell short in many areas, however in that (i) the selection process
lasted more than 6 months, or three times the length established in the procedures; (ii) the speed
of individual sub-project analysis (between 12 and 15 a day) and evaluation (between 24 and 30 a
day) was too fast, considering it was the first experience (iii) the "Comité de Gestion" of the
FNAA overstepped its bounds and allowed some sub-projects that were below par, to be
continued, with a view to giving them a second chance ("repêchage") but failed to propose
measures for effecting the improvement.

The main problems encountered in the implementation stage were that: (i) the procedures were
not clearly or sufficiently understood or the main stakeholders (literacy providers,
"certificateurs", teachers, students and SAA's decentralized services, i.e. CARA and CIEPA)
understood them differently; (ii) teacher quality was weak owing to the fact that a high percentage
of teachers had lower level basic training and that although training was offered to teachers, it was
of poor quality and did not follow the schedule established in the training plans; (iii) the
pedagogical materials provided were insufficient or inadequate; and (iv) there was a lack of
communication between providers and teachers. In the main, these problems reflected the poor
quality of the training of literacy providers and teachers and literacy providers' lack of capacity.

The delays in the disbursements were another crucial source of problems, most importantly the
disruption in payments to teachers, which led to the suspension of classes in some cases. It was
agreed that the four tranches would be disbursed every 3 months, which actually became 6
months. The main reason for the delays was the failure to abide by the schedule in the
certifications of expenditures by the "certificateurs", owing to poor organization of their
missions in the field or to the situation the country faced.

After this first experience, the FNAA demanded a host of changes to the Manual of Procedures



                                                  - 8 -

(see the section on "Borrower Comments" for further explanations). In this context, the Bank and
the Government agreed that there was a need to make functional changes in the Manual of
Procedures, in view of a possible second round. The changes would focus on the following
aspects: (i) acquisition of books and material by the literacy provider with the FNAA responsible
for deciding which material is relevant; (ii) certification of trainers in various kinds of training; (iii)
contracts between beneficiaries and literacy providers to clarify the roles and expectations in the
selection of providers. Although these proposals did not eventually materialize, they remained
important lessons from the experience.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:

Not applicable.

4.4 Financial rate of return:

Not applicable.

4.5 Institutional development impact:


Modest. The project built some capacity since the FNAA was established and, to some degree,
applied the criteria established in the agreed procedures during either the sub-project selection or
execution stage. The biggest drawbacks to institutional development were the conflict between
the FNAA and the SAA and the monitoring and evaluation performance, as explained in Section
4.2, Component 3. Clarification of roles and coordination between the FNAA and the SAA were
still needed even though the project had been completed. Then there was the matter of the CNAL,
which remained inoperative throughout implementation of the PLP, and did not meet even once.
This situation showed the low commitment at higher levels, since the main responsibilities of
CNAL (broadly representative of government, municipalities, NGOs and civil society) were policy
follow up and oversight of the literacy sub-sector.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:

The main factor contributing to the project's failure was the sociopolitical instability and
disruptions ensuing from the 1999 and 2002 military coups. These country events were beyond
the control of the Ministry of National Education and Basic Training (MENFB), the implementing
agency (FNAA) and even at the highest levels of Government. The coup, which occurred in
September 2002, led to the division of the country in two, with the rebels holding the northern
part of the country. MENFB officials and Bank missions were not allowed to work in the
rebel-held areas--a situation that led to the suspension of activities in three out of the five regions
of the project. Despite the Marcoussis Agreement in January 2003, active conflict continued and
traveling to rebel-held areas therefore remained dangerous.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:

These sociopolitical events led to a severe worsening of economic performance. The drastic



                                                     - 9 -

deterioration of the macroeconomic situation had a negative impact on the relationship between
Cote d'Ivoire and the Bank. The main consequence was that the project suffered from a
suspension of disbursement over a period of 24 months, or more than half its total duration. There
was an IDA portfolio-wide suspension of disbursements from September 2000 to February 2002,
and a re-imposed portfolio-wide suspension in June 2004 that lasted until the project closing date
of December 31, 2004.

In addition, institutional instability led to frequent changes in leadership of line ministries, which
constrained decision making, slowed implementation, and eroded ownership. Between the
Board's approval of the PLP and when the Project effectively began, there was a succession of
three ministers of education. The project started with an 11-month delay between Board (July 7,
1999) and actual commencement (May 31, 2000). This was basically due to the fact that the
government delayed in appointing the management team of the FNAA, as well as the director (by
MENFB) and the financial management coordinator (by the Ministry of Finance). The lack of
involvement of the CNAL was also a signal of lack of ownership at the higher levels of
government.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:

Most of the implementation-related difficulties are described in Section 4. The salient issues
posing difficulties were: insufficient coordination between the FNAA and the SAA, lack of
initiative to implement post­alpha activities, and weak monitoring and evaluation. The problems
experienced with procurement management stemmed from the lack of coordination with the other
implementation unit within the MENFB tasked with supporting the FNAA on procurement issues,
as established in the PAD.

5.4 Costs and financing:

The cost of the project was estimated at US$5.7 million, of which US$0.7 was to be provided by
the Government of Cote d'Ivoire and US$5 million funded by IDA. The project was implemented
between May 31, 2000 and December 31, 2004. Upon completion, US$2.7 million had been
expended, or 47 percent of the original cost. Thirty six (36) percent of IDA funds were disbursed
(US$1.81 million, excluding US$0.12, which is still in the Special Account at the time of this
Report), while the national counterpart contributed US$0.92 million (CFAF 564 million) or 131
percent of what had been planned. In terms of project components, 23 percent of the planned
amount was spent on Component 1 "Testing functional literacy programs" whereas Component 3
"Management, supervision, and evaluation" drew almost 100 percent of the funds. Conversely,
nothing at all was spent on Component 2 "Developing and testing post-literacy", since it was not
implemented. The high proportion of disbursement under Component 3 is justified since all
preparation and implementation activities were financed through this component as established in
the LA (training, equipment of FNAA, consultants and operating cost).

In the framework of Component 1, a total of U$S0.75 million (CFAF 460,546,484) was disbursed
to sub-projects (100% financed by IDA). Of that amount U$S0.28 million (CFAF 176,770,310)
was paid to literacy providers in the 3 northern areas and, was therefore never accounted for. The
Bank and the government agreed on carrying out an audit of these payments made to the northern



                                                    - 10 -

projects but country situation did not allow to go to the field.

In terms of cost-effectiveness, no analysis was conducted to compare unit costs with other
programs, such as the normal publicly available literacy services delivered by the MENFB through
the SAA. The public unit cost per beneficiary was similar to that predicted in the PAD (CFAF
55,000, or around $90) as well as the public cost per graduate (CFAF 76,000, or $125), both
excluding the subsidies disbursed to disrupted sub-projects in northern areas. In comparison with
a similar project in Senegal, the PLP seemed as cost-effective, taking into account two variables:
(i) the ratio public cost per graduate / public cost per beneficiary trained was 1.38 in Cote d'Ivoire
($90/$125) whereas it was 2.12 in Senegal ($70/$149); (ii) the ratio public cost per graduate /
GDP per capita was lower in Cote d'Ivoire (0.19=$120/$610) than in Senegal (0.32=$149/460).
However, this is merely a rough comparison since other aspects must be taken into account in an
appropriate cost-effectiveness analysis.

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:


Unlikely. In the short term, the probability that the government will support "faire ­ faire"
literacy programs in the current context of persistent political and macroeconomic instability
seems very low. Although institutional development capacity building did result from the
establishment of the FNAA, government is still unlikely to secure financing. Even though the
demand does exist and there was support for the approach from the literacy providers, who
received training and gained experience (not counting their discrepancies with the manual of
procedures), there are no signs that the main stakeholders will have enough power to bring to
bear .

Long term sustainability or scaling-up of a "faire-faire" scheme depended heavily on the
Project's success in demonstrating the advantages of involving the main stakeholders (providers,
communities and beneficiaries), cost-efficiency, and quality delivery. However, since the Project
fell short of demonstrating such success, possible alternatives to scaling up are unlikely, such as:
(i) receiving grants from private organizations or businesses; (ii) receiving donor support; and (iii)
verifying beneficiaries ability to pay .

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:

Although the FNAA was still operative after the Project had been completed, transitional
arrangements were put in place for the continuity of staff structure. There was no source of
financing available to support literacy sub-projects within the framework of a "faire-faire"
approach. At the FNAA/SAA level there was a great deal of interest in continuing operations (the
FNAA/SAA developed a policy strategy to secure external funding from donors), though faced
with a weak policy environment aggravated by the fact that the political and macroeconomic
situation was not conducive to donor support. The FNAA expects that the National Plan for
Reconstruction will include a literacy component based on the PLP's approach. However, donor
support for this plan is still uncertain given the country conditions.




                                                  - 11 -

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:


Satisfactory. The project was identified in June 1998. The identification mission of June 1998
was conducted by a Bank delegation with a good skills mix and highly experienced in literacy
education. The project design was coherent and took into account the country's literacy strategy
laid out in the National Poverty Alleviation Plan, the aim of which was to develop a new initiative
targeting young women in poor rural areas. This new strategy involved: (i) the importance of
functionality, post-literacy follow-up, and participation of planned beneficiaries in program design;
(ii) the creation of CNAL, broadly representative of government, municipalities, NGOs and civil
society, with responsibilities for policy and oversight in the sub-sector; (iii) the creation and
establishment of the FNAA, as an executive branch of CNAL, which would be financially
autonomous and have a governing board representing government agencies and NGOs involved in
literacy as well as representatives of the beneficiaries. The project was an innovation so far as
providing literacy education services in Cote d'Ivoire was concerned.

Moreover, the Bank team was fully involved in the latest developments in literacy provision at the
international level. Workshops and seminaries were organized by the World Bank Institute and
Penn State University during 1997 and 1998 and included the participation of a team from Cote
d'Ivoire. The Bank also developed a study on Cote d'Ivoire's specific case, "Recent
Developments in Non-Formal Education. Implications for Cote d'Ivoire" (May 1998). This
context was highly propitious for preliminary policy dialogue. The experience of Senegal had a
particularly significant impact on the project design, though the institutional setting in the case of
Cote d'Ivoire was different. The Bank team also had contacts with other ministries that run
literacy programs (agriculture and family and women promotion) and held meetings with literacy
providers. Another key feature of project preparation was the studies carried out to identify the
regions and literacy providers in the regions.

One issue that should have been better evaluated was that of the capacity and probity of literacy
providers. Although the PAD identified this capacity as a critical risk, a more thorough
assessment could have facilitated implementation and avoided some problems.

The appraisal mission of April 1999 was conducted by a Bank delegation with a good skills mix.
What is more, the peer reviewers were Bank staff highly experienced in literacy education.
Moreover, at it was mentioned in Sections 3.1 and 3.5, the project design was fully consistent
with the Bank's CAS for FY 98-00.

7.2 Supervision:


Unsatisfactory. The Bank's overall performance during implementation was unsatisfactory based
on two facts: (i) the lack of Bank staff continuity in project supervision (5 TTL in four years); (ii)
the PSR did not always reflect the gravity of the problems affecting the project. Both issues were
also pointed out by the QAG Supervision Assessment (QSA6) done in September 2004.




                                                 - 12 -

However, it is also important to note that the Bank provided high quality advice and support
when was possible to carry out field supervision missions and trough videoconferences when was
not possible to visit the country.A total of three field supervision missions were conducted.
However, no field supervision missions were conducted in FY03 and FY04, since the TTL could
not travel to Cote d'Ivoire for security reasons. The last two field-based supervision missions
took place in February 2002 and June 2002. These two missions identified key implementation
problems and suggested acceptable remedies to solve them: (i) strengthening of coordination
between the FNAA and the SAA; (ii) reinforcing training for providers; (iii) need for SOE review.
During FY03 and FFY04, ongoing contact with the Project was maintained through
videoconferences and by telephone.

QAS6 considered procurement supervision satisfactory. The country-based procurement specialist
provided oversight and was eventually able to organize an ex-post procurement review that
identified some problems. The financial management supervision was also satisfactory. The
financial management specialist provided good detailed analysis and reports (SOE and supervision
reports). The SOE report highlighted irregularities regarding the application of proper procedures
and controls for payments execution and expenditures. These issues were not always adequately
highlighted in the PSR.     However, management and country team were well aware of the extent
of the problems.

In terms of resolution on country portfolio under the described scenarios of suspension, the
country team held extensive discussions of the Bank's overall and project-specific strategic
options given the conflict, and arrived at sensible decisions in that circumstances. In this
connection, the Bank and the Government agreed to: (i) focus on six emergency projects designed
to support the Marcoussis Agreement; (ii) include in this emergency package a project designed
to restart the formal education system; and (iii) put all non-emergency projects in the portfolio,
including the PLP, "on hold" in the hope that hostilities would die down and they could be
re-activated subsequently. Cancellation of the PLP was rejected because the Bank and other
donors felt that it had to appear to remain engaged with this northern-focused project. In terms of
relations with donors, a cohesive coalition was formed to support education amidst the civil
unrest.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:


Satisfactory. In the face of the country conditions, the Bank provided valued support for project
preparation and consistently supervised the implementation. Concerning the portfolio
restructuring under suspension, the Bank's management decision was reasonable, considering the
need to remain engaged with this northern-focused project. This decision to handle the situation
by engaging with both sides of the conflict met with donor approval. One critically weak area of
the Bank's supervision was to allow the existence of five different TTLs during project
implementation, which is never the right signal to send to clients.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:


Satisfactory. The Borrower's overall performance during preparation was satisfactory. The



                                               - 13 -

Government had decided before project preparation to give priority to literacy provision. This
commitment was demonstrated by the inclusion of new literacy initiatives in the country strategy
(the National Poverty Alleviation Plan) and by the creation of the CNAL.

The Government was deeply involved in the preparation of the project. The Government
counterpart was the MENFB, which appointed a capable team at the SAA, which worked in a
climate of close collaboration with the Bank's team. Other stakeholders such as the other
ministries managing literacy programs, NGOs, community organizations, and current or
prospective literacy providers also participated in, and made their contribution to, the preparation
process. The MENFB played a key role in coordinating with the Bank to involve all these
participants.

7.5 Government implementation performance:


Unsatisfactory. As aforementioned in Section 5.2, the civil unrest gave rise to institutional
instability, which constrained decision making, slowed implementation and eroded ownership.
Major difficulties that were mainly attributable to the Government were: (i) delay in appointing
the director of the FNAA director and financial management coordinator; (ii) frequent changes in
leadership at MENFB; (iii) an inoperative CNAL (chaired by the vice minister and composed of
representatives of other ministries and municipal governments) which was also a signal of a lack
of ownership at higher levels of government. During the period the country was being split, the
Borrower reduced the attention given to the PLP following the decision to focus on the main
education project as one of the six emergency projects, given the deterioration in the security
situation.

A request for an extension of the closing date years was made by the Government of Cote
d'Ivoire and granted by the Bank (from December 31, 2002 to December 31, 2004). Thanks to
this extension it became possible to implement the literacy sub-projects in the southern regions.

7.6 Implementing Agency:


Satisfactory. Despite all the radically adverse conditions, the project team managed to complete
many project activities. However, greater pro-activity was desirable. Supervision reports indicate
that the project unit (FNAA) performed satisfactorily throughout the implementation phase,
displaying reasonable levels of competence and commitment. The FNAA had only two directors
and most of its staff remained the same throughout the implementation phase.

The project experienced some difficulties in financial management and procurement. In terms of
financial management, irregularities were observed regarding the application of Bank procedures
and control of payments and expenditures. A case in point was the inability to effect controls on
the use of funds from the first disbursement for the sub-project belonging to the northern
rebel-held areas. The Government affirmed that it was not possible to travel to these areas to
supervise, to conduct audits or to enforce the obligation of literacy providers to reimburse the
project. On the procurement side, the main difficulty was the lack of capacity at the FNAA and
insufficient coordination with procurement specialists at the MENFB's other project
implementation unit.


                                               - 14 -

As explained in Section 4.2, Component 3, the weakest aspect of the FNAA was the monitoring
and evaluation activities. The FNAA did not build enough capacity in this area and coordination
of field supervision arrangements with the SAA was plagued with major problems, even though
there were fewer difficulties during implementation of the PLP.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:


Unsatisfactory. Although the Borrower's performance during preparation was satisfactory and
the FNAA made efforts to keep the project under implementation, the institutional instability led
to insufficient support from the highest level of Government. Furthermore, evaluation fell short of
measuring some outcomes properly and the outputs achieved in terms of number of beneficiaries
trained were far short of the targeted goal.

8. Lessons Learned


Project specific lessons

(a) Ensure up-front political support and commitment: there has been a pronounced lack of
political support from MENFP and other high political levels for project implementation. This fact
was clearly demonstrated by the failure to activate CNAL, the body that was supposed to be in
charge of literacy policy and its overall follow-up. This lack of political leadership, in particular,
led to a worsening of the difficulties between the two governmental bodies in charge of the PLP
implementation, i.e. the FNAA and SAA. This resistance of SAA to the new approach can be
eliminated or eased only by means of strong political leadership.

(b) Avoid the creation of new and complex institutional arrangements upfront: the
experience of PLP proved the inconvenience of building new institutional and evaluation
arrangements upfront. Implementation arrangements developed on the basis of existing
institutions keep away from institutional conflicts (which become aggravated when there is lack of
strong political leadership).

(c) Pay closer attention to the "etudes du milieu:" studies to identify beneficiaries and their
characteristics ("etudes du milieu") and home in on the targeted population were considered
relevant in theory but, in fact, the studies did not reflect the reality in the field. The training of the
literacy providers, greater participation of beneficiaries, and close supervision are key
requirements for improving the quality of the studies.

(d) Improve the capacity of literacy providers: the program lacked an adequate assessment of
literacy providers. The experience of the PLP showed that most of them were not prepared to
formulate and manage the sub-projects. Therefore, strengthening training activities is crucial to
facilitating implementation and avoiding most of the problems experienced.

(e) Ensure training activities for teachers: the PLP has clearly demonstrated the weaknesses in
the basic training of teachers. Therefore, improvement in the quality and scope of training is a key



                                                 - 15 -

lesson to be taken into account in future operations to provide literacy services.

(f) Guarantee an adequate system of monitoring and evaluation: the capacities at the
decentralized units of the FNAA and the SAA (CARA and CIEPA) need to be boosted
significantly to ensure that they are in a position to monitor sub-project activities at all levels
(pedagogical, financial, statistical, and indicators as well).

(g) Adaptation of the Manual of Procedures: after the first round of sub-project selection, the
Borrower and the Bank agreed that some changes in the Manual of Procedures were needed to
adjust it to unexpected or country-specific circumstances, in particular, the aspects already
mentioned in Section 4.2, i.e., (i) the acquisition of books and material by the literacy provider
with responsibility entrusted to the FNAA for deciding which material is relevant; (ii) certification
of trainers in the various training methods; (iii) contracts between beneficiaries and literacy
providers to clarify roles and expectations involving the selection of providers.

Lessons for the Bank

(h) Ensure continuity of the TTL is crucial to sustaining proper policy dialogue and
implementation arrangements with the Government. Frequent changes in the TTL led to
inefficiencies in project supervision.

(i) Ensure that PSR ratings reflect the problems affecting the project: this was an
observation raised in the "Quality of Supervision Assessment" (QSA6). The report observed in
some specific cases that conclusions included in "Aide Memoires" and BTOR were not always
reflected in the PSR's ratings.

(j) Ensure that implementation unit ready before Board's approval: the experience of PLP
showed that the fact that FNAA's management team was not ready by the time the project was
approved led to a delay of almost a year.


9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:

The Borrower has provided the Bank with its own Implementation Report through the
implementing agency (MENFB/FNAA). It was formally received on May 13, 2005. Through this
report and seven videoconferences conducted with the FNAA, the SAA, literacy providers and
beneficiaries during preparation of this ICR, the Borrower has also provided substantial
comments, findings, data and feedback. A summary of main conclusions is presented as follows:

On Quality at Entry :

"Points forts : l'existence d'un Manuel de Procédures, la transparence, l'équité dans l'accès au
financement, l'émergence d'ONG, le renforcement des capacités des différents acteurs et
structures de gestion, l'adhésion des partenaires techniques et financiers, la demande récurrente de



                                                  - 16 -

formation complémentaire (formation en français), la maîtrise de la problématique et de la
pratique de l'alphabétisation fonctionnelle, le renforcement des communautés (création d'AGR,
ouverture de compte d'épargne, obtention de micros crédits, fréquentation des centres de
santé...)".

"Points faibles : les capacités des opérateurs limitées, l'insuffisance en nombre de spécialistes en
alphabétisation, l'insuffisance du caractère intégré de l'approche d'alphabétisation, l'absence de
moyens d'accompagnement aux bénéficiaires dans la conduite des activités génératrices de
revenus, l'absence de moyens d'appui pour le renforcement des capacités d'organisation et
d'autonomisation des bénéficiaires, la sensibilisation et la motivation insuffisantes des populations,
la faible appropriation du Projet par les communautés, les autorités administratives et politiques,
l'articulation insuffisante avec les autres programmes de développement, les mutations politiques,
institutionnelles et personnelles insuffisantes (réticence de certains acteurs du PPA à
l'appropriation de la nouvelle stratégie et à l'application du Manuel de Procédures)".

On Main Lessons Learned :

"Au niveau de l'organisation institutionnelle nous avons pu observer que le succès du Projet
reposait sur la volonté politique des décideurs et sur l'application et le respect des règles de
partenariat définies dans les Manuels de Procédures.La volonté politique des décideurs s'avère
nécessaire et le soutien politique fort du Ministère de l'Education Nationale, Ministère de tutelle
technique, est indéniable pour les structures chargées de l'exécution du Projet. Il s'agira pour le
Ministère de veiller à ce que l'Etat assure de manière pertinente, son rôle de concepteur, de
catalyseur des initiatives, de formateur, de régulateur et surtout de garant de la qualité. Il apparaît
donc opportun de : rendre effectives les différentes missions sur le terrain programmées pour le
Cabinet du Ministère de tutelle technique, rendre le CNAL opérationnel et plus actif afin de lui
permettre d'assumer pleinement son rôle d'espace de pilotage du Projet en vue d'identifier les
dysfonctionnements éventuels, de prendre les mesures correctives mais surtout d'anticiper les
problèmes, procéder à la révision du Manuel de Procédure du PPA et du Manuel des Procédures
Administratives, Financières et Comptables du FNAA, respecter et appliquer entièrement les
textes éditées par ces documents révisés, définir sans équivoque les tâches respectives de chaque
entité etc... "

"L'application et le respect des règles de partenariat : les incompréhensions qui ont subsisté
au niveau des acteurs (FNAA/SAA/Opérateurs) quant à leurs interactions telles que définies par
le schéma institutionnel et surtout les difficultés observées au niveau de la compréhension des
relations opérationnelles entre ces deux (02) structures clés du dispositif (FNAA et le SAA), ont
constitué un frein à l'exécution satisfaisante du Projet (les rapports entre le Coordonnateur
précédent et le Chef du SAA ont été dominés par des problèmes de leadership et de
prééminence de structure qui se sont traduits par une absence de franche collaboration et de
coordination des activités ainsi qu'une vision divergente dans la mise en oeuvre du PPA et une
résistance aux changements introduits par le Projet Pilote ; ceci, malgré la signature d'un
protocole d'accord) Il est capital que chaque acteur reconnaisse sa place, ses obligations et ses
droits et s'y conforme. Le CNAL doit mettre en oeuvre cette clé de répartition des responsabilités
dans toutes les actions du secteur".



                                                 - 17 -

"Au niveau technique, l'exécution du PPA a permis de réunir quelques éléments déterminants
dans le succès d'un programme d'alphabétisation fonctionnelle:"

"Une bonne étude du milieu : l'importance de l'étude du milieu dans la qualité de la formation
requiert une attention particulière pour comprendre les préoccupations des apprenants et en tenir
compte et maîtriser les données socio-économiques du milieu. L'étude du milieu doit être mise en
oeuvre par chaque opérateur selon sa zone dans une optique de formation intégrée. Chaque année
et en fonction des réalités du terrain, les Opérateurs devront bénéficier de formations pour
améliorer les études sectorielles, singulièrement, en ingénierie de formation et permettre aux
opérateurs de mieux maîtriser les outils d'identification des besoins de formation en milieu rural et
d'assurer ainsi une plus grande motivation des apprenants aux formations dispensées".

"Un programme de formation de qualité et consensuel : le programme de formation doit être
centré sur l'apprenant en tenant compte des données socio-économiques et culturelles du milieu
en vue de la pérennisation des acquis ; c'est pourquoi, le programme de formation doit être
conçu de façon consensuelle entre les Opérateurs et les Apprenants qui à cet effet, doivent être
organisés et recevoir des formations appropriées pour être à même de discuter librement et de
faire des choix judicieux. Le contenu du programme de formation doit entraîner la pérennisation
des acquis de telle sorte que l'alphabétisation et la post- alphabétisation soient conçues dans une
approche intégrée, en menant simultanément et de manière articulée les activités de formation
initiale et le développement d'un environnement lettré et d'activités génératrices de revenus. Les
faiblesses constatées dans le choix des animateurs des centres et dans leurs rendements posent le
problème de formation initiale et du recyclage permanent de ces animateurs. Il est donc indiqué de
voir comment positionner les structures spécialisées telles que l'ENS, l'IPNETP, la SIL, l'ILA
pour contribuer au renforcement des capacités des animateurs".

"Des matériels didactiques de qualité disponibles en quantité et à temps opportun :
l'absence ou l'insuffisance des matériels didactiques adaptés aux publics cibles influence la qualité
des apprentissages. La question des matériels didactiques demeure une préoccupation majeure
dans un secteur non formel où les contenus sont conçus à partir de l'identification des besoins en
formation des populations bénéficiaires. Il s'agira de rechercher les modalités de conception, de
production et de distribution des matériels didactiques et supports de lecture proposés".

"Un dispositif souple, équitable mais rigoureux de financement des activités : le dispositif de
financement des activités doit être facile à exploiter et adapté aux petits paiements et le délai de
paiement ne devrait pas dépasser 48 heurs. La sélection des requêtes doit être équitable et les
critères de sélection doivent être conçus de manière consensuelle entre l'Etat, les Opérateurs et les
bénéficiaires. Le Manuel de Procédures doit édicter, à propos de la sélection des requêtes, un
certain nombre d'activités interdites aux agents du FNAA, du SAA et aux membres du CAT pour
éviter des concurrences déloyales ou des délits d'initiés" .

"Un dispositif efficace de suivi, d'évaluation et de contrôle de qualité : la mise en place d'un
dispositif de suivi et d'évaluation pointu et efficace, avec des démembrements renforcés dans les
structures déconcentrées ou décentralisées, est nécessaire ; les capacités des agents des différentes



                                                - 18 -

structures chargées de la gestion du Projet, doivent continuellement être renforcées par des
formations, des voyages d'études, la participation aux séminaires et autres rencontres
d'échanges".

"Une organisation administrative et financière des sous-projets de qualité : nous avons noté
une administration quasi inexistante dans les sous-projets et une organisation comptable et
financière très faible qui explique d'ailleurs la mauvaise utilisation des subventions (non-respect
des lignes de crédit prévues au contrat, dépenses non conformes, dépenses non justifiées etc ...) .
Le renforcement des capacités organisationnelles des structures de gestion des opérateurs, par le
biais   de formations en organisation et administration des projets, s'impose pour aider les
sous-projets à améliorer le management de leurs unités de gestion et en comptabilité simplifiée en
vue les aider à mieux tenir leurs comptabilités".

"La systématisation de cadres de concertation : Il est indéniable de mettre en place et de
développer des cadres de concertation et de communication de manière systématique afin de
partager les informations et de recueillir les observations des acteurs en vue de proposer de façon
consensuelle des solutions aux difficultés identifiées, d'améliorer la stratégie adoptée et
d'atteindre les objectifs fixé".

On Impact of PLP

"Parmi les indicateurs de performance, l'impact sur le développement occupe une place
importante. C'est pourquoi le Projet avait prévu l'étude d'impact socio-économique avant,
pendant et après sa mise en oeuvre mais qui n'a pu se réaliser. Cependant, les résultats obtenus
dans les deux (02) zones restées en activité sur les cinq (05) ciblées, ont permis de montrer une
capitalisation des expériences acquises tout au long de l'exécution du Projet".

"Au plan politique,         le PPA a contribué à la mise en oeuvre de la Politique Nationale
d'Alphabétisation adoptée au en 1997, à la promotion des langues nationales et à la réduction du
taux d'analphabétisme avec la prise en charge de quatorze mille quatre cent (14 400) personnes
des zones ciblées dont six mille quatorze (6014) effectivement alphabétisés, au terme des
apprentissages, à la mise en place du FNAA, en tant que structure d'exécution et de gestion de
projet de développement, viable et fiable et guichet unique chargé de financer tous les projets
d'alphabétisation présentés par les Opérateurs quel que soit leur secteur d'intervention, crédibilise
l'alphabétisation fonctionnelle des adultes et fournit un modèle de montage institutionnel et de
mise en oeuvre d'un programme pertinent et efficace, permet de lever les réserves et hypothèques
auprès des Bailleurs de fonds à propos de l'efficacité des actions d'alphabétisation comparées aux
efforts de scolarisation, assure un accès démocratique et équitable à des fonds publics".

"Au plan technique, le PPA a permis la formation d'une équipe centrale FNAA/SAA de
suivi-évaluation opérationnelle, apte à poursuivre le Projet et à le pérenniser, a contribué au
renforcement des capacités des acteurs du secteur et a permis de disposer de personnes ressources
outillées en suivi-évaluation, en conception et élaboration de fiches de collecte de données, a
fonctionné sur la base de la transparence et de l'équité avec la mise en place d'un système de
sélection et de financement des opérateurs en alphabétisation notamment le Comité d'Analyse



                                                - 19 -

Technique (CAT) ouvert à toutes les parties et chargé d'évaluer les requêtes, a permis
l'identification des besoins non satisfaits à prendre en charge dans une perspective de
rationalisation des interventions et de moralisation de l'utilisation des ressources, l'ébauche d'une
base de données sur le secteur de l'alphabétisation en Côte d'Ivoire, disponible pour deux (02)
zones mais qui pourra être poursuivie sur l'ensemble du territoire car les outils d'évaluation sont
connus et maîtrisés et les Agents du SAA formés".

"Au niveau des Opérateurs, le PPA a contribué au renforcement des capacités des Opérateurs
qui accompagnent la Projet sur le plan technique (formation en andragogie, en suivi-évaluation, en
étude du milieu, en gestion etc...), matériel et humain, a favorisé la création du Réseau
National des Opérateurs en Alphabétisation de Côte d'Ivoire (RENOPACI) qui s'est assigné
comme objectifs de renforcer les capacités de ses membres, de développer l'alphabétisation en
Côte d'Ivoire, de défendre les intérêts des opérateurs membres et de rechercher des financements
pour d'autres projets et l'émergence d'autres acteurs d'alphabétisation à côté de l'Etat comme les
Associations Villageoises, les Mutuelles de Développement, les ONG".

"Au niveau des Bénéficiaires, en attendant la réalisation d'une véritable étude d'impact, les
effets des formations montrent un impact positif sur les populations bénéficiaires qui se
manifeste par : la mise en place d'activités génératrices de revenus (prestation de service, champs
de vivriers, maraîchers, élevage de volaille, fabrication de savon etc...), les changements de
comportement dans leur vie et l'amélioration de leur cadre de vie (fréquentation régulière des
centres de santé, hygiène corporelle et environnementale etc...), l'amélioration de la nutrition de
l'enfant, une meilleure perception de l'image des femmes par elles-mêmes et de leurs potentialités,
le contact avec les structures modernes de micro finances à travers l'ouverture de compte
bancaire et/ou d'épargne et l'obtention de crédits, l'effort d'organisation économique par la
constitution de coopérative et d'Organisations Professionnelles Agricoles (OPA), l'acquisition du
goût de l'apprentissage par les demandes récurrentes de formation complémentaires en français.
La pérennisation de l'impact du Projet sur les populations bénéficiaires dépend en grande partie de
la mise en oeuvre des activités de la post-alphabétisation".

On Bank Performance

"Principales décisions ayant favorisé l'exécution du Projet : l'acceptation du versement
partiel de la contre partie ivoirienne, l'ouverture du Compte Spécial à la Caisse Autonome
d'Amortissement       (CAA)     aujourd'hui     Banque      Nationale     d'Investissement    (BNI),
l'approvisionnement régulier et la disponibilité du Compte Spécial ont permis le démarrage et la
mise en oeuvre effectifs des activités de formation sur le terrain par le payement des subventions
aux Opérateurs, la prorogation de la date de clôture du Projet jusqu'au 31 décembre 2004 au lieu
du 30 juin 2002 prévu contractuellement".




                                                - 20 -

"Principales décisions ayant freiné l'exécution du Projet : la prorogation de la date de clôture
du Projet sans tenir compte des effets induits notamment une augmentation des coûts des intrants
et un surcoût des charges de fonctionnement ; l'obtention obligatoire de l'avis de non objection de
la Banque pour l'exécution de toutes les activités même celles contenues dans le Plan Annuel
d'Activités (PAA) adopté par le Comité de Gestion du FNAA et approuvé par l'IDA ; les
suspensions de décaissements de l'IDA consécutives aux différentes crises que connaît la Côte
d'Ivoire depuis décembre 1999, ont lourdement pénalisé le rythme d'exécution du Projet (ainsi
pendant près de 18 mois, le Projet n'a pu avoir accès au financement de la Banque et les activités
de post-alphabétisation de la 1ère cohorte des zones du Bas-Sassandra et du Zanzan, n'ont pu se
réaliser, à la suite de la suspension de décaissements en vigueur depuis juin 2004) ; les
changements importants introduits dans le recours à l'expertise extérieure par le biais de
recrutement de consultant pour la réalisation de certaines activités et l'instabilité au niveau de
l'équipe d'encadrement du Projet au sein de la Banque".

"Suivi du Projet par la Banque Mondiale : le suivi au niveau de la Banque était assuré par le
Responsable du Projet résidant à Washington et par le Bureau local à Abidjan pour un appui
technique. Le suivi s'est fait par le biais de rapports, conformément à l'Accord de Crédit en son
Annexe IV, Section 1 ­3.b et 4. Le suivi du Projet par la Banque s'est traduit également par des
rapports d'audits annuels produits par le Cabinet commis à cette tâche. Les observations et
recommandations pertinentes résultant de ces rapports ont permis au FNAA de mettre en oeuvre
des mesures correctives afin de résoudre les faiblesses relevées. Néanmoins, l'application de
certaines de ces recommandations, a quelquefois bouleversé le déroulement des opérations,
notamment : la décision du recours au recrutement de consultants pour les formations, intervenue
seulement en 2002 alors qu'auparavant, il avait été admis que certaines formations soient faites
par des agents du SAA et du CNAL, le remplacement des ONG défaillantes proposé lors de la
mission de la Banque du 03 au 12 février 2004 sur l'examen des justificatifs des états certifiés qui
nécessitaient la révision du Manuel de Procédures. Il faut signaler que la revue à mi-parcours,
indispensable dans un projet d'innovations majeures comme le PPA, qui permet de corriger les
faiblesses pour mieux relancer les activités en vue d'une meilleure atteinte des objectifs, n'a pas
été effectuée ; la Banque qui devait superviser cette activité, n'a pas réagi aux nombreuses
sollicitations du Coordonnateur sur ce sujet. La revue à mi-parcours aurait permis la révision du
Manuel de Procédures du PPA dont certains aspects ne conviennent pas à la réalité du terrain".


"Changements de responsables : l'instabilité, au niveau de l'équipe d'encadrement du Projet à
la Banque, a été préjudiciable à l'exécution du projet dans la mesure où son caractère novateur
nécessitait un suivi constant et un dialogue permanent et fluide ; tel n'a pas été le cas . De 1999 à
la fin du Projet, au moins 04 équipes de suivi de la Banque se sont succédé à la tête du Projet ; le
dernier Responsable, en la personne de M. Michaël DRABBLE, n'a malheureusement pas eu la
possibilité d'effectuer des missions de supervision jusqu'à la clôture du Projet, compte tenu de la
situation d'insécurité de notre pays".


"Missions de suivi et de consultations : de façon générale les missions de suivi et de
consultations s'opéraient chaque semestre soit deux fois dans l'année. Les conséquences des
évènements de décembre 1999 avaient fortement perturbé leur fréquence. Ces missions de


                                                - 21 -

supervision de la Banque qui avaient bien redémarré en 2001 après la levée des restrictions
financières, se sont pratiquement interrompues depuis la dernière mission de juin 2002, à cause de
la situation de crise sociale et politique du pays. Depuis lors, la Banque a initié deux missions : du
03 au 12 février 2004 portant sur l'examen des justificatifs des états certifiés, le 02 mars 2005 par
M. DAKPO de la représentation d'Abidjan, portant sur la revue des procédures de passation de
marchés du FNAA et de classement des pièces comptables suivant les règles de l'IDA. Cette
irrégularité dans les missions de terrain par la Banque a donné l'image d'un suivi trop à distance,
dénué de véritables relations compte tenu de l'éloignement des Responsables du Projet résidant à
Washington .La représentation locale de la Banque à Abidjan qui devrait pouvoir suppléer cette
absence, est demeurée à notre sens, trop liée aux décisions ou accords préalables du Siége sans un
véritable poids de décision malgré l'assistance technique qu'elle a apporté".


"Principales leçons à tirer: Les tensions politiques intervenues en Côte d'Ivoire depuis 1999, les
différentes suspensions de décaissements de la Banque, les changements importants introduits
dans le recours à l'expertise extérieure par le biais de recrutement de consultants, l'absence de la
revue à mi-parcours, la non révision du Manuel de Procédures et les changements incessants du
responsable de Projet, l'irrégularité des missions de supervision, ont constitué des incertitudes
conjoncturelles qui ont fortement freiné l'exécution du PPA. Cependant, nous pouvons retenir un
certain nombre d'éléments nécessaires à la bonne conduite du Projet: la maîtrise des
procédures de la Banque et singulièrement celle des passations des marchés est capitale dans la
conduite d'un projet d'une telle envergure. Le FNAA devra impérativement procéder au
recrutement d'un spécialiste en la matière ou former un de ses agents pour en assurer la charge ;
le FNAA devra également assurer la formation de ses agents afin de leur permettre d'acquérir les
aptitudes en vue de piloter le processus de support administratif des projets et de préparer les
documents exigés par la Banque et les autres bailleurs de fonds, notamment les différents rapports
de suivi des activités, des marchés et des engagements financiers ; le suivi des missions de
supervision et la stabilité des responsables de projet rendraient constantes les relations et plus
efficientes les observations et recommandations, rapprocheraient davantage les responsables de la
Banque et les gestionnaires du Projet ; l'envoi d'une délégation ivoirienne à Washington était
importante pour discuter des stratégies de réalisation de la revue à mi-parcours, participer à des
rencontres formelles et à des débats techniques avec les experts de la Banque et rencontrer les
responsables du Projet ; la mise en place d'un mécanisme plus souple de recrutement de
consultant qui permettrait d'utiliser effectivement les compétences nationales et d'associer
étroitement les institutions spécialisées identifiées dans le cadre des projets ; la réalisation de la
revue à mi-parcours et la révision du Manuel de Procédures qui en découlaient, sont capitales
pour le déroulement d'un projet. Dans l'avenir, il faudrait également permettre à la partie
ivoirienne et aux représentants de la Banque à Abidjan de conduire de telles activités en cas
d'urgence et d'indisponibilité des responsables de Washington ; la réduction du délai d'attente de
l'obtention de l'avis de non objection. A cet effet, il est nécessaire de trouver un mécanisme plus
souple permettant à la Représentation de la Banque à Abidjan d'accorder cet avis concernant un
certain nombre d'activités contenues dans le Plan Annuel d'Activités approuvé par l'IDA et dont
l'exécution requiert une promptitude dans la réponse".




                                                 - 22 -

On Government Performance :


"Principales décisions ayant favorisé l'exécution du Projet : la Côte d'Ivoire a
progressivement rempli les conditions éditées par l'Accord de Crédit en son articleVI pour
permettre la mise en vigueur effective du Crédit : le Compte du Projet a été effectivement ouvert
à la Caisse Autonome de l'Amortissement (CAA) aujourd'hui Banque Nationale d'Investissement
(BNI) cependant, face aux difficultés de trésorerie pour son approvisionnement et avec l'accord
de la Banque, le Gouvernement a versé le 31 mai 2000, la somme de cent cinquante millions (150
000 000) de francs CFA soit la moitié ; ce montant a servi à mettre en place les structures du
FNAA, à les rendre opérationnelles et à assurer des activités de formation (utilisation du Manuel
de Procédure du PPA, étude du milieu) indispensables au démarrage du Projet. L'autre moitié de
la contrepartie ivoirienne a été payée en 2001 ; les premiers Coordonnateur et Agent Comptable
ont été nommés ; le Manuel de Procédures Administratives, Financières et Comptables a été
réalisé par le Cabinet OM Consulting qui apporte également une assistance comptable au FNAA
avec l'aval de l'IDA pour la fourniture du logiciel de gestion comptable ; le cabinet Price Water
House Coopers a été engagé en vue d'assurer le service d'audit financier".

"De plus le Gouvernement a procédé au lancement officiel du PPA par la Primature le 13
septembre 1999, à l'édition du Manuel de Procédure du PPA, des livrets de l'animateur et du
superviseur, à la mise en place du FNAA (acquisition et équipement du siège, élaboration des
textes et règlements de fonctionnement, recrutement des agents, mise en place du Comité de
gestion, acquisition de moyens logistiques etc...) et à la création des antennes d'alphabétisation
dans les DREN et IEP. Malgré les difficultés économiques, le Gouvernement a fait d'énormes
efforts pour la mise à disposition du FNAA de la totalité des fonds de contrepartie prévus sur les
budgets, qui ont permis d'atténuer bien des fois, les effets de la suspension des décaissements, sur
l'exécution du Projet".

"Principales décisions ayant freiné l'exécution du Projet : la lenteur dans les relations
épistolaires et la lourdeur administrative, ont retardé l'ouverture et l'alimentation du Compte
Spécial du Projet qui aurait dû intervenir au mois d'octobre 2000 ; le manque de célérité dans la
prise de décision face à la situation de conflit de compétence entre les responsables du FNAA et
du SAA, les deux (02) structures clés du dispositif de suivi et d'évaluation du Projet qui a perduré
jusqu'en mai 2004 avec le relèvement des deux (02) responsables de leurs fonctions sur décision
du MEN et leur remplacement par de nouvelles personnes ; le FNAA a connu une instabilité au
niveau des agents comptables (quatre agents se sont succédé à la tête du Service des Finances et
de la Comptabilité). Cette rotation a retardé la compréhension et la maîtrise des procédures de
gestion".

"Difficultés de la trésorerie et de la contrepartie du Gouvernement : comme nous l'avons
déjà signifié, le Projet est né dans un contexte politique, social et économique difficile, marqué par
la rupture avec les Institutions Financières Internationales et la suspension des décaissements de la
Banque. Dès lors, la Côte d'Ivoire a été confronté à des difficultés de trésorerie qui se sont
traduites par : l'incapacité de l'Etat de Côte d'Ivoire à honorer en totalité la contrepartie
nécessaire à la mise en vigueur du Crédit IDA, d'où le payement de cent cinquante millions (150
000 000) de francs CFA sur les trois cent millions (300 000 000) de francs CFA, l'insolvabilité de


                                                 - 23 -

l'Etat de CI vis à vis de la Banque qui a provoqué la suspension des décaissements dont les
conséquences sur l'exécution du projet ont été déplorables, les retards dans les transferts annuels
en capital sur le compte du Projet, les écarts dans la mobilisation des ressources budgétisées et par
la baisse de l'intervention de l'Etat de Côte d'Ivoire, d'année en année. Malgré ces difficultés, le
FNAA a bénéficié de transferts annuels par le Budget sous forme de crédit d'investissement. Au
total, la contrepartie ivoirienne s'élève à ce jour à cinq cent soixante quinze millions dix mille (575
000 000) f CFA). Il est à noter que les difficultés de trésorerie ont été atténuées par la prudence
dans la gestion qui a permis de faire face à toutes les dépenses et de régler les charges. Le
remboursement régulier des DRF a soulagé les finances du Projet et a mis le FNAA à l'abri de
toute menace de cessation de payement. Les dépenses de fonctionnement ont toutes été ainsi
honorées".

"Suivi du Projet au niveau du Ministère de tutelle et de l'Agence d'exécution : depuis
septembre 2002, les activités techniques du Projet sont réduites et les actions de suivi se sont
limitées seulement à la première cohorte des zones du Bas-Sassandra et du Zanzan, restées en
activités. Il convient toutefois, d'insister sur certains points : la certification des dépenses des
Opérateurs s'est effectuée par des vérificateurs indépendants recrutés à cet effet. Cependant, l'on
note que les certificateurs ont essentiellement axé leurs missions sur le contrôle de gestion des
comptes des Opérateurs en omettant le volet important de l'assistance technique en gestion
financière qu'ils devraient leur apporter. La présentation des rapports de certification a révélé
quelque fois des insuffisances qui rendent leur exploitation fastidieuse, un format de rapport
n'ayant pas été défini au départ ; l'absence des Représentants des bénéficiaires dont l'association
n'a pas encore vu le jour au niveau du Comité de Gestion (CG) du FNAA ; la clarification de la
compréhension des attributions et des rôles voire les limites des compétences du Service du Suivi
et de l'Evaluation pour permettre une bonne coordination des actions des différents services du
FNAA ; l'amélioration des outils de contrôles financiers des sous-projets en usage, méritent d'être
peaufinés afin de disposer d'outils plus élaborés et mieux appropriés ; l'absence de formation en
gestion, en suivi financier et économique des projets, a constitué un handicap sérieux dans la
performance des agents du FNAA en général et en particulier ceux du Service du Suivi et de
l'Evaluation".

"Changements de Gouvernement et ses conséquences sur le suivi du Projet : avec les
évènements que connaît la Côte d'Ivoire depuis décembre 1999, plusieurs Gouvernements ont vu
le jour. Cette succession de Gouvernements a eu un impact défavorable sur le suivi du Projet. Les
changements de Gouvernement ont engendré une mutation des personnels et surtout le départ des
concepteurs du Projet au niveau politique. Le Projet n'a donc plus bénéficié de l'unité de vision
indispensable à sa mise en oeuvre et de l'importance qui devrait lui être accordée. Les
changements de Gouvernement ont eu également pour conséquence, la paralysie du CNAL... "

(b) Cofinanciers:
Not Applicable

(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):




                                                  - 24 -

10. Additional Information


ICR Team:
Marcelo Becerra, ICR Task Team Leader, (Education Specialist, AFTH3)

Comments received from:
Michael Drabble, Education Specialist, AFTH2
Benoit Millot, Lead Education Specialist, AFTH2
Rachidi Radji, Senior Human Development Specialist, AFTH2
Daniele Jaekel, Operations Analyst, AFTH3
Michel Welmond, Senior Education Economist, MNSHD (Peer Review)
Bjorn-Harald Nordveit, AFTHD (Peer Review)
Evelyn Kennedy, Operations Analyst, AFFCI
Wolfgang Chadab, Finance Officer, LOAG2
Lourdes Lagaran, Operations Officer AFTOS




                                            - 25 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

Outcome / Impact Indicators:
                                                                          1
                Indicator/Matrix                      Projected in last PSR                    Actual/Latest Estimate
Number of days needed for selecting and      45                                       65
processing literacy sub-projects by FNAA
Number of days needed to effectively pay     30                                       180
invoices received from literacy providers and
NGOs by FNAA
Percentage of graduates achieving literacy   70%                                      61%
Percentage of quality literacy sub-projects  80%                                      43%
effectively delivered by NGOs


Output Indicators:
                                                                          1
                Indicator/Matrix                      Projected in last PSR                    Actual/Latest Estimate
Number of beneficiaries of literacy program  30,000                                   6,014
(cumulative)
Percentage of women/girls among              75%                                      78%
beneficiaries of literacy program
Cost per Beneficiary                         CFA 55,600                               CFA 53,000 (*)
Cost per Graduate                            CFA 79,000                               CFA 75,492 (*)

1End of project
(*) Excluding first tranche disbursement to the sub-project non implemented in the three Northern regions




                                                             - 26 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                    Appraisal      Actual/Latest Percentage of
                                                                    Estimate        Estimate      Appraisal
                          Component                                US$ million     US$ million
1.Testing functional literacy programs                                  3.20             0.75            23
2. Developing and testing post-literacy                                 0.50             0.00             0
3.Management, supervision, and evaluation                               2.00             1.99            99

Total Baseline Cost                                                     5.70             2.74
                             Total Project Costs                        5.70             2.74
                     Total Financing Required                           5.70             2.74


Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                               1
                                                     Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category                 ICB              NCB                    2        N.B.F.   Total Cost
                                                                           Other
1. Works                                 0.00             0.00              0.00          0.00        0.00
                                        (0.00)           (0.00)             (0.00)        (0.00)     (0.00)
2. Goods                                 0.00             0.20              0.10          0.00        0.30
                                        (0.00)           (0.17)             (0.08)        (0.00)     (0.25)
3. Services                              0.00             0.00              0.60          0.00        0.60
                                        (0.00)           (0.00)             (0.60)        (0.00)     (0.60)
4. Grants for sub-projects               0.00             0.00              3.60          0.00        3.60
                                        (0.00)           (0.00)             (3.40)        (0.00)     (3.40)
5. Vehicules                             0.00             0.20              0.10          0.00        0.30
                                        (0.00)           (0.12)             (0.06)        (0.00)     (0.18)
6. Training and Operating                0.00             0.00              0.80          0.00        0.80
Cost                                    (0.00)           (0.00)             (0.60)        (0.00)     (0.60)
   Total                                 0.00             0.40              5.20          0.00        5.60
                                        (0.00)           (0.29)             (4.74)        (0.00)     (5.03)
Note: in (6) "Training": 0.5 (0.3) and "Incremental Operating Cost": 0.5 (0.3)




                                                      - 27 -

    Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                    1
                                                          Procurement Method
         Expenditure Category               ICB               NCB                      2         N.B.F.         Total Cost
                                                                                Other
    1. Works                                0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
                                           (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
    2. Goods                                0.00               0.00              0.34             0.00              0.34
                                           (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.23)            (0.00)           (0.23)
    3. Services                             0.00               0.00              0.11             0.00              0.11
                                           (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.11)            (0.00)           (0.11)
    4. Grants for sub-projects              0.00               0.00              0.75             0.00              0.75
                                           (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.75)            (0.00)           (0.75)
    5. Vehicules                            0.00               0.29              0.00             0.00              0.29
                                           (0.00)             (0.17)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.17)
    6. Training and Operating               0.00               0.00              1.25             0.00              1.25
    Cost                                   (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.55)            (0.00)           (0.55)
        Total                               0.00               0.29              2.45             0.00              2.74
                                           (0.00)             (0.17)            (1.64)            (0.00)           (1.81)
    Note : in (6) Training 0.15 (0.15) and Operating Cost 1.11 (0.4). The Table excludes 0.12 of negative balance of
    the Special Account
     1/Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the IDA Credit. All costs include contingencies.

     2/Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
       of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
       managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.



Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                                       Percentage of Appraisal
        Component                   Appraisal Estimate                  Actual/Latest Estimate
                                 IDA        Govt.        CoF.         IDA          Govt.      CoF.       IDA      Govt.     CoF.
1. Testing functional            3.00        0.20                     0.75         0.00                  25.0      0.0
literacy programs
Developing and testing           0.40        0.10                     0.00         0.00                   0.0      0.0
post-literacy strategies
Management, supervision,         1.60        0.40                     1.07         0.92                  66.9     230.0
and evaluation




                                                           - 28 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

Not Aplicable




                                      - 29 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty            Performance Rating
                                     (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)    Implementation Development
                   Month/Year  Count           Specialty                   Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              06/03/1998                5    SENIOR EDUCATION                 S               S
                                             PLANNER/MISSION LEADER
                                             (1)
                                             SPECIALIST IN EDUCATION
                                             POLICY AND MANAGEMENT
                                             (1)
                                             HUMAN DEVELOPMENT
                                             ECONOMIST (1)
                                             IMPLEMENTATION
                                             SPECIALIST (1)
                                             LANGUAGE TEAM
                                             ASSISTANCE (1)




 Appraisal/Negotiation
              04/30/1999                5    SENIOR EDUCATION                 S               S
                                             PLANNER/MISSION
                                             LEADER (1)
                                             SPECIALIST IN
                                             EDUCATION POLICY
                                             AND MANAGEMENT (1)
                                             HUMAN DEVELOPMENT
                                             ECONOMIST (1)
                                             IMPLEMENTATION
                                             SPECIALIST (1)
                                             LANGUAGE TEAM
                                             ASSISTANCE (1)


 Supervision
              12/21/1999                1    TASK TEAM LEADER (1)             S               S
              02/15/2002                4    MISSION LEADER (ECON)            S               S
                                             (1); FINANCIAL SPEC. (1);
                                             PROCUREMENT SPEC. (1);
                                             LITERACY SPEC. (1)
              06/12/02                  4    TASK TEAM LEADER (1)             S               S
                                             OPERATIONS ANALYST (1)
                                             FINANCIAL ANALIST (1)
                                             DISBURSEMENT SPECIALIST
                                             (1)


 ICR




                                              - 30 -

(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                       Actual/Latest Estimate
                                        No. Staff weeks                 US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation
  Appraisal/Negotiation                          n/a                       186 (*)
  Supervision                                     37                          240
  ICR                                              5                            7
  Total                                          n/a                          433
(*) Includes Identification/Preparation




                                                   - 31 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 32 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 33 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents


The Documents prepared by (or for) the Executing agencies includes:

- Rapport d'Achevement du PPA (May 2005)
- Rapport de la mision du 27 janvier au 12 fevrier 2004 (February 2004).
- Annuaire Statistique sur l'alphabetisation en Coted'Ivoire edition 2003 (October 2004).
- Elaboration des outils d'evalaution des connaissances (January 2004).
- Rapport d'activite du Projet Pilot d'Alphabetisation au 31/12/03 (December 2004)


The Documents prepared by the Bank and other donors include the following:

- Project Appraissal Document (PAD) for Pilot Literacy Project.
- Legal Agreement of Pilot Literacy Project.
- "Aide Memoire" of Pilot Literacy Project's missions from 1999 to 2004.
- Back to Office Reports 1999 to 2004.
- Project Status Reports of Pilot Literacy Project.(From #1 to #12)
- Recent Development in Non-Formal Education. Implications for the Cote d'Ivoire (May 1998).
- Mission de Reconnaissance en Matière de l'Alphabétisation: Note technique.




                                                - 34 -

- 35 -

