Report No. PID8009
Project Name                     Cote d'Ivoire-Pilot Female Literacy Project
Region                           Africa
Sector                           Education
Project ID                       CIPE55073
Borrower                         Republic of Cote d'Ivoire
Implementing Agencies            Ministry of National Education and Basic
Training
Date PID Prepared                March 29, 1999
Projected Appraisal              May 12, 1999
Board Date                       June 24, 1999
1.      Country and Sector Context
In 1995, an estimated 36.8 per cent of the population fell below the
poverty line, three times the percentage in 1985. With recession, primary
school enrollments have stagnated, reaching only a net rate of 51 per cent (45
per cent female) in 1997 despite high costs (largely attributable to high
salaries). The direct and opportunity costs associated with schooling limit
the participation of the poor so that 30 per cent of the poorest children
attend school. Enrollment varies considerably between urban and rural areas
and by region - 73 per cent in Abidjan, 55 per cent in other urban areas, 40
per cent in the forest zones, and 26 per cent in the Savannah (North).
Government spends about CFAF 23,000 per student in urban areas and only CFAF
10,000 in rural areas. Adult illiteracy is estimated at 50 per cent (about 5
million adults), and 68 per cent for women. The national poverty reduction
plan suggests that the most promising strategy to reduce poverty blends
measures to sustain economic growth, ease poverty in the short run, and attack
long term poverty constraints through broad investments in human capital. For
the latter, the Ivory Coast has decided to pursue a strategy which combines
increased access to better quality primary education and developing a literacy
initiative for adults between 15-40 year old, particularly women in rural
areas.
2.      Project Objectives
The project would develop and test effective arrangements for the
delivery of demand driven adult functional literacy programs of acceptable
quality through non-governmental providers for young women, in rural areas
with a high prevalence of poverty.
3.      Project Description
The project will test procedures and systems for the submission and
evaluation of sub-projects, evaluating provider capacity, contract and
financial management, and supervision and evaluation. Technical support will
be provided through collaborative arrangements between in-country resource
institutions and providers.



4.      Project Financing
The project is estimated to cost US$ 5.8 million over the three year
pilot period with IDA financing US $ 5.0 million, providers/beneficiaries US$
0.2 million and Government US$ 0.6 million.
5.      Implementation
The executing agency for the project is the Literacy Fund under the
tutelle of the Ministry of National Education and Basic Training. The National
Committee for Literacy oversees the planning and results of the project. The
Literacy Service of the Ministry of National Education is responsible for
pedagogical supervision and ensuring program evaluation.
6.      Benefits and Risks
In addition to reaching 30,000 young rural women with functional
literacy programs, the principal benefits of the project would be the lessons
learned which will assist in planning for scaling up the program. The main
risks are: (a) probable resistance from civil servants to this decentralized
approach to program delivery, (b) insufficient interest on the part of
providers to work within a government program, (c) the capacity of providers
to offer effective programs and to expand operations while maintaining quality
may not be sufficient, and (d) learning materials may not be available in
adequate quality and number.
7.      Sustainability
The project's approach is based on the premise that NGOs and other
independent operators can take the lead in identifying needs and delivering
programs, obviating the need for new and costly Government delivery
structures. The proposed M&E system will monitor costs and effectiveness and
disseminate best practice to participating operators, effectively reducing
their start-up and operating costs. However, long term sustainability will
depend on Cote d'Ivoire 's commitment to poverty reduction.
8.      Lessons learned from past operations in the country
This is a learning an innovation credit. There has been no other
similar project from which lesson can be drawn.
9.      Poverty Category
This project is targeted towards young women in areas where poverty is
highest and girl's school enrollment is lowest.
10.     Environmental Aspects
C Rating: The project is not expected to have any negative effects
11.     Program Objective Categories
The proposed project corresponds to the human resource development and
poverty alleviation objectives of the Government.
- 2-



Contact Point
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone No. (202)458 5454
Fax No. (202) 522 1500
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain activities and/or
components may not be included in the final project.
Processed by the InfoShop week ending August 6, 1999.
- 3 -



