Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 3275 IVC
Development Credit Agreement
(Pilot Literacy Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF COTE D`IVOIRE
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated August 5, 1999
CREDIT NUMBER 3275 IVC 
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT, dated August 5, 1999, between REPUBLIC OF COTE D’IVOIRE (the 
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association). 
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Association to assist in the financing of the Project;  
(B) the Association has received a letter, dated January 28, 1998, from the 
Borrower, describing a program of actions, objectives and policies designed to 
strengthen the performance of the Borrower’s Literacy Programs (the Program), and 
declaring the Borrower’s commitment to the execution of the Program; and 
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, 
to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I 
General Conditions; Definitions 
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Page  2
Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985 (as amended through December 2, 
1997) (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings: 
(a)
“Beneficiary” means an individual, or a group of individuals, to whom, or 
for whose benefit, a Subproject (as hereinafter defined) is being carried out or 
proposed to be carried out; 
(b)
“CAA” means Caisse Autonome d’Amortissement, a public enterprise of the 
Borrower established and operating pursuant to Decree No. 98/11, dated January 14, 
1998; 
(c)
“CEPRASS” means Centre pour les Etudes Prospectives Appliquées aux 
Sciences Sociales established and operating under the laws of the Borrower; 
(d)
“CIDT” means Compagnie Ivorienne des Textiles established and operating 
under the laws of the Borrower; 
(e)
“CIRES” means Centre Ivoirien de Recherches Economiques et Sociales 
established and operating under the laws of the Borrower; 
(f)
“CNAL” means Comité National pour l'Alphabétisation, established and 
operating pursuant to Decree No. 98/184 of the Borrower, dated April 30, 1998;
(g)
“FCFA” or Franc de la Communauté Financière Africaine means the currency 
of the Borrower; 
(h)
“FNAA" means Fonds National d’Appui à l' Alphabétisation established and 
operating pursuant to Decree No. 99/400, dated June 4, 1999, of the Borrower; 
(i)
“Grant” means a grant made, or proposed to be made, to a Literacy 
Provider out of the proceeds of the Credit to finance a Subproject; 
(j)
“ILA” means Institut de Linguistique Appliquée established and operating 
under the laws of the Borrower; 
(k)
“Initial Deposit” means an amount in FCFA equivalent to US$300,000 
referred to in Section 3.03 (b) of this Agreement; 
(l)
“INS” means Institut National de la Statistique established and operating 
under the laws of the Borrower; 
(m)
“Literacy Provider” means a committee, association, non-governmental 
organization, enterprise, youth, women or a producers’ group that organizes or 
provides literacy programs to Beneficiaries; 
(n)
“Management Committee” means a local management committee to be 
established pursuant to paragraph 2 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement;
(o)
“Manual of Procedures” means the Manual of Procedures adopted by the 
Borrower on May 25, 1999, in form and substance satisfactory to the Association, 
containing, inter alia, work plans, monitoring and performance indicators and 
outlining the procurement, disbursement, administrative, financial and other 
arrangements for the implementation of the Project, as the same may be amended from 
time to time in consultation with the Association, and such term includes any 
schedules to the Manual of Procedures; 
(p)
“Network of Resource Institutions” means local research and development 
institutions selected in accordance with criteria set out in the Manual of Procedures 
for participation in the Project, including CIRES, INS, CEPRASS, SILS, ILA and CIDT; 
(q)
“Project Account” means the account referred to in Section 3.03 of this 
Agreement;  
Page  3
(r)
“Project Management Report” means each of the Project management reports 
referred to in Section 4.02 of this Agreement; 
(s)
“Project Year” means any 12-month period beginning from the Effective 
Date and ending 12 months thereafter and each successive 12-month period following 
thereafter;
(t)
“SAA” means Service Autonome de l’Alphabétisation, established and 
operating under the laws of the Borrower; 
(u)
“Second National Agricultural Services Support Project” means the project 
described in the Development Credit Agreement (Credit No. 3117 IVC) dated September 
18, 1998 between the Borrower and the Association; 
(v)
“SILS” means Summer Linguistics Institute, established and operating 
under the laws of the Borrower; 
(w)
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement; 
(x)
“Subproject Agreement” means an agreement to be entered into between the 
Borrower and a Literacy Provider for the carrying out of a Subproject; and 
(y)
“Subproject" means a specific development activity to promote literacy, 
financed, or proposed to be financed, under the Project through a Grant. 
ARTICLE II 
The Credit 
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to three million seven hundred thousand Special Drawing 
Rights (SDR 3,700,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for: 
(i) expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect 
of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project described in 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit; and 
(ii) amounts paid (or if the Association shall so agree to be paid) by the Borrower on 
account of withdrawals made for the benefit of a Beneficiary to meet the reasonable 
cost of works, goods and services required for a Subproject in respect of which 
withdrawals from the Credit Account are requested. 
(b)
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
dollars a special deposit account in a commercial bank on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Association, including appropriate protection against set-off, 
seizure or attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall 
be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2002 or such later date as 
the Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of 
such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be 
set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of 
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after 
the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts 
shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or canceled; and (ii) at 
the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at such 
other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) 
above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date in 
Page  4
that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed 
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this 
Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other 
eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected 
pursuant to the provisions of that Section. 
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of 
the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time. 
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on February 1 and August 1 in each year. 
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) below, the Borrower 
shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on 
each February 1 and August 1 commencing August 1, 2009 and ending February 1, 2039. 
Each installment to and including the installment payable on February 1, 2019 shall be 
one percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be 
two percent (2%) of such principal amount. 
(b)
Whenever: (i) the Borrower's per capita gross national product (GNP), as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for three consecutive years the 
level established annually by the Association for determining eligibility to access 
the Association's resources; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower 
creditworthy for Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and 
approval thereof by the Executive Directors of the Association and after due 
consideration by them of the development of the Borrower's economy, modify the 
repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above by: (A) requiring the Borrower to 
repay twice the amount of each such installment not yet due until the principal amount 
of the Credit shall have been repaid; and (B) requiring the Borrower to commence 
repayment of the principal amount of the Credit as of the first semiannual payment 
date referred to in paragraph (a) above falling six months or more after the date on 
which the Association notifies the Borrower that the events set out in this paragraph 
(b) have occurred, provided, however, that there shall be a grace period of a minimum 
of five years on such repayment of principal. 
(c)
If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise the 
modification referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu of some or all of 
the increase in the amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at an annual 
rate agreed with the Association on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and 
outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such 
revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the above-mentioned 
repayment modification. 
(d)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, 
further modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as 
provided in paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the French Republic is hereby specified for the 
purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions. 
ARTICLE III 
Execution of the Project 
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry 
out the Project through FNAA with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with 
appropriate administrative, financial, educational and literacy practices, and shall 
provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources 
required for the Project. 
Page  5
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower 
shall carry out the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement. 
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this 
Agreement.
Section 3.03. Without limitation to its obligations under Section 3.01 of this 
Agreement, the Borrower shall, for the purposes of making available its counterpart 
contribution to the financing of the Project:
(a)
open and maintain in FCFA an account (the Project Account), in the name 
of FNAA, in CAA, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association;
(b)
promptly thereafter, deposit the Initial Deposit into such account to 
finance the Borrower’s contribution to the Project;
(c)
deposit into the Project Account, until the completion of the Project, 
such amounts as shall be required to replenish in a timely manner the Project Account 
in an amount equal to at least the expected expenditures of the following quarter; and
(d)
use the Project Account funds exclusively to finance expenditures under 
the Project.
Section 3.04. For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall: 
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or 
such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the 
Association, a plan for the future operation of the Project; and 
(b)
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 
the Borrower on said plan. 
ARTICLE IV 
Financial Covenants 
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records 
and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the 
operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or 
agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section 
including those for the Special Account for each 
fiscal year audited, in 
accordance with appropriate auditing 
principles consistently applied, by 
independent auditors 
acceptable to the Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association, as soon as available, but in any case 
not later 
than six months after the end of each such year, the report 
of such audit by 
said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as 
the Association shall have 
reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning said 
records and 
accounts and the audit thereof as the Association shall from 
time to time 
reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
Page  6
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this 
Section, records and accounts reflecting such expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Association has received 
the audit 
report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from 
the Credit 
Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts 
and other documents) evidencing such 
expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Association’s representatives to examine such records; 
and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit 
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit 
contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of 
expenditure submitted during such fiscal 
year, together with the procedures 
and internal controls involved in 
their preparation, can be relied upon to 
support the related 
withdrawals.
Section 4.02. (a) Without any limitation upon the provisions of Section 4.01 of 
this Agreement, the Borrower shall carry out a time-bound action plan acceptable to 
the Association for the strengthening of its financial system for the Project in order 
to enable the Borrower, not later than eighteen (18) months after the Effective Date, 
or such later date as the Association shall agree, to prepare quarterly Project 
management reports, acceptable to the Association. Each such report shall: 
(i)
set forth actual sources and application of funds for the Project, 
both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and 
projected sources 
and application of funds for the Project for the 
six-month period following 
the period covered by said report, and 
show separately expenditures financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit 
during the six-month period following the 
period covered by said 
report; 
(ii)
describe physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively and 
for the period covered by said report, and explain 
variances between the 
actual and previously forecast 
implementation targets; and
(iii)
set forth the status of procurement under the Project and 
expenditures under 
contracts financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, 
as at the end of the 
period covered by said report. 
(b)
Upon completion of the action plan referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section, the Borrower shall prepare, in accordance with guidelines acceptable to the 
Association, and furnish to the Association, not later than 45 days after the end of 
each calendar quarter, a Project Management Report for such period.
ARTICLE V 
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely that a situation shall have arisen 
which shall make it improbable that the Program or a significant part thereof will be 
carried out. 
ARTICLE VI 
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of 
Section 12.01 of the General Conditions: 
(a)
the Project Account has been opened and the Initial Deposit referred to 
Page  7
in Section 3.03 (b) of this Agreement has been deposited therein;
(b)
the Borrower has: (i) appointed a Director of FNAA; and (ii) recruited a 
Financial Manager of FNAA, with qualifications and experience acceptable to the 
Association; and
(c)
the Borrower has: (i) prepared and furnished to the Association an 
accounting manual for the Project satisfactory to the Association; and (ii) recruited 
a financial auditor on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association. 
Section 6.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses 
Section 7.01. The Minister of the Borrower responsible for finance is designated 
as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of 
Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Economy and Finance
B.P. V 163
Abidjan
Republic of Côte d’Ivoire
Cable address:
Telex:
MINFIN
23747
MINFIN
Abidjan
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI) 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
REPUBLIC OF COTE D’IVOIRE
By /s/ Moise Koumoué Koffi
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Page  8
By /s/ Praful Patel 
Regional Vice President
Africa
SCHEDULE 1 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category 
and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated
   % of
(Expressed in
Expenditures
Category
SDR Equivalent)
to be Financed
(1)
Goods
   150,000
100% of foreign
expenditures and 85% 
of local expenditures
(2)
Vehicles
   110,000
100% of foreign
expenditures and 60% of 
local expenditures
(3)
Subprojects
 2,500,000
100% of eligible
amounts disbursed
(4)
Consultants’ services
   330,000
100%
(5)
Training
   220,000
100%
(6)
Operating costs
   150,000
50%
(7)
Unallocated
   240,000
 _________
       TOTAL
 3,700,000
 ========= 
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
(a)
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower; 
(b)
the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower; 
provided, however, that if the currency of the Borrower is also that of another 
country from the territory of which the goods and services are supplied, expenditures 
in such currency for such goods or services shall be deemed to be “foreign 
expenditures”; and 
(c)
the term “Operating costs” means the incremental expenditures related to 
the carrying out of the Project, including: (i) those related to contractual 
personnel; (ii) office supplies; (iii) travel costs relating to Project supervision, 
evaluation and monitoring; and (iv) fuel for vehicles, but excluding salaries of 
members of the Borrower’s civil service.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of: 
(a)
payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement except 
Page  9
that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of SDR 150,000 
may be made in respect of Categories (1), (2), (4), (5) and (6) on account of payments 
made for expenditures before that date but after June 15, 1999; and
(b)
expenditures under Category (3) relating to any Subproject unless the 
Borrower has confirmed that: (i) a Subproject Agreement has been entered into by the 
Borrower and the Literacy Provider concerned in respect of such Subproject; and (ii) a 
Management Committee has been established by the Beneficiary participating in the 
carrying out of said Subproject.
4.
The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to be made on 
the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures: (a) under contracts costing 
less than: (i) the equivalent of $100,000 for goods and consultants’ services for 
firms; and (ii) the equivalent of $50,000 for consultants’ services for individuals; 
and (b) Subprojects and operating costs, all under such terms and conditions as the 
Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
SCHEDULE 2 
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to assist the Borrower in the development and 
testing of: (i) effective arrangements for the delivery by Literacy Providers of 
demand-driven functional adult literacy programs to the rural poor in the Borrower’s 
territory, especially women, girls and youth in the Northern Savannah areas, the 
Forest regions and the informal sector of the peri-urban areas; and (ii) flexible 
systems and procedures capable of being upgraded to country-wide levels for the 
delivery of technical support services and financing to Literacy Providers and 
Beneficiaries.
The Project consists of the following Parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to 
achieve such objectives:
Part A:
Testing Functional Literacy Programs 
1.
The identification, selection and carrying out of Subprojects included in the 
Literacy Program to provide literacy instruction to about 30,000 women, girls and 
youth between 15 and 40 years of age. 
2.
(a)
Provision to Literacy Providers of technical support that will facilitate 
the scaling-up of the Literacy Program, utilizing the services of the Network of 
Resource Institutions contracted by the Borrower to carry out specific tasks in their 
respective areas of competence, including the provision of outreach services to the 
Literacy Providers.
(b)
Creation of a data base on Literacy Providers and Beneficiaries, 
including the generation of data to assist in the design of appropriate means of 
monitoring the demand for literacy in the territory of the Borrower.
(c)
Establishment of a resource base of all available learning materials 
(including posters, audio and video materials) to be made available to the Network of 
Resource Institutions. 
3.
Dissemination of information about the Project to the public, including 
participatory assessment (with the assistance of the Network of Resource Institutions) 
of the learning needs of said communities.
Part B:
Post-Literacy Strategy Testing and Development
Development and testing of post-literacy strategies crucial to the scaling-up 
and sustaining of the Literacy Program, including: (i) provision of reading materials, 
especially in the rural areas; (ii) publication of local small-scale newspapers 
produced by the Management Committees, including bilingual grassroots newspapers with 
texts in both the readers’ language alongside texts in the official language of the 
Borrower; (iii) the design of, and provision of broadcasting services for, radio 
programs directed at learners in the rural and peri-urban areas of the Northern Region 
Page  10
through the network of radio stations established under the Second National 
Agricultural Services Support Project; (iv) the forging of links between the informal 
and formal educational programs in the territory of the Borrower capable of providing 
educational opportunities in the formal educational programs for students in the 
informal programs; and (v) facilitating the use by government and the private sector 
of local languages in official communications and in advertising.
Part C:
Management, Supervision and Evaluation 
1.
Management, supervision and evaluation of the Project by FNAA (with governmental 
and private sponsorship and assistance), including the provision by FNAA of technical 
support and financing to Literacy Providers. 
2.
The provision by SAA for, and under the direction of, FNAA of field inspection 
services located in the inspections de l'enseignement primaire (IEP).
Part D:
Quality Control and Financial Monitoring
1.
Strengthening quality control and financial monitoring of the Project, including 
the carrying out of annual field-based reviews to: 
(i)
determine progress in the carrying out of the Project and the 
effectiveness of 
procedures for financing and field supervision; 
(ii)
evaluate learning outcomes and costs for a sample of Subprojects 
in each 
cohort with special attention to the first cohort of 
learners expected to 
achieve literacy within a period of 18 
months after the Effective Date; 
(iii)
assess progress in compiling the resource base of literacy 
materials after 
Project Years 1 and 2; and
(iv)
assess at the end of Project Year 2: (A) the working relations 
between 
Beneficiaries and Literacy Providers; (B) the 
capacity of the Literacy 
Providers for extending their 
operations; and (C) the potential contribution 
to the Project of 
new Literacy Providers. 
2.
The carrying out of annual audits to assess the performance of the Literacy 
Providers deliverables and review the findings of field evaluators. 
3.
The provision of technical advisory services (including the services of 
international specialists) for the purposes of this Part D. 
* * * 
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2002.
SCHEDULE 3 
Procurement and Consultants' Services 
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:
General
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I 
of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” published by the 
Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, September 1997 and 
January 1999 (the Guidelines) subject to the following Parts of this Section I.
Part B:
Other Procurement Procedures  
1.
National Competitive Bidding
Except as provided in paragraph 2 of this Part B, goods may be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the 
Page  11
Guidelines. 
2.
National Shopping 
Goods estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $200,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of national shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines. 
3.
Grouping 
Goods to be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraph 1 of this Part B shall, to the extent practicable, be grouped in bid 
packages estimated to cost $100,000 equivalent or more each.
Part C:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions 
1.
Procurement Planning 
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding or to bid for 
contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the 
Association for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of all goods shall be 
undertaken in accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the 
Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1. 
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for goods estimated to cost the equivalent 
of $100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to 
the Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for goods to be procured on the basis of 
national shopping procedures, the following procedures shall apply: 
(i)
prior to the selection of any supplier or execution of any 
contract under 
shopping procedures, the Borrower shall 
provide to the Association a report on 
the comparison and evaluation of 
quotations received; 
(ii)
prior to the execution of any contract procured under direct 
contracting or 
shopping procedures, the Borrower shall provide to 
the Association a copy of 
the specifications and the draft contract; and 
(iii)
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 (f), 2 (g) and 3 of 
Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines shall apply. 
3.
Post Review 
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the 
Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised 
in September 1997 and January 1999, subject to the provisions of the following Parts 
of this Section II.
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection 
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section 
Page  12
II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 
thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants. 
2.
The following provisions shall apply to consultants’ services to be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of the preceding paragraph. 
The short list of consultants for services, estimated to cost less than $50,000 
equivalent per contract, may comprise entirely national consultants in accordance with 
the provisions of paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants  
1.
Single Source Selection
Services for technical advisory services estimated to cost less than $50,000 
equivalent per contract may, with the Association's prior agreement, be procured in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.8 through 3.11 of the Consultant 
Guidelines. 
2.
Individual Consultants
Services that meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 5.1 of the Consultant 
Guidelines, shall be procured under contracts awarded to individual consultants in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the Consultant 
Guidelines. 
3.
Least Cost
Financial auditing services may be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.6 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Association of the Selection of Consultants 
1.
Selection Planning 
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the 
Association for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines. Selection of all consultants’ 
services shall be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been 
approved by the Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1. 
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third subparagraph of paragraph 2 (a)) and 5 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the qualifications, 
experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be 
furnished to the Association for its prior review and approval. The contract shall be 
awarded only after the said approval shall have been given. 
3.
Post Review 
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
SCHEDULE 4 
Implementation Program
Section I:
General 
Page  13
1.
(a)
 Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Project will be 
carried out in accordance with the rules, procedures and guidelines set forth in the 
Manual of Procedures. 
(b)
FNAA shall obtain the consent of the Association before making any 
material changes in the Manual of Procedures; and shall not make any such changes in 
the Manual of Procedures that are, in the opinion of the Association, likely to affect 
materially or adversely the carrying out of the Project or the achievement of the 
objectives of the Project.  The Beneficiaries shall identify program content and 
select their Literacy Providers to ensure a high degree of relevance to their needs. 
2.
To this end, for the purposes of Part A of the Project, FNAA shall require each 
Beneficiary group to establish a Management Committee. The Management Committees shall 
assist in the monitoring of the performance of the Literacy Providers. 
3.
(a)
The Management Committee (Comité de Gestion) of the FNAA shall be 
responsible for reviewing progress made in the carrying out of the Subprojects.
(b)
FNAA shall: (i) prepare for each quarter of the calendar year a progress 
report on the carrying out of the Project during said quarter; and (ii) promptly 
thereafter furnish to the Association for its review and comments the quarterly 
progress report which has been prepared.
4.
FNAA shall: 
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators satisfactory to the 
Association, the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof; and
(b)
FNAA shall: (i) carry out jointly with the Borrower and the Association 
no later than January 31 in each calendar year an annual review of the progress made 
in carrying out the Project in the calendar year immediately preceding said annual 
review; (ii) present for: (A) review and discussions, the quarterly progress reports 
which have been prepared pursuant to paragraph 4 (b) of this Schedule 4; and (B) 
consideration and approval, the Project’s work program and budget for the fiscal year 
next following such meeting; (iii) thereafter carry out the work program as approved 
by the Borrower, the Association and FNAA; and (iv) prepare, jointly with the Borrower 
and the Association no later than January 31 in each calendar year, under terms of 
reference satisfactory to the Association, and furnish to the Association, a report 
integrating the results of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant 
to paragraph (a) of this Section, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the 
Project during the period preceding the date of said report and setting out the 
measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and the 
achievement of the objectives thereof during the period following such date.
(c)
FNAA shall carry out, jointly with the Borrower and the Association, no 
later than 12 months after the Effective Date, a mid-term review of the progress made 
in carrying out the Project. The said mid-term review shall, among other things 
concern itself with a review of: (i) the progress made in meeting the Project’s 
objectives; (ii) the report referred to in paragraph 6 (b) of this Schedule; and (iii) 
the performance by the Borrower, FNAA, the Literacy Providers, the Beneficiaries and 
the Network of Resource Institutions of their respective obligations under the 
Project. (d)
FNAA shall carry out, no later than one month after the completion of the 
report of the mid-term review referred to in subparagraph (b) above, the 
recommendations of said review as agreed with the Association and set out in an action 
plan satisfactory to the Association.
Section II:
Subprojects 
1.
Eligibility Criteria for Subprojects
No Subproject shall be eligible for financing out of the proceeds of this Credit 
unless the Literacy Providers have determined, on the basis of an appraisal conducted 
in accordance with the guidelines set forth in the Manual of Procedures, that the 
Subproject satisfies the eligibility criteria specified in the Manual of Procedures, 
including, in particular, the following: 
Page  14
(a)
the Subproject shall be to test functional literacy programs; 
(b)
the Subproject shall be initiated by Beneficiaries who shall identify 
Subproject content; 
(c)
the Subproject shall be targeted at lower income group beneficiaries; 
(d)
the Subproject shall be designed in such a way that its operation and 
maintenance shall be sustainable; and 
(e)
the Subproject shall be in compliance with the standards set forth in the 
applicable laws of the Borrower, relating to health, safety and environmental 
protections, as well as the Association’s applicable guidelines. 
2.
Terms and Conditions Regarding Subprojects
Subprojects shall be carried out pursuant to Subproject Agreements, to be 
concluded between the Literacy Providers and the legally established and authorized 
representative or representatives of the Beneficiaries, under terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Association, which, inter alia, shall include the following:
(a)
financing by the Literacy Providers to be on a grant basis, except that 
all Beneficiaries shall make a contribution of at least 5% as provided for in the 
Manual of Procedures;
(b)
the obligation to carry out the Subproject in accordance with the Manual 
of Procedures, with due diligence and efficiency and in accordance with sound 
technical, financial, environmental and managerial standards and to maintain adequate 
records to reflect, in accordance with sound accounting practices, the operations, 
resources and expenditures in respect of the Subproject;
(c)
the requirement that: (i) the goods, works and services to be financed 
from the proceeds of the Credit shall be procured in accordance with the procedures 
set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement; and (ii) such goods, works and services 
shall be used exclusively in the carrying out of the Subproject;
(d)
the right of the Literacy Providers to inspect by itself, or jointly with 
the Association, if the Association shall so request, the goods, works, sites, plants 
and construction included in the Subproject, the operations thereof and any relevant 
records and documents;
(e)
the right of the Literacy Providers to obtain all information as the 
Literacy Providers or the Association shall reasonably request regarding the 
administration, operation and financial conditions of the Subproject; and
(f)
the right of the Literacy Providers to suspend or terminate the right of 
the Beneficiaries to use the proceeds of the Credit for the Subproject upon the 
failure by the Beneficiaries to perform any of their obligations under the relevant 
agreement. 
SCHEDULE 5 
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term “eligible Categories” means Categories (1) through (6) set forth 
in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term “eligible expenditures” means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term “Authorized Allocation” means an amount equivalent to 
FCFA 300,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited into the 
Page  15
Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that 
unless the Association shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be 
limited to an amount equivalent to FCFA 200,000,000 until the aggregate amount of 
withdrawals from the Credit Account plus the total amount of all outstanding special 
commitments entered into by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General 
Conditions shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent of SDR 500,000. 
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special 
Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Association a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an 
amount or amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized 
Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the Association shall, on behalf 
of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into the Special Account 
such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the 
Association requests for deposits into the Special 
Account at such intervals 
as the Association shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to 
the Association the documents and other evidence required 
pursuant to 
paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or 
payments in respect of which 
replenishment is requested. On the basis 
of each such request, the Association 
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, 
withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit 
into the Special Account 
such amount as the Borrower shall have requested and 
as shall have been 
shown by said documents and other evidence to have been 
paid 
out of the Special Account for eligible expenditures. All such deposits 
shall be withdrawn by the Association from the Credit Account under the 
respective eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as 
shall have been justified by said documents and other evidence. 
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the 
Association such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Association 
shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Association, within 
the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the 
audit reports required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said Section in 
respect of the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account;
(c)
if, at any time, the Association shall have notified the Borrower of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
from the Credit Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible 
Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into 
by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to 
the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized 
Allocation. Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining 
unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow 
Page  16
such procedures as the Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such 
further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the Association 
shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special 
Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible 
expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any payment out 
of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence 
furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Association may request; or 
(B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request, refund 
to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion 
thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, no 
further deposit by the Association into the Special Account shall be made until the 
Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may 
be.
(b)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, 
refund to the Association such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) 
of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal or 
for cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, 
including the General Conditions.
