Document of
The World Bank                      FILE COPY
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-3215-ME
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO
NACIONAL FINANCIERA, S. A.
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF
UNITED MEXICAN STATES
FOR THE
BAJO RIO BRAVO/BAJO RIO SAN JUAN IRRIGATION
REHABILITATION PROJECT II
February 25, 1982
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Since September 1, 1976-the Mexican peso has been floating. On
February 18, 1982, the Central Bank withdrew frcm the foreign exchange
market and the peso floated downward. By the close of that day, the peso
was traded at 37.7 per US$ dollar.
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
2
1 hectare (ha)                   -    10,000 m  = 2.47 acres
1 kilometer (km)       2         =    0.62 miles
1 square kilometer (km )         -    0.39 sq. miles - 100 ha
1 kilogram (kg)                  =    2.2 pounds
I liter (1)                      -    0.26 gallons
1 metric ton (mt)                     1,000 kg - 0.98 long ton
ABBREVIATIONS
ANAGSA:     National Crop and Livestock Insurance Agency
(Aseguradora Nacional Agricola y Ganadera S.A.)
BANRURAL:   National Rural Credit Bank
(Banco Nacional de Credito Rural)
CIAGON:     Center of Agricultural Research of the Northeast Region
(Campo Experimental del Instituto de Investigaciones
Agricolas del Noreste)
CILA:       International Boundary and Water Commission
ERR:        Economic Rate of Return
FERTIMEX:   Mexican Fertilizer Corporation (Fertilizantes Mexicanos S.A.)
FIRA:       Agricultural Trust Funds of the Bank of Mexico
(Fideicomisos Instituidos en el Banco de Mexico en Relacion
con la Agricultura)
IDB:        Inter-American Development Bank
(Banco Interamericano para el Desarrollo)
IFAD:       International Fund for Agricultural Development
NAFINSA:    National Development Bank
(Nacional Financiera, S.A.)
PLAMEPA:    On-farm Improvement Plan in Irrigation Districts
(Plan de Mejoramiento Parcelario)
PNDR:       Plan for Small Scale Agricultural Infrastructure Development
(Programa Nacional de Desarrollo Rural)
SAM:        Mexican Food System
(Sistema Alimentario Mexicano)
SARH:       Ministry of Agriculture and Water Resources
(Secretaria de Agricultura y Recursos Hidraulicos)
SHCP:       Ministry of Finance
(Secretaria de Hacienda y Credito Publico)
SPP         Ministry of Programming and Budgeting 
(Secretaria de Programacion y Presupuesto)
SRA:        Ministry of Agrarian Reform
(Secretaria de Reforma Agraria)



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
MEXICO
BAJO RIO BRAVO/BAJO RIO SAN JUAN IRRIGATION
REHABILITATION PROJECT II
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:      Nacional Financiera, S.A.
Guarantor:     United Mexican States
Amount:         US$180 million equivalent
Terms:          Fifteen years, including 3 years of grace, at an interest
rate of 11.6 percent per annum. The loan includes a
capitalized front-end fee of US$2.7 million.
Project
Description:   The project would assist the Government in developing irrigated
agriculture south of the Rio Grande in about 280,000 ha covered
by irrigation districts 25 and 26 of the Bajo Rio Bravo/Bajo Rio
San Juan Irrigation Project area (please see maps IBRD 16058 and
16059, attached). The Mexican share of the international waters
would be utilized for promoting intensive agriculture through
improved drainage, water management, land leveling and extension
programs.
Rehabilitation of the two irrigation districts is a long-term
program, earlier assisted by US$25 million Bank loan 336-ME of
April 1963 and US$50 million loan 1111-ME of May 1975 as modified
in 1977 and 1979. The proposed project would improve drainage in
60 percent of the project area and water management over the
entire areas covered by the two irrigation districts.
The project would directly benefit 15,459 farm families, of which
14,770 have holdings between 5 and 50 ha each. On full develop-
ment, annual family incomes are expected to increase between 110
and 500 percent.
The project would have a favorable environmental impact. With
improved agriculture and water utilization practices, soil deter-
ioration and salinity increase would be prevented.
There are no major risks associated with the project. Land
leveling lagged behind in the first stage of the project, and,
therefore, for the proposed Stage II project, the program for
the next two years has been worked out in detail, reviewed with
the Bank and agreement reached with the participating farmers.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Estimated Cost:                                              Local  Foreign   Total
-----US$ millions-----
I.  Civil works and engineering services   113.1    76.9   190.0
II.  Land leveling                             36.5    13.5    50.0
III. Technical assistance, agricultural
research and studies                      53.7      23.9    77.6
IV. Equipment for operation and
maintenance and communication system       0.9       7.1     8.0
V.  Indemnities                                1.8        .0      1.8
VI.  Total Baseline Cost (1981 prices)        206.0    121.4   327.4
VII. Contingencies
Physical contingencies                    22.4      13.4    35.8
Price contingencies                      116.9      42.5   159.4
VIII.  Front-end fee on Bank loan                 -         2.7      2.7
TOTAL COST                               345.3    180.0   525.3
Financial Plan:                                Local      Foreign      Total      %
------(US$ Millions)-------
Government                345.3         -         345.3      66
Bank                        -          180.0      180.0      34
TOTAL                     345.3        180.0      525.3     100
Estimated
Disbursements:       Bank FY               1983   1984   1985   1986   1987   1988
------…------ US$ millions ------------
Annual                 19      34     48     55      12     12
Cumulative             19     53    101    156    168    180
Rate of Return:      22.5 percent
Staff Appraisal
Report:              Report No. 3663-ME



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO NACIONAL FINANCIERA, S.A.
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF UNITED MEXICAN STATES
FOR THE BAJO RIO BRAVO/BAJO RIO SAN JUAN
IRRIGATION REHABILITATION PROJECT II
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to Nacional Financiera, S.A. with the Guarantee of United Mexican States for
the equivalent of US$180 million to help finance the Bajo Rio Bravo/Bajo Rio
San Juan Irrigation Rehabilitation Project II. The loan, which includes a
capitalized front-end fee of 1.5 percent on the Bank loan, would be repaid
over 15 years, including 3 years of grace, with interest at 11.6 percent per
annum.
PART I: THE ECONOMY
2.        The Mexican economic situation and major issues of economic policy
were analyzed in "Special Study of the Mexican Economy: Mexico Development
Strategy - Prospects and Problems" (3605-ME), distributed to the Executive
Directors on August 31, 1981. Country data sheets are attached as Annex I.
Past Performance
3.        For the three decades preceding the mid-seventies, Mexico was
successful in achieving rapid economic growth while also maintaining stability
in prices and equilibrium in the balance of payments. From 1940 to 1970, GDP
growth exceeded 6 percent per year in real terms, inflation averaged less than
5 percent per year from the mid-1960s to 1972, and the dollar value of the
peso, fixed in 1954, was maintained until 1976. The Government's role in this
achievement was to carry out direct investments in infrastructure and in key
industries such as power, steel and petroleum, while creating a stable regula-
tory and institutional framework, as well as good profit prospects, to induce
private sector growth.
4.        This strategy produced considerable progress and better living
standards for many Mexicans. However, the incomes of poor farmers and marginal
urban dwellers, whose productivity was low and has not been increasing, have
been lagging behind. There was, therefore, little reduction in contrasts
within the Mexican economy. Land reform was largely implemented in the
late thirties and while further land redistribution has continued, most of
the peasants who received land could not significantly improve their economic
status as the parcels of land allocated were small, the soil often quite arid
and benefits from infrastructure, credit and technical assistance scant.



-2-
Rapid population growth, which reached a peak of almost 3.5 percent per year
by the mid-1970s, also made social equity difficult to achieve. Even Mexico's
sustained economic growth was not sufficient to absorb the rapidly growing
labor force into productive employment, and by the 1970s some 50 percent of
the labor force was either relatively unproductive and poorly paid, or openly
unemployed.
5.        Policies undertaken to remedy this situation in the first half of
the seventies were somewhat self-defeating. As a result, by the mid-1970s
Mexico experienced increasing public sector deficits (which peaked in 1975 at
about 9 percent of GDP), inflation rates of almost 30 percent, large balance
of payments deficits (peaking at US$4.2 billion, or 5.3 percent of GDP, in
1975), capital flight and a marked slowdown in the real rate of growth of GDP,
which dropped to 2 percent in 1976--the lowest rate experienced since the
mid-thirties. On September 1, 1976 the authorities abandoned the fixed
exchange rate and let the peso float; it devalued by 80 percent. The author-
ities also adopted a plan for economic stabilization for which Mexico obtained
major support from the IMF. The Administration which took over in December
1976, established as its main objective control of inflation, to be followed
by a return to high rates of economic growth.  The former was to be achieved
through stabilization policies, while the latter was to be made possible
thanks to the impact of major oil discoveries which would reduce the foreign
exchange constraint. Both objectives were important in restoring the confi-
dence of the private sector.
Recent and Current Situation
6.        The Government succeeded in bringing inflation down to about 18 per-
cent and in reducing the deficit in the current account of the balance of
payments to US$1.8 billion (equivalent to 2.5 percent of GDP) in 1977. Favor-
able oil prospects and increasing capital inflows brought about a rapid
increase in imports reflecting both a decisive reduction in protectionism and
the growing demand for capital and intermediate goods upon which the expansion
of the economy depended; the current account deficit therefore increased to
US$6.9 billion (about 4 percent of GDP) in 1980. Nevertheless, the public
sector deficit declined to about 6 percent of GDP by 1980 and mobilization of
savings by the banking system has recovered. GDP growth averaged 7 percent in
1978-1980.
7.        The growth record for 1981 continued to be favorable and GDP is esti-
mated to have increased at about 7 percent. The current account deficit of the
balance of payments however is estimated at US$11.3 billion (about 8 percent of
GDP). The deficit was much higher than anticipated due to continued expansion
of imports (mostly capital and intermediate goods and foodstuffs) and to a
shortfall in oil revenues due to worsening conditions in the world oil market.
Despite the substantial inflow of imported goods, strict domestic credit
restrictions, generally adequate lending rates and modest increases in real
wages coupled with substantial productivity increases, inflation continued to



- 3 -
be high--estimated at 28 percent in 1981, down from 30 percent in 1980. This
is essentially because of expansionary budgetary policies, with investments
increasing at a rate of more than 15 percent a year in real terms. A shortage
of essential consumer goods and construction materials, aggravated by the
inadequacy of the transport system to handle distribution of domestically
produced goods along with increasing imports, has contributed to price increases.
8.        The persistence of strong inflationary pressures began to exert
increasing influence upon a number of factors in the Mexican economic scene:
The substantial differential between price trends in Mexico and in its major
trading partners eroded the inducements to export of non-oil goods and made
imports increasingly attractive to domestic users, even in cases where domestic
production was technically efficient. This, and a growing public sector deficit
financed largely by foreign borrowing, made the external balance extremely
sensitive to the prospects of oil revenues. As a result, short-term capital
movements have tended to react to disturbances in the oil market. Thus, when
the prospects of oil sales deteriorated in January 1982 -- while at the same
time early forecasts led to expect a rate of inflation above 30% for 1982 --
the rate of float set by the monetary authorities was widely perceived as too
moderate, and the resulting pressure on the peso made it advisable for the
Central Bank to withdraw its support; this led to a quick,substantial paritv
adjustment.
Economic Problems and Prospects
9.        Mexico has the organizational and natural resources necessary to
attain its ambitious goals of rapid growth and alleviation of poverty. The
new petroleum riches will greatly relax the financial constraints on growth.
The proven oil and gas reserves are estimated at about 72 billion barrels.
Exploitation of these reserves should allow Mexico to substantially increase
production of crude oil and natural gas from the equivalent of about 1.2 mil-
lion bbl/day in 1976. The present production level is about 3.5 million
bbl/day, of which about 1.2 million bbl/day are exported. The Government
continues to indicate its unwillingness to exceed the 1.5 million bbl/day
self-imposed limit on exports, which is yet to be attained, for fear that
Mexico will increasingly become an oil-dependent economy with the economic and
social tensions that would ensue. But even at this production level, the
challenge is: how to mobilize Mexico's resources--its human skills, its
institutions, and its experience--to help resolve its long term development
problems. The most serious of these are poverty, unemployment, inadequate
growth of agricultural production in non-irrigated lands, and urban-regional
imbalances.
10.       Poverty:  Mexicans have participated unevenly in the remarkable
economic growth of the last several decades. According to estimates for
1977, at least 2.8 million households (25 percent of the total) had incomes
of less than one-third the national average, of which at least 2.4 million
(22 percent of the total) lived in absolute poverty. The root causes of
this persistent problem are three: rapid population growth, past neglect
of non-irrigated agriculture (where some two-thirds of the poor are princi-
pally employed), and slow absorption of labor in high-productivity jobs.



-4 -
11.       The Government is acting on all three fronts.  A family planning
program started in 1972 has already helped reduce population growth from
3.5 percent per year to an estimated 2.6 percent in 1980. The program is
being further strengthened by the present Administration, with the ambitious
goal of reducing population growth to 2.5 percent per year by 1982 and to
1 percent by the year 2000. New approaches are also taking hold in rainfed
agriculture (para. 14). On the employment front, new tax incentives have
reduced the anti-employment bias and additional efforts to stimulate employment
will have to be continued. The expected rapid growth of output should also
create jobs more rapidly. In spite of this progress, however, the still rapid
growth of population and the staggering increase of the labor force (at 3.7
percent per annum) made unavoidable by the high percentage of young people in
today's population, renders the eradication of absolute poverty a difficult
goal to attain in the near future. The Government has under its consideration
several types of subsidies for the poor. These could prove to be short-term
palliatives and preempt resources which would otherwise be available for
investment in employment-creating activities or for improving educational or
health standards of the poor on a more permanent basis.
12.       Open and hidden unemployment, which are now estimated respectively
at 4-5 percent and 40 percent of the labor force, will remain major problems
in the years to come. With the expected GDP growth rate of 6-7 percent per
annum, the economy should be able to absorb the additional labor force, assuming
no significant change in the participation rate (now at about 29 percent)
and some increase in labor productivity. In absolute terms, however, the
present levels of underemployment and unemployment are likely to remain.
13.       A National Employment Plan was published in 1979.  While there is no
doubt that the authorities are concerned about unemployment and underemployment,
and while the institutional structure to carry out some important programs
already exists, a concentrated effort will be required to take effective action
and to make better use of human resources by improving technical skills to reduce
substantially the level of hidden and open unemployment.
14.       In agriculture, crop and livestock production has shown inadequate
growth since the mid-1960s and, of late, demand has outstripped domestic
supplies of grains. Faced with diminishing returns to investment in new
large-scale irrigation works, continuing low productivity and income per
capita in the non-irrigated ("rainfed") sector, widespread malnutrition and
increasing dependence on imported food (especially grains), the present
Administration has launched a major program (SAM - the Mexican Food System)
aimed at increasing self-sufficiency in basic food, providing for minimum
nutritional needs of the rural and urban poor and increasing rural employment.
SAM emphasizes increased production of grains through a combined system of
subsidies, guaranteed producer prices and government underwriting of crop loss
risks. Greater emphasis is being placed on technical assistance, demonstration
and credit to develop the underutilized rainfed agricultural potential.
Programs to rehabilitate existing irrigation works serving nearly one million
ha are underway. Small-scale irrigation development is being promoted.



-5-
Construction of new large-scale irrigation units continues, but now represents
a smaller proportion of government investment. The banking system is being
encouraged to provide greater support to agricultural production and processing
programs. These initiatives, coupled with an upgrading of the farming labor
force, should lead to an acceleration of production growth, more equal develop-
ment opportunities for Mexico's farmers, and an improvement in the living
conditions of the rural poor. Preliminary data for 1981 indicate that
farmers' response has been favorable so that, partly as a result of good
climatic conditions, domestic production of key foodstuffs has experienced
substantial increases.
15.       The main urban-regional problems are two-fold:  (a) growing conges-
tion, pollution, high cost of services (especially water) and other manage-
ment problems that stem from the continued rapid growth of Mexico City (already
the third most populous metropolitan area in the world and moving rapidly to
become the first) and other areas in the dry, densely populated central
plateau, and (b) retarded development, poverty and great difficulty in pro-
viding better jobs or adequate public services to the one-third of all Mexicans
who live in towns of less than 2,500 inhabitants. The present Government has
taken many positive steps to confront these problems, including an administra-
tive re-organization, elaboration of a comprehensive plan, and introduction of
a strong package of incentives to promote growth in a few well-selected growth
poles.
16.       The expected high growth rate of the economy in the years to come
is the country's strongest weapon with which to reduce poverty and unemployment.
Industry has moved to the leading position and is expected to play a major role
in expanding domestic production and exports. A National Industrial Development
Plan was published in 1979 and it reflects the preoccupation of the present
Administration with the long-term prospects of the industrial sector and their
implications for employment. Industry has the potential for considerable
expansion in many areas, including efficient import substitution in chemicals,
petrochemicals and capital goods as well as exports of a variety of manufactured
products. While most of the above industries are known for their capital
intensity, they are expected to promote secondary industries with considerable
employment opportunities, including enterprises producing secondary petro-
chemicals, finished plastic goods, metal parts and components for capital
goods. Tourism export earnings are also expected to increase substantially.
17.       The main problem for the Mexican economy in the years to come will
remain the reconciliation of high growth rates with relative price stability
and a larger participation of low-income groups in the expanding wealth of
the nation. The National Development Plan, published in April 1980, marks
the final step in the planning activities carried out by the present
Administration and places in a consistent framework the specific targets
indicated in a number of sectoral plans prepared in the previous two years.



-6-
In addition to presenting a macroeconomic picture of development prospects,
the National Development Plan dwells in great detail on the policies required
to achieve various economic and social targets. These policies are essentially
sound but call for a major implementation effort on the part of the Administra-
tion, including adjustment of prices of public goods and services. Improving
income distribution would call for policies that encourage labor intensive
technologies in industry and agriculture without slowing down modernization
of the economy.
18.       Mexico's public and publicly guaranteed debt service ratio has been
increasing over the recent past and peaked at 69 percent in 1979. The public
debt service ratio declined to around 30 percent in 1980, not only as a result
of rapid increases in petroleum exports but also because some of the debt
contracted on the least favorable terms had been prepaid; but, as a result
of the events mentioned in para. 7, it had risen again to an estimated 35 per-
cent by September 1981. Debt service on Bank loans amounted to about 3.2 per-
cent of public debt service in 1980; this ratio is projected to remain about
the same during the early and mid-1980s. The Bank currently holds about
5.7 percent of Mexico's total medium and long-term public debt, and this ratio
is not likely to change significantly over the next few years. As a result of
the developments reviewed in para. 8, total debt service ratio is estimated to
have reached about 35.5 percent by end of 1981. Mexico is creditworthy for
borrowing on conventional terms.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN MEXICO
Bank Operations
19.       As of September 30, 1981, Mexico had received 72 loans from the Bank
amounting to US$5,044.4 million net of cancellations and terminations; of
these, 40 loans totalling US$2,160.4 million were fully disbursed. The Bank
held US$4,288.3 million, of which US$1,955.8 million had not yet been disbursed.
Some 41 percent of Bank lending had been for agriculture and rural development,
15 percent for industry, 15 percent for power, and 17 percent for transportation;
the remaining 12 percent has been for water supply, tourism, urban development
and vocational training projects. Annex II contains a summary statement of Bank
loans as of September 30, 1981 and notes on the execution of ongoing projects.
20.       Of the $5.2 billion total gross lending, about $2.5 billion was for
establishing and/or strengthening institutions for channeling credit to areas
where credit supply was deficient or non-existent, and setting up in the commer-
cial banking system the ability to carry out project-related appraisal of high
priority investments in agriculture, industry and tourism. Major accomplishment
of the credit programs has been facilitating the establishment of mechanisms
for lending to low-income farmers and small and medium scale industrial enter-
prises, and facilitating of lending based on productive investment plans rather
than collateralized credit.



- 7 -
21.       Implementation of most Bank-financed projects was delayed during
the period of economic difficulties in the mid-1970s and during the period of
adjustment and stabilization that followed the September 1976 devaluation of
the peso. Since then, the Government has taken important actions to accelerate
implementation of the projects. Adequate budget financing has been provided.
Projects which had important structural constraints were modified and rephased
to account for changed circumstances. Government and Bank officials have
periodically met to review project implementation, and greater attention has
been focused in Mexico on monitoring project implementation and disbursements.
As a result of these measures, most of the Bank-assisted projects are proceed-
ing satisfactorily and plans have been formulated to strengthen execution of
those projects where improvement is still needed. The effectiveness of these
actions is reflected in disbursement totals which have risen from US$91 million
in FY78 to US$413 million in FY81. FY82 disbursements through December were
US$250 million.
IFC Operations
22.       As of September 30, 1981, IFC had made investment commitments in
23 companies in Mexico, for a total of US$551.2 million, of which US$402.0
million had been sold, repaid or cancelled. A summary statement of IFC
investments is presented in Annex II.
Bank Strategy
23.       The main objectives of Bank lending in Mexico have been to:
(i) support policies and programs leading to a wider distribution of the
benefits of economic growth; (ii) help finance projects that make, directly
or indirectly, significant contributions to output and employment; (iii) help
reduce Mexico's urban-regional imbalances; and (iv) help break bottlenecks
preventing rapid growth.
24.       Because of the difficult structural problems of agriculture, and
the sector's crucial importance to the country's further development, the Bank
has made agriculture the leading sector for its lending. The Bank's agricul-
tural lending program for Mexico has four goals: first, to increase produc-
tivity of presently cultivated lands through selected programs to enhance
irrigation efficiency and on-farm improvements; second, to improve the
productivity of small farmers through programs for (a) rural development,
(b) rainfed agricultural development, and (c) bringing new areas in the humid
tropics under cultivation; third, to complement infrastructure investments
with general support services, including agricultural extension and marketing
programs and provision of medium-term credit; and fourth, to promote employment
opportunities in rural areas through programs of agro- and rural-industries.
The Bank has made eleven loans in FYs76-81 totalling US$1,466 million for
irrigation, rural development and agricultural, agro-industrial and livestock
credit programs. A US$175 million loan for a rural development project was
approved by the Executive Directors in July 1981. Several projects for
rainfed agriculture, rural development, irrigation, fisheries, and support
services are in preparation.



8 -
25.       Past Bank lending for industry has been aimed at: (a) assisting
the Government's efforts to reduce the balance of payments deficit; (b) decen-
tralizing industrial activities away from the major and increasingly congested
urban areas; and (c) promoting greater employment in the sector by supporting
medium- and small-scale industry. A steel project which the Bank helped
structure and finance is now operating in a previously underdeveloped area
on the west coast of Mexico (Lazaro Cardenas) and the city in which it is
located is developing into a new growth pole. The fertilizer sector has been
strengthened by two Bank assisted projects which the State-owned fertilizer
company (FERTIMEX) is carrying out. Loans for projects to promote the develop-
ment of small- and medium-scale industrial enterprises and to support an
industrial equipment fund (FONEI) were approved by the Executive Directors
in FYs78-79; they offer support to the private sector at a time of rapid
expansion. The Executive Directors also approved in FY80 a second small and
medium scale industries project and a project for small and medium-scale
mining, which up to now has received insufficient resources from the financial
system. A loan for a vocational training project was approved by the Executive
Directors in July 1981; this loan is assisting a program to increase the
supply of skilled workers and technicians and to improve the quality, relevance,
and efficiency of technical training. Two capital goods industries projects
are under discussion for possible Bank support, which would aim at assisting
the Government to develop adequate policies for the sector, promote institution-
building aspects, and the transfer of appropriate technology to Mexico, so that
employment might be increased in the engineering subsector and the base in the
manufacturing industry strengthened. One of these projects was recently
appraised. In addition, a project to reduce air and water pollution in the
greater Mexico City and other critical areas has also been appraised and will
be presented to the Executive Directors in the coming months.
26.       As regards physical infrastructure, the Bank's operations have been
focused on investments in key areas of the country as well as on institutional
reforms and sector policies aiming, inter alia, at suitable pricing mechanisms
to help generate additional resources for investment financing. The Airports
Development Project (FY74) was designed to support the Government's policy of
regional integration; the Fourth Railway Project (FY81) supports improvements
of institutional aspects and financial management of the sector. The Mexico
City Water Supply and Sewerage Project (FY 73) was instrumental in the strength-
ening of specialized institutions for the efficient provision of water and
sewerage in the capital city. The First and Second Medium Size Cities Water
Supply and Sewerage Projects (FY76 and 81, respectively) were designed to
reinforce the planning, managerial and financial performance of specialized
water supply and sewerage institutions at the federal and municipal levels,
and contribute to the establishment of tariffs more closely related to costs.
A Highway Sector Project was approved by the Executive Directors in FY79. A
loan to assist the Mexican Government in structuring investments in port
development was approved by the Executive Directors in March 1981.
27.       The Government and the Bank have long recognized the regional
economic disparities prevailing in Mexico. In June 1976, the Government
enacted a law of human settlements to provide a new institutional framework
to deal with the pressing problems of over-concentration of economic activi-
ties in the larger metropolitan areas. The Government has adopted a National



-9-
Urban Development Plan that spells out its regional development priorities
in operational terms, and several projects are now being prepared to meet the
needs for basic urban services for poor families and to provide key regional
infrastructure in selected priority cities. One such project, to assist in
the development of the Lazaro Cardenas conurbation area on the West Coast,
was approved by the Executive Directors in FY78, and a second project for
oil-producing southeastern Mexico was approved by the Executive Directors
in FY81.
28.       The Economic Development Institute (EDI) is assisting CECADE
(a similar institute under the Ministry of Programming and Budget) in
training Government staff in several aspects of project preparation, monitor-
ing and evaluation. EDI assistance is directed at urban and regional develop-
ment, agriculture, rural development and agro-industries courses. The Bank
has also assisted the Mexican authorities in training personnel for managing
water supply and industrial credit projects.
29.       The Inter-American Development Bank (IDB) is the second largest
source of multilateral aid to Mexico. The IDB has made loans to Mexico totalling
US$2,610 million as of September 30, 1981. Over 60 percent of this lending
has gone for agricultural and rural development projects, and the balance
for transportation, industry, water supply, and tourism infrastructure. In
1981, the IDB approved two loans totalling US$215 million for a large-scale
irrigation project and the establishment of a science and technology center.
The IDB and the Bank have coordinated their assistance on several projects; the
1DB and the Bank have each made loans for the National Program for Small-Scale
Agricultural Infrastructure, the Integrated Rural Development Program (PIDER),
agricultural and livestock credit, small and medium-scale industries develop-
ment, and hotel development projects. The International Fund for Agricultural
Development (IFAD) has approved a loan of US$22 million for a rural development
project in the State of Oaxaca which was appraised by the Bank's staff and for
which the Bank is acting as cooperating institution for administering the
loan.
30.       The Government, in the past, has co-financed Bank-supported power,
steel, fertilizer and tourism projects. Recently, Mexico has gone to the
market to borrow about $500 million (about one half in SDRs) to provide
supplementary financing for the Bank-assisted projects, including the project
under consideration.
PART III - THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
Background
31.       Mexico has a land area of about 200 million ha, of which only about
30 million ha are considered cultivable. According to the spatial distribution
of rainfall, about 31 percent of the territory is classified as arid and
desertic, 36 percent is semi-arid and the remaining 33 percent is subhumid



- 10 -
or humid. Of the potentially arable land, about 18 million are now being
cropped, of which 5 million are irrigated. Irrigation facilities are being
expanded at an average annual rate of about 150,000 ha.
32.       Agriculture is the most important source of income for Mexico's
rural population of approximately 24 million. It employs about 39 percent
of the labor force in the country, despite substantial migration to urban
areas. The sector sustains about 4 million families, of which 1.3 million
are landless. The majority of the primary sector labor force, however, is
engaged in activities with very low productivity, with about two-thirds of
agricultural labor earning incomes below the minimum wage.
33.       In general the diets of the rural inhabitants fall below standards
required for minimally productive lives. Almost 90 percent of the rural
population suffers from some degree of food deficiency, and about 40 percent
of this group are seriously malnourished, of which half are children under
the age of 14.
34.       Great disparities in resource endowment, technology, productivity
and income characterize Mexican agriculture. As a consequence of the wide
range of ecological conditions in the country's two million square kilometers,
Mexican agriculture is characterized by sharp contrasts, such as that between
the subsistence farms in the Sierras and the technology-intensive commercial
farms in the western irrigated zones. Comparing the 0.2 million modern farms
with the 1.5 million subsistence farms at the other end of the spectrum,
income per ha in the former is 2.7 times the latter, and income per capita
about 20 times as high.
35.       Agricultural external trade balance, which had been traditionally
favorable to Mexico, became negative in 1980, mainly because of the rise of
agricultural imports to US$2.3 billion, or about 13 percent of total merchandise
imports. The combined effect of rapid population growth, relative price shifts)
changing food habits and the declining agricultural production and bad harvests
because of droughts in recent years, have resulted in this significant increase
in food and foodgrain imports, particularly of corn, sorghum and oilseeds, as
well as meat dairy products.
36.       The 5 million ha approximately of the area under irrigation accounts
for about 50 percent of normal output. A major part of the irrigation facilities
depends   on surface flow of water stored in reservoirs and adverse weather
conditions affected the water levels in reservoirs in 1979 and 1980. In 1980,
water availability in these reservoirs was 39 percent of the storage capacity,
as compared to 67 percent a year earlier. Because of the reduced availability
of water, irrigated agriculture has suffered and crop production has declined
significantly. However, with normal rainfall patterns, the irrigation projects
under construction or rehabilitation would significantly augment production
capacity; actually, the crop production in 1981 has been record high and
supports the government's optimism regarding the present strategy of investments
in irrigation facilities, other infrastructure works and extension facilities
with remunerative farm-gate price support.



- 11 -
37.       Since adoption of Government policy to promote irrigation and the
creation, in 1946, of the Secretariat of Hydraulic Resources, three different
phases can be distinguished in the development of agriculture. During the
period 1945-55, crop production grew at a rate of 7.3 percent per annum, most
of the rapid increase coming from opening nearly 110,000 ha per annum to
intensive irrigated cultivation. The growth of livestock production during
the same period averaged 3.7 percent per annum, resulting in a combined growth
rate of 6 percent for the sector as a whole. In 1955-65, the expansion of
irrigated land declined to about 65,000 ha per year and agricultural and
livestock production sector expanded at a more moderate rate of 4.2 percent
per annum. Since 1965, the cropped area has remained constant at about 15
million ha. Agricultural production grew only at a yearly average of 1.4
percent between 1965 and 1979, while livestock production continued to expand
at about 4 percent per annum. The share of agriculture in national GDP has
declined from 14 percent in 1965 to just about 10 percent in 1979.
38.       Water has been a key factor in the development of Mexican agriculture
and is essential to food production and improvement of the living conditions of
the rural population. Agriculture accounts for about 95 percent of the total
consumption of water in the country and the irrigation subsector has made a
substantial contribution to agricultural production over the past 35 years.
Efforts for balanced exploitation of the national water resources and their
conservation are reflected in the 1971 Federal Water Law, which unified exist-
ing laws and regulations. The creation of the National Hydraulic Commission
institutionalized this effort in 1972 leading to the formulation, in 1975, of
the first National Water Plan with Bank involvement and establishing a systematic
basis for a national water strategy, embodying 50 years of experience in
management of hydraulic resources.
39.       The development prospects of Mexico in the next twenty years combined
with demographic growth will require that the availability of water for both
population needs and production of basic foods be increased at a faster pace
than population growth and the expansion of these activities. The 1981
National Hydraulic Plan is consistent with this objective and the goals of the
recently formulated Global Development Plan and Mexican Food System (SAM), as
well as with the National Agriculture and Forestry Program. It focuses on
hydraulic works and actions needed to stimulate the irrigation subsector to
respond in a more dynamic way to the rapidly growing water demand derived from
increasing production of basic foods and diversification of energy sources.
These objectives require an increase in the size and productivity of the areas
served by irrigation and drainage structures, to achieve a sustained growth
of production in the coming years and to reach the stated goal of extending
irrigation to 10 million ha by the end of the century. In this context, the
basic strategy gives priority to: (i) increase in the efficiency of irrigation,
through improvement and modernization of conveyance and distribution systems,
proper operation and maintenance practices, restructuring and periodic adjustment
of the levels of water charges to cover fully operation and maintenance costs of
the structures, promotion of higher farm productivity, and crop substitution and
diversification; (ii) expansion of the cropped areas with construction of irriga-
tion and drainage infrastructure and rehabilitation of irrigation districts; and
(iii) improvement in rainfed areas through provision of basic infrastructure



- 12 -
coupled with land improvement and reclamation and soil and water management,
to bring additional 10 million ha under rainfed agricultural development.
40.       Mexico still has a considerable potential for further agricultural
development through incorporation of unused or underused lands under intensive
agriculture and achievement of productivity gains with extension of improved
technology and applied research to both rainfed and irrigated areas.
Government's Policies and Programs
41.       The present administration has perceived the dimensions of the
problems of the sector and has stated its commitment to improve the living
conditions of the poorer sections of the rural population and to focus on
agricultural diversification.
42.       In order to achieve these objectives, the Government has implemented
a strategy aimed at making fuller use of water and land resources, obtaining
higher productivity in new and existing lands and expanding the cropped area,
both irrigated and rainfed, complemented with rehabilitation of those irrigation
districts where infrastructure is inadequate or land is in poor condition.
The rehabilitation programs have received important support from Government
agencies, the Mexican banking community, and participating farmers. Increasing
attention is being given to rainfed agriculture through the 123 recently
established rainfed districts where the Government has assigned high priority
to integration of technical assistance and extension services with marketing
and credit facilities. The Government is also taking action to meet the needs
of the indigenous population and of the people in marginal areas, expanding
significantly the program of the Commission for Marginal Areas (COPLAMAR) to
extend infrastructure support and delivery of public services (such as health,
water, schools, and food distribution) to these groups.
43.       Additionally, the strategy for development in the agricultural
sector calls for remunerative farmgate prices, along with investment in
training, applied research, rural infrastructure, irrigation, land clearing,
access roads, as well as marketing and storage facilities. To reduce income
disparities in the rural areas, the Bank has supported an integrated approach
along these lines by participating in the Integrated Program for Rural Develop-
ment (PIDER) and the National Plan for Small Scale Agricultural Infrastructure
Development (PNDR). Furthermore, to provide impetus to agricultural development,
the Government has substantially increased credit resources for production and
investment purposes. Also, it has taken measures to strengthen the credit and
technical assistance delivery systems as well as to promote participation of
private banks. The proposed project fits into this strategy since it is based
on planning of water and soil management to increase production of basic grains
and provide farm employment and higher income opportunities in the area.
44.       A Bank mission to study the agriculture sector, visited Mexico in
November 1981 and is presently preparing its report.
Experience in Previous Irrigation Prolects
45.       In the past eight years (FY74-81), the Bank has approved 15 rural
development and agricultural loans amounting to US$1,800 million:



- 13 -
Irrigation (Panuco, Sinaloa, Fuerte/Sinaloa, Bajo Bravo/
Bajo San Juan I, Apatzingan, and Ocoroni) - US$474 million;
Rural Development (PIDER I and II and Papaloapan Basin) -
US$280 million;
Credit V, VI and VII Projects - US$650 million;
Area Development (Tropical Agriculture) - US$56 million;
Small-scale Agricultural Infrastructure Development -
US$60 million; and
Rainfed Agriculture - US$280 million.
As noted in Annex II, by and large, these projects are progressing satisfactorily.
Implementation of the Panuco, Sinaloa and Bajo BravofBajo San Juan I projects
was initially delayed mainly because of budgetary constraints. Accentuating
these delays were large cost increases unforeseen at appraisal done prior to
oil price increases of the mid-1970s. The Government and the Bank jointly
reviewed these problems and agreed that the projects be financed over a longer
period of time. This review led to reformulation of the Bajo Rio Bravo/Bajo
Rio San Juan project with cancellation of US$100 million from the original
loan of US$150 million. A supplementary loan of US$25 million was approved by
the Executive Directors for the Panuco Irrigation Project on July 11, 1978.
Sinaloa Irrigation project was redesigned, and the Bank made a new loan in
FY79 for additional works in Sinaloa and the adjoining Rio Fuerte irrigation
districts. Following these actions, implementation of all these irrigation
projects is now satisfactory and on schedule. The Apatzingan, Ocoroni and the
Rainfed Agriculture projects are in their initial stages of implementation.
The implementation of the Papaloapan Integrated Rural Development Project
of October 29, 1974 has suffered delays due to managerial, budgetary and
technical constraints. A proposal for modification in the scope of the
project and extension of the closing date was approved by the Executive
Directors on January 4, 1982.
Operations Evaluation of Irrigation Projects
46.       Since 1961, ten irrigation projects have been supported by the
Bank. Four of these have been completed, two of which have been audited by
the Operations Evaluation Department (OED). One of these two--Third
Irrigation Project (Loan 450-ME of May 1966)--has been revisited by an OED
team for impact evaluation. The observations of the two OED audit reports 1/
and the impact evaluation report 1/ are summarized below:
1/   1.   Project Performance Audit Report:  Mexico Third Irrigation Project
(Loan 450-ME); SecM76-147; March 8, 1976.
2.   Mexico Rio Colorado Irrigation Project (Loan 527-ME); SecM79-498
June 29, 1979.
3.   Mexico Impact Evaluation Report:  Third Irrigation Project Report
No. 2559 of June 18, 1979.



- 14 -
On balance, both projects have been very successful, as the
ex post economic rates of return exceeded the appraisal esti-
mates (except in a section of the Third Project, accounting
for 17 percent of the investments). Original project objectives
were exceeded in terms of production, employment and social
benefits. The Third Project led to more equal income distri-
bution in its area of influence.
Both projects suffered  from delays in implementation and cost
overruns.
-    Quality of project design, appraisal, management and supervision
are important for the success of the project. OED reports emphasize
the importance of joint programs for exploitation of ground and
surface water resources of the project area.
-    Under the Third Project, the Borrower had not fully complied
with conditions regarding controlling groundwater extraction,
recovery of operation and maintenance in part of the project
area and recovery of additional investment charges in the
whole project area.
47.       Experience with past lending for irrigation projects has influenced
the preparation and design of the proposed Second Stage of Bajo Rio Bravo/Bajo
Rio San Juan Irrigation Project. Technical services and on-farm invest-
ments are included in project costs and sensitivity analyses are made for
construction delays or changes in costs and benefits. Bank staff have also
become more involved in project preparation. Special efforts were made by the
Government and the Bank to ensure proper review of the design for this project.
Also, the planned implementation period was carefully reviewed.
48.       Extensive discussions have been held with the Government on cost
recovery practices. The Ministry of Agriculture and Water Resources has
reaffirmed its policy to recover from beneficiaries of irrigation projects
the operation and maintenance costs in full. In addition, following an assess-
ment, through a socio-economic study, of the capacity of beneficiaries to pay,
the Government proposes to recover as much as possible of the investment costs.
In their recently adopted National Development Plan (para. 17 ante), the
Government has stated its policy of reducing subsidies where feasible and
of making them explicit where these are retained. The cost recovery covenant
(paras. 71-73) for the proposed project incorporates the above principles.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Background
49.       A Staff Appraisal Report (No. 3663-ME, dated February 19, 1982) is
being circulated separately to the Executive Directors. The proposed project
was prepared by the General Directorate for Large Scale Irrigation of the
Secretaria de Agricultura y Recursos Hidraulicos (SARH) and was appraised
by a Bank mission in May 1981. Negotiations took place in Washington, D.C.,



- 15 -
in February 1982. The Mexican negotiations team was headed by Lic. Luis Nava
Hernandez of NAFINSA, and included representatives from Secretaria de Agricultura
y Recursos Hidraulicos (SARH) and Secretaria de Hacienda y Credito Publico (SHCP).
50.       A brief description of the project may be found in the Loan and
Project Summary, at the beginning of this report. Please see the attached
map for location of the more important works. Supplementary data on the
project are provided in Annex III.
Project Description and Objectives
51.       The project would complete and expand the scope of the on-going
first stage of the rehabilitation program supported under Loan 1111-ME, of
May 1975, as modified in December 1977 and March 1979. The two modifications
phased out development of the first stage over a longer period of time, with
substantial reduction of its scope and shifting of the rehabilitation priorities
from irrigation to drainage works. As a result, rehabilitation of irrigation
structures was deferred to future stages, including the proposed one, and
Bank financing reduced from US$150 million to US$50 million, with only about)(
2 percent of this amount allocated to irrigation, as compared to the 70 percent
allocated to this component prior to modification of the project. The project
would promote intensive irrigated agriculture on about 280,000 ha in the
Bajo Rio Bravo and Bajo Rio San Juan Irrigation Districts, along the border
between Mexico and the United States, in the State of Tamaulipas, through:
(a) construction of about 820 km of new drainage canals,
rehabilitation of about 1,160 km of existing drains, and
construction and/or rehabilitation of about 5,000 related
structures in the first and third units of Irrigation
District 25 and in the second and third units of
Irrigation District 26;
(b) land leveling of about 105,000 ha (42 percent of the overall
program) of which about 71 percent (75,000 ha) are in
Irrigation District 25 and the balance, 29 percent (30,000 ha),
in Ir5igation District 26, with an average land movement of
600 m /ha;
(c) construction of on-farm subsoil drainage on about 13,700 ha,
most of which (80 percent) would be in Irrigation District 25;
(d)  rectification of canal banks (about 480 km), selective
lining of canals where excessive seepage of water has
been identified (about 440 km), and completion of about
850 structures for control and measurement devices along
the irrigation systems;
(e) completion of about 1,750 km of service roads along
irrigation and drainage canals, 290 km of farm (official)
roads, and 870 related structures;
(f) acquisition and installation of a communications network
(telephone and radio) and additional equipment for 0 & M
in the two districts;



- 16 -
(g) strengthening of the technical assistance program for the
entire 280,000 ha in order to promote land leveling and
summer crops by increasing staff, constructing demonstration
centers and houses for the extension agents, and procuring
equipment for the existing organization;
(h) reinforcement of applied agricultural research and studies
for future stages; and
(i) indemnization of farmers affected by the works.
52.       The proposed project fits into the Bank's strategy in the country
(para. 24) and supports the Government's policies for agricultural develop-
ment outlined in paras. 41-43. It would aim at increasing agricultural
production in the lower Rio Bravo and Rio San Juan Basins, in the State
of Tamaulipas, by rehabilitating about 280,000 ha of irrigated lands, which
are exploited by about 15,500 farm families, holding between 5 and 50 ha
each.
53.       The lower Bravo Valley comprises two Irrigation Districts, No. 25 and
26, both located along the southern banks of the Bravo/Grande River. Both
districts have easy access to the distribution, marketing, credit, transporta-
tion and agricultural research infrastructures available in Reynosa, Matamoros,
Diaz-Ordaz, Valle Hermoso and Rio Bravo. The valley's population is about
700,000, of which 130,000 live in the rural area. Current family incomes from
farming ranges between about Mex$34,000 (US$1,500) and Mex$103,000 (US$4,500)
per annum, including off farm income, mainly from employment opportunities in
neighboring Texas.
54.       The project water supply comes from the Rio Bravo and its tributaries.
The Rio Bravo is an international stream which marks the boundary between
the United States and Mexico. The use of waters of common interest to the
two countries is regulated by a treaty subscribed in 1944 which provides a
basis for accounting for all water flows. The International Boundary and
Water Commission (CILA), in charge of the Rio Bravo/Rio Grande water distri-
bution between Mexico and the United States has confirmed that there is no
objection to the execution of the proposed rehabilitation program in the
two irrigation districts. The Bravo and San Juan rivers are the principal
sources of water in the two Districts. District 26, Bajo Rio San Juan,
derives its supply from the wholly Mexican San Juan River tributary. Two main
canals, the San Pedro/Rancheros, on the left bank, and the Rode on the right
bank, distribute water supplied from the Marte Gomez Reservoir, on the San
Juan River, for irrigation of approximately 71,000 ha of net gravity-fed
irrigable land. In addition, within the district, but outside the scope of
the project, there is an area of land, between the river and the channel-fed
areas, which is serviced by water pumped directly from the river. District
25, Bajo Rio Bravo, utilizes Mexico's share of water stored in the two inter-
national storage dams (Falcon and Amistad) plus other flows. One main canal,
the Anzalduas, carries water diverted at the international Anzalduas Diversion
Dam on the Bravo/Grande River to serve approximately 208,000 ha; pumping rights
have also been allocated in a narrow strip of land adjacent to the river but
again outside the project area.



- 17 -
55.       The two districts are significantly different in ecological con-
ditions, soil class distribution, water availability, drainage problems,
human resources and income opportunities, all of which are more favorable
in District 26 than in District 25. The project would contribute to a more
balanced development of the two districts.
56.       Water availability is a constraint in the project area.  The project
is based on careful planning of water resource management, by improving the
efficiency of the irrigation systems to maintain a proper balance between
growing demand for water, once all rehabilitation works are completed, and
limited supply of this resource. The principal objective of the second
stage is to continue the rehabilitation and improvement of the irrigation and
drainage systems in the two districts initiated under the on-going first stage
of the project, through (a) completion of rehabilitation of the existing
surface drainage systems and expansion of drainage networks; (b) construction
and/or rehabilitation of irrigation systems through selective lining and
rectification of canals and structures to control water losses, and completion
of service roads and structures for control and measurement devices along the
irrigation systems; (c) land leveling and on-farm subsoil drainage; (d)
strengthening of agricultural support services and preparation of studies to
achieve prudent water and soil management. The timely execution of the land
leveling component is fundamental for the success of the project, both because
of its substantial size with respect to the overall program and its key role
in the impact on project benefits. Consequently, the Government submitted at
negotiations a detailed schedule for the six-year implementation period of
this component, including complete designs for the first two years of its
execution agreed to by the farmers. These documents were reviewed by the Bank
and found to be satisfactory. The Government has confirmed its intention of
carrying out all the arrangements for the implementation of these works.
Technical Assistance
57.       The level of farm development on the Mexican side of the international
boundary is significantly below that of the US side. A comprehensive technical
assistance program has been designed for upgrading the Mexican farms to compar-
able US levels. This has three main components: applied research for the
region, studies and extension program.
58.       CIAGON, the agricultural research center for the region, would develop
improved varieties and agricultural practices for the principal crops (maize,
sorghum, beans and cotton). Some new crops (such as sunflower, soybeans, special
varieties of cotton and pastures) would be developed for the summer season, and
undrainable heavy soils in the project area. Appropriate machinery would also
be introduced in the project area after adaptive research in this center.
59.       Studies would be directed at a long-term water use planning, including
optimal combination of sub-soil and surface waters; at reviewing the effect of a
pilot sub-surface drainage program, and at monitoring the economic impact of the
principal works on farm production.
60.       The extension program is designed to arrange effective delivery of the
research results and improved technological packages to farmers; on full develop-
ment there will be one extension agent for every 300 farm families.



- 18 -
Credit
61.       The current credit delivery system is organizationally adequate to
handle the additional credit for on-farm development programs contemplated
for the second stage. Though not financed under the project, about US$17.0
million of long and medium-term credit per annum needed for on-farm development
and about US$73.0 million of working capital per annum would be provided by
the financial institutions operating in the area (Section 3.04 of the Guarantee
Agreement).
Marketing, Storage and Transportation
62.       The bulk of the increased crop production under the project would
be marketed through the well developed facilities and efficient organization
existing in the State of Tamaulipas. The transportation, road and railway
networks connect the area with the readily available markets of Monterrey and
Mexico City.
Project Implementation, Operation and Maintenance
63.       The project would be implemented by SARH through its established
channels, SARH maintains offices in each state, organized according to head-
quarters pattern and administered by the State representatives of SARH. On
the project site, construction of physical works would be administered by
the resident engineer who reports to the State Representative. The Chief
of each Irrigation District would be responsible for the operation, mainte-
nance and administration of the completed works and would report to the
General Directorate of Irrigation Districts at SARH headquarters in Mexico
City. The extension services in each district would be coordinated by the
Director of Operation. The Chief of the Irrigation District would head a
Steering Committee consisting of representatives of farmers, official credit
institutions operating in the area, and technical staff from related Government
agencies (SARH, NAFINSA, ANAGSA, CONASUPO, etc.) and would oversee development
of agriculture in the area.
64.       The Operation and Development Section of each Irrigation District
is responsible for operation and maintenance of irrigation and drainage
infrastructure works. Adequate maintenance equipment would be procured under
the project. Each Irrigation District would prepare and annually update the
program to ensure proper maintenance of the facilities.
Monitoring and Evaluation
65.       Monitoring and evaluation is routinely conducted by staff of each
irrigation district. Basic data, the most important of which concern cropped
areas, cropping patterns, water use, yields, prices, operation and maintenance
activities, extension activities, progress of work and reservoir storage, are
collected and used in the management of the districts.
66.       Progress of construction, operation and maintenance, agricultural
development and technical assistance would be recorded in periodic reports,
which are part of the routine operations of SARH, and would be available to
the Bank for review and comments. Assurances were obtained that no later



- 19 -
than one year after the completion of loan disbursements, a project comple-
tion report would be submitted to the Bank (Section 3.09 of the Guarantee
Agreement).
Project Cost and Finance
67.       Total project costs are estimated at US$525.3 million based on current
costs, including allowances for physical and price contingencies (please see p. ii
for details). The proposed Bank loan of US$180 million would finance the estim-
ated foreign exchange component of the project ($177.3 million), equivalent to
34 percent of total project cost, plus $2.7 million capitalized front-end fee
on the Bank loan.
Retroactive Finance
68.       In order to speed up project implementation, retroactive financing
of up to US$5 million is being proposed for expenditures in drainage works
already presented to the Bank. To be eligible for such financing the contracts
would have been let in accordance with Bank guidelines (Schedule 1, Section 3
of the Loan Agremeent).
Accounts and Auditing
69.       All documentations for which reimbursement would be claimed from the
Bank loan would be subject to the independent review and approval by the
Secretariat of Programming and Budgeting (SPP) in accordance with SPP's estab-
lished control procedures. SARH would maintain separate accounts adequate
to reflect the resources, expenditures and the financial situation of the
project which is subject to their internal checks and controls as well as the
continuous controls of SPP. A summary statement of such accounts would be
prepared annually by SARH and submitted to the Bank, after verification in
accordance with SARH and SPP's normal verification procedures which are
acceptable to the Bank. Such statements would be confirmed by SPP as to
their accuracy and that controls and verification procedures have been properly
and consistently applied. The Government would also furnish to the Bank
such other pertinent information concerning such accounts and the verification
thereof, as the Bank shall reasonably request (Section 4.02 of the Guarantee
Agreement).
Cost Recovery
70.       Project costs would be recovered through water charges and production
taxes. Water control and measuring structures are included in the canal net-
work and distribution system, part of which will be amplified or rehabilitated
in order to achieve higher efficiency in the use of water.
71.       The Government's policy is to recover the full cost of operation and
maintenance and as much as possible of investment costs. However, the Agrarian
Reform Law limits the recovery of investment costs from ejidatarios to 30
percent. The portion of investment costs to be recovered would be settled
after completion of a socio-economic study of each of the districts to determine
the beneficiaries' capacity to pay. This study is normally conducted after the
district begins to supply water to the fields. Mexican legislation requires
that the Government negotiate periodically with the farmers the settlement of
any increases in water rates, both for operation and maintenance expenditures
and recovery of investments costs.



- 20 -
72.       Water charges were increased in the project area in 1976 to a
level adequate to cover fully the operation, maintenance and administration
costs of the irrigation works . With the modifications introduced in the
first stage (para. 51), execution of the project in its smaller scope was
resumed in 1979, after a delay of about three years. The Bajo Rio Bravo and
Bajo Rio San Juan Irrigation Rehabilitation Project, as envisaged under the
original Loan 1111-ME, of May 22, 1975, would now be finalized only on com-
pletion of the proposed second stage (by December 1987) and the Government has
decided to increase these rates gradually over a five-year period beginning
January 1982 for full recovery of operation and maintenance costs by end of 1986.
The Bank has agreed to the Government-proposed timetable for recovery. The first
stage of the revision in water rates is already in effect and represents an in-
crease of 73 percent in nominal terms over the current level (from Mex$ 375/ha
to Mex$ 650/ha) and is equivalent to about 70 percent of the full operation
and maintenance costs. By 1986, the rates would be increased to cover all the
operation and maintenance costs of rural roads, irrigation and drainage works
in the project area.
73.       Assurances were obtained that the Government will collect water
charges to recover: (a) the full cost of operation and maintenance; and,
(b) that portion of capital costs which is reasonable in light of the benefi-
ciaries' capacity to pay. The portion of capital costs to be recovered
would be determined on the basis of a socio-economic study to be carried out
by SARH by December 31, 1987. The study would be updated periodically and
water rates appropriately revised (Section 3.05 of the Guarantee Agreement).
74.       Ex ante analysis of the cost recovery index indicates that it would
reach about 40 percent for the project as a whole. It would reach about
37 percent for beneficiaries in District 25 and about 48 percent in District 26.
As reported in para. 53, the agricultural conditions are more favorable in
District 26. The analysis is based on the assumption that beneficiaries would
pay the full cost of operation and maintenance of the irrigation works through
irrigation water charges, and that farmers' contribution to investment would
amount to 30 percent over 25 years, as established by the Mexican law. The
water charges payable represent about 12-13 percent of the family net farm
incomes in small and medium-sized farms and about 15-16 percent in the large-
scale units.
Procurement
75.       About 80 percent of the contracts for the principal irrigation and
drainage works, amounting to about US$230.0 million, would be procured by
international competitive bidding (ICB) in accordance with Bank Guidelines
for Procurement. Civil works would, insofar as possible, be grouped into
contracts having a minimum value of US$2.0 million. Small jobs (telecommuni-
cations, buildings, houses), which because of timing or nature of the work,
could be better handled if not included in major contracts, would be con-
tracted following ordinary Government procedures which are satisfactory to
the Bank. This process would expedite the construction of minor civil works
under local competitive bidding (LCB). The maximum value of a contract for
LCB would be US$650,000, with the total of all such contracts not exceeding
US$55.0 million. Consulting services, if necessary, would be contracted in
consultation with the Bank.



- 21 -
76.       Small or dispersed contracts for on-farm development works (including
land clearing and leveling), about US$9.0 million, would also be let under
LCB, or through negotiations under the Guarantor's ordinary procedures.
In the project regions, farmers organize themselves into groups to contract
for land clearing and leveling on small tracts of up to 250 ha using their
own machinery. SARH provides engineering services and supervises such
contracts.
77.       The estimated cost of vehicles, farm machinery, and operation and
maintenance equipment is about US$15 million, of which about US$12 million
would be subject to ICB, according to Bank Guidelines for Procurement. For
bid evaluation, a 15 percent margin of preference or the prevailing custom
duties, whichever is lower, would be allowed for equipment and vehicles produced
in Mexico. About US$3.0 million worth of minor equipment, not suitable for
ICB, would be purchased through normal local procurement procedures, which are
satisfactory to the Bank (Schedule 2 of Guarantee Agreement).
Disbursements
78.       The proposed Bank loan would reimburse (a) 45 percent of the cost
of civil works and engineering services, (b) 90 percent of the cost of machinery
and equipment, (c) 30 percent of the cost of land leveling and (d) 30 percent
of total cost of technical assistance (Schedule 1 of the Loan Agreement). The
loan is expected to be disbursed in six years, beginning in January 1983
through June 30, 1988. A Schedule of Estimated Disbursements is provided in
the Loan and Ptoject Summary.
Project Impact
79.       Benefits derived from the project would be the increase of production,
income and employment. At full development, which would materialize in the
11th year, 7.6 million man-days of on-farm employment per annum would be gene-
rated compared to about 4.5 million man-days on-farm per annum without the
project. Likewise, annual incomes would increase from between US$1,500 and
US$4,500 to between US$3,300 and US$6,500 per family (of about 5 members on
the average). Some 37 percent of the families are ejidatarios 1/ with holdings
between 10 and 20 ha each. The rest of the beneficiaries are private farmers
with ownership patterns ranging from about 20 percent of them holding less
than 10 ha, 50 percent with farms of up to 20 ha, and 30 percent holding over
20 ha. On full development, annual family incomes are expected to increase
between 110 and 500 percent.
80.       Full development of the cropped area is expected to be reached
in about seven years from the beginning of project implementation, immediately
after completion of the project infrastructure. The total cropped area would
increase from 327,000 ha to about 415,000 ha, which would imply reaching, at
full development, a cropping intensity of about 150 percent. As a result, the
total volume of production would increase from 850,000 metric tons to 1,360,000
metric tons, bringing the total annual net value of production from US$94 mil-
lion to US$135 million, in real terms, mainly from production of crops such as
corn, sorghum, beans, vegetables and cotton. Social and other intangible
benefits would accrue to the farmers, who would receive access to expanded
educational, health, marketing and credit facilities and related services.
1/   Ejidatarios are members of an ejido, a form of group land tenure based
on usufruct.



- 22
Economic Evaluation
81.       The economic rate of return (ERR) for the project as a whole is
estimated at 22.5 percent. The results of a sensitivity analysis show that
the rate would remain acceptable at about 15 percent if project costs were
to increase by 20 percent and, at the same time, benefits were to decrease
by 20 percent. A switching value test was also performed and indicated that
if total project costs were to increase by about 82 percent or benefits were
to decrease by 45 percent, the project's ERR would still be 12 percent, which
is the estimated opportunity cost of capital in Mexico. An unlikely two years
delay in project construction would reduce the ERR to 16.0 percent. For the
combined Stage I and Stage II projects the ERR is estimated to be 17 percent.
Environmental Impact
82.       The project would not have any harmful effects on the environment
and would prevent increasing salinity and erosion. Chemical used to control
pests and diseases would be applied following prescribed procedures and appli-
cation would be closely monitored by extension agents who would also train
farmers in their safe use.
Project Risks
83.       There are no major risks associated with the Project.  Potentially
successful implementation of the project could be limited by (a) delays or
unwillingness on the part of farmers to carry out on-farm development works,
especially land levelling on the scale contemplated; (b) improper maintenance
of the drainage and irrigation system; and (c) failure to maintain a balance
between growing demand for and limited supply of water. These issues were
carefully reviewed during project preparation and appraisal and remedial
action built in project design and implementation program.
84.       In the Stage I project, land leveling fell short of project goals
because farmers were not convinced that it was necessary and authorities
failed to put enough emphasis on the program. Therefore, special emphasis
has been given to the land leveling portion of the proposed project and
assurances were obtained from the Government that (a) enough credit would
be provided to the farmers to pay their share (Section 3.04 of the Guarantee
Agreement), and (b) farmers would be compensated for crop losses when work is
carried out in their plots during the cultivation season. Detailed designs
sufficient for a two-year program of land leveling agreed to by the farmers
involved, were ready at the time of negotiations (para. 56). With the above
provisions, the program has a good chance of success.
85.       Although water available to each district is presently more than
enough to cover farmers' demand, over the long-term demand would surpass avail-
able supplies once all rehabilitation works are completed. This situation would
be dealt with through prudent use of water encouraged by higher water charges
and careful maintenance practices. As indicated in para. 72 the Government has
confirmed that higher water charges for operation and maintenance have been
introduced as of January 1, 1982, and provisions have been made for the
purchase of equipment to conduct adequate maintenance in both districts.



- 23 -
86.       While there is still scope to prevent water waste, notably in the
upper reaches of the system - and many control structures have already been
or will be installed - eventually, new sources of water supply would have to
be developed. Meanwhile, project yields at full development have been calculated
well below their potential yields, taking into account future water scarcities.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
87.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Bank and Nacional Financiera,
S.A., the draft Guarantee Agreement between United Mexican States and the
Bank, and the Report of the Committee provided for in Article III, Section
4(iii) of the Articles of Agreement are being distributed to the Executive
Directors separately.
88.       Special conditions of the project have been described in Part IV
of this report and are listed in Section III of Annex III.
89.       1 am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
90.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
A. W. Clausen
President
Attachments
February 25, 1982



- 24 -
Annex 1
TABLE 3APae1o                                                                     
MEXICO - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET                              Page  1  of .
MEXICO                       REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVE AGES
LAND AREA (THOUSAND SQ. KK.)                                                       - MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)
TOTAL           1972.5                                MOST RECENT             MIDDLE INCOME           MIDDLE INCOME
AGRICULTURAL     977.2              1960  /b    1970 lb ESTIMATE /b    LATIN AMERICA 6 CARIBBEAN          EUROPE
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                 400.0       750.0    1640.0 *              1616.2                   2609.1
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)     769.2      1141.0    1672.7                1324.1                   2368.4
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, MID-YEAR (THOUSANDS) 36369.0     50313.0  65509.0 *
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 50.8        59.0       65.9                 64.2                     53.2
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                      108.9
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                        188.0
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                 2075
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. KM.                       18.4        25.5       33.2                 34.3                     80.6
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND     36.0        52.0       65.1                 94.5                    133.9
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                         45.6        46.5       45.3                 40.7                     30.1
15-64 YRS.                         51.0        50.0      51.2                  55.3                     61.5
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                   3.4         3.5        3.5                  4.0                      8.3
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                              3.1         3.2        2.9                  2.4                      1.5
URBAN                              4.9         4.8        4.2                  3.7                      3.1
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)     45.0        42.3       36.0                 31.4                     22.9
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)     12.0         9.0        7.3                  8.4                      9.1
GRLOSS REPRODUCTION RATE             3.4         3.2        2.6                  2.3                      1.6
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)       ..        25.1      842.0
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)   ..           ..      40.0
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)          97.0       100.0      101.0                108.3                    119.8
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                  110.0       112.0      114.0                107.6                    125.7
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)          65.0        66.0       66.0                 65.8                     92.5
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE       27.0        27.0       27.0                 34.0                     39.7
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE     13.0         8.8        5.7                  7.6                      3.4
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)    58.3        62.4       66.0                 64.1                     68.9
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                           78.0         74.0      60.0                 70.9                     25.2
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                             23.5        54.0       62.0                 65.7
URBAN                                         71.0       70.0                 79.7
RURAL                               *-        29.0       49.0                 43.9
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                               ..          ..        ..                  59.9
URBAN                               ..          ..        ..                  75.7
RURAL                               *-        13.0       14.0                 30.4
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN          1798.0       1480.6    1815.0               1728.2                    973.3
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON         ..       1612.2    1398.0               1288.2                    896.6
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                            577.6       828.1      851.0                471.2                    262.3
URBAN                               ..      1151.2      758.0                558.0                    191.8
RURAL                               *-      1350.9    1077.0
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED           ..          ..         ..                   ..                      18.2
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                              5.4         5.7
URBAN                              5.7         5.7
RURAL                              5.2         5.8
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                              2.9         2.5
URBAN                              2.6         2.2         ..
RURAL                              3.4         3.2        ..
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                               ..        58.9         ..
URBAN                               ..        80.7        ..
RURAL                               ..        27.8         ..



--25 -
Annex 1
Page 2 of 5
TABLE 3A
MEXICO - OCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
MEXICO                       REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED A9EA9ES
- HOST RECENT ESTIMATE)   a
MOST RECENT             MIDDLE INCCHE           MIDDLE INCOME
1960  lb    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b    LATIN AMERICA & CARIBBEAN           EUROPE
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                 80.0       104.0      116.0                 101.7                    105.9
MALE                 82.0        107.0     119.0                 103.0                    109.6
FEMALE               77.0        102.0     114.0                 101.5                    102.2
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                 11.0        22.0       39.0                 35.3                     66.3
MALE                  14.0        27.0      42.0                  34.9                     73.2
FEMALE                8.0         17.0      36.0                  35.6                     59.5
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (2 OF SECONDARY) 24.0          27.0        9.0                  30.1                     28.4
PUPIL-TEACHNER RATIO
PRIMARY                            44.0        46.0       41.0                 29.6                     26.8
SECONDARY                          13.0        14.0       17.0                  15.7                    23.6
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)        65.0        74.2       82.4                  80.0                     75.4
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER TNOUSAND
POPULATION                         14.0        24.5       42.4                 42.6                     83.9
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                         90.7       278.4      306.0                215.0                    181.6
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                         17.9        59.5       88.7                 89.0                    131.1
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                  79.0           ..      66.6                  62.8                    123.8
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA 10.0          5.0        4.2                   3.2                      5.7
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)    10990.9      14488.8   18965.4
FEMALE (PERCENT)                   15.2        17.4       19.3                 22.6                     32.9
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)              55.1        45.0       36.8                 35.0                     34.0
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                 19.5        23.0       25.7                 23.2                     28.7
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                30.2        28.8       29.0                  31.8                    42.3
MALE                                 51.1        47.4       46.5                 49.0                      56.5
FEMALE                                9.2        10.1       11.2                  14.6                    28.5
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO               1.6         1.7        1.7                   1.4                     0.9
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
MIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS      ..           ..
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS  61.1/c       60.7       57.7.
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    3.47T        3.3        2.9
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    9.8Th        9.9       9.9
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..          ..      270.0
RURAL                                ..          ..     216.0                 187.6.
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..           ..    471.0                 513.9
RURAL                                ..           .     471.0                 362.2                    385.1
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                ..           ..
RURAL                                ..          ..
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a   The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithsetic means.  Coverage of countries
among the indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
lb   Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Moat Recent Estimate, between 1976 and 1979.
/c   1963.
May, 1981
* - The updated 1980 GNP per capita and population estimates to be shown in
the 1981 World Bank Atlas are $2,130.0 (at 1978-80 prices) and 67,458
thousand.



-26-                                                                                              Annex 1
Page 3 of 5
DEINITIOINS 0? SOCIAL I9SICATORS
Not..:  Altbough thedtardrw ionsuc. gnrly   de   he ootatbrttleadirliable,  if *hocld asben c Ibo  t1hey wa   otb  Itr
ooialooprel  beaI         eo  rioll lack of sadrdized ."Ieftuno    and ..ee.d.                 ydfeen    oore   i   olc hittedt.r                  Tb ydo ooo os
obelee.... usful to deecbe ord-r  ofeanud,Indicate tende, and ohareterlaei  cetan aajcr differences between .. ootrls. I
The  eeecegop  are (1) the,s-econtry group of the subject countrya                        2 (S  aIcuntry group ni1h eomehat big her  -nrgeInom   thot the conty grop
of the cub.co  coutry (eaep ,too. 'CapItl turplue Oill tepurreoI"  gr.rou   hea 'Middle Inoow. Nortt Africs and MiddlE foe' Is oh..e. ba..u.w  of strongr
souio-ou.lnuralatftlelas):..I t%he rearo.  grou  data thenrgS r   otpuletiu- neighted  -itoh-tionu   for eahIdicato  and shown only ohe
maoit   f theuuttetaeu"u   aafrca Itlotr.Snc   he                                     . oeage of ...untrlleesn   roidiaoadepede  n  he eoilahilly of da ta
aod  s nu  uniorm,rauton oen heosrtsedlo rlatig anrage  of  ne idicaor t  atooer   Theweosegesowdoly mwiutiv -np.nIg  tei oaueh                       o
one Indicator at a time amon  oh. coutry and  rfreo 8roups.
LAND9 dttA itho...eodeq.An,)                                                                         Fopult IonP,pa  Hoepitu1 ted -  -oca   urban, o-   oru -         nultn    total,
t-tl - Totl. ur. ceerI-upriiglr    be.o nad   aos.uhn, and rual  dirided,by it in reooniowt...e  .i hop                                                                   balhda
heri-ultur.1 - ttet   f agrcItuoiae  tedtmo-iyo   emnnly                                             anlalet   uli   o  piatlaea  adeeiu1iond hoapltta1 andre
for  -rps.  p-ecre, market and kirtohs  &ardene or to lIei aloo   1907  data.                      hahtutaIonener.    nploi  te  oahi-aeneprnneo y  rffe,d
byatiwetno  pyecln.ftabiheapoiding  prtrialoeo
19001  CPiA  oi)    10  eroclt  etiate  t orroteake  plce,te-             ia  000at  nt  nclde.    ctl  nsicle  hneeriioidehair
iroty    t  iogew   fnoleqiaew    ero pc;  90,h7idn  19979oes    ienateedtr   h-e  marle  r  Inlue  ol  udeftif
coaIIIioin.Od-'e  (thusndsf   As ofty.    Subit  n;100.1 ,  nd179_059
da ta,  inoklrase90.S170oeod1979ueSaboli,d hpltrcloc-  i                                                                                          dboeeod .l-r"I al.ubratrr
among onuntrira i16.17.ad17  dAta                                                                   theJh1uwaho1d6for1e70titico97purpoerN.
Porulatiow Proleotluos~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~..i: AoR'a numbe of persona ret room-notl h.. urban.nod    trural- nrgto-
Poojb-   ion poroeuer  fo terta lytaro  compris  of thre pleosle, aAau. hocled pa..
diffgrli fe  retnyrhhicesn   with 'Icouonry..'5 pror  nepicy             t incaw                 nne- o thil noc .tuic    (Aoo  ofrl dr iin.re      . - ttal  ura.t and rural. -
and. froril-ey  trnd  for  prjcind purpses                                                    Adusedt           P:"on  nai-lne
trtiowary.        . rouaitIai iinty  poplaio  thrI          f        Iogothsoe                     rer  school-~ ;:toa,mlanfe le-ntetri,mltndeae
mainslf nonene -ty h Ie  obi leIned.. only  ftr  oriliyh       ats  woite to.. pomry -El-chleeppltln;nralri,ue    hlrnaedhI
the  aploenen   len  f. ui ne   erdoIong  rate,  y.otn w Th.gce ito.                               years" hut adjute   fr  ifsew lggeo  primar  aduca lot; fr.
of 50mm   replanwa rltee    woaculy.   Therttonr    ouino   se   o                                     -ontibnin    nnra   do      xnoletcyece   0   enn
f-atitay o-hwbsi   fth   roete    haanrinnso  tepouaio                                             lnwacepuIsar   elnora-o     r  fu'aJeh.lne
noh the   -yea  lI.i   n b  rate tf declIne of..    fetiit  rote.. no replete-                U)eONtdreht              oo.ml  n             asCeue    taoa   eodr
Seonf"  loly.     rd    -p:                                                                       educa. ntll-rurea P          atfurpae  ieyrodprmr  ierncin
totapl at -a 90   90 d 1979-i          Sara-i.y..  , inclue                                                ttecnical   idutial.or..   otgher    proirn-rltoree  oeed
Per s. km  oorculcral end     CopTed.a  a        poe  ocernilnru  landr                     Indyo  o   eprtIcso  scndryierttt
only;1960  197  and 197  data r.,tdi-eahr  oic-hrmao.adeeotao-oaieeotrrreII
64 years). end retOred  (65 yrone a Ad uterI ac percenteose~~~~i  of oidyea Ppoo-tn   conepodlg P' le
ltion   1960  1970, cad 1979 deta dtl.      .Affrlt     t                                        ..dul li hroc     tan  lortont)     d  . . -Lirteui C ahls ITorea  end-rd-e
per  oultIn   tooh,l                                                                           ..950-60,12  1960-70,- andn 197-0-79...-I
leloa  o   1950-hi,  .196-7..  ond 1900-79.tl. PeeerCe (oerniboueaid-otrilanlun  -h.  prteegen care compr lee  pon                                                                 d
C.rud   l    ae(e   huad             CAnopald lin  hirth   per ghou-l-d o  wn.d-ya                  caessrn ls thai             ih    ret;  wldwahlncc   tre   A
,poplatIo; 1960, 1       d 1970. 8ad 1970 dana.                                                     nil. itIta-y    ...binlde.
Crd    dahlae(etto                r  Annuldeah  pwr ...torda. of uid-yean padio Ose                             der  (ce  thuadooo_in     Altpooftoioe  o 
pouato;d90  1970, end 19 data                                                               bredos`  inognrlpbipeihcodfppuoo;scodg
Fail      h Runn -hrsrpo.rAtooc,  -tboso  nd    - Annual nube  of  uccep1 orsdT neIer  lorrnhtug enf -.rlatd o) - .ltVeeiosfrbodent
ofhrt-otrldwie  udraupcedfrainl  otl   lnon   poym.                                           gnra   ubi   ertesaA  ppltin  eoudculcesd                              -irosor
Famil Plaoino-Osns  oeroet nf  arrid woen 7-79 retg    fmridinotroodI   er.htrgtrc o   nT   aetoi   oet
wnaco I    hlld-tie.. iog ..g. (1-4yas  ncuehrlcuio    eienotmnprCrnltn    orchuodooluln      hu   ha eaatc
pt_duoDtih  of. allr food osditAr.  Prduclt I cocludee.. awd  en  fed-y ard                          iln        ddrn  the-year  including  -dionet   nisi   iaP
p,inlaeaepoue   rn   egne   918,17,nd17   aa                                                      ou Luhor Point n197ouwendbl) -.    h...n fonial   apic   personaInldn
energy equi -alent of bnet  foodsuppiesane Iab        - inno lroy bprcaIta                 Iocing pou      noo   of  llrgem    g       iin    nnerofsuu          durar
qattie "ue  in  oo  proceel' g  and .. ices.    odorhno,tqle                              eiutr   cret    taboo frt   Infrit, foetry    utn 
buochel r   eo..   196-65  190, dnd .97   data                                                   1070 andnd  97  1979dat.1i.    i.    g
Pe InAtn  soro  fp!rotein      ( .m..e t n don'    rtl                                    TVoe    oRpr.o.it   a i-urano  lane lorith    total, cola  sAd f-reafsrtbtcnpatio   or
F-ly leae of 60 graU    a of torrnmf prrntiwerd    a  end. - 0 gramsg of anrimaI                    90   90 d        197  dae hea  er Itoe   orI           Oepricptinrtes
Far oarits rtoaeln sorrlr from anemblal iatd- turilsa-.ProteIn.gsupplyr.ofi food.de-
ChIdleas   -)  oninrmr (e   hoen) - u a Ideaths- cper  IhuadI ..er.Cintoo  ofn-   Aiitordcn m  (loc :int cpdb a:dr kInd   - thcio.   by richa
agPg'  u  1-t   Iere  no. obdlid-ni  tIs agegroup  for. mast               f.     d                 ik,       I deolpncco    eret    iche t 07 pY_rr  poI.a In0 pecet  anrdporeci.t 40p_r
tioc .dot  danced  Once lIfe  tehlae.     90  1970  .n.179daa,ofhoweul
Ltfetnrhtenn a  Ninh  It ars) -   org   obro   easoItermiig                                 Thefol_iogesimte  art 1        rey  pponmcemaade  ofEp    ponerry Iwoins
atbrth   1960  197  ed  1979 diaI                                                                  and shouldT- he inerrte   erconetiralonui
of ae pr tousnd lnt  irts.                                                                 heolir  oneny  ttoe itel  s -onCnco-  lerl  elo rgth u niwlmcal
Anesttfei-iate  .eton nf nd      lali- botl urbn and trura  -pitom                           nutritinal  adP       ut  dIet" plsine  -rI oct-fodcoure r                  Iunt.
ese tupl hInclfe  trn tedk  Norfarrppela t  unteatd   hut1 uon,mnIed:                     of-I fo .rdal.r-F 1.lb                ft    p-       g    f    ..     b,n -
q-it   d in f..d pr ..... Ing, ..d 1..... intedimacbdtRelati vetr:(. .oec.                           Ic.     oot(I net cititof  f- -    - ubnad ua
oaneubastatfo pdh ,    .drotcsi       onhls.prna.n IaIitryeels  a                                 Ru.ral oplatie  ponerny . inco. les  Iaoetir   faang   e
reroesnages of the Or reepeotios porulations.  toanuntanarItap.hIn                                                                     f
nuelerd    a     n  wih Mtceetal           ndoe  ofthn;hus,In rua  aes                            ed  w1tiithtdunsn -toohae    ot  flco   o  ra   r
--d .... d.t..                                '97  ~~~Yw Imnd Pouato  taod  bouePvnrIconIt   rrtt                         re
reacabl  aces  cud  mpy  ha   Ithe    . hoenf  orr wiben  ofth  hoehld.druar                             Poer  fppuaiwpuhirn   url.hPaetawl
do not heor t  spend a dieroponnitiaraPan df .fSyitd fethin.th                          cot"
Attas t  faie t Disoca -nernen.t.b of .hpultiy -SD ptotal, urban, and dnorafl -.pl.i- f  11g.rp-i-
ttes tfpol   ttl  ubn   n   oa>wrod b    wtn   diptala
pacnae   f th0I jreape nine1 porolo'nio    t"Yet  di"epon160ol may                                             97Ioh'tlbudo1   IO P:tiipt..r..
it olcIon,fhh  0g-. Id:                          lpt!7 and Ocapd- l..ith:ot withougtr..t. Itr othuman'encrPt Ococi  sod..  .ocIr tata  Otitet                              A
lot ineta    ..atithne,    .                                                                                                                            lgr.    fa1 - inn 2     1991.. -   ..I  .
Potlulwnoa Pbeecia    - Iropulertth,dirtded  hynumber  of rCntitn  phycT-idE.-.Dpn.r                                       1       .i        pplr.    ..    5.d6    .    .
cisusqualfiedfoema meical-- enol tuinere tty. ienel,pyf .d
Phtuldto  oct Pocn  Perentr - _ topulatIo    dicAde   by flodbhr of pr                in           P-tctiriciI-we.h  n-                                  ndkn)     .id  y
saeadfml gyraduate  urhiec,  I pathial nunsa  end acaistewi                X tro....              Ip 11 !h,21pr ,   pr.t0pr.n                                    .d...  40 r.t



-7 27 -
MEXICO - ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT DATA SHEET                          5NNEX 1
Prelimi-
A C   T   U    A    L                               EatRates             _rowth Eate_   An X of GDY
1970        1975         1977         1979          1980         1981         1970-75    !9ZŽ80BO      1981       1970    1980       1985
NATIONAL ACCOUNTS                      .       Contant 1972 Pices, US$ Millions
GDP                   36,971.7   48,508.4    50,966.2    58,836.1    63,119.3    67,512.9               6.7          5.3          7.0        99.7    96.9      98.7
Gains in tents           120.1       680.5         352.2        792.6      2,049.5       1,461.1       -             -             -          0.3      3.1       1.3
of trade
GDY                   37,091.8   49,196.9    51,318.5    59,628.7    65,168.9    69,003.0               6.2          5.8          5.9       100.0   100.0   100.0
Inporto (Incl.NFS)   4,411.3    6,661.0         4,819.6       7,677.8    10,087.6    13,108.4          11.0         8.9         30.0         11.9    15.5      19.1
Exports                3,273.0    3,762,8       4,419.3       5,932.4      7,029.3      11,719.2        3.8        13.6          67.01        8.8    10.8      19.7
Resource Gap           1,138.3    2,898.2         400.3       1,745.4      3,058.3       1,389.2       29.7          1.1       -54.6          3.1      4.7      0.6
Consumption           30,935.2   40,878.7    41,999.5        47,803.9    51,358.5    54,835.2           6.1          4.8          6.1        83.4    78.8      78.6
Inve-t-ent             7,165.4   10,527.9       9,375.0      12,777.6    14,819.1    15,528.0           9.4          7.5         4.8         19.3    22.7      22.7
Gross Don. Savings   6,156.6    8,318.2         9.327.0    11,824.9    13,810.4    14,138.8             6.9        10.4          2.4         16.6    21.2      23.4
Gross Nat. Savings   5,820.4    7,541.7         8,478.4      10,591.9    12,249.2       11,032.8        6.2        10.0         -9.2         15.7    18.8      19.8
TRADE IN GOODS AND hFS                              Current FricUes, 0S Millions                                                            A. 2 of Total
IMPORTS, TOTAL         3,416.9    8,636.7       7,855.0      17,052.9    25,596.3    32,714.9          23.5        25.4         27,8       100.0   100.0    100.0
Coosunption              472.4       949.7         779.2      1,838.8      4.085.6       5,246.9       22.2        36.8         28.4         13.8    15.9       16.0
of which:  Food        (77.6)00   499.3          475.1      1,086.3      2,956.2       3,654.3        -          21.7         23.6         2.3    11.6         9.9
Pet-oleum 5 Product       35.0       269.1         107.5        259.2         299.4        -           39.7         25.1           -          1.0      1.2        -
Non-Factor Services  1,064.7    2,022.9          1,934.3      4,915.5       6,962.2      9,484.1       13.7         29.0         36.2        31.2    27.2      28.7
Other Goods            1,844.8    5,395.0        5,034.0     10,039.4    14,249.1    17,983.9          17.8         17.2        26.2         54.0    55.7       55.3
EXPORTS, TOTAL         2,745.4    6,081.7       7,795.1      15,285.9    23,569.7    29,049.5          19.8        30.8          23.2      100.0   100.0    100.0
Selected Agricul-
toral Goods            621.2       814.8      1,439.1       2,153.4      1,941.6       1,786.1        6.5        20.2         -8.0        22.6      8.2       5.2
Petroleum 6 Product       38.4       460.1      1,029.4       3,974.2    10,422.5    14,653.9          61.0         87.8        40.6          1.4    44.2       56.2
Minerals                 244.3       423.4         444.9        805.2       1,346.5      1,197.8        16.9        25.0       -11.0          8.9      5.8       3.5
Manufactures             443.9    1,186.9        1,611.0      2,351.7       2,437.3      2,177.6       26.3         18.5       -10.7         16.2    10.3        6.5
Other Goods              -           119.3          79.9           1.7          3.2          4.8         -          19.5         50.0         -        -          -
Non-Pactor Services  1,397.7    3,077.2          3,190.8      5,999.7       7,418.6      9,229.3       19.3         20.5         24.4        50.9    31.5       28.6
TREDE INDICES (1972-100)                          Average 72-100
Export Price Index        88.2       161.4         175.2         262.4        367.0        392.4       16.6         25.5          6.9
Import PrIce Index        91.0       148.0         164.1    '   187.9         207.9        229.1        12.5         8.1         10.2
Terms of Trade            96.9       109.1         106.8         140.0        176.5        171.3        2.5         12.4         -2.9
VALUE ADDED BY SECTOR                            Constant 1i72 Prices, uS$ Millions
Primsary               4.139.1    4,483.4    .4,771.6         4,955.7       5,227.9      6,547.3         1.7         3.4         25.2        11.2      8.3       9.3
Secondary             12,417.3   16,948.7    18,245.7        22,084.6      23,878.0    25,920.8          7.1         7.4          8.5        33.6    37.8       39.4
Terciary              20,415.3   27,076.3    27 973.0    .31,795.8         34,013.6    35,044.7          6.1         5.8          3.M        55.2    53.9       51.3
Total GDP             36.971.7   48,508.4    50,990.3        58,836.1    63,119.3    67,512.8            6.0         5.6          7.0       100.0   100.0    100.0
CONSOLIDATED PUBLIC SECTOR FINANCES                 Millioo  1972 US$
Current Receipts       5.953.3    9,519.9    10,605.6        13,671.9    15,867.9          n.e.
Current Expend.        4,340.1    9,016.4        9,202.9     10.850.5    12,481.4          0.a.
Public 8avings         1,533.1       503.6      1,402.7        2,821.3      3,386.5        0a.
Investment             2,277.7    4,883.7       4,426.5        6,820.3      6,893.2        n.e.
Sri fcOt (Ne)            666.1    4,308.8        2,927.0       3.958.2      4,907.7        n.a.
DOmotic Prices
General Price Ieden    90.4          159.7        238.4         331.1        481.2          551.7 *
(1972-100)
Exchange Rate           12.49         12.49      22.58      j  22.81         22.95          23.90                          -_
ALLOCATION OP GROSS
PUBLIC SECTOR EXPEND-                                                                                                       Growth Rates             AS X of Total
ITURES                                                                                                                                                    1979
Esergy                 5,369.1    6,474.1        7,736.9      10,549.5       n.a.          n.a.                                  18.4                      33.3
Transport and Con-
sesnications         1,751.1    1,503.3        1,537.4       1,403.2       n.a.          n.a.                                  -5.4                       4.4
Special Welfare        4,221.9    4,602.0        4,771.8       5.338.3       n.a.          n.a.                                   6.0                      16.9
Industry               1,640.0    1,455.6       1,392.4        1,828,5       n.e.          ..a.                                   2.8                       5.8
Gen. Administratioo
6 Defense           3,290.8    5,160.8       5,552.2        9,384.2       n.a.          n.a.                                 29.9                       29.6
Comerce                1,531.7    1,436.9       1,785.2        1,644.0       n..           0.a.                                  -1.8                       5.2
Touriso                   63.2        73.5          53.9          60.0                     na.                                   -1.0                       0.2
Total                 19,843.9   22.323 7    24,392 5         31,683.0       n.a,          n.e.                                  12.4                     100.0
SELECTED INDICATORS                                                                                      1971-75    1975-80
ICOR                       2.62         3.60         6.94           2.50      4.31           3.08          3.98        3.66
IMport Elasticity          2.60         0.60        -4.6            3.99      4.61           2.68
Marginal Savimgs Ratio   2.61           0.23         0.17           0.19      0.17           0.16
LABOR FORCE                         In M4illions                        AS T  of Total                          Growth Rate
L1960        1970         1978      1960           1970            1978         1960-70         1970-78
Agrtculture                  5.4          4.5          4.9    50.0             34.9           29.0          -16.7            8.9
Industry                    2.1           2.7          3.7     19.6            20.9           21.9           28.6           37.0
Services                    3.2           5.7          8.2     29.9            44.2           48.5           78.1           43.9
Total                      10.7          12.9         16.9e  100              100.0          1.OO           20.6           31.0
VALUE ADDED PER WORKER               1972 Prices                        As X of Total                           Growth Rate
1960         1970         1978    1960 "           19_7            1980         1960-70         1970-78
Agriculture               608.0          919.8       1,020.4   34.7            32.1            31.6           4.4             1.4
Industry                2,468.9        4,588.9       5,421.6  140.6           160.1          167.9            5.3            2.2
Services                3,222.8        3,582.5       3,600.0  183.6           125.0          111.5            2.3              -
Total                   1,755.6       2,865.9        3.229,0  10.0            lO0.0          Lo0.0            5.0             1.6
* Rate based on January - August data
**  Rate based on Janufry - Julhy data






Annex 1
Page 5 of 5
- 28 -
BALANC. OF PAIMEINT, EXTEPRNAL ASSISTANCE AND DEBT
(US$ Million and Current Prices)
Prelim.
A    C    T    U    A    L                             ---     Eatimates
1970          1975            1977           1979           1980           1981
Summary Balance of Payments
Exports (including NFS)               2,745.4        6,081.7        7,795.1       14,965.9       23,199.7       29,049.5
Imports (including NFS)               3,416.9        8,636.7        7,855.0       17,052.9       25,596.3       32,714.9
Resource Balance                       -671.4       -2,555.0          -59.9       -2,087.0       -2,396.6       -3,665.4
Interest, net                          -307.0       -1,266.5       -1,811.0       -3,029.4       -4,416.0       -7,576.5
Direct Investment Income               -267.5         -657.5         -401.4         -590.9         -772.3         -781.6
Workers' Remittances                    122.7          174.6          251.0          320.0          370.0          423.3
Current Transfers, net                   55.3          123.4          168.5          223.9          268.2          308.0
Current Account Balance              -1,067.9       -4,181.0       -1,852.8       -5,163.4       -6,946.7      -11,292.2
Private Direct Investment               322.8          748.8          555.9          971.9        1,313.0        1,410.0
Public Med. & Long Term Loans, net    258.6          3,565.8        3,872.4        3,146.7        4,058.5       11,148.2
(Disbursements)                       821.3       4,418.6        6,232.3        10,415.0        7,771.1       16,858.6
(Repayments)                        -562.7         -852.8       -2,295.0        -7,285.9       -3,723.4       -5,711.3
Other Capital                           588.6           31.5       -2,071.3        1,463.7        2,726.1       -1,201.0
Change in Reserves (=increase)         -102.1         -165.1         -504.2         -418.9       -1,150.9          -65.0
Grant and Loan Commitments
Public Med. & L.T. Loans
IBRD                                    146.8          116.2          162.0          527.0          625.0          645.0
IDA                                      -              -              -              -              -              -
Other Multilateral                      112.4          165.4          122.0          274.5          358.0          379.6
Governments                              78.8                         291.6          274.2          694.6          n.a.
Suppliers                                69.7          200.5          705.9           26.0           58.6          390.0
Banks and Financial Institutions        443.5        1,050.5       8,370.2        12,000.0        4,996.2       19,000.0
Debt and Debt Service                                                                                                                                External Debt
Public Debt Outstanding &                                                                                                 *
Disbursed (end of period)            3,238.0       11,541.7       20,420.7       28,901.7       34,612.7       45,281.0                                      Outstanding & Disbursed
Interest on Public Debt                 218.0          850.4        1,327.2        2,901.2        3,589.4        3,820.0                                      or Dec. 31, 1980
Repayment on Public Debt                475.6          762.6        2,333.1        7,826.8        3,867.7        3,712.0
Public Debt Service                     693.6        1,612.9        3,660.3       10,728.0        7,457.1        7,532.0
Public M a LT    $ Millions         Z
Burden on Export Earnings (Z)                                                                                                                      Loans
a. Public Debt Service                 24.2           25.8           45.5           69.1           30.4           35.3
b. Public Debt Service 6                                                                                                                      IBRD               2063.3        5.9
Direct Investment Income           33.5           36.3           50.5           72.9           32.8           40.8                      Other Off.
Sources           2377.3        7.1
Average Terms of Public Debt                                                                                                                  Other Private
a. Interest as % of prior year's                                                                                                              Sources           29238.0       86.8
D.O. and D.                         7.4           10.2            8.3           11.5           12.4           11.0
b. Amortization as % of prior
year's D.O. and D.                 16.3            9.2           14.6           31.1           13.4           10.7                      Total              33678.6       100.0
IBRD Exposure
a. IBRD P.O. & D. as Z of
Public D.O. and D.                 18.0            9.7            6.7            6.0            5.9            4.5
b. IBRD Debt Service as Z of
Public Debt Service                 7.7            7.2            4.2            2.1            3.2            2.0
* Debt and Debt Service figures for 1981 are only for January - September.






- 2.9 -                     ANNEX II
Page 1 of 8
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN MEXICO
A.   Statement of Bank Loans (as of September 30, 1981) 1/
Loan                                                        Amount less      Undis-
No.       Year   Borrower                  Purpose         Cancellations    bursed
40 loans fully disbursed                  2,160.4
909      1973  NAFINSA                    Water Supply           79.5         3.7
970-5    1974  NAFINSA                    Irrigation             47.0        11.9
1022      1974  NAFINSA                    Airports               25.0         0.6
1053-5    1974  NAFINSA                    Integrated Rural
Development          38.0        19.1
1111-5    1975  NAFINSA                    Irrigation             50.0        27.0
1112      1975  FERTIMEX and NAFINSA       Industry               50.0         3.2
1186      1975  BANOBRAS                   Water Supply           40.0        13.3
1232      1976  Ferrocarriles Nacionales
de Mexico and NAFINSA    Railways                100.0        1.5
1420-5    1977  NAFINSA                    Tourism                42.0         8.9
1462-5    1977  NAFINSA                    Integrated Rural
Development         120.0        38.0
1524-5    1978  NAFINSA                    Tourism                50.0         0.1
1552      1978  NAFINSA                    Industry               47.0         2.0
1553-5    1978  NAFINSA                    Agriculture            56.0        42.1
1554      1978  BANOBRAS                   Urban Development      16.5        11.9
1560      1978  NAFINSA                    Industry              100.0        13.6
969-6    1979  NAFINSA                    Irrigation              25.0        3.8
1643      1979  NAFINSA                    Small-scale Agri.      60.0        53.3
1671      1979  BANOBRAS                   Highways              120.0        92.5
1686      1979  FERTIMEX and NAFINSA       Industry               80.0        42.1
1706-5    1979  NAFINSA                    Irrigation             92.0        86.3
1712      1979  NAFINSA                    Industry              175.0       125.2
1820      1980  NAFINSA                    Small and Medium
Scale Mining         40.0        40.0
1858-5    1980  NAFINSA                    Irrigation            160.0       160.0
1881      1980  NAFINSA                    Small and Medium
Scale Industry      100.0        56.3
1891-5    1980  NAFINSA                    Agricultural Credit  325.0        263.7
1908      1981  NAFINSA                    Irrigation             23.0        22.5
1913      1981  BANOBRAS                   Water Supply          125.0       125.0
1929      1981  BANOBRAS                   Railways              150.0       140.2
1945      1981  NAFINSA                    Rainfed Agri.         280.0       280.0
1964      1981  BANPESCA                   Port Development       14.0        14.0
1990      1981  BANOBRAS                   Urban Development II 164.0        164.0
2042      1982  NAFINSA 2/                 Technical Training    90.0         90.0
TOTAL                                            5,044.4 3/
Of which has been repaid to the Bank               756.0
Total now outstanding                           4,288.4
Amount sold                     92.3
of which has been repaid       92.2                  0.1
Total now held by Bank 3/                        4,288.3
Total undisbursed                                           1,955.8
1/   Loan 2043, for $175 million, made in FY1982 to Nafinsa for a Rural
Development Project, was signed November 6, 1981.
2/   Loan declared effective November 25, 1981.
3/   Prior to exchange adjustments.



- 30 -
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 8
B.   STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS (as of September 30, 1981)
Fiscal                                                                US$ Million
Year           Obligor                    Type of Business      Loan   Equity  Total
1958/59  Industrias Perfect
Circle, S.A. 1/               Industrial Equipment    0.8       --      0.8
1958     Bristol de Mexico, S.A. 1/    A.C. Engine Overhaul    0.5          --      0.5
1961     Acero Solar, S.A. 1/             Twist Drills              0.3     --      0.3
1962/65/ Compania Fundidora
66/68    Fierro y Acero de
Monterrey, S.A.               Steel                     2.3    21.4   23.7
1963     Tubos de Acero de
Mexico, S.A. I/               Steel                     0.9      0.1    1.0
1963     Quimica del Rey, S.A. 1/         Sodium Sulphate           0.7     --      0.7
1964/66  Industria del Hierro, S.A.1/  Construction Equipment  --           2.0    2.0
1970     Minera del Norte, S.A, 1/        Iron Ore Mining           1.5     --      1.5
1971     Celanese Mexicana, S.A.         Textiles                  12.0     --    12.0
1972     Promotora de Papel
Periodico, S.A. de C.V.1/   Pulp and Paper               2/       2/     2/
1973/79  Cemento Veracruz, S.A.           Cement                   15.9     --    15.9
1974/81  Cancun Aristos Hotel             Tourism                   1.0     0.3    1.3
1975/78  Mexinox, S.A.                    Steel                    12.0     3.2   15.2
1978/81  Papeles Ponderosa, S.A.          Pulp and Paper            9.0     3.5   12.5
1978     Tereftalatos Mexicanos, S.A.  Petrochemicals              19.0     --    19.0
1979     Cementos Tolteca, S.A. 3/        Cement                  100.0     --   100.0
1979/81  Hotel Camino Real
Ixtapa, S.A.                  Tourism                   --      3.1    3.1
1979     Conductores Monterrey,           Electrical Wire
S.A. 3/                         and Cable            18.0     --    18.0
1980     Industrias Resistol, S.A. 3/  Particleboard               25.0     --    25.0
1980     Vidrio Plano de Mexico S.A.3/ Flat Glass                 114.9     --   114.9
1980     Minera Real de Angeles,
S.A. de C.V. 3/               Mining                  110.0     --   110.0
1981     Celulosicos Centauro S.A. 3/  Pulp and Paper              59.5     --    59.5
1981     Corporacion Agroindustrial,
S.A.                          Agri-Business            11.3      3.0   14.3
Total Gross Commitments                                 514.6    36.6  551.2
Less Cancellations, Terminations, Repayment
and Sales                                             379.9    22.1  402.0
Total Commitments Now Held by IFC                       134.7    14.5  149.2
Total undisbursed (including participants)               94.2      1.5   95.7
1/   Investments which have been fully cancelled, terminated, written off,
sold, redeemed or repaid.
2/   US$25,000.
3/   Gross commitment including amounts sold to participants.



ANNEX II
- 31 -                  Page 3 of 8
C.   Status of Projects in Execution (as of September 30, 1981). 1/
Ln. No. 970    Rio Sinaloa Irrigation Project:  US$47 Million Loan of
March 1, 1974; Effectiveness Date: May 29, 1974.
Closing Date: June 30, 1982.
Project authorities have rephased construction; a substantial
reduction in project scope was approved by the Executive
Directors (R79-51 of March 13, 1979). Progress is now
satisfactory and the project is near completion.
Ln. No. 1022   Airport Development Project:  US$25 Million Loan of June 28,
1974; Effectiveness Date: September 16, 1974. Closing
Date: June 30, 1982.
Although behind schedule, this project is proceeding satis-
factorily. Project components that have been completed are
achieving higher rates of utilization than envisaged at time
of appraisal because of greatly increased air traffic in
Mexico. Four of the six project airports are completed, and
the other two will be finished by mid-1982.
Ln. No. 1053   Papaloapan Integrated Rural Development Project:  US$50 Million
Loan of November 15, 1974; Subsequently reduced to US$38 million;
Effectiveness Date: January 27, 1975. Closing Date:
December 30, 1982.
Project implementation has experienced delays due to management
difficulties and inadequate budget support. At the borrower's
request US$12 million of the loan were cancelled on March 5, 1981.
A reprogramming of the project and extension of the closing
date to December 30, 1982 were approved by the Executive Directors
on January 4, 1982 to allow completion of the modified project.
Ln. No. 1111   Seventh Irrigation Project - Bajo Rio Bravo and Bajo Rio
San Juan: US$150 Million Loan of May 8, 1975; Subsequently
reduced to US$50 Million; Effectiveness Date: July 30, 1975;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982.
In view of the project's size, complexity and high cost, the
Government and the Bank agreed to phase project development
over a longer period of time and substantially reduce the scope
of the project to be financed under the Bank loan (R77-305 of
December 13, 1977 and R79-56 of March 19, 1979). Progress on
most components of the revised project is satisfactory, in
spite of some difficulties encountered in the execution of
the land leveling component due to climatic problems and
contracting practices. The project is expected to be completed
about six months ahead of schedule.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution and, in particular, to report any
problems which are being encountered and the action being taken to remedy
them. They should be read in that sense, and with the understanding that
they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths and
weaknesses in project execution.



ANNEX II
Page 4 of 8
Ln. No. 1112   Fertilizer Project:  $50 Million Loan of May 22, 1975;
Effectiveness DateL July 30, 1975. Closing Date:
September 30, 1981
The Bajio Urea Plant is in operation but construction of the
Pajaritos Urea Plant has been delayed mainly because of material
shortages and difficulties with contractors. Construction is
now expected to be completed in early 1982, and no major problems
are expected. The estimated cost is about 35 percent above the
original budget, mainly due to increases in equipment and civil
works costs. However, the project is still considered to be
economically justified.
Ln. No. 1186   Medium-Size Cities Water Supply and Sewerage Project:  US$40 millior
Loan of January 13, 1976; Effectiveness Date: April 26, 1976.
Closing Date: January 14, 1984.
Subloan agreements have been signed with all cities included
in the project, fully committing the loan. Works are progressing
satisfactorily.
Ln. No. 1232   Third Railway Project:  US$100 Million Loan of April 30, 1976;
Effectiveness Date: June 16, 1976. Closing Date: June 30, 1982.
The project had a slow start, but the loan is now fully dis-
bursed 1/. Traffic growth has been greater than anticipated.
Significant improvements have been made in rail operations
and staff productivity.
Ln. No. 1420   Baja California Tourism Project:  US$42 Million Loan of
July 5, 1977; Effectiveness Date: June 28, 1978;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982.
Construction of infrastructure at both project sites has begun.
The first 250-room hotel at Loreto was completed in August 1980
and the hotel at San Jose del Cabo started operating in November
1981. The marketing studies of domestic as well as North American
tourism and the economic study of tourism have been completed.
Overall, progress is satisfactory, but difficulties in internal
coordination have caused disbursements to lag behind schedule.
Although bottlenecks are being eliminated, the closing date was
extended by one year to allow project completion.
Ln. No. 1462   Integrated Rural Development Project - PIDER II:  US$120 million
Loan of July 5, 1977; Effectiveness Date: October 28, 1977;
Closing Date: July 31, 1982.
The project is proceeding satisfactorily; major efforts to
decentralize project planning and execution have been made.
The result is increased beneficiary participation and
1/   As of January 31, 1982.



- 33 -
ANNEX II
Page 5 of 8
better coordination between executing agencies at the field
level. However, decentralization, reprogramming of micro-
region investment plans, and several changes in management
have resulted in delay in project execution; the closing
date will have to be extended.
Ln. No. 1524   Tourism Development Project:  US$50 million Loan of March 21, 1978;
Effectiveness Date: January 12, 1979; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981.
Progress of commitments is satisfactory and disbursements were
completed before the closing date.
Ln. No. 1552   Small- and Medium-Scale Industrial Development Project;
US$47 million Loan of May 4, 1978; Effectiveness Date:
January 12, 1979; Closing Date: June 30, 1982.
After some initial delays, the integrated program to assist
industrial enterprises is making rapid progress. Forty-eight
extension agents have now received full training and have been
assigned to 14 regional offices. The loan has been fully
committed.
Ln. No. 1553   Tropical Agricultural Development Project:  US$56 Million Loan
of September 27, 1978; Effectiveness Date: January 12, 1979;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983.
The six pilot projects have been approved by the Bank. Project
authorities are making good progress in the agricultural
development program of each pilot project. The applied
research programs are proceeding on schedule. The disburse-
ments, however, are behind schedule.
Ln. No. 1554   Lazaro Cardenas Conurbation Development Project:  US$16.5
Million Loan of September 27, 1978; Effectiveness Date:
February 14, 1979; Closing Date: June 30, 1982.
The shelter-related component and the training centers are
progressing satisfactorily, but delays still remain in the
implementation of the productive credits, industrial premises
and river control components and the studies. The possibility
of reallocating funds to the shelter-related components is
being contemplated.
Ln. No. 1560   FONEI III:  US$100 Million Loan of September 27, 1978;
Effectiveness Date: January 12, 1979;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982.
Demand for industrial investment financing continues to be
strong. The loan has been fully committed.



- 34 -
ANNEX II
Page 6 of 8
Ln. No. 969-1  Rio Panuco Irrigation Project;  US$25 Million Loan of
September 27, 1978; Effectiveness Date: January 12, 1979.
Closing Date: June 30, 1982.
Major project civil works are on schedule and expected to be
completed by the closing date. Progress in agricultural devel-
opment has been slower than infrastructure construction.
The technical assistance program has been strengthened and
to emphasize better water utilization and intensive
agriculture.
Ln. No. 1643   Small Scale Agricultural Infrastructure Project:  US$60 Million
Loan of February 6, 1979; Effectiveness Date: April 13, 1979;
Closing Date: June 30, 1983.
Most livestock and irrigation subprojects to be included in
th- Prji-! t have been approved by the Bank, and the Government
is accelerating preparation and presentation of the balance of
the program.
Ln. No. 1671   Highway Sector Project:  US$120 Million Loan of August 23,
1979; Effectiveness Date: October 12, 1979; Closing Date:
June 30, 1984.
Commitments are ahead of schedule but disbursements are behind
schedule because of budget cuts in 1979 and because of delays
in submitting reimbursement applications to the Bank. The
authorities have agreed to increase budget allocations and
speed up disbursement requests.
Ln. No. 1686   Second Fertilizer Prolect - Lazaro Cardenas:  US$80 Million
Loan of May 18, 1979; Effectiveness Date: September 21, 1979;
Closing Date: October 31, 1982.
Orders for most of the equipment have been placed and about
30 percent of the construction work is committed with about
22 percent completed. The project is now about 17 months
behind schedule and runs the risk of further delays unless
implementation arrangements are improved. FERTIMEX's manage-
ment is considering steps to improve implementation.
Ln. No. 1706   Rio Fuerte/Rio Sinaloa Irrigation Project:  US$92 Million Loan
of July 30, 1979; Effectiveness Date: October 5, 1979;
Closing Date: July 31, 1986.
Project implementation is on schedule.



- 35 -
ANNEX II
Page 7 of 8
Ln. No. 1712   FONEI IV:  US$175 Million Loan of July 30, 1979; Effectiveness
Date: October 5, 1979; Closing Date: June 30, 1984.
Demand for industrial financing continues to be strong; and
most of the loan has been committed.
Ln. No. 1820   Small and Medium Scale Mining Development Project:  US$40
Million Loan of August 18, 1980; Effectiveness Date:
December 4, 1980; Closing Date: June 30, 1984.
Project execution is being initiated. Demand for credit
has been less than originally anticipated due to softening
of mineral prices.
Ln. No. 1858   Apatzingan Irrigation Project; US$160 Million Loan of
September 29, 1980; Effectiveness Date: December 19, 1980;
Closing Date: June 30, 1987.
Contracting for the main civil works is progressing satisfactorily
and a strengthened technical assistance program is underway. How-
ever, disbursements are lagging behind due to delays in processing.
Ln. No. 1881   Second Small and Medium-Scale Industry Development Project;
US$100 Million Loan of September 29, 1980; Effectiveness Date:
December 22, 1980; Closing Date: December 31, 1984.
About one-third of the loan has been committed.  The program
is making satisfactory progress.
Ln. No. 1891   Seventh Agricultural Credit Project:  US$325 Million
Loan of August 15, 1980; Effectiveness Date: November 17, 1980:
Closing Date: March 31, 1984.
No major problems in implementation are foreseen.
Ln. No. 1908   Ocoroni Irrigation Project:  US$23 Million Loan of March 2, 1981;
Effectiveness Date: July 1, 1981; Closing Date: June 30, 1986.
Project implementation is on schedule.
Ln. No. 1913   Second Medium-Size Cities Water Supply and Sewerage Project:
US$125 Million Loan of January 23, 1981; Effectiveness Date:
June 23, 1981; Closing Date: December 31, 1984.
Project implementation is on schedule. The loan is 74 percent
committed.



- 36 -
ANNEX II
Page 8 of 8
Ln. No. 1929   Fourth Railway Project:  US$150 Million Loan of February 12, 1981;
Effectiveness Date: June 9, 1981; Closing Date: June 30, 1984.
Project execution is proceeding on schedule.
Ln. No. 1945   Rainfed Agricultural Development Project:  US$280 Million Loan
of March 2, 1981; Effectiveness Date: July 1, 1981; Closing
Date: June 30, 1986.
Project implementation has begun on schedule.
Ln. No. 1964   Ports Development Preparation Project:  US$14.0 Million Loan
of May 7, 1981; Effectiveness Date: August 24, 1981; Closing
Date: December 31, 1984.
Project implementation is on schedule.
Ln. No. 1990   Second Urban and Regional Development Project:  US$164 million
Loan of August 13, 1981; Effective Date: January 12, 1982;
Closing Date: December 31, 1986.
Project implementation is on schedule.
Ln. No. 2042   Technical Training Project:  US$90 Million Loan of July 31,
1981; Effectiveness Date: November 25, 1981; Closing
Date: June 30; 1984.
Project implementation is proceeding rapidly.
Loan signed after September 30, 1981:
Ln. No. 2043   Integrated Rural Development (PIDER III):  US$175 Million
Loan of November 6, 1981; Effectiveness Date:
Closing Date: September 30, 1985.
The loan is not yet effective. Awaiting adequate staffing
of the eight micro regions under the project and completion
of the plan for monitoring and evaluation units required
for credit effectiveness.



_ 37 -                    ANNEX III
MEXICO
BAJO RIO BRAVO/BAJO RIO SAN JUAN IRRIGATION PROJECT II
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I - Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken by the country
to prepare project:               About 25 months.
(b)  Project prepared by:              Ministry of Agriculture and
Water Resources (SARH).
(c)  First preparation mission:         June 1979.
(d) Departure of
appraisal mission:                April 1981.
(e)  Negotiations completed in:         January 1982.
(f) Planned date of
effectiveness:                    August 1982.
Section II - Special Bank Implementation Actions
None.
Section III - Special Conditions
(a) Beneficiaries would pay: (i) the full operation and maintenance
costs of project works, and (ii) as much of the investment costs
as practicable. The levels of water charges needed to recover a
portion of the investment costs would be based on a socio-economic
study to determine the farmers' ability to pay and to be carried
out by SARH by December 31, 1987, for subsequent submission to
the Bank, It will be reviewed periodically to determine adjust-
ments required in such levels (para. 73).
(b) SARH will maintain separate accounts adequate to reflect, in
accordance with sound accounting practices, the resources and
expenditures in respect of the project of the departments or
agencies of the Guarantor responsible for carrying out the project
or any part thereof and will annually furnish to the Bank a
summary statement of such accounts (para. 69).
(c) The Government will prepare a project completion report no later
than one year after the completion of loan disbursements
(para. 66).
(d) The Government will provide short, medium and long-term credit
required by the farmers to utilize the facilities included in the
project (para. 61).






1BRD 16058
too- ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~.at
'N  N::; VAJO flU) $RAVG BAJ A000A                                                                                Ao AWSAN JUAN
IAF4IGAT(ON REAIITTO
STAGE 
*            ]c)]00   ,  ,   ;l                rA"'T   TA                ANsnu0<    ;'r|rf' NA 11      i                                       ;; 
Fl, I~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~A 
Nuev- Cudod GIer                 A      -                                           N .A               N        A                 TA,p  T
AT~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~RIAI
TA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I 
TAO' ~ ~  ~    ~     ~    A
MEXICO              M                                                                                                                                                                                'TA-rMN j  
0 1~~~<< id[- :i .*:$   03L'5;:j y0';uQ:: ;:(' .r! '    :<\
G  0Es nrLAAY; l rSjuSr s1  /1:A- 5\     
/ ut  a;g  0  [ d  1, r\0.9-0                                                            9  !- fi,   ; .,,,  t






X                                                                                                 O                               X  g W                                                     '                         L JSIS 
A                                                                                       1100ff~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.0
N,;X:  . ,:   H-D -:                                                                                                                                                           - ,'
~~~~k                                        n~~~~~~~~
\SS ;f0Rri, j,:   i:>i-;0                                  'I
PW  WIDDJRT  2 gS0-d dStr;~ m BXJ7/
-.WM ; ' 9 ' z i {;  t; ':' '   iH l''  ;;y\ i 9 j ' ti; = 00 :;  z i sE / M c    ,0 /;  ek   <  .,    t,   >                                /
7 2   2  =   P  ;  0  '  ;200  A '0 i; ' f X 50git . tf 0 ., f < t ;5, 0 2,;l, ,0 fk pD&UDII15 101 /
IVN   Nbflv~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~klKl N4W~~~~~3ll~fi 
00~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
69, ,r, ,.09t  tr ti:T:    0  ,,00k'L :0;;    2 (i4gg, flai   0 popn: 'aeaN
Z}W 0 <' rDr; 0; , ;ti 0 -0 ~~iflUflozM!0C;X i* , SR00Z  , 0 ';1 !t0, !r  '%X ztX
P(~ ~ ~ ~~~~A                         O  IL       ';014  d 14'0,1 Di=XLp,;r:j!f, D; ,Sf't:  ]i=      g  ;t    ;    SHS=iN;fAX 
E        [i;  f; ftX,a   Mf J D;;     L    J A _1,#,,       ,  T=-;i,    .  t ]rS I  ,  1                iDA 0=0    tf   "pn 0tn
>tIfiiif ti 411S   .0,uA, ;A?N                               ,ffD,      ,  H  Sfr:;=,   i            S                  f  
-$W?27vMMA  f  ;0    {z 7Aflf floa  '-o 10 t11 UFI ,IflV t;                                          3IAS  R   ', aSsS,      DS   aS           dSE?1YdP,;d,dRe     S   ,?d 
P 0jPiE0 SJ i ;L S 29V+5RJ9ip Zm!E3X0?02  0 - : 1: grRd1   l<ASr
6sost~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I                                                                                                                                                           C-83



