ICIAL
OUM S      LOAN NUMEBR 2100 HE
Loan Agreement
(Bajo Rio Bravo/Bajo Rio San Juan Irrigation
Rehabilitation II Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
NACIONAL FINANCIERA, S.A.
Dated                  -              ,1982


﻿LOAN NUMBER 2100 NE
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated    4               &       , 1982, between
INTERNATIONAL   BANK   FOR   RECONSTRUCTION   AND   DEVELOPMENT
(hereinafter called the Bank) and NACIONAL FINANCIERA, S.A.
(hereinafter called the Borrower).
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, dated October 27, 1980, with
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein,
subject, however, to the following modification thereof (said
Geineral Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agreements of
the Bank, as so modified, being hereinafter called the General
Conditions): Paragraph 11 of Section 2.01 shall read as follows:
"The term 'Project' means the project for which the Loan is
granted as described in Schedule 1 to the Guarantee Agreement and
as the description thereof shall be amended from time to time by
agreement between the Guarantor, the Bank and the Borrower."
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Condtions have the respective meanings therein set forth
and the term SARH means Secretaria de Agricultura y Recursos
Hidraulicos of the Guarantor.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on
the terms and conditions in the Loan Agreement set forth or
referred to, an amount in various currencies equivalent to one
hundred eighty million dollars ($180,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1
to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from time to
time by agreement between the Borrower and the Bank, for
expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required


﻿-2-
for the Project described in Schedule 1 to the Guarantee Agreement
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods and civil works to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of
Schedule 2 to the Guarantee Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1988
or such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrower and the Guarantor of such later
date.
Section 2.05. Not later than the Effective Date, the Borrower
shall pay to the Bank a fee equivalent to one and one-half per
cent (1-1/2%) of the amount of the Loan. The fee shall be payable
in such currency or currencies as the Baak shall spe-ify. In the
event that the Bank shall not have received full payment of the
fee by the Effective Date, the Bank shall, on behalf of the
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to itself the
amount required for the full payment of the fee in the currency or
currencies specified for the purposes.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%)
per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from
time to time.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall pay interest at the rate
of eleven and three-fifths per cent (11-3/5%) per annum on
the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from
time to time.
Section 2.08. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on April 1 and October 1 in each year.
Section 2.09. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth
in Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Transfer of Loan Proceeds
Section 3.01. The Borrower shall make contractual arrange-
ments, satisfactory to the Bank, with the Guarantor, providing,


﻿-3-
inter alia, (i) for the transfer to the Guarantor of the proceeds
of the Loan for the purpose of carrying out the Project, and (ii)
for the transfer by the Guarantor to the Borrower of such funds as
the Borrower shall *be required to pay to the Bank on account of
principal, interest and other charges on the Loan. Except as the
Bank may otherwise agree,.the Borrower shall not change or fail to
enforce any provision of such arrangements.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower represents that at the date
of this Agreement no lien exists on any of its assets as security
for any external debt.
(b) The Borrower undertakes that, except as the Bank shall
otherwise agree, if any lien shall be created on any assets
of the Borrower as security for any external debt, such lien will
ipso facto equally and ratably secure the payment of the principal
of, and interest and other charges on, the Loan, and in the
creation of any such lien express provision will be made to that
effect, at no cost to the Bank; provided, however, that the
foregoing provisions of this paragraph shall not apply to: (A)
any lien created on property, at the time of purchase thereof,
solely as security for the payment of the purchase price of such
property; or (B) any lien arising in the ordinary course of
banking transactions and securing a debt maturing not more than
one year after the date on which it is originally incurred.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The following are specified as additional
matters, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Bank:
(a) that the contractual arrangements referred to in Section
3.01 of this Agreement are legally binding upon the parties
thereto; and
(b) that all necessary acts, consents and approvals to be
performed or given by the Guarantor, its political subdivisions or


﻿-4-
agencies or by any agency of any political -subdivision or
otherwise to be performed or given in. order ,to authorize the
carrying out of the Project and to enable the Borrower and the
Guarantor   to  perform   all   the   covenants,  agreements   and
obligations in the Loan Agreement and the Guarantee Agreement
contained, together with all necessary powers and rights in
connection therewith, have been duly and validly performed or
given and no other such acts, consents and approvals are required
to be performed or given for said purpose.
Section 5.01. The date     o Qe b-/$$ is hereby specified
for the purpose of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Addresses
Section 6.01. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                      Telex:
INTBAFRAD                          440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
For the Borrower:
Nacional Financiera, S.A.
Isabel la Catolica 51
Mexico 1, D.F.
Mexico
Cable address:                      Telex:
NAFIN                             NAFIN 383-1775765
Mexico City                       Mexico City


﻿-5-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the City of
Toronto, Canada, as of the day and year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By
Regional Vice President.
Latin America and the Caribbean
NACIONAL FINANCIERA, S.A.
By
Authorized Representative


﻿-6-
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Prodeeds of the Loan
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures.for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated          % of
(Expressed in       Expenditures
Category                Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed
(1) Civil works                  90,000,000        45%
(other than land
leveling) and
engineering
services
(2) Land leveling                25,000,000        30%
(3) Equipment                    10,000,000        90%
(4) Technical assistance,        25,000,000        30%
agricultural research
and studies
(5) Fee pursuant to               2,700,000        Amount due
Section 2.05 of
the Loan Agreement
(6) Unallocated                  27,300,000
TOTAL        180,000,000
2.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in
compliance with the policy of the Bank that no proceeds of the
Loan shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied
by, or in the territory of, the Guarantor on goods or services,
or on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply


﻿-7-
thereof; to that end, if the amount of any such taxes levied
on or in respect of any item to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan decreases or increases, the Bank may, by notice to
the Borrower, increase or decrease the disbursement percentage
then applicable to such item as required to be consistent with
the aforementioned policy of the Bank.
3.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for: (i)
expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, except that
withdrawals in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of
$5,000,000, may be made in respect of Categories (1) and (2) on
account of payments made for such expenditures before that date
but after May 1, 1981; and (ii) amounts retained in respect of
guarantees for civil works contracts under the Project.
4.    Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Loan or
the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in paragraph
1 above, if the Bank has reasonably estimated that the amount
of the Loan then allocated to any Category will be insufficient
to finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures in that
Category, the Bank, after consultation with the Borrower, may by
notice to the Borrower: (i) reallocate to such Category, to the
extent required to meet the estimated shortfall, proceeds of the
Loan which are then allocated to another Category and which in the
opinion of the Bank are not needed to meet othe.,: expenditures; and
(ii) if such reallocation cannot fully meet the estimated short-
fall, reduce the disbursement percentage then applicable to such
expenditures in order that further withdrawals under such Category
may continue until all expenditures thereunder shall have been
made.
5.   If the Bank, after consultation with the Borrower, shall have
reasonably determined that the procurement of any item in any
Category is inconsistent with the procedures set forth or referred
to in this Agreement, no expenditures for such item shall be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan and the Bank may, without
in any way restricting or limiting any other right, power or
remedy of the Bank under the Loan Agreement, by notice to the
4    Borrower, cancel such amount of the Loan as, in the Bank's reason-
able opinion, represents the amount of such expenditures which
would otherwise have been eligible for financing out of the
proceeds of the Loan.


﻿8-
SCHEDULE 2
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                          (expressed in dollars)*
On each April 1 and October 1
beginning October 1, 1985
through   April 1, 1997                   7,500,000
*    The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents
determined as of the respective dates of withdrawal; see
General Conditions, Section 3.04.


﻿-9-
Premiums on Prepayment
The following percentages are specified as the premiums
payable on repayment in advance of maturity of any purtion of
the principal amount of the Loan pursuant to Section 3.04 (b)
of the General Conditions:
Time of Prepayment                               Premium
Not more than three years
before maturity                                    2.30%
More than three years but not
more than six years before
maturity                                           4.65%
More than six years but not
more than eleven years
before maturity                                    8.50%
More than eleven years but not
more than thirteen years
before maturity                                   10.05%
More than thirteen years
before maturity
11.60%


﻿INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Bank for Reconstruction and Develop-
ment.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Bank thereunto
this -  '     day of         198 Z.
FOR SECRETARY


