 IEG
                                                                                               Report Number: ICRR14622

                  ICR Review
                  Independent Evaluation Group




       1. Project Data:                                       Date Posted: 04/28/2015

               Country: Laos
             Project ID: P075531                                                   Appraisal              Actual
         Project Name: Rural Electrification        Project Costs (US$M):                      36.27               46.20
                         Phase I Project Of
                         The Rural
                         Electrification (apl)
                         Program
  L/C Number:            CH218                        Loan/Credit (US$M):                      10.00               10.57
      Sector Board:      Energy and Mining            Cofinancing (US$M):                      13.75               13.70

           Cofinanciers: NORAD, GEF                     Board Approval Date :                               04/27/2006
                                                                Closing Date:            03/31/2010         03/31/2012
          Sector(s):      Power (85%); Renewable energy (15%)
          Theme(s):       Rural services and infrastructure (33% - P); Climate change (17% - S); State-owned
                          enterprise restructuring and privatization (17% - S); Regulation and competition policy (17% -
                          S); Rural policies and institutions (16% - S)

Prepared by:              Reviewed by:            ICR Review                 Group:
                                                  Coordinator:
Ramachandra Jammi         Robert Mark Lacey       Christopher David          IEGPS1
                                                  Nelson

2. Project Objectives and Components:

a. Objectives:
 Objectives:
 The Project (Rural Electrification Project, Phase 1 or REP I) supports the first phase of a two-phase IDA Adaptable
Program Loan (APL).

The project development objective (PDO) stated in the Development Grant Agreement (DGA, Schedule 2) for the
project, dated June 2, 2006 is: “to assist the Recipient to implement, in the Project Provinces, Phase 1 of the Program
which is designed to improve the living standards and income of rural households by providing access to electricity.”

However, the Project Appraisal Document (PAD, page 4) for the project states both the Program Development
Objectives (PDOs) and the Project Development Objectives identically as “(i) to increase access to electricity of rural
households in villages of targeted provinces; and (ii) improve financial performance of the power sector”.

The same PDO is used in the Project Paper for AusAID additional financing, as well as the DGA and PAD for the
follow-up REP II project. Therefore this review uses the PAD version as the reference point to ensure consistency in
evaluating the two phases of the APL.

The APL is cofinanced by a Global environment Fund (GEF) Grant. The Global Environmental Objectives (GEOs) are
"(i) increase the contribution of renewable energy to Lao PDR's rural electrification program; and (ii) develop Demand
Side Management (DSM) programs that result in reduced need for thermal power production and lower Green House
Gas (GHG) emissions in the region" (GEF Work Program Grant Submission, page 4).

b.Were the project objectives/key associated outcome targets revised during implementation?
No

 c. Components:
 Original Components
The Project had two components:
A.         The Electricite du Laos (EdL)-implemented Component (US$26.0 million at appraisal, US$37.36 million at
closure) financed the following activities:
1. Grid Extension: Extension of the EdL grid to about 42,000 households in some 540 villages in seven southern
     provinces.
2. Loss Reduction: Enhancement of EdL loss reduction efforts (covering both technical and non-technical losses)
     through: (a) development of a Master Plan for Distribution Loss Reduction; (b) implementation of prioritized
     projects and activities; and (c) preparation of projects for attracting funding from other external partners.
3. Information Technology (IT) System: (a) Integration of EdL Headquarters and Branch Offices (BOs) through
     rolling out the existing IT System to BOs in the targeted provinces; development of a new Material Management
     and Procurement System (MMPS); and (c) technical assistance for financial management capacity building.
4. Tariff Reform: Implementation of tariff and subsidy policies and associated tariff regime in line with the tariff
     adjustment defined in the Sustainability Action Plan.
5. Safeguards Capacity Building: Enhancing EdL’s and the Ministry of Energy and Mines (MEM’s)’s capacity in
     environmental and social assessment and impact management through training, study tours, and acquisition of
     necessary equipment.
6. Demand Side Management (DSM): Implementation of a program of DSM and Energy Efficiency (EE) activities,
     including establishment of a DSM Unit within EdL, building an energy end-use database, and piloting DSM
     measures targeted to high-priority markets.


B.        The Ministry of Energy and Mines (MEM)-implemented Component (US$8.84 million at appraisal,
US$11.54 million at closure):
1. Off-Grid Investment Program: Electrification by off-grid technologies to about 10,000 households in about 200
   villages, in 17 provinces.
2. Institutional Strengthening: Expansion and scaling-up the MEM off-grid program through improved organization,
   management outsourcing and performance assurance arrangements, offering a wide range of off-grid
   technologies.
3. Alternative renewable energy delivery models: (a) development of alternative delivery models for off-grid RE and
   financing mechanisms, including setting up and operation of the REF and development of necessary legal,
   regulatory and institutional arrangement to enable the REF to be accessible to other participants during Phase II;
   (b) assess biomass resources and pilot use of the biomass technologies; and (c) assess income generation
   linkages with village-level off-grid electrification.
4. Rural Electrification Master Plan and Database: (a) development of an initial rural electrification master plan
   (including distributed generation) and an electrification database (including mini/micro hydropower resource
   assessment), and institutionalize capacity for periodic updating; (b) assess mini/micro hydro and biomass
   resources; and (c) assess rehabilitation of existing mini/micro hydropower plants.
5. Sector Financing Strategy: development of a sector financing strategy and preparation of two small hydropower
   projects and of solicitation documents for concessioning to independent power producers.
6. Organization Strengthening of DOE/MEM (Department of Energy/Ministry of Energy and Mines: (a) strengthening
   organizational and management arrangements within MEM to enable it to undertake its expanded role and
   regulation of the power sector; (b) supporting the MEM Project Management Unit (PMU) in implementing the
   MEM component.

Revised Components
In June 2010, the Bank approved additional financing equivalent to US$ 9.42 million provided by AusAID. The
additional financing was necessary to close a financing gap which occurred due to substantial price escalations for
materials in 2006-07. The additional funds aimed to enable the Project to meet its grid extension targets, and scale up
the Project's impacts with; (i) technical assistance (TA) for DSM (Demand-side management) and energy efficiency;
(ii) expansion of the “Power to the Poor (P2P)” program which provided zero interest credit support to the poorest rural
households for upfront payments for connection to the grid; (iii) additional solar home systems (SHS) for off-grid
electrification (iv) support for the design, supply and installation of village hydro; (v)) technical assistance for
construction of pilot village level biomass power plants; and (vi) procurement capacity building to ensure smooth
project implementation.

d. Comments on Project Cost, Financing, Borrower Contribution, and Dates:
 Project cost.. The total Project cost at closure was US$46.20 million, or 127% of the Appraisal Estimate of US$36.27
million, mainly due to cost escalation of materials. Both components overran their Appraisal Estimates in nearly
identical proportions. The EdL component cost US$37.61 million, which was 138% of the appraisal estimate
(US$27.25 million), while the MEM component cost US$8.60 million, or 147% of the appraisal estimate (US$5.84
million).

 Financing and Borrower contribution . IDA contributed US$10.57 million equivalent, followed by NORAD with US$10
million, supplemented in 2010 with AuSAID cofinancing of US$9.41 million, while GEF contributed US$3.70 million.
Local communities provided US$4.36 million. All these amounts were close to the planned estimates. The
Borrower’s contribution, at US$8.16 million, was lower than the planned amount of US$13.35 million. The ICR notes
that this difference is because in-kind contribution was not accounted for at completion.

Closing Dates. The Closing date for the IDA and GEF Grants was extended by two years, from March 31, 2010 to
March 31, 2012 to allow extra time for the completion of the AusAID-supported activities.

3. Relevance of Objectives & Design:

a. Relevance of Objectives:
Rating: High

The PDOs, components and proposed activities are relevant to the Country Partnership Strategy for the Fiscal Years
2012-2016, which aimed to support the Government’s Poverty Reduction Strategy goals of improving competitiveness
and connectivity and increased access to improved infrastructure services in transport and energy. By supporting
rural infrastructure development, targeting the rural poor, and promoting sector-wide reforms and institutional building,
the project's objectives were relevant to the Government’s National Growth and Poverty Eradication Strategy goals of
poverty reduction, and establishing an enabling environment for growth and development.

The Project's objectives were also consistent with the Government's goal of removing barriers to achieving global
environmental objectives through activities on demand side energy management and Energy Efficiency (EE) and
promotion of renewable energy development. The GEO was relevant in terms of bringing increased efficiency in
EdL’s energy supply and consumption by customers that in turn would result in increased exports of hydropower to,
and reduced imports of thermal power from Thailand, with eventual greenhouse gas (GHG) emission reductions all of
which are fully in line with the Laos’s Climate Change Strategy.

b. Relevance of Design:
Rating: Substantial

The development objectives were specific, and consistent with the two components, 12 sub-components and
corresponding key associated outcome targets. The results framework was logical, appropriately linking the inputs of
the project with intermediate results and the related objective. To achieve the objective of increasing access to
electricity of rural households in villages of targeted provinces, the EdL component would electrify about 42,000 rural
households through connections to the grid, and the MEM component would electrify about 10,000 households
through off-grid technologies. To improve financial performance of the power sector, the project would (i) implement a
tariff reform that would achieve a 4-percent return on EdL's revalued assets and minimize cross-subsidies among
consumer categories by the end of Phase II; and (ii) develop procedures for efficient budgetary allocations for utility
expenses and timely payment of electricity bills by government agencies to reduce EdL's Account Receivables from
five months to two months. The triggers to move from Phase I to Phase II were also clear and specifically enumerated
(PAD, page 5 and Results Framework page 23).

The link between the intermediate results and final outcomes was also clear. Extending grid coverage in seven central
and southern provinces (intermediate results) would be indicated by the number of villages electrified and final
outcomes monitored via semi-annual progress reports. Similarly, increased financial strength and consumption
(intermediate result) would be indicated by the rate of return on revalued assets, debt-service-coverage-ratio (DSCR),
and account losses, which would also be monitored via semi-annual progress reports.

In terms of the GEO, the contribution to renewable energy and increased efficiency in both supply and demand side
management could be expected to result in a reduced need for sourcing thermal power production and lead to lower
Green House Gas (GHG) energy supply.

In retrospect, the project design underestimated the speed at which grid-based electrification would expand, so that a
significant portion of investments that were made for institutional development and physical installations in off-grid
electrification proved to be redundant or fell into disuse.

4. Achievement of Objectives (Efficacy):
  Objective 1: Increase Access to Electricity of Rural Households in Villages of Targeted Provinces.
Rating: High
Outputs
The grid-based connections derived from the construction of 2,767 km of distribution lines and installation of 749
transformers. The rapid expansion of the grid electrification program led to the disconnection of 5,338 of 9,840 SHS
that were installed initially. For the same reason, fifteen village-level hydro projects that were identified under the
Alternative Renewable Energy (RE) Delivery Models Program were not implemented.
Outcomes
A total of 671 villages and 66,879 households were provided access to electricity in the targeted provinces through
grid extension and the Off-Grid Investment Program which involved the installation of solar home systems (SHS). In
terms of households, these results exceeded the original target of 52,000 by 29%, and were slightly above the revised
target of 65,250. Overall coverage of electricity in the country stood at 80% (2012) at closing, up from 46% in 2004.

Objective 2: Improve Financial Performance of the Power Sector. Rating : Modest
Outputs
  A Master Plan for Distribution Loss Reduction was completed in March 2007, and an implementation report was
    produced in December 2008. It made recommendations on technical and nontechnical loss reductions. EdL
    implemented the loss reduction program using IDA resources from REP I and II as well as its own resources.
    Capacitors were installed over the distribution network as per modelling done under the plan, commercial loss
    reduction activities were undertaken, loss-reduction teams were setup in all regions and consolidated in
    Headquarters, re-engineering was undertaken in Vientiane Municipality, and meter test-benches were
    purchased, calibrated and installed.
  Tariffs were adjusted in line with the agreed Action Plan for Financial Sustainability of the Power Sector.
  Demand Side Management (DSM) was implemented under the direction of a Steering Committee established in
    2007, consisting of the Ministries of Finance, Public Works and Transport, Energy and Mines, among others. An
    energy end-use database was completed in 2007, walk-through energy audits were carried out in 50 selected
    government buildings in 2007, and low-cost energy efficiency measures were implemented.
  Institutional Strengthening was outsourced to an international management contractor, Village Off-grid Promotion
    and Support, or VOPS, with support from NORAD.
  A renewable energy (RE) Master Plan and a geo-referenced Database Program were developed and related staff
    in MEM were trained to maintain and update the GIS database. However, according to the ICR (page 27), the RE
    database was not always used by the local authorities, though no reasons for this are offered.
  A Sector Financing Strategy and standard IPP concession contracts were prepared by the Department of Energy
    and Business of MEM. According to the ICR (page 28), the strategy is being used by the Government to promote
    private sector participation in power generation , but no specific results are mentioned. There is no discussion as
    to whether a legal and regulatory framework appropriate for private sector participation exists or not.
  Under the "Organization and Strengthening of IREP/MEM" component, staff at IREP/MEM and provincial
    departments of energy and mines participated in safeguards training, study tours, and English language training.
Outcomes
  The ICR notes that EdL achieved full cost recovery in 2007 for the first time in its history . However the attribution
    of this result to the project – which became effective only August 2006 - is not clear. Following the spin-off of the
    generating company, EdL-Gen (of which EdL owns 75%) in 2010, the parent company, EdL, experienced a sharp
    fall in its operating margin and suffered an operating loss in 2011 for the first time in more than a decade. While
    EdL was able to meet its obligations, insufficient budgetary allocations by the Ministry of Finance caused delays
    in payment of arrears cutting its profit margins significantly. Government agency arrears were LAK 109 billion as
    of June 2012, equivalent to 10.9 months billing.
  In 2011, EdL was in breach of three out of four financial covenants. While the debt to equity ratio was on target
    (1.3 against a target of less than 1.5), the self-financing ratio was much less than expected (0.06 against a
    target of 0.3); the debt service coverage ratio was 1.21 compared to the target of at least 1.50; and the rate of
    return on revalued assets was 1% against a target of >4%.
  The ICR notes that the indicators for EdL's financial performance at closure could not be measured on the same
    basis as at appraisal due to the spin-off of the profit-making generation assets in 2009. There was also a
    near-collapse of the rural electrification fund due to low collection rates, and material losses on the systems,
    which therefore could not be resold.
  There was a delay of 20 months near the end of the contract for the second VOPS which was signed in February
    2012 . The cause was MEM tardiness in (i) issuing appropriate guidelines for solar home system (SHS)
    operations and maintenance, (ii) reusing withdrawn SHS, (iii) responding to complaints against the performance
    of Provincial Electrification Service companies (selected local private companies that were responsible for
    installation and maintenance of SHSs and payment collection) and Village Energy Managers; and (iv) reviewing
    the effectiveness and relevance of the SHS delivery mechanisms. In general, MEM faced difficulties in ensuring
    the continuity of the VOPS and successfully monitoring and evaluating the performance of private PESCO. The
    quantity of outputs and achievements of the VOPS-related activities are unclear, and appear to be negligible (see
    ICR page 27, para B.2).
    Overall system distribution losses have steadily declined from 17.86% in 2006 to 10.45% in 2011. Taking into
     account actual transmission losses estimated to be about 2%, the overall system loss reduction is about 9.5%

5. Efficiency:

The project achieved its initial grid target outputs before the closing date of 3/30/2011, and within the cost estimated at
appraisal. The revised outputs were also achieved ahead of the revised closing date of 3/31/2012 and within the
revised cost estimates. Within this period, AusAID-supported activities took longer than anticipated due to delays in
the procurement process. As stated above under 'efficacy' the rapid expansion of the grid electrification program had
the unanticipated effect of causing the disconnection of 5,338 of 9,840 SHS that were installed initially.

The economic benefits from the project are based on the willingness-to-pay as a sum of actual amount paid and
consumer surplus. from the use of lighting, radio and TV from electricity usage. The economic rates of return (ERRs)
for the EdL (grid component) and the MEM (off-grid) components are estimated at project completion to be 22%, and
ranging between 19 to 38%, respectively. These are lower than the appraisal estimates of 687% for the EDL
component and 27-52% for the MEM component).

The large ERR for the grid component at appraisal was derived from the observation that for each kilo-lumen hour for
lighting, consumers were paying LAK 3.32 with grid electricity and most (63 percent) of the rural households without
access to grid electricity were paying more than LAK 4,600 with candles and diesel lamps. At completion, this was
replaced with a more realistic assumptions relating to the shape of the demand curve for lighting from a linear to a
more realistic log-linear with a constant elasticity.

The net present value of the EdL (grid) component at a 10% discount rate is estimated at completion to be US$36.3
million (Annex 3, page 34), compared with US$280.8 million at appraisal. which results in a US$264.5 million
downward adjustment to the NPV over the life of the project.

The economic benefit of the MEM (off-grid) component is estimated to range between US$39 and US$84 in NPV per
system at project completion, compared with an estimated range between US$84 and US$109 per system at
appraisal. The difference is primarily due to: (i) an increase in upfront costs of US$111-174 per system, and (ii) a
correction to the methodology for calculating willingness to pay resulting in an upward adjustment to the estimated
benefit between US$22-32 per system per year, or US$80-121 in NPV over the lifetime of the project.

Efficiency is rated substantial.

 a. If available, enter the Economic Rate of Return (ERR)/Financial Rate of Return (FRR) at appraisal and the
    re-estimated value at evaluation :

                                   Rate Available?                         Point Value                        Coverage/Scope*

     Appraisal                        Yes                                     687%                                     1.8%

     ICR estimate                     Yes                                      22%                                     7.1%
                                         * Refers to percent of total project cost for which ERR/FRR was calculated.



 6. Outcome:
   The relevance of the project objectives is rated high and that of design substantial. The efficacy of the first
objective -- increased access to electricity of rural households in villages of targeted provinces -- is high, while that of
the second - improved sector financial performance - is rated modest. Efficiency is rated substantial. Overall
outcome is assessed as moderately satisfactory.
  a. Outcome Rating: Moderately Satisfactory


 7. Rationale for Risk to Development Outcome Rating:
   The Government has demonstrated commitment to rural electrification, which benefits from a robust stakeholder
involvement. The main implementing agency, EdL, has displayed strong technical capacity and track record in
reducing distribution losses, and the distribution networks and customers managed by the agency are at low risk. The
ICR also states that EdL bases its planning and design decisions on data and experience from past projects or similar
ones that have been implemented around the world.

However, there is a moderate risk that the expected tariff adjustment for the period 2012-2016 might be subject to
political interference. EdL’s financial margins are likely to be squeezed between the high prices it must pay for power
under the Power Purchasing Agreements with generating companies and the fully regulated retail tariffs at which it
sells electricity to consumers. By project closure, the latter had already fallen behind the rate of of increase in the
former. In the short to medium term, therefore, there is a likelihood that EdL will suffer operating losses, which will
need to be covered from the dividends it may earn from its stakes in its generating subsidiary, EdL GEN, and the
independent power producers. Preliminary financial projections of EdL suggest the company will face considerable
challenges fulfilling all three of its covenanted financial obligations in the coming years that were set before the
spin-off of the EdL-GEN.

The sustainability of the global environmental outcomes related to off-grid electrification depends on the availability
and quality of maintenance services. The risk of these being insufficient is accentuated by the fact that a permanent
institutional arrangement for maintenance of SHS was not in place at closure (though it is planned to be in place by
the closure of the ongoing Phase 2 project in the APL. There is no clear strategy for dealing with off-grid assets that
may become redundant when the grid-based electricity becomes available in the area.

   a. Risk to Development Outcome Rating : Moderate

 8. Assessment of Bank Performance:

 a. Quality at entry:
    The project’s strategic relevance, approach and design were strong, largely functional and logical. Its focus on
expansion of rural electrification through a combination of on-grid extension, and off-grid technologies responded
to the country's desire to improve social and economic status of its rural poor through rural electrification.

The project design took into account the cumulative lessons of the Bank's experience on Renewable Energy (RE)
projects and studies, most recently from the newly completed Southern Province Rural Electrification Project
(SPRE, IDA Credit No. 30470) which was closed on December 31, 2004). Key lessons included: (i) the recognition
that up-front house-wiring costs were a significant barrier to households to gain access to an electricity
connection; (ii) large cost savings are achievable by optimizing the patterns of grid extension; and (iii) investments
in loss reduction were very cost effective. It also responded to the findings and recommendations of a socio
economic survey and various studies done with the support of the Japanese Policy and Human Resources
Development Fund, and the Energy Sector Management Assistance Program. Key lessons from GEF
co-financed projects in Cambodia, Chile, Swaziland and Ethiopia were also integrated into the design (PAD, page
8).

At appraisal, three risks were rated high, namely delays in annual tariff adjustments, government account
receivable arrears problems, and the weak capacity of MEM in managing and implementing off-grid objectives and
achieving the corresponding key performance indicators all of which were realized to different extents. Other risks
that were rated negligible or moderate turned out to have been underestimated, particularly the government
commitment to the Rural Electrification Fund and the regulatory framework to attract the private sector.

   Quality-at-Entry Rating:                       Moderately Satisfactory

 b. Quality of supervision:
    The Bank was mostly efficient in its supervision of project activities and proactive in coming up with solutions
for shortcomings identified. The supervision team made two regular visits a year, plus numerous visits at the
Government ‘s request to resolve procurement, financial management, social, environmental and technical issues
on the ground. The Bank also posted the Task Team Leader in its Bangkok Office to provide closer supervision to
the project. The Bank mobilized large sums of co-financing to complement the IDA grant. However, because of
inadequate follow-up, there were important delays in the negotiation and signing of the AusAID funding.

Environmental and social specialists based in the Country Office and neighboring countries participated in project
implementation support missions and regular communication with EDL’s environmental and social department and
the Department of Energy. The Bank was prompt in using the M&E feedback for noting shortcomings in financial
management and procurement processes, and providing the required support to the implementing agency staff or
proposing corrective actions. Feedback from M&E was used to flag shortcomings in meeting financial covenant
targets.


   Quality of Supervision Rating :                Satisfactory
   Overall Bank Performance Rating :               Moderately Satisfactory


 9. Assessment of Borrower Performance:

 a. Government Performance:
      Government commitment to rural electrification was generally strong. The Government provided a positive
enabling environment for policies to be enacted and implemented. There was good collaboration with donors and
the Bank, and the Government ensured coordinated responses by the central and provincial authorities and
implementing agencies. There were, however, some shortcomings, notably with regard to the Ministry of Finance,
which did not provided adequate resources to settle government arrears to EdL. These arrears have significantly
affected the achievement of the financial performance indicators and potentially the sustainability of electricity
services. Therefore while key financial performance indicators satisfied covenanted requirements during most of
the project duration, during the last two years EdL is in breach of two of its three financial covenants – (debt service
coverage; and the self-financing ratios).

   Government Performance Rating                                 Moderately Satisfactory

 b. Implementing Agency Performance:
    EdL, which managed the major portion of the project which related to grid expansion, displayed efficiency and
technical and management competence in implementing grid extension projects, faster than the original
scheduled time period. EdL leadership remains very committed to social electrification despite the fact that
programs such as P2P are not profit-making activities. The frequent turnover of staff and lack of coordination
among different management units of EDL caused some delays in procurement operations affecting the energy
awareness sub-components.

The smaller off-grid electrification component was managed by the project management unit (PMU) in MEM,
which displayed commitment to the task of targets for installing solar home systems (SHS), despite the
geographic remoteness and complexity of the delivery mechanism, PMU managed to achieve and surpass its
targets well in advance of the 2010 deadline, by working through a Management contractor and the quality
supervision contractor, for the provision of power to low end users. However, after the arrangements with the
private contractors ended, MEM was unable to properly manage its activities, and was also slow at issuing
appropriate guidelines for SHS operations and maintenance, and generally dealing with performance complaints
against the Provincial Electrification Service companies (PESCOs) and village energy managers that were the
agents for deliver and maintenance of SHS.


   Implementing Agency Performance Rating :                     Satisfactory

   Overall Borrower Performance Rating :                         Moderately Satisfactory



10. M&E Design, Implementation, & Utilization:

 a. M&E Design:
   The M&E design focused on household and village electrification and implementation of the financial sustainability
action plan, both key performance indicators that needed to be achieved if the program was to realize its goal of
increasing access to electricity so as to improve the socio economic well-being of communities. The M&E design
was generally adequate; indicators in the results framework were sufficient to measure the progress toward the
attainment of the objectives. The key result and intermediate indicators were logical and adequate for monitoring the
project progress and informed the Bank as well as the implementing agencies of issues related to project
implementation. All indicators had baseline values.

The PAD defined and clarified the objectives and performance indicators with the exception of a few discrepancies
that were suitably addressed. Regarding the targets for villages to be electrified, the figure in the PAD for electrified
households is higher that in the Annex 3, and the higher figure was used for assessing achievements. There were
four core GEO indicators in the main text of PAD and only two in the results monitoring framework. The ICR used the
latter since the other repeated a PDO indicator and one intermediate indicator). In addition, EdL established
satisfactory key indicators for tracking its financial performance. These indicators provided for the early flagging of
non-compliance with the financial covenants and need for tariff adjustments.
The design also included socio-economic surveys before and after the project. Both MEM and EdL had strong
ownership of the M&E design, having participated in the initial surveys and studies to inform the design.

M&E was to be implemented by both EdL and MEM who would report to the Bank on a regular basis.

 b. M&E Implementation:
   Overall, M&E implementation was satisfactory, and data quality was acceptable. The additional funding from
AusAID prompted a change in the results framework to show two indicators pertaining to the Power to the People
(P2P) program (for providing subsidies to the poor for electricity connections) and two indicators for the off-grid
programs-SHS installed and households served with micro-hydro and biomass units.

The socio-economic survey conducted in 2004 informed program design and also served as a baseline. However, the
end line survey was not conducted in a timely fashion ( survey results were still unavailable when the ICR was
completed). A survey of EdL customers on awareness and adoption of energy efficiency technologies which was
meant to be a baseline was done in 2008, but no follow-up survey had been done at the end of the project.

A stake holder meeting was held in September 2012 to disseminate results on the basis of available indicators.
Participants expressed their views on achievements and impact made by the project, lessons learnt, and areas of
improvement especially in relation to the off-grid component.

 c. M&E Utilization:
   M&E provided timely data that informed project re-direction. Examples include the changes made in the off-grid
program when the large amounts of withdrawals and subsequent losses became evident. Indicators for financial
performance helped in early flagging of non-compliance with the financial covenants and need for tariff adjustments,
prompting follow-up action and discussions between the Bank and Borrower.

M&E Quality Rating: Substantial




11. Other Issues

 a. Safeguards:
The project was assigned to category B under the Bank's environmental and social safeguard policies. Four
safeguard policies were triggered : (i) Environmental Assessment (OP 4.01); (ii) Involuntary Resettlement (OP 4.12);
(iii) Indigenous Peoples (OP 4.10); and (iv) Forests (OP 4.36). All relevant mitigation plans including an Environment
Management Plan (EMP) and Resettlement Action Plan (RAP) were prepared and disclosed appropriately. The ICR
(p. 9) reports that no major or irreversible environmental and social impacts occurred under the project, and measures
were taken to adequately mitigate negative impacts. Environmental impacts were minimal and managed through
applying good construction practices. Cutting and trimming of trees or tree branches to facilitate the installation of
poles was done and monitored according to the EMP. Consultations were carried out adequately and prior to the
commencement of civil works with affected people. Impacts on loss of land and other productive assets were
adequately compensated as per the RAP. Ethnic minorities were given priority in receiving project benefits within the
limits of technical feasibility.

Shortage of environmental and social safeguards staff at central and branch offices of EdL was a major challenge
initially, but safeguards issues were managed by the EdL staff on a learning-by-doing basis with support from Bank
staff. Subsequently, based on a Social and Environmental Capacity Building Plan developed during the project,
training was provided to managerial and technical staff in EdL in the form of training workshops and study tours.
Monitoring and office equipment and supplies were purchased for the environmental management office of EdL and
its branches. At project completion, EdL staff were largely implementing and monitoring safeguards activities
independently, and further training is provided for in REP I with NORAD support.

b. Fiduciary Compliance:
Financial Management: The projects had several financial management challenges. The financial management
rating in supervision reports was rated ‘satisfactory’ in up to 2008, but was downgraded to ‘moderately satisfactory’ in
2009 due to (i) lack of progress in rolling out the Accounting and Financial Management System; (ii) an increase in
PESCO debts; and (iii) late submission of the interim unaudited financial reports (IFRs) and audit reports. In 2011 the
project was downgraded further to ‘moderately unsatisfactory,’ where it remained at the end of the project. The
reasons cited were (i) problems identified with the Rural Electrification Fund (REF) operations (decreasing collection
rate of the repayments from SHS users resulting in the balance of the REF running low and its sustainability being in
question), (ii) the audit opinion for EdL corporate financial statements had a disclaimer and (iii) the accounting system
needed to be strengthened and a suitable computerized accounting software needed to be implemented.

To address the financial sustainability problems, a second action plan to improve EdL’s financial performance is being
prepared under the second phase (REP II). It includes specific actions to enhance EDL’s financial management,
accounting and reporting.

The ICR does not state whether or not the external auditors' opinion of the project accounts was qualified.

Procurement: There were no major issues regarding compliance with Bank procurement guidelines. At the central
level, procurement of goods and consultants was carried out as per standard procedures. All major equipment and
materials were procured through ICB or National Competitive Bidding (NCB). There were delays with procurement at
the sub-component level which was carried out by EdL’s departments, mainly due to the lack of experience of the staff
in those departments. There were no instances of misprocurement.


 c. Unintended Impacts (positive or negative):
The rapid expansion of the grid electrification program led to the disconnection of off-grid SHS, low payment rates,
and material losses on the systems, which therefore could not be resold. It also led to the near collapse of the rural
electrification fund.

 d. Other:
none


12. Ratings:                               ICR                   IEG Review                   Reason for
                                                                                       Disagreement/Comments
                      Outcome: Satisfactory                 Moderately           There were moderate shortcomings in
                                                            Satisfactory         EdL financial performance (as reflected
                                                                                 in non-compliance with 3 out of 4
                                                                                 covenants) and in the performance of
                                                                                 the off-grid activities.
          Risk to Development Moderate                      Moderate
                     Outcome:

             Bank Performance: Satisfactory                 Moderately           Moderate shortcomings included
                                                            Satisfactory         insufficient attention to coordination of
                                                                                 grid and off-grid expansion, and
                                                                                 underestimation of risks relating to the
                                                                                 REF and private sector participation.
       Borrower Performance : Satisfactory                  Moderately           Moderate shortcomings included
                                                            Satisfactory         accumulation of arrears with EdL
                                                                                 affecting its financial performance and
                                                                                 shortcomings in implementation of
                                                                                 off-grid component.
                 Quality of ICR:                            Satisfactory

NOTES:
- When insufficient information is provided by the Bank
  for IEG to arrive at a clear rating, IEG will downgrade
  the relevant ratings as warranted beginning July 1,
  2006.
- The "Reason for Disagreement/Comments" column
  could cross-reference other sections of the ICR
  Review, as appropriate.

13. Lessons:
 The following salient lessons are adapted from those in the ICR:

Off-grid electrification should be coordinated with the expansion of the grid to prevent the possibility of
under-utilized or stranded off -grid assets once the grid reaches the location . Towards the end of this project, there
was a mass withdrawal of SHSs due to the rapid grid extension and the availability of more comprehensive
electricity services at an effectively lower cost. This situation may have been avoided if SHS installation had been
strategically implemented in areas where the grid would not arrive in five or more years.

Continuity in Bank engagement is crucial for the lasting impact of Bank interventions . Over nearly two decades,
the Bank has consistently engaged in the energy sector in Laos and provided financing and technical assistance for
electrification and addressed addressing EdL’s financial performance through five consecutive projects including
the ongoing APL. During this period, electricity access has more than double to 80 percent in Laos.

Management of social and environmental impacts should be integrated into the regular operations of the
implementing agency. This project provided extensive safeguards training to both technical professionals and
managers to raise their awareness and knowledge on the safeguard policies, resulting in an increase in in-house
capacity to implement them.

14. Assessment Recommended?                  Yes     No

Why? This project, together with second project in the APL series (REP II) could be usefully examined in more
depth to learn from the experience and long-term results of a national electrification effort which is considered one of
the most successful in recent decades.




15. Comments on Quality of ICR:

The ICR is informative and analytical in its assessment of the project. It is concise and well written, and makes good
use of annexes. It is reasonably thorough and contains all the elements necessary to evaluate the project. The quality
of evidence and analysis is adequate; the discussion is results oriented and not a mere narrative of implementation.
The lessons drawn are based on the evidence provided by the experience of preparing and implementing the project.
There are some shortcomings The Data Sheet in the ICR states the amount of additional financing as $9.55 million,
while the ICR main text (page 4) which is quoted in section 2b above is $9.42 million. There is no discussion of
external auditing of project accounts.
a.Quality of ICR Rating : Satisfactory
