Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-6671-IVC
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
OF SDR 95.8 MILLION
TO
THE REPUBLIC OF COTE D'IVOIRE
FOR AN
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
SEPTEMBER 5, 1995
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit    =  CFA Franc (CFAF)
US$1 00         =  CFAF 506 (end-August 1995)
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADB          African Development Bank
ASAL         Agricultural Sector Adjustment Loan
CAA          Caisse Autonome d'Amortissement (External Debt Agency)
CAISTAB    Caisse de Stabilisation (Coffee/Cocoa Marketing Board)
CAS          Country Assistance Strategy
CFD          Caisse Fran,aise de D6veloppement
CIDA         Canadian Intemational Development Agency
CIDT         Compagnie Ivoirienne de Developpement Textile
CGPP         Caisse Generale de Prequation des Prix (Price Equalization Fund)
ERC          Economic Recovery Credit
ESAF         Enhanced Structural Adjustment Facility
EU           European Union
FOB          Free on Board
GDP          Gross Domestic Product
GNP          Gross National Product
ICB          International Competitive Bidding
IMF          Intemational Monetary Fund
KfW          Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaufbau
MTF          Medium-Term Economic Framework
NEAP         National Environmental Action Plan
NTB          Non-tariff Barrier
PCR          Project Completion Report
PFP          Policy Framework Paper
PVAM         Programme de Ventes Anticipees a la Moyenne (Program of Forward Sales)
SAPH         Societe Africaine de Plantation d'Heveas
SITC         Standard International Trade Classification
SOEs         Statements of Expenses
SOGB         Societe des Caoutchoucs de Grand Bereby
UN           United Nations
VAT          Value Added Tax
FISCAL YEAR
January I - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
REPUBLIC OF COTE D'IVOIRE
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
Table of Contents
Page No.
PART I: ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENTS, GOVERNMENT POLICIES, AND
IDA ASSISTANCE STRATEGY ............................................................                                                  1
Recent Economic Developments ....................................................... 1
The Government's Medium-Term   Program   (1995-97) ...............                                        ..................... 4
Medium-Term   Prospects  ...................................................... 5
Bank  Group's Assistance Strategy   ......................................................     6
IFC  and  MIGA    ...................................................... 7
Relations with  Other Donors  .........................                                ............................. 8
PART II: THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM  ............... 8
Background  ...................................................... 8
Recent Bank Experience with Agricultural Reform in C6te d'Ivoire ......... .                                                    8
The Proposed  Reform   Program    ....................................                                 .................. 9
A.  Reform   in  the Cocoa/Coffee  Sectors ........................................... 10
Internal Marketing ......................................................                                    10
External Marketing ......................................................                                    11
CAISTAB  Expenditures ......................................................                                  12
Export Taxation ......................................................                                       13
B.  Reform   in the Rice Sector ......................................................  13
C.  Trade and  Domestic Price Reform  .............................................. 15
D.  Public  Sector Reform  ......................................................                                    16
Public  Investment ......................................................                                    16
Public  Divestiture ......................................................                                   17
PART III: THE PROPOSED AGRICULTURAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT
CREDIT ...........................................................                                                                   19
Objectives and  Size of  the Proposed  ASAC  ............................................... 19
Proposed  Tranche  Conditionality  ......................................................                                      19
Procurement and  Disbursement ......................................................                                           21
Cofinancing ......................................................                                                            22
Benefits and Risks ......................................................                                                     22
PART IV: RECOMMENDATION ...........................................................                                                        23
Ms document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed wiLhout World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Page No.
Annex A:  Poverty and Social Development Indicators
Annex B:   Key Economic Indicators
Annex C:  Agricultural Sector Adjustment Program: Matrix of Actions
Annex D:  Letter of Agricultural Development Policy
Annex E:   Status of Bank Group Operations
Annex F:   Supplemental Credit Data Sheet
Tables
Table 1:    Macroeconomic Indicators, 1990-1994  ........................................   2
Table 2:    Key Economic Indicators, 1994-2000 .............................. .......... 6
Table 3:    Major Characteristics of Agroindustries to be Privatized ........................ 18
Charts
Chart 1:    Cocoa and Coffee Prices ........................................ 3
Chart 2:    NTB Levels in Agriculture, Fishery, and Forestry ............................... 15



REPUBLIC OF COTE D'IVOIRE
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR ADJUSTMIENT CREDIT
Credit and Project Summary
Borrower:                 Republic of Cote d'Ivoire
Executing Agency:         Ministry of Agriculture and Animal Resources
Amount:                   SDR 95.8 million
Terms:                    Standard IDA terms with 40 years maturity.
Project Description:      The  proposed  credit would  support the  Government's
agricultural reform program which is designed to (i) reduce
export taxation of cocoa and coffee, (ii) improve the efficiency
and transparency of internal and external marketing of cocoa
and coffee as well as the operations of the Agricultural
Stabilization Fund (CAISTAB), (iii) liberalize rice imports and
reduce Government intervention in the sector, (iv) remove a
series of non-tariff barriers and price controls in the
agricultural sector, (v) improve the programming and
execution of the agricultural public investment program, and
(vi) privatize the principal agro-industries in rubber, palm oil,
sugar, and cotton.
Benefits:                  Successful implementation of the proposed Agricultural Sector
Adjustment Program will be critical in creating the conditions
for renewed agricultural and overall economic growth and
increased employment opportunities and underpin IDA's
investment lending in this sector.  At the same time, the
ASAC, together with the programmed new sector adjustment
operations would contribute significantly to the closure of the
financing gap in the period 1995-97. The reduction of the
export taxes on cocoa and coffee consistent with the overall
fiscal situation as well as the reduction and increased
transparency of CAISTAB's role in cocoa/coffee marketing
would result in a fuller pass-through of international prices to
farmers and can be expected to raise output, especially for
coffee, and increase smallholders' incomes and rural
employment. The policy changes in the cocoa and coffee
sectors will therefore contribute directly to poverty alleviation
in the rural areas. The envisaged removal of non-tariff barriers
would enhance the competitiveness in agriculture. The regular
reviews of the agricultural public investment program would
improve its programming and execution.   Finally, the



- ii -
divestiture from major public agro-industries would stimulate
private sector participation and increase competition which
should help improve the sector efficiency and promote new
investments.
Risks:                     The proposed operation faces the risk of slow and uneven
implementation. First, the Government may give in to vested
interest groups opposed to structural reforms. To counter this
risk, the Government has taken upfront policy decisions in the
key areas of reform. In addition, it has already implemented
some politically sensitive reforms in agriculture. A case in
point is the liquidation of the Caisse de Perequation des Prix
(Price Equalization Fund) which underscores that the
Government is willing and capable of breaking internal
opposition to key reform measures. Second, Cote d'lvoire's
limited institutional capacity in the public sector is reflected in
its poor implementation record, which has reduced the benefits
of structural reform and often compromised the Government's
credibility.  To mitigate against this risk, Bank staff are
working very closely with the Government to carefully
program and monitor the implementation of reforms as has
been done with the Economic Recovery Credit (ERC). In
addition, the proposed ASAC has been designed as a three-
tranche operation to assure that policy decisions are executed
and sustained as spelled out in the Letter of Agricultural
Development Policy.
Estimated Disbursements    The proceeds of the credit would be disbursed in three
tranches:  US$60 million  equivalent  upon  effectiveness;
US$45 million equivalent after a satisfactory performance
review anticipated for April 1996; and the remaining
US$45 million equivalent after a satisfactory performance
review anticipated for January 1997.
Financing Plan             France is cofinancing the proposed ASAC  with a Caisse
Francaise de Developpement (CFD) credit of FF 300 million
(about US$60 million), a first tranche of FF 180 million to be
disbursed in 1995 and the remaining FF 120 million to be
disbursed in 1996. In addition, Germany will cofinance the
proposed operation with a Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaufbau
(KfW) credit of DM 30 million (about US$21 million
equivalent) which will be disbursed in a single tranche during
1995.
Staff Appraisal Report:    No separate staff appraisal report.



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED AGRICULTURAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
OF SDR 95.8 MILLION (US$150 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO THE REPUBLIC OF COTE D'IVOIRE
1.    I submit for your approval the following report and recommendation on a proposed
Agricultural Sector Adjustment Credit (ASAC) to the Republic of Cote d'lvoire for SDR 95.8 million,
the equivalent of US$150 million. The proposed IDA credit would support the implementation of the
Government's adjustment program in the agricultural sector. It would be repayable over 40 years on
standard IDA terms, including 10 years of grace.
2.    C6te d'lvoire is one of the principal countries in the CFA zone, with a population of about
13.5 million and a GDP of US$6.75 billion in 1994. High population growth and the deep recession
of the 1986-1993 period have resulted in a steady fall of living standards. GNP per capita in 1994 was
estimated at about US$525 compared to well over US$1,000 in the early 1980s. Following the
devaluation of the CFA franc in January 1994, the Government successfully implemented an economic
stabilization program. This program as well as the recovery of international prices for such
commodities as coffee and cocoa helped reverse the seven-year recession in 1994. Economic growth is
expected to accelerate from 1995 onward as a result of the improved macroeconomic situation and the
deepening of structural reforms. In this context, the Government is implementing a second year
arrangement under the enhanced structural adjustment facility (ESAF) of the IMF and seeking a series
of sector adjustment credits from the Association, including the proposed ASAC.
3.    The parity change has triggered a quick and financially strong response from the Bank. During
the 18 months following the devaluation the Bank approved credits totalling about US$680 million and
disbursed US$568 million. While the Bank is increasing its investment operations in C6te d'lvoire,
around 60 percent of IDA support is in the form of adjustment credits, including those under the Fifth
Dimension, given the country's large financing needs (para. 15).
PART I: ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENTS, GOVERNMENT POLICIES,
AND IDA ASSISTANCE STRATEGY
Recent Economic Developments
4.    During the 1981-1993 period, Cote d'lvoire pursued an internal adjustment strategy that largely
failed to redress the lingering macroeconomic imbalances and structural factors constraining sector
growth, including in agriculture. In the early 1990s, the Government undertook a last effort to restore
international competitiveness and growth by exclusively relying on internal adjustment measures as a
nominal devaluation of the CFA franc was not a policy option at that time. Its strategy was reflected
in the medium-term economic framework (MTF) which was supported by the Bank with three
adjustment operations in the areas of finance, competitiveness and regulatory reform, and human
resources development, as well as by a stand-by arrangement of the IMF. Although the Government
initially made progress in cutting the primary deficit in the early 1990s, the failure of the Government
to reduce the overvaluation of the CFA franc with its internal adjustment measures resulted in the
MTF falling short of expectations. The deepening of the recession in 1993 made it even more difficult
for the Government to cut the high public wage bill, representing about 60 percent of primary



expenditures, and maintain its revenue targets. As a result, the primary deficit again increased,
reaching 3.4 percent of GDP. Given the inability of the Government to generate the necessary primary
surpluses, its efforts to settle domestic and external arrears also faltered. External arrears therefore
accumulated rapidly and reached the equivalent of 61 percent of GDP by end-1993.
5.     As a result of these macroeconomic difficulties, the Government decided, together with its
partner countries in the CFA zone, to complement the ongoing internal adjustment efforts with a
50 percent devaluation of the CFA franc in January 1994. Results for 1994 show that with this parity
change and the implementation of the accompanying fiscal, monetary, and structural adjustment
policies, the Ivorian economy has been able to maintain and strengthen its international
competitiveness and register real growth of 1.7 percent (Table 1).   All external arrears, with the
exception of those to commercial banks, were cleared in 1994. Arrears, including penalty interest on
commercial debt, nonetheless reached approximately 80 percent of GDP at end-1994.
Table 1: Macroeconomic Indicators, 1990 - 1994
1990     1991      1992      1993      1994
Real Growth Rates (% p.a.)
GDP                                      -2.1     -0.8       0.0      -1.1       1.7
Per Capita GDP                           -5.8     -4.5      -3.8      -4.9      -2.0
Central Govermnent (% of GDP)
Revenue                                  23.4     21.9      22.3      19.8      22.7
of which coffee/cocoa export taxes      ....      ....     ....      ....      6.7
Expenditure                              36.5     36.4      35.1      36.4      39.1
of which interest                      10.7      12.1      11.4     13.2      17.8
Primary Balance                          -2.4     -2.3      -1.4      -3.4       1.4
Overall Balance                         -13.1    -14.4    -12.8    -16.6    -16.4
Balance of Payments (% of GDP)
Trade Balance (FOB)                      13.1      11.8     10.2      10.8      19.6
Current Account                         -11.6    -11.9    -12.0    -11.0    -11.5
External Debt (% of GDP)
Debt Stock 1/                           142.0    157.4    151.2    172.4    225.0
Arrears 2/                               27.5     36.5      45.3      61.2      80.3
Prices
Annual Average Change of CPI (%)         -0.7      1.6       4.3       0.8      25.8
RER Index (1985=100)                    151.8    151.2    163.9    167.0    107.3
1/ Excludes private non-guaranteed debt.
2/ 1994 figure refers exclusively to arrears to commercial banks.



- 3 -
6.    The Government succeeded in reducing inflation to pre-devaluation levels within 8 months
following the parity change.  During the last quarter of 1994 the monthly inflation rate was
0.3 percent. This was largely achieved by a restrictive monetary and wage policy. Base wages
increased on average only by 10 percent, thereby reducing the Government's wage bill from almost
13 percent of GDP in 1993 to 9.5 percent of GDP in 1994. The same policy stance was adopted by
the private sector. The Government was also on schedule in unblocking the three-month price freeze
on 34 products it had enacted immediately following the devaluation and adjusted utility tariffs,
including water (15 percent), electricity (20 percent), and public transport (40 percent).
7.    Fiscal policy has been the cornerstone of the stabilization program. The Government met its
revenue and expenditure targets throughout 1994 and generated its first primary balance surplus in the
1990s. The introduction of a major tax reform (reduction of VAT, petroleum taxes, and import
tariffs) in early 1994 helped dampen inflationary pressures but also reduced revenue as a share of
GDP. Compensatory measures in the form of reintroducing export taxes on coffee and cocoa were
therefore required. Although these export taxes are needed for fiscal reasons, the Government is
committed to (i) reduce their importance within the overall government revenue, and (ii) pass through
the positive effects of the devaluation to the farmer which has become easier in the wake of buoyant
international prices for cocoa and coffee. To this end, the Government has repeatedly increased the
producer price for cocoa and coffee, with the latest increase having been mandated in February 1995
(see Chart 1).
Chart 1: Cocoa and Coffee Prices
CFAF/kg
700
600
500
400
300
200
100
Dec. 93   Jan.94    Mar. 94   Sept.94    Feb.95
I * Coffee U Cocoa I
8.    Preliminary indicators for 1995 show that the economy continues to strengthen. During the first
semester of 1995, industrial production increased by almost 7 percent compared with the same period
in 1994. The renewed international competitiveness is reflected in strong export volume growth which
is expected to grow by 10 percent in 1995. Imports are expected to grow by about 15 percent in
volume terms in 1995, reflecting the pick-up in economy activity. Moreover, the economic recovery
has contributed to a better than programmed fiscal performance during the first semester of 1995.



- 4 -
While government revenues were initially programmed to reach about CFAF 530 billion, preliminary
results suggest that the Government collected about CFAF 560 billion while expenditures were about
CFAF 18 billion lower than initial projections. As a consequence, the Government's primary surplus
reached CFAF 146 billion as of end-June. With regard to inflation, there had been a momentary
concern about the relative large monthly increases of 4.7 percent in January and 3 percent in March.
These unexpected increases in the consumer price index were largely due to temporary shortages of
some foods in the domestic market which were caused by poor weather conditions and increased
exports of food crops to neighboring countries. However, the price increases appear to be of a
temporary nature as the monthly price increases are again below 1 percent and averaged about
0.7 percent during the second quarter.
9.    With the successful stabilization effort, the Government has also deepened its structural
adjustment program. Since the devaluation, the Government has implemented key components of its
trade reforms, including a simplification and reduction of import tariffs as well as the elimination of a
series of non-tariff barriers.  Moreover, the Government has begun a far-reaching liberalization
process in rice and maritime transport and shown its determination to confront vested interest groups
in order to reduce transaction costs, thereby, further increasing the competitiveness of the Ivorian
economy. Other areas of progress included the acceleration of the privatization program (see also
para. 58), and the adoption of the new labor code and the new investment code.  While the
Government has made progress in implementing key elements of its structural reform program, the
unfinished reform agenda remains considerable in such areas as agriculture, transport, finance, and
private sector development. In addition, the Government's human resources development program
needs to become more effective. For example, the Government's social programs, including the many
social funds which were created following the devaluation, have not proven very effective during 1994.
In summary, although the economic results obtained since the devaluation confirm that the Government
is exploiting the opportunities created by the parity change, the Government needs to broaden and
strengthen its structural reform program to get back to a sustainable growth path. In this context, the
Government will need to overcome internal opposition from vested interest groups to some of the
structural reforms and seek ways that avoid substantial delays in the reform program that may be
caused by the groups opposed to the reforms.
The Government's Medium-Term Program (1995-97)
10.   Following the CFA franc devaluation, the Government reformulated its economic and social
program and spelled out its new stabilization and structural adjustment program in a Policy Framework
Paper (PFP) which was updated in March 1995 to cover the 1995-97 period. The PFP aims at:
(i) increasing real GDP growth to annual rates in excess of 6.5 percent beginning in 1995;
(ii) generating sustained and increasing primary budget surpluses; (iii) increasing public sector
efficiency through institutional reforms and an acceleration of the privatization program; (iv)
strengthening external competitiveness through trade, price, and regulatory reforms; and
(v) intensifying human resource development and increasing efforts to alleviate poverty.  These
objectives have been translated into a comprehensive reform program ranging from policy actions in
the fiscal, trade, and price areas to reforms that stimulate private sector development and improve the
delivery of basic social services.
11.   The Government recognizes in the PFP that the economic recovery will be led primarily by the
agricultural sector and agro-industries. Therefore, the Government will pursue an agricultural policy
that aims at an expansion and diversification of this sector's production through removing trade
barriers and price controls as well as a retrenchment of the public sector from productive and



-5 -
marketing activities. This policy manifests itself in the Government's adjustment program for the
agricultural sector described in Part II below.
Medium-Term Prospects
12.   Cote d'Ivoire's economic growth potential has not yet been realized due to a combination of
(i) an unsustainable macroeconomic situation emanating from large fiscal deficits in the past; (ii) an
external debt overhang depressing national savings; (iii) distortions in trade and price policies (see Part
II-A through D below) resulting in inefficient resource allocation; and (iv) a deficient human resources
development program which has neglected the provision of basic social services in education and
health. The devaluation has triggered a promising start to redress all these impediments to growth and
the Government has spelled out its reform agenda in the PFP, thereby aiming at growth rates of
6.5 percent and higher during 1995-2000. In order to assure that its structural and social policies
translate into these levels of growth, full and timely implementation would be required. Based on Cote
d'lvoire's track record concerning structural reform during the last 14 years, progress is likely to be
gradual and uneven. Under such a scenario of gradual structural reform, the country should be able to
attain annual growth rates of 5 percent, i.e. lower than the very optimistic growth rates targetted by the
Government for 1995-2000 but still a major improvement over the zero growth experienced during the
1980-1993 period.
13.   Continued fiscal reform will be critical to the adjustment effort. While government revenue
will be maintained at about 21 percent of GDP, the Government plans to reduce its reliance on export
taxation of cocoa and coffee in order to stimulate growth in the agricultural sector. Export taxes are
expected to fall to about 20 percent of the export price for cocoa and 7 percent of the export price for
coffee by 1997 (see Part JI-A, para. 42 below). To implement this reduction, the Government will
benefit from additional revenue coming from new oil and gas production, broaden the tax base, and
improve tax collection. On the expenditure side, interest obligations will be sharply reduced due to the
concessional treatment obtained from bilateral creditors and an anticipated commercial bank debt
restructuring. Interest payments on new loans will be limited as the Government is only borrowing on
concessional terms. Moreover, primary expenditures, particularly the public wage bill, will continue
to fall relative to GDP.
14.   The implementation of sound macroeconomic policies and structural reforms should lead to a
better utilization of the country's existing resources and productivity gains.  The impact of these
reforms would be manifested in increases of value added and income in agriculture and manufacturing,
especially agro-industries, growing by 5 to 6 percent on average during the 1995-2000 period. The
economic recovery will be mainly led by agriculture exports. Agricultural growth is expected to
directly help alleviate some of the rural poverty as (i) incomes of cash crop producers are increasing in
the wake of higher producer prices, and (ii) new employment activities in trade and services are
created as a result of the devaluation and the continuing structural reforms.  Non-traditional
agricultural exports would also provide a source of dynamism, growing by about 12 percent annually
during the second half of the 1990s.  It is, therefore, reasonable to assume that the successful
stabilization effort, coupled with the envisaged structural measures, would be translated into improved
efficiency and performance of the tradables sector, especially of agriculture, and a marked increase in
investment levels, particularly of private investment.
15.   Cote d'Ivoire's financing requirements will remain substantial and amount to about
US$5 billion during 1995-97, of which US$2 billion in 1995 alone. Debt service on bilateral debt will
be reduced by 50 percent through the enhanced Toronto terms granted by the Paris Club and through
additional debt relief in the form of debt forgiveness accorded by France, Canada, Switzerland, and
Germany. Moreover, the Government is seeking an agreement with its commercial bank creditors,



- 6 -
whose debt has not been serviced since May 1987, so as to reduce future debt service obligations to
levels consistent with the country's debt servicing capacity. On the basis of actual and anticipated debt
relief, C6te d'Ivoire's public external debt profile is expected to improve over the next few  years.  The
Government will, however, need to continue relying heavily on balance of payments support from
bilateral and multilateral sources in order to cldse the financing gap. Exceptional financing needs are
estimated at about US$1.7 billion during the 1995-97 period. In this context, IDA would play the
leading role, accounting for about one third of all gross multilateral and bilateral disbursements,
provided the reform program, as formulated in the PFP, remains on track.
Table 2: Key Economic Indicators, 1994 - 2000
....... . .. .. ..    '"'l!  'g'''''l   ''4 .''1 ... " w  '''"'""'  .
Real Growth Rates (% p.a.)
GDP                                1.7       5.5       5.0       5.0       5.0       5.0       5.0
Per Capita GDP                     -2.0      1.6       1.2       1.2       1.2       1.2       1.2
National Accounts (% of GDP)
Consumption                       74.4      74.8      73.4      74.6      74.6      74.8      75.0
Investment                        12.8      13.9      15.4      16.1      16.9      17.6      18.1
Exports G&NFS                     49.9      46.7      48.6      47.4      47.2      46.7      46.3
Imports G&NFS                     37.2      35.4      37.5      38.2      38.7      39.1      39.4
Resource Balance                  12.7      11.3      11.1       9.2       8.5       7.6       6.9
C entral Government (7e of GDP)
Revenue                           22.7      22.3      21.6      21.4      21.3      20.9      20.3
E.xpenditure                      39.1      34.2      25.6      24.8      24.0      23.2      22.5
of which primary                21.3      20.0      19.4      18.8      18.6      18.5      18.3
Primary Balance                    1.4       2.3       2.2       2.6       2.7       2.4       2.2
Overall Balance                   -16.4    -11.9      .4.0       -3.4     -2.7      -2.3      -2.0
Balance of Pavments (% p.a.)
Export Volume Growvth 1/           3.6      10.8      12.4       6.1       6.5       6.1       6.1
Import Volume Growth ll            -4.0     16.6       9.5       8.8       7.1       6.7       6.1
Current Account (% of GDP)       -11.5      -8.8      -3.6      -4.8      4.4       .4.0      -3.8
External Debt (% of GDP)
Debt Stock 2/                   225.0      187.8     115.6     117.3    110.5    104.3        97.7
1/ Real growth of goods imports and exports, in constant 1993 prices.
2/ Excludes private non-guaranteed debt and assumes a comprehensive commercial bank
debt restructuring in 1996.
Bank Group's Assistance Strategy
16.      The Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) was prepared following the devaluation and discussed
by the Board in June 1994. The CAS supports the Government's objectives of increasing real GDP
growth and strengthening external and internal competitiveness, as formulated in last year's PFP and
its recent update for 1995-97 which was circulated to the Board in April 1995. Major priorities in the
FY95-97 GAS are to help the Governmnent: (i) maintain macroeconomic stability and strengthen public
sector finances through reforms in both revenue and expenditure, (ii) promote private sector
development through continued liberalization of trade, financial and labor markets, and through



-7 -
investments in agriculture, industry, and transport, (iii) increase the effectiveness of the human
resources development program through increased focus on primary health care, AIDS, basic
education, and population policy; (iv) strengthen institutional capacity through existing IDA-supported
technical assistance programs, and (v) intensify environmental work through projects and the National
Enviromnent Action Plan (NEAP) process. This strategy is being implemented as programmed.
17.   The CAS identifies the resolution of the country's external debt overhang as a critical factor in
determining Cote d'Ivoire's economic prospects. Given the country's lack of creditworthiness, it will
depend critically on financing from multilateral and bilateral official sources at concessional terms for
the remainder of the current decade in order to meet its substantial capital requirements. The CAS
envisaged these requirements to be covered, in large part, by a series of fast-disbursing operations,
including the proposed ASAC. The proposed credit is an important element of the sustained adjustment
scenario, which foresees Bank lending in the order of US$700-900 million in FY95-97, of which
around 60 percent in adjustment operations. An update of the CAS, which will include a review of the
progress made in the Bank's assistance program since the devaluation and a closer examination of the
country's external debt situation, is expected to be presented to the Board together with the next
adjustment operation later in the current fiscal year.
18.   The proposed ASAC, the first of a series of sector adjustment operations, is a key element of
the CAS. The ASAC is the cornerstone of the Bank's strategy in the agricultural sector, which is
based on the findings of a 1994 Agricultural Sector Review. This strategy aims at (i) restoring
competitiveness and broad-based sustainable growth and (ii) helping the country manage its natural
resource base. To this end, the Bank will focus on three areas. First, the Bank will support reforms
that remove structural rigidities in the incentive framework that has seriously impaired the ability of
this sector to adjust to changing internal and external circumstances and has limited sector growth.
Second, the Bank will concentrate on reducing the commercial role of the public sector and support
Government efforts to divest and privatize public enterprises engaged in agricultural production and
processing. Third, the Bank will support investment programs and projects which will increase the
efficiency of agricultural public sector investments, develop non-traditional exports, and generally
strengthen the sector's ability to deal with population pressures, low productivity, desertification, and
natural resource exploitation.
IFC and MIGA
19.   IFC's involvement in CMte d'lvoire has been long-standing.  It has financed more than
20 projects encompassing textiles, consumer goods and agro-industries, power and oil and gas
development. Recently, IFC has invested in the country's first privately owned power plant and is
participating in the development of an offshore oil and gas field which is expected to dramatically
enhance the country's economic prospects. The corporation has also been very active in the financial
sector which is the second most developed in the region, after Nigeria. In particular, IFC has
supported the younger and more dynamic commercial banks operating within promising niche markets
and other leading financial institutions like leasing companies.
20.   In the future, IFC expects to pursue increasing opportunities in (i) import-substitution and
export-based manufacturing projects particularly in the small business sector which, in recent years,
has been its fastest growing market segment in CMte d'Ivoire; (ii) agro-industries where the country has
distinct comparative advantages and which offer potential for viable deals; and (iii) the financial sector
which must support the economic turnaround through sounder and more diverse institutions and a
wider range of financial products. IFC also expects to develop its advisory assistance particularly in
the area of privatization.



-8 -
21.   Cote d'Ivoire has been a member of MIGA since 1988. No guarantees have been issued yet,
but MIGA has received two Definitive Applications in the oil and gas sector, and six Preliminary
Applications in various sectors (packaging, oil and gas, housing manufacturing, and finance).
Relations with Other Donors
22.   Major donors in Cote d'Ivoire are France, the World Bank, the African Development Bank
(ADB), and the European Union, with smaller programs from several European countries, U.S.,
Canada, Japan, and U.N. agencies. Aid coordination has been reflected in cofinancing activities,
regular exchanges, and joint missions. In this context, the Resident Mission is playing an active role.
The Bank organized a Consultative Group meeting for Cote d'Ivoire in June 1995. This meeting
provided the Government the opportunity to discuss with the donor community the country's economic
and social reform program and the progress made in implementing structural reforms since the
devaluation. The Government presented its completely revised three-year public investment program,
with special focus on health, education, and agriculture. In addition, the meeting discussed the
challenges and opportunities being created for dynamic private sector development in Cote d'Ivoire.
The positive reception of the Government's program translated into pledges of at least US$2.7 billion
for 1995-97.
23.   The process of designing and implementing the adjustment programs as well as dealing with
the country's external debt overhang have involved close coordination between the Government, the
French Government, IMF, and Paris Club. In particular, Bank staff has worked closely with the IMF
in preparing the 1995-97 PFP, involving a joint mission in March 1995. In the context of preparing
for the proposed ASAC, the Bank greatly benefited from contributions from the Caisse Francaise de
DMveloppement (CFD) and the Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaufbau (KfW of Germany). Moreover, the
Bank closely coordinated the proposed policy reforms for the Agricultural Stabilization Fund
(CAISTAB) with the EU which has played a major role since the early 1990s in assisting the
Government to reform the external marketing of cocoa and coffee.
PART II: THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM
Background
24.   The agricultural sector contributes about 33 percent of Cote d'Ivoire's total GDP and
66 percent of its total export revenues (including agro-industrial products).  It also provides
employment to more than two-thirds of the country's labor force. During the 1980s and 1990s, sector
performance, along with the economy in general, deteriorated because of (i) a large decline in the
world market prices of Cote d'Ivoire's agricultural commodities, especially of coffee and cocoa,
(ii) inappropriate macroeconomic policies, resulting in a real appreciation of the CFA franc, and
(iii) structural rigidities caused by extensive Government intervention through trade and price controls
as well as through its public enterprises in the agricultural sector.
Recent Bank Experience with Agricultural Reform in C6te d'Ivoire
25.   Agricultural reform  was triggered at the end-1980s when the Government's policy of
maintaining producer prices for coffee and cocoa above the world market price caused fiscal deficits in
the order of 17 percent of GDP and, ultimately, collapsed. Responding to the macroeconomic as well
as the sector specific problems, the Bank approved its first Agricultural Sector Adjustment Loan
(ASAL) to Cote d'Ivoire in 1989; the ASAL was cofinanced by KfW and the Overseas Economic



-9 -
Cooperation Fund of Japan (OECF). The overall objective of the 1989 ASAL was to increase sector
growth, by introducing a set of policy measures and reforms intended to achieve the following results:
(i) improve the domestic terms of trade in favor of agriculture; (ii) shift incentives in favor of crops
with high comparative advantage (coffee and export diversification crops); (iii) decrease costs in the
agro-industrial sector to restore its competitiveness on domestic and external markets; (iv) reduce
public sector involvement in directly productive activities and increase the efficiency of parastatals
providing basic support services to farmers; (v) reorient public expenditures toward high priority
activities in rural areas; (vi) improve rural financial intermediation and farmers' access to savings and
credit facilities; and (vii) improve the management of the country's natural resources, in particular by
promoting the protection and sustainable exploitation of natural forests.
26.    Results under the ASAL were mixed as noted in the Project Completion Report (PCR).  A
number of positive results were achieved under this operation, particularly in domestic market
liberalization such as coffee dehulling and in reducing government intervention in the sector.
However, the need to (i) cut producer prices in half for cocoa and coffee in the face of their sharply
lower international prices, and (ii) maintain the CFA franc parity with the French franc despite a
growing real appreciation thwarted efforts to restore growth and, thereby, reduce the growing poverty
in rural areas. Furthermore, the operations of the CAISTAB and the Price Equalization Fund (CGPP)
continued to lack transparency and accountability despite operational audits carried out under the
ASAL which, however, were not followed up with remedial actions. Consequently, the sub-sectors
that CAISTAB and CGPP represent, are still distorted and subject to excessive controls (coffee, cocoa,
rice, wheat importing and milling). Moreover, CAISTAB was supposed to eliminate the transport
subsidy as part of the ASAL.  Instead, it moved from  a transport cost equalization system
(perequation) where transporters were reimbursed on a ton/kilometer basis to a flat payment system
(forfait) for the 1992/93 season, regardless of distance. This system proved very expensive (about
0.5 percent of GDP) and, as a result, CAISTAB returned to the equalization system.
27.    Following the devaluation in January 1994, the Bank initiated another round of adjustment
operations, with the objective of maintaining the momentum of policy reform as well as of helping the
country deal with its considerable external financing requirements. The first of the new credits is the
Economic Recovery Credit (ERC) which was approved in October 1994. The major agriculture-
related policy reform measures being supported under the ERC are: (i) the elimination, under an
agreed timetable, of most non-tariff trade barriers, except those pertaining to national security,
environmental and public health concerns; (ii) the liberalization of trade, pricing and domestic
marketing of rice under an agreed timetable; (iii) the reduction of the number of commodities still
under price controls; and (iv) the deregulation of maritime transport. While the ERC was a single
tranche operation, it has provided a framework with specific timetables for implementing the agreed
policy measures after tranche release. With regard to agriculture, these will be strictly monitored under
the proposed ASAC.
The Proposed Reform Program
28.    The devaluation of the CFA franc constitutes a basic premise for the restoration of the
competitiveness of the Ivorian economy and of the agricultural sector. However, a return to a high
and sustainable growth path will only occur if the Government deepens and broadens substantially the
policy reform measures initiated in the late 1980s. This calls for further trade and price liberalization,
reduction of export taxes on cocoa and coffee consistent with a viable macroeconomic framework, and
a diminishing direct role of the government in agricultural production. Addressing these policy issues
will also set the stage for more effective and efficient investment operations in environment, land



- 10-
tenure and rural infrastructure, research, extension and training in support of fundamental long-term
development objectives.
29.   In order to stimulate agricultural sector growth and efficiency, the Government has defined an
agricultural adjustment program which is focused on (i) reforms in the cocoa/coffee sectors, including
the internal and external marketing, the operations of the CAISTAB, and export taxation; (ii) reforms
in the rice sector and the complete elimination of the CGPP from rice activities; (iii) trade and
domestic price reform; and (iv) public sector reform, including improving and rationalizing the public
investment budget in agriculture and increased private sector participation through divestiture from
major agro-industries such as Societe des Caoutchoucs de Grand Bereby (SOGB; rubber),
Palmindustrie (palm oil), Sodesucre (sugar), Compagnie Ivoirienne de Developpement Textile (CIDT;
cotton). The proposed ASAC will support actions in all of these areas.
A.   Reform in the Cocoa/Coffee Sectors
30.   Cote d'Ivoire is the leading world producer of cocoa, accounting for about a third of world
production. It is also an important coffee producer (about 4 percent of world production). These two
crops are the main source of income for about 600,000 small farmers. They represent the mainstay of
the rural economy and will remain so for many years, even under a scenario of dynamic crop
diversification. Together, they account for about 7 percent of total GDP, 46 percent of exports, and
about 30 percent of Government receipts in 1994. While private operators play a key role in the cocoa
and coffee sectors, internal and external marketing of both crops still suffer from inefficiencies and
rigidities caused by controls and regulations imposed by the CAISTAB. Moreover, operations of
CAISTAB continue to be elaborate, high cost, and often not transparent. Finally, to increase rural
incomes, the high level of export taxation (Table 1, p. 2), needs to be lowered in the context of a
viable macroeconomic framework.
31.   The proposed ASAC would support actions in reforming and improving the current marketing
system, streamlining CAISTAB operations and increasing its transparency, as well as reducing export
taxation, whenever the fiscal situation would allow for such a move. The proposed operation is a
continuation of the reforms which were initiated in the sector since 1989 and supported by the Bank
ASAL and the EU in the context of its ongoing Stabex program with the Government. While many of
the reform efforts fell short of expectations, especially the backtracking on the liberalization of internal
marketing (see para. 26), progress was made in improving the functioning of CAISTAB by
implementing a system of forward sales (PVAM) of up to 70 percent of next year's crop sales. With
this amount of certainty about next year's crop sales, CAISTAB is able to fix a reference export price
with which it aims to stabilize domestic intra-annual prices for cocoa and coffee. This system is
intended to (i) assure the ex-ante financial equilibrium of the cocoa and coffee sector during a crop
season, (ii) avoid the kind of speculation in which CAISTAB was engaged in the 1980s, and (iii)
maximize export revenues through the exploitation of the forward premium.
Internal Marketing
32.   In C6te d'Ivoire, the private sector plays a key role in the internal marketing of cocoa and
coffee. It physically handles the crop from the farm gate to the actual exports. However, the
marketing of both crops is regulated by administered prices and direct public intervention through the
purchasing centers, which certify the transport allowances and manage the free distribution of bags.
CAISTAB sets uniform, national prices at three points of the marketing chain: farmgate, ex-
warehouse, and the reference export price obtained through the PVAM  system.  The different
administered prices are set at the beginning of each crop year through a system whereby the cost



schedule of the entire production and distribution chain is calculated ("bareme") including specific
taxes and a transport allowance to preserve pan-territorial prices. At present, the "bareme" starts with
the reference export price and ends with the producer price. The administrative way in which this
"bareme" is determined suggests that trends in international prices as well as other factors related to
productivity, production or income objectives, and competitiveness are often not taken into account
explicitly.
33.   The Government is addressing the inefficiencies affecting internal marketing by liberalizing the
system, beginning with the 1995/96 crop season (October). Towards this end, the Government sent a
ministerial circular to all operators dealing with cocoa and coffee marketing in June 1995, announcing
that the distribution of bags has been transferred from CAISTAB to the private sector as of the coming
crop season. As CAISTAB will no longer need the purchasing centers, the Government has
announced that such centers are eliminated, effective with the new crop season (Board condition).
34.   With regard to the transport cost allowance system, the Government has decided and
announced publicly that, as of the 1995/96 crop season any CAISTAB or Government role in such a
system is terminated (Board condition). Although the Government has not eliminated pan-territorial
pricing, and will continue to include an average transport allocation for exporters (farmgate to port,
about US$2 per ton) in the "bareme", the association of coffee and cocoa exporters will be solely
responsible for administering the system. In fact, exporters will pay the actual costs of transport,
which will vary depending on where the commodity is purchased relative to the port, and the
expectation is that on average the transport allowance will cover actual costs. If the exporters can
document that their total actual transport expenses exceeded the aggregate value of the allowance, they
may request a higher allowance the following year. We expect the proposed system to evolve, leading
eventually to an official recognition that pan-territorial pricing is inconsistent with efficient, private
production and marketing. In fact, there is already substantial evidence that farm prices vary with
location, timing of sales, and even quality. The maintenance of a liberalized internal marketing system
would be strictly monitored during and after the program period.
External Marketing
35.   CAISTAB's main role in external marketing is to (i) regulate exports during the year to avoid
excessive sales at a given period that could unsettle the international cocoa market, (ii) guarantee
effective delivery, and (iii) guarantee the quality of exports. Its role does not require that it physically
owns or handles the products. Instead, it implements the PVAM system both by assigning on a daily
basis export rights ("d6blocage") to private exporters and by directly negotiating exports contracts and
then designating an exporter to physically ship the crop on its behalf. Hence, CAISTAB's ex-ante
authorization is mandatory before any contract can be concluded by an exporter.
36.   The discretionary assignment of export rights undermines transparency and price maximization
objectives. In addition, CAISTAB's direct sales of between one fourth and one third of exports are in
excess of what would be needed for the price discovery required for the PVAM system, i.e. about
10 percent. In order to increase efficiency and transparency, the CAISTAB has adopted (Board
condition) a system through which export rights will be auctioned off in three daily bidding sessions.
In this auction system, CAISTAB will no longer be involved in price negotiations. Instead, at the
opening of each session, it will set minimum bid prices relative to specific delivery dates and quality
standards based on the most recent price quotations for cocoa and coffee in London. Registered
exporters, as well as international traders who are allowed to bid only for the quantities related to
CAISTAB's quota for direct sales, will submit their offers by e-mail, which will assure full
transparency and confidentiality and establish a record for ex post audits. CAISTAB will reserve the



- 12 -
right to determine the quantity of export rights to be bid for in each session. Winning bidders will be
selected in descending order of their price offers and will have 30 minutes to confirm their offer and
one working day to produce a financial guarantee against future execution of the sales. The direct
sales for international traders will not exceed 15 percent of the cocoa and coffee produced during a
single crop season and will also go through the auction system as for all other exports of cocoa and
coffee. These sales of export rights to international traders must still be fulfilled, however, by
exporters administratively designated by the interprofessional association of exporters.
37.   The Government has detailed the new auction system in an annex accompanying the Letter of
Agricultural Development Policy (see Annex D). The new system will be continuously supervised by
a monitoring committee consisting of all cocoa and coffee operators, and an interministerial committee
headed by the Prime Minister.  As a condition for second and third tranche release, this
interministerial committee will provide satisfactory evidence to the Bank showing that the CAISTAB is
complying with the requirements established under the system of auctioning export rights for both
commodities.
38.   External marketing by CAISTAB is mainly focused on cocoa and does not distinguish
sufficiently between the particularities of the cocoa and coffee sectors, especially with regard to the
different beginnings of each crop season and their implications for the effectiveness of the PVAM
system. Although the PVAM system was principally designed for the cocoa sector, it is also applied
to the coffee sector despite the fact that it cannot provide the same information for setting the reference
export price for coffee as it can for cocoa. Since the cocoa and coffee prices, including their export
reference prices, are announced in September/October of each year (i.e. the opening of the cocoa crop
season), and coffee is either sold forward up to five months before the opening of the coffee crop
season (i.e. February) or on the spot market, the usefulness of the PVAM system in helping set the
reference export price is minimal and, hence, doubtful with regard to intra-annual stabilization of
coffee producer prices.
39.   While the coffee sector will benefit from the new system of auctioning export rights, the
Government intends to go beyond the current reform efforts and seek ways and means to further
improve the export marketing of coffee. Toward this end, the Government has committed itself to a
study which will evaluate options for liberalizing the export marketing of coffee. In this context, it has
agreed on the terms of reference for such a study (Board condition). The Government will finish an
intermediary report and define the process for completing this coffee study prior to second tranche
release. Following the completion of this study, the Government will adopt an action plan before the
opening of the 1996/97 crop season and implement those actions relating to that crop season prior to
third tranche release.
CAISTAB Expenditures
40.   CAISTAB expenditures are high and, in fact, an implicit tax on farm income. Due to its
pervasive role in the internal and external marketing, current costs are high compared to other
countries. In 1994, CAISTAB current expenditures were about US cents 6 per kg whereas in some
coffee producing countries like Costa Rica and the Dominican Republic comparable expenditures
amounted to US cents 3 and US cents 1.2 per kg, respectively. In light of CAISTAB's withdrawal
from internal marketing activities as well as in the interest of streamlining its expenditures, CAISTAB
will reduce its current expenditures, eliminate subsidies, and transfer all expenditures of a budgetary
nature to the state budget. However, even after these reductions, CAISTAB expenditures will remain
high because of heavy debt service obligations on a debt which was accumulated toward exporters in
the late 1980s when the Government chose to subsidize exports rather than lower producer prices.



- 13 -
With its new expenditure policy, CAISTAB has reduced its budgeted expenditures by almost
40 percent, from CFAF 100.1 billion during the 1994/95 crop season to CFAF 62.8 billion
programmed for the 1995/96 crop season (Board condition). Since the CAISTAB expenditures are
included in the calculation of the "bareme" (para. 32) for cocoa and coffee, this reduction would
directly benefit the farmer as this reduction could be passed-through to higher producer prices. Under
ceteris paribus conditions, this reduction in CAISTAB expenditures would allow for a price increase
of CFAF 49 per kg, i.e. an increase in the producer price of about 16 percent for cocoa and 8 percent
for coffee. An agreement on the level of the CAISTAB expenditures for the 1996/97 crop season will
be a condition for second tranche release.
41.   Prior to 1994, the lack of financial resources did not allow for the constitution of a
stabilization fund. However, during the 1993/94 crop season, CAISTAB has included allocations to a
"technical reserve fund" in its expenditures. Bank estimates suggest that in order to cover possible
price fluctuations with a 90 percent degree of probability, this fund would require reserves of about
US$135 million or 2 percent of GDP. Given the opportunity cost involved as well as the inherent risk
of exhausting the reserves within one crop year, the Government will (i) increase by only CFAF 8
billion the allocation to the reserve fund whose level will be limited to CFAF 35 billion (about
US$70 million) during the 1995/96 crop season, and (ii) lower the reference export price in mid-
season if reserves are depleted during the crop year. The latter would assure that no losses are
generated. For second tranche release, the functioning of the technical reserve fund, including its level
of funding requirements, will be reviewed and, if necessary, changes in the fund's allocations will be
agreed upon. For third tranche release, the operations of the technical reserve fund would be subject
to review.
Export Taxation
42.   Following the devaluation, the Government reintroduced a fixed export tax on coffee and cocoa
which represented about 20 percent of the export price for coffee and about 30 percent for cocoa. The
Government revenues accruing from this tax and the substantial CAISTAB surpluses, in effect an
export tax on cocoa and coffee exports, were about 30 percent of total government revenues in 1994.
While export taxes are needed for fiscal reasons, these taxes could (i) slow down the supply response,
(ii) hinder poverty alleviation in rural areas, and (iii) exacerbate macroeconomic problems in the event
of adverse trends in cocoa and coffee exports. The Government has, therefore, committed itself in the
1995-97 PFP to review cocoa and coffee export taxes annually with a view to reducing the export tax
on cocoa to about 20 percent of the export price and to about 7 percent of the export price for coffee
by 1997 (see also para. 13). Given the macroeconomic implications of any reduction in export
taxation, such a move will be closely coordinated with the IMF. The anticipated reduction of the
export taxes on cocoa and coffee during the next two years as well as any change in the form of export
taxation, i.e. either annual adjustments to the current specific tax or adoption of an ad-valorem export
tax, will be agreed upon in the context of the PFP.
B.    Reform in the Rice Sector
43.   The Government's rice policy aims at increasing domestic production with a view to attaining
self-sufficiency. Currently, domestic production covers 55 percent of an annual consumption of about
700,000 tons, with the remainder being imported.  Production has been stimulated by the full
liberalization of domestic marketing of rice while strictly controlling and taxing imports, as the
international price of rice was substantially below the domestic price before the devaluation. The
difference between the wholesale and import prices was collected by the Price Equalization Fund
(CGPP) which enjoyed exclusive rights in granting import quotas to importers of rice. The CGPP also



- 14 -
managed a security stock and administered a transport equalization payment so as to maintain a
uniform official wholesale and retail price on imported rice throughout the country. Before the
devaluation, the CGPP earned substantial surpluses, averaging almost 1 percent of GDP in the early
1990s.  However, shortcomings in its management and administrative performance suggest that
producers, consumers, and the Treasury would be better served by a liberalization of rice imports and
the application of regular import taxes on rice.
44.   In line with the ERC agreements, the Government published an official decision in September
1994 detailing its future rice policy as well as the timetable for the implementation of specific
measures.  The principal measures pertain to liberalization of imports and prices for ordinary
(35 percent broken), luxury (whole grain), and cargo paddy rice, as well as increasing the private
sector role and reducing government intervention in the rice sector.
45.   Ordinary rice. The most important decision on rice has been the Government's commitment to
completely liberalize imports of ordinary rice (35 percent broken) within two years. As a first step,
CGPP has completely stopped its import activities in early 1995 and transferred rice imports to the
private sector, which will still be subject to import quotas during the next two-years. Rice import
quotas will be eliminated by January 1, 1997 (third tranche release condition).
46.   Within its new rice policy framework, the Government has decided to liberalize the price of
ordinary rice as of January 1, 1996, and simultaneously eliminate the system of equalization of
transport costs (second tranche release condition). In the interim, the Government will still control the
price of imported ordinary rice which it adjusted in February 1995 from CFAF 175 to CFAF 230 per
kg which includes a small tax. With regard to the other types of rice, luxury rice imports were fully
liberalized as of August 1994, and imports of cargo rice as of January 1995.
47.   The import prohibition on 100 percent broken rice has been lifted and the Government has
allowed the importation of up to 45,000 tons during a test period, beginning January 1996 to March
31, 1997, under the same conditions that apply to ordinary rice (Board condition). The Bank considers
that the import of broken rice could constitute an effective means in alleviating some of the urban
poverty, while the Government has been concerned that a full import liberalization of broken rice may
undermine its stated objective to increase local rice production with a view of becoming fully self-
sufficient. The test period will permit a close monitoring of market reactions by producers and
consumers. On the basis of the results of this test, a decision will be taken concerning the future
importation of broken rice (third tranche release).
48.   Privatization and Price Equalization Fund (CGPP). In early 1995, the Government stepped-up
its reforms in the rice sector. Within the framework of its privatization program, the Government
transferred 9 out of 11 rice mills to the private sector during the first quarter of 1995. The remaining
two mills were liquidated. In another move, the Government assessed the role of the CGPP in light
of the policy changes taking place in the rice sector and concluded that this once important public
entity was no longer needed. Therefore, the Government proceeded with its liquidation in March
1995.
49.    Security stock. During the last several years, the Government has reduced its security stock
from the equivalent of six to three months' consumption. Given the cost associated with maintaining a
large security stock and the ability to assure adequate food security with a smaller stock, the
Government further reduced its stock to the equivalent of two months' consumption, or about 50,000
tons, during August 1994. Following the elimination of CGPP, the Government now expects the
private sector to maintain a national security stock as part of its normal operations.



- 15 -
C.    Trade and Domestic Price Reform
50.    Since 1989, the Government has gradually liberalized its trade regime. The average weighted
tariff on taxable imports declined from 27 percent in 1990 to about 23 percent in 1993. Upon
devaluation, the Government implemented a new tariff reform creating a structure in the range of 0-
35 percent. It is estimated that the 1994 trade reform has cut import tariffs on taxable imports to about
19 percent.
51.    The Government is also reducing the high incidence of non-tariff barriers (NTBs), especially in
agriculture. While progress stalled prior to the devaluation, the Government announced in 1994 the
elimination of most NTBs by January 1, 1996. In the intermediate period, the Government removed a
large number of NTBs in May 1994 followed by another round of eliminations as of January 1, 1995.
These steps have significantly reduced the NTB coverage in the agricultural sector (see Chart 2). The
Government eliminated NTBs on tobacco, coffee, synthetic textiles, and used bags in August 1995
(Board condition). The removal of NTBs on agricultural tools and wheat flour will constitute a
condition for second tranche release. Under the ERC, the Government committed itself to eliminating
the NTB on ordinary rice by January 1, 1997. Compliance with this commitment will be a third
tranche release condition under the ASAC. In line with international practice, remaining NTBs in
agriculture will be limited to products deserving protection for environmental or public health reasons.
Chart 2: NTB Levels in Agriculture, Fishery and Forestry
(excluding coffee, cocoa beans and unprocessed wood logs)
Unweighted 'Weighted '
30%                      -                       K . . . 60'A - - - . . . . . . .10
20% /0%   .
O'-i  S  W    -                                30%     i   _B -  
1992    Mal-94  Jan-95  Jan-96  Jan!7          1992    Mal-94  Jan-9J  Jan-96   Jan-97
U l  Pmzteotion relaled NTB  
|ClHealth & Envimnment related NTB|
' as a percentage of the total agricultural tariff positions
*'as a oercentage of total agricultural Production and imworts
52.    In parallel with the trade liberalization efforts, the Government lifted price controls on a
number of products, many of which were subject to NTBs. In addition, a few agricultural



- 16 -
commodities are still under price regulation but are not subject to NTBs, including seed cotton, fresh
palm fruit bunches, coconut, copra and rubber. Under the ERC, the Government agreed that once the
NTBs are eliminated, the price controls on these products would also be lifted. Under the ASAC, the
Government has liberalized the prices for tobacco, fresh palm fruit bunches, coconut, copra and rubber
(Board condition). Price controls on agricultural tools and wheat flour will be eliminated by second
tranche release. The Government will assure that the effective protection to local flour production will
not exceed 40 percent. If necessary, it will adopt compensatory duties on wheat, flour, jute bags, and
plastic sheets in amounts to be determined in agreement with the Bank.
53.   In the case of SODESUCRE and CIDT, which are slated for privatization and have thus far
operated with price controls on sugar and seed cotton, the Government will establish an adequate
regulatory framework prior to their privatization. To this end, it will publish a decision which will
announce that the NTBs and price controls on sugar and seed cotton will be respectively removed not
later than the transfer of majority control of each of these companies to the private sector (second
tranche release).  In the case of sugar, a transparent and automatic mechanism would be defined in
order to shield the Ivorian market from dumping of heavily subsidized sugar exports from mainly
industrial countries as well as from large price fluctuations on the international market for sugar.
D.   Public Sector Reform
54.   Deepening public sector reform in agriculture is a central element of the fiscal and sectoral
reform  agenda.  Cote d'Ivoire's strained budgetary circumstances create both the need and the
opportunity for using public sector reforms as a means to (i) increase public sector efficiency through
improving and rationalizing programming and execution of the agricultural investment budget, and (ii)
place greater reliance on the private sector for resource mobilization and investment through
divestiture of agro-industries.
Public Investment
55.   The economic recession of the 1980s and early 1990s was reflected in declining levels of
public investment. During the 1990-93 period, public investment hovered around 2.5 percent of GDP.
The lingering budgetary crisis made the investment budget especially vulnerable to cuts, leading to a
situation where the Government de-facto abandoned investment programming and failed to pay
sufficient attention to implementation issues. Compounding these problems was the absence of any
prioritization of projects, with commensurate adverse results for attaining sector strategies. In this
context, the agricultural investment budget did not fare better than the other sector budgets.
56.   The parity change and the fiscal reforms, involving mainly revenue measures and sharp
reductions in real wages, have increased resources available for an expanded investment program, with
public investment reaching the equivalent of 4.6 percent of GDP in 1994. In this context, the executed
public investment in agriculture represented 1.1 percent of GDP and accounted for about 24 percent of
the total public investment budget in 1994. While the Government is programming an ambitious
increase in public investments, including in agriculture, programming, execution, and financing issues
need to be urgently addressed in order to assure a satisfactory implementation of the investment
program. In the face of these budgetary changes as well as the need to make the agricultural budget
consistent with the strategies in the various agricultural sub-sectors, the Government reviewed its
agricultural investment budget with the Bank and other donors (CFD, KfW, EU, and ADB). The
results of this review were reflected in the revised public investment program for agriculture for 1995-
97 and were presented and discussed with the international donor community during the Consultative
Group Meeting in June 1995. Adoption of the agricultural investment budget for 1996 and 1997,



- 17 -
which should be consistent with the three-year rolling investment program review, and agreement on
the main components for the 1997 and 1998 investment budget would constitute conditions for second
and third tranche release, respectively. Implementation of the 1996 agricultural investment budget will
also be a condition for third tranche release. A review of the execution of the agricultural investment
budgets in line with the three-year rolling public investment program would also be undertaken in the
context of the proposed ASAC.
Public Divestiture
57.   In the early 1970s, many public enterprises were created to enable the country to diversify and
modernize agricultural production, exploit the country's natural resources, and encourage regional
development. This type of agricultural development was promoted by heavy government intervention
in investment, trade, and pricing policies. Over-investment in many agro-industries (sugar and rice are
two examples), as well as high levels of protection, led to high cost and inefficiencies in production
which further eroded the sector's competitiveness beyond the effects of the declining external terms of
trade. In addition, some of the agro-industries performed a developmental role through the provision
of social and extension services as well as through rural infrastructure. As a result, these public
enterprises often generated substantial financial losses and a large debt overhang in those cases where
an unsustainable effort was made to shield producers from high production and processing costs and
the decline in world prices. Palmindustrie (palm oil), Sodesucre (sugar), Compagnie Ivoirienne de
Developpement Textile (CIDT; cotton), and Societe Africaine de Plantations d'Heveas (SAPH; rubber)
are cases in point.
58.   In the context of its agricultural policy to withdraw itself from productive activities and its
privatization program, the Government intends to divest itself from 17 agro-industries. Prior to the
devaluation, the privatization program, which receives substantial technical assistance through the
IDA-financed Privatization Support Project, only sold eight enterprises out of a total of 55 and none in
the agricultural sector. Following the adoption of the privatization law in June 1994, the privatization
program has gained momentum, with seven enterprises having been sold in 1994, among which three
were agro-industries. This momentum has been maintained in 1995. During the first semester, six
enterprises, including the rice mills (para. 48) and the public rubber company, were privatized and the
sales of five additional companies were being finalized.
59.   If the agricultural sector is to take advantage of the opportunities created after the devaluation,
structural reforms have to be undertaken in such key sectors as palm oil, sugar, cotton, and rubber
which (i) represent about 8 percent of agricultural production and (ii) are dominated by the principal
public agro-industries slated for privatization, namely Palmindustrie, Sodesucre, CIDT, and Societ6
des Caoutchoucs de Grand Bereby (SOGB; rubber). Responding to this reform need, the Government
established a specific timetable to implement the privatization steps of these four companies (Table 3).
Divestiture would introduce major changes in the way these sub-sectors operate, especially in terms of
trade (para. 51) and price policies (para. 52). These regulatory changes are needed in order to deal
with the monopolistic (Sodesucre) and monopsony (CIDT, Palmindustrie) positions these enterprises
enjoy before being brought to the point of sale.  By involving private operators and increasing
competition, the divestiture would help improve sector efficiency and productivity and promote new
investments.
60.   In February 1995, the Government completed the sale of 60 percent of its shares in SOGB and
will sell another 15 percent through the Abidjan stock exchange. The proposed ASAC would assist the
privatization program by monitoring the time-bound program of measures so as to advance and/or



- 18 -
complete the divestiture of the three remaining principal agro-industrial enterprises still under public
sector ownership.
TABLE 3: MAJOR CHARACTERISTICS OF AGRO-INDUSTRIES TO BE PRIVATIZED
...............     ..............   ...... ......... ...                                                            .
i-. .. . .. . .   ..    ... .. .. .::.i:.- .. .. .. . .. .. .   . .. .. .   ::::-.::.  -::-: ..  --. :-  . :g. - - :- .:j-:::::: 1::.:::- :j:-:j.:::::--:.:--
: - - - 8 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~...   .... ..   .   .  : --888.-. 8.
Sector                     Oil palm and coconut plantations    Sugar cane plantations    Cotton production    Rubber plantations
Palm and copra oil                                                   Rubber production
% owned by State                     100%                        100%                  70%            95% (end 1994)
35% (June 1995)
Permanent staff (1994)                10,789                      2,485                 1,804               3,489
Copra        Palm Trees
Industrial plantations (ha)   16,500          60,000              22,000           Not applicable"         14,000
Production (tons)
Product                    Copra oil        Palm oil            Sugar               Cotton fiber          Latex
Tons (1994)                 35,900          260,000             125,400              110,600             27,300
% of sector production       95%             87%                 100%                 100%                40%
...g .     ..:..    ..::     .... .. . . .  ... .:  .  .. . ..
- Strategy design                 Completed                 November 1995         December 1995         Completed
!- Valuation of assets              Completed                November 1995         December 1995         Completed
j- Adoption of strategy             Completed                December 1995         1 st quarter 1996     Completed
- Point of sale             2nd quarter 1995 (partially)    1 st quarter 1996    2nd quarter 1996       Completed
j- Effective sale                4th quarter 1996            3rd quarter 1996      4th quarter 1996    Completed 21
1/ ClDT buys cotton from smallholders.
2!/ Government will retain 20% and is selling 15% as public offering through stock exchange.
61. Palmindustrie is the largest agro-industrial complex in Cote d'Ivoire. Apart from being the
principal employer in the areas in which it operates, Palmindustrie also provides many social services
that the Government normally would provide, such as education, medical care, and even roads. The
privatization strategy which the Government adopted in June 1995, envisages the separation of the
social activities from the commercial activities. The commercial component will be divided into five
agro-industrial groups, each consisting of mills, palm oil plantations, and related assets. In addition,
the coconut plantations will be sold separately. By second tranche release, the Government will have
(i) selected the successful bidders and invited them for negotiations of the agro-industrial facilities
located in the south-eastern and south-western regions of the country as well as of the kernel factory in
Vridi, (ii) offered for sale the agro-industrial facilities in the central area of the country. By third
tranche release, the successful bidders will have been selected and invited for negotiations of all
remaining agro-industrial units and plantations of Palmindustrie.
62. The public sugar company, Sodesucre, was a key instrument through which the Government
implemented an ambitious diversification and regional development plan in the Savannah region in the
1 970s. The company has faced major financial diffficulties in the past. After several restructuring
efforts, the company succeeded in reducing its overhead cost and, for the first time, produced a profit



- 19 -
after the devaluation.  Sodesucre is now readied for privatization, with consultants designing a
privatization strategy which is expected to be adopted by the Government in December 1995. The
company will be offered for sale by second tranche release. As a condition for third tranche release,
the Government will have selected the successful bidders for Sodesucre and invited them  for
negotiations.
63.   In order to further increase competitiveness of the agricultural sector, the Government has also
slated CIDT for privatization. Currently the entire cotton industry is vertically integrated through
CIDT. Cotton plays a significant role in the Ivorian economy. Apart form being a major export
earner (about US$140 million in 1994), cotton is an important source of income in the Savannah
region, historically the poorest region in C6te d'Ivoire. Through the privatization, the Government is
seeking to liberalize the sector and, ultimately, increase the benefits accruing to the producers. To this
end, the Government has hired consultants for defining the privatization strategy. By second tranche
release, the Government will have adopted the privatization strategy for CIDT which is expected to
lead to the selection of successful bidders and their invitation for negotiations of that company by third
tranche release.
PART III: THE PROPOSED AGRICULTURAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
Objectives and Size of the Proposed ASAC
64.   With the proposed ASAC  operation, the Bank would support implementation of the
Government's adjustment program as spelled out in the PFP, and provide critical balance of payments
support. The proposed credit would concentrate on the most important areas of reform program as
described in Part II. The proposed amount of the credit is US$150 million equivalent.
Proposed Tranche Conditionality
65.   A three tranche operation over 18 months is proposed in order to assure full implementation of
the reform measures. Forty percent of the credit would be disbursed upon credit effectiveness, and the
remainder in two equal disbursements. In addition to the monitorable actions specified below (see also
Annex C), all tranche releases would be contingent upon the maintenance of an appropriate
macroeconomic framework, to be supported by an IMF ESAF program, and satisfactory performance
in overall program implementation consistent with the Letter of Agricultural Development Policy (see
Annex D).
The following policy actions were taken before Board presentation:
(i) Coffee/Cocoa Sectors:
Internal Marketing: Government announcement eliminating (a) the purchasing
centers (para. 33) and (b) any CAISTAB or Government role in managing the
system of equalizing transport cost (para. 34);
External Marketing: adoption by CAISTAB of a system through which export
rights for cocoa and coffee are auctioned off (para. 36); and agreement on terms
of reference for a study evaluating options to liberalize external marketing of
coffee (para. 39);
CAISTAB expenditures: reduction of CAISTAB expenditure by 40 percent to
CFAF 62.8 billion for the 1995/96 crop season (para. 40);



- 20 -
(ii) Rice Sector:   Permission to import 45,000 tons of broken rice during a test period
between January 1, 1996 and March 31, 1997 (para. 47);
(iii) Trade Reform: elimination of NTBs on tobacco, coffee, synthetic textiles, and used bags
(para. 51); and
(iv) Price Reform: lifting of price controls on tobacco, fresh palm fruit bunches, coconut,
copra, and rubber (para. 52).
66.   Second tranche release would be conditional upon the following actions:
(i) Coffee/Cocoa Sector:
External marketing: compliance with the requirements established under the system
of auctioning off export rights (para. 37); submission of an intermediary report on
the export marketing of coffee and definition of the process to complete the study
(para. 39);
CAISTAB expenditures: agreement on CAISTAB expenditures for 1996/97 crop
season (para. 40); review of operations of technical reserve fund and its allocations,
and agreement to changes, if necessary (para. 41);
(ii)  Rice Sector: price liberalization of ordinary rice and elimination of system of equalization
for transport costs (para. 46);
(iii)  Trade and Price Reform: elimination of NTBs on agricultural tools and wheat flour (para.
51), liberalization of their prices and reduction of effective protection to local flour
production to 40 percent or less (para.52); publication of interministerial decision,
announcing that the NTBs and price controls on sugar and cotton-grain will be removed
effective not later than the privatization of SODESUCRE and CIDT, respectively; and
adoption, if necessary, of compensatory duties on wheat, flour, jute bags, and plastic
sheets determined after agreement with IDA (paras. 52 and 53 );
(iv)  Public Expenditures in Agriculture: adoption of an agricultural investment budget for
1996 in line with the three-year rolling investment program and agreement on main
components of the proposed 1997 agricultural investment program (para. 56); and
(v)   Public Enterprises:
Palmindustrie: selection of successful bidders and their invitation to negotiate for
agro-industrial facilities in the south-eastern and south-western areas of the country
as well as the kernel factory in Vidri, and offer for sale of agro-industrial facilities
in the central region of the country (para. 61);
Sodesucre: offer for sale (para. 62);
CIDT: adoption of privatization strategy (para. 63).



- 21 -
67.   Third tranche release would be conditional upon the following actions:
(i)  Coffee/Cocoa Sector:
External marketing: compliance with all requirements under the system of
auctioning off export rights (para. 37); adoption of action plan on external
marketing of coffee and implementation of those actions relating to the 1996/97
crop season (para. 39);
CAISTAB expenditures: satisfactory review of technical reserve fund operations
during 1996/97 crop season (para. 41);
(ii) Rice Sector: elimination of import quotas on ordinary rice (para. 45); based on the
results of the test period for importing broken rice, decision on measures to be taken
regarding imports of broken rice (para. 47);
(iii) Public Expenditures in Agriculture: implementation of the 1996 agricultural investment
budget agreed for second tranche release (para. 66); adoption of an agricultural
investment budget for 1997 in line with the three-year rolling investment program and
agreement on main components of the proposed 1998 agricultural investment program
(para. 56); and
(iv) Public Enterprises: selection of successful bidders and their invitation to negotiate for
remaining agro-industrial units and plantations of Palmindustrie (para. 61) and for
entire company in the case of Sodesucre (para. 62) and CIDT (para. 63).
Procurement and Disbursement
68.   Credit proceeds would be used to finance the foreign exchange cost of general imports,
excluding goods financed by other bilateral agencies, luxury goods, military equipment and other
goods specifically prohibited in a negative list defined under the Standard International Trade
Classification (SITC) or equivalent classification. Retroactive financing for up to 20 percent of the
credit amount is recommended for eligible expenditures for goods imported not more than four months
prior to the date of credit signature. A simplified international competitive bidding (ICB) procedure
will be required for purchases exceeding US$5 million. All contracts above a threshold of US$5
million will be subject to Bank's standard prior review procedures. Procurement valued below the
ICB threshold should follow the standard procedures in the case of public sector purchases and
established commercial practices in the case of private sector purchases, while no disbursements will
be made against contracts valued at less than the equivalent of US$10,000. Preshipment inspection
services (PSI) will be carried out under the contract awarded by the government to a PSI agency. This
arrangement is satisfactory.
69.   Disbursements of the credit would be made against import documentation and/or customs
certificates received from Caisse Autonome d'Amortissement (CAA) which would be responsible for
the collection of the relevant documentation and submission of credit withdrawal applications. The
minimum size of each application submitted to IDA will be US$1 million. IDA will follow the
simplified documentation procedures for adjustment operations. For those contracts each valued at less
than US$5 million equivalent, IDA would reimburse the CAA on the basis of Statements of
Expenditures (SOEs) prepared from customs certificates. The SOEs will show that eligible goods at
least equal in value to the amount requested from IDA had been imported into the country during the
period under consideration and will contain information about the nature of goods imported, country of



- 22 -
origin, amount and currency used for payment and date of import. The custom certificates and other
supporting information used for establishing the SOEs will be retained by the CAA for review by IDA
supervision missions and for subsequent audit by external auditors. In addition to standard auditing
covenants, an audit report would be submitted to IDA annually not later than six months after the end
of each fiscal year, and in the case of the last audit report, not later than 90 days after the full
disbursement of the credit.
Cofinancing
70.   France's CFD will cofinance the proposed ASAC with a credit of FF 300 million (about
US$60 million). Sixty percent of the credit amount will be disbursed upon approval of the ASAC by
the IDA Board. The remainder is expected to be released in parallel with the second tranche release.
Germany's KfW is expected to commit DM 30 million (about US$21.5 million), which would be
disbursed in one tranche during 1995.
Benefits and Risks
71.   Successful implementation of the proposed Agricultural Sector Adjustment Program will be
critical in creating the conditions for renewed agricultural and overall economic growth and increased
employment opportunities and underpins IDA's investment lending in this sector. At the same time,
the ASAC, together with the programmed sector adjustment operations and the supplemental credits
under the Fifth Dimension program, would contribute significantly to the closure of the financing gap
in the period 1995-97. The reduction of the export taxes on cocoa and coffee consistent with the
overall fiscal situation as well as the reduction and increased transparency of CAISTAB's role in
cocoa/coffee marketing would result in a fuller pass-through of international prices to farmers and can
be expected to raise output, especially for coffee, and increase smallholders' incomes and rural
employment. The policy changes in the cocoa and coffee sectors will therefore contribute directly to
poverty alleviation in the rural areas. The envisaged removal of non-tariff barriers on agricultural
inputs would make Ivorian agriculture more competitive.
72.   The proposed operation faces the risk of slow and uneven implementation.  First, the
Government may yield to vested interest groups opposed to structural reforms. To counter this risk,
the Government has taken upfront policy decisions in the key areas of reform. In addition, it has
already implemented some politically sensitive reforms in agriculture.  A case in point was the
liquidation of the Price Equalization Fund which underscores that the Government is willing and
apable to break internal opposition to key reform  measures.  Second, Cote d'Ivoire's limited
institutional capacity in the public sector is reflected in its poor implementation record, which has
reduced the benefits of structural reform and often compromised the Government's credibility. To
mitigate against this risk, Bank staff are working very closely with the Government to effectively
implement the reforms as has been done with the ERC. In addition, the proposed ASAC has been
designed as a three-tranche operation in order to assure that the agreed policy measures are executed
and sustained as spelled outi in the Letter of Agricultural Development Policy.



- 23 -
PART IV: RECOMMENDATION
73.   Recommendation. I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the Articles of
Agreement of the Association and recommend that the Executive Directors approve it.
James D. Wolfensohn
President
Attachments
Washington, D.C.
September 5, 1995






ANNEX A:
POVERTY AND SOCIAL DEVELOPMENT INDICATORS






Annex A
Page 1 of 2
Cote d'Ivoire
Most          Same regiwna/ncone group               Next
Latestsiglkyear              recent                Sub-          Lower-          higher
Unit of                                            estinate           Saharan         Middle-          inconve
Indicator                                 Measure            1970-75          1980-8S         1987-92              Africa         Incoen            group
Resources and Expenditures
Human Resources
Population (mre=1 992                    thousands                  6,755           9,936          12,886         546,390         942,547         477,960
Age dependency ratio                       ratio                     1.00            1.00            1.01            0.95            0.66            0.64
Urban                                    %of pop.                    32.1            37.6            41 7            29.5            57.0            71.7
Population growth rate                    annual %                     4              3.8             3.6             2.9              1.4             1.6
Urban                                                                7.0             3.7             5.2             5.1             4.8             2.5
Labor force ( 15-64)                     thousands                  3,153           4,053           4,840         224,025               -          181,414
Agriculture                            %of labor force                71              65                -               -               --
Industry                                     "                         7               8                                -               -
Female                                       "                        37              35               34              37              36              29
Females per 100 males
Urban                                    number                      76                -               -               -               -
Rural                                                               103                -                       -               -               -
NATURAL RESOURCES
Area                                    thou.sq. km                322.46          322.46          322.46       24,274.03       40,697.37        21,836.02
Density                                pop. per sq. km               21.0            30.8            38.5            21.9            22.8            21.5
Agricultural land                      %of land area                 50.1            52.1            52.5            52.7               -            41.7
Change in agricultural land               annual %                    0 3             0 6             0.0             0.1               -             0.3
Agricultural land under irrigation           %                        0.2             0.3             0.4             0.8               -             9.3
Forests and woodland                    thou. sq. km                 III              86              71
Deforestation (net)                       annual %                      -               -             1.0
INCOME
Household Income
Share of top 20% ofhouseholds          % of income                   50              61              42                -               -
Share of bottom 40%of households            "                        20               15              19
Share of bottom 20% of households           "                         9               5                7
EXPENDITURE
Food                                     %ofGDP                         -            24.4               -               -               -
Staples                                                                -             8 4
Meat, fish, milk, cheese, eggs                                         -             6.5
Cereal imports                       thou. metric tonnes              82             554              568          20,311          74,924          49,174
Food aid in cereals                                                    4                1              37           4,303           4,054             282
Food production percapita                1987=100                     99              100             89               90               -             109
Fertilizer consumption                     kg,lha                     2 4             2.5             2.3             4.2               -            68.8
Share of agriculture in GDP              %ofGDP                      28.2            25.2            32.1            18.6               -             8.1
Housing                                  %ofGDP                         -             3.0                               -
Average household size              persons per household                               -
Urban
Fixed investment housing                 % of GDP                       -             2.8
Fuel and power                           % of GDP                       -             0.8               -               -               -
Energy consumption per capita          kg ofoil equiv.               172              150             125             258            1882            1649
Households with electricity
Urban                                % of households                                                   -               -
Rural                                       .-
Transport and communication              % ofGDP                        -             6.1
Fixed investment: transport equipment                                 3.2             2.1               -
Total road length                        thou. km                     45              47              49
INVESTMENT IN HUMAN CAPITAL
Health
Population per physician                  persons                  15,521          14,255               -
Population per nurse                                               2,040                -               -                       -               -
Population per hospital bed                                          864                -           1,269           1,329             516             385
Oral rehydration therapy (under-5)       % ofcases                      -               -              16              36               -              54
Education
Gross enrollment ratio
Secondary                           %ofschool-agepop.                 13              20              24               18               -              53
Female                                                                7               12              16              14
Pupil-teacher ratio: primary          pupils per teacher              44              36               37              39              26              25
Pupil-teacher ration: secondary                                       32              38                -               -               -
Pupilsreachinggrade4                    %ofcohort                     88              83              83                -               -              71
Repeaterrate: primary                  %of total entoll               21              28                -               -               -              11
Illiteracy                           %ofpop. (age 15+)                  -             51              46               51               -              14
Female                              %offem. (age 15+)                  -             66              60              62                -              17
Newspaper circulation                  per. thou. pop.                 5               7               8               14             100             117



Annex A
Page 2 of 2
C6te d'Ivoire
Latest single year    Most recent               Same regionIncome group
Indtcator                         Unitofmeasure  1970-75         1980-85        estlmate       Sub Saharan   Lower-niddle- Nat higher
1987-92       Africa         inconm  group   income group
Priority Poverty Indicators
POVERTY
Upper poverty line                   local curr.         -              -              -              -              -              -
Head count index                    % of pop.
Lower poverty line                   local curr.
Head count index                    % of pop.                  -              -              -              -                      -
GNP per capita                         USS              530            660            670            520             -            3870
SHORT TERM INDICATORS
Unskilled urban wages                local curr.         -              -              -              -
Unskilled rural wages                local curr.
Rural terms of trade                 local curr.         -              -              -
Consumer price index                 1987=100           31             88             113
Lower income                                            -
Food'                                                  18             78             100
Urban                                  "
Rural
SOCIAL INDICATORS
Public expenditure on basic social serv    % of GDP      -              -              -
Gross enrollment ratios
Primary                          % school age pop.      62             75             69             66              -             107
Male                                                   77             88             81             79                             -
Female                                                 47             62             58             62              -              -
Mortality
Infant mortality                per thou. live births  129.0         106.0          91.0           99.0           45.0           40.0
Under 5 mortality                       "               -              -            129.3          169.0           59.0          51.0
Immunization
Measles                            % age group          -            28.0           42.0           54.0             -             82.0
DPT                                                     -            25.0           48.0           54.6             -            73.8
Child malnutrition (under-5)                            30.6            -             12.4           28.4            -              -
Life expectancy
Total                                 years                           53             56             52             68             69
Female advantage                                       3.2            3.0            5.7            3.4            6.4            6.3
Total fertility rate              births per woman      7.4            7.4            6.6            6.1            3.1            2.9
Maternal mortality rate          er 100,000 live birt    -              -              -              -              -
Supplementary Poverty Indicators
Expenditures on social security  % of total gov't exp
Social security coverage          of econ. active po
Access to safe water: total          % of pop.         44.0             -             83.0          41.1             -             85.6
Urban                                   "             98.0             -            100.0          77.8             -            94.3
Rural                                   "             29.0             -            75.0           27.3             -             73.0
Access to health care                                    -              -            60.0                    -                      -
Population Growth Rate                           GNP per capita growth rate                   Development diamondb
6 -     ~ (annual average, percent)                                                                                                       l
.110    (annual average, percent)                                                 Life expectancy
2                                                                                               GNP                                Gross
per                               primary
*                                                             ca~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~pita  enrcllment
1970-75       1980-85       1987-92
Access to safe water
El C6te d'Ivoire                                                                              -   Cotedvoire
Lower-middle-income                                1970-75     1980-85     1987-92             Lower-middle-income
a. See the technical notes.
b. The development diamond, based on four key indicators, shows the average level of development in the country compared with its income group.



ANNEX-B:
KEY ECONOMIC INDICATORS






Px,e' I 4f 2
Cote d'Ivoire --  National Accounts
1994 Per Capita GNP (US$)    525 (est.)
Midyear Population (Millions)  13.5
PART A: CURRENT PRICE DATA ( Billions of CFAF)
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~..,...........  ' 
1000  1001  100~~~~~~~~~~  1Q~~~  ...0 ..4   ....  .... . 2.... 0....0..
,,.,  ,,.,,,,,.,.,., ,, ,. ,X,,,,.,.,7,,,,. , . .   .   . . .   .   .   .   . . . . . ..   .r   .,
Gross Domestic Product           2,695    2,681    2,681      2,633    3,753     4,395    5,917      7,124
Net Indirect Taxes               381       391       379      343       550       657      840       981
GDP at Factor Cost              2,314    2,290    2,302    2,290      3,203     3,738     5,078    6,143
Resource Balance                   144       94       148       183      478       495       501      491
Imports (GNFS)                   790       790      751       722     1,395     1,555    2,291     2,805
Exports (GNFS)                   934       884      899       904     1,873    2,050     2,793     3,296
Total Expenditure                2,551    2,587    2,533    2,451      3,275     3,900    5,416      6,633
Total Consumption                2,301    2,319     2,242     2,205    2,793     3,289     4,414     5,346
Government                       488       478       476      537       629       674      811       960
Private                         1,813    1,841     1,766     1,667    2,165     2,615    3,603     4,386
Gross Domestic Investment         250       267       291      246       481       610     1,002     1,287
Government                       143       175        86       74       173       205      288       343
Private                          106        93      205       172       308       405      714       944
Memorandum Items:
Domestic Savings                  394      361       439       429      960      1,106    1,503     1,778
Net Factor Income               (385)    (401)    (398)    (410)    (764)    (727)    (580)    (589)
NetCurrentTransfers             (137)    (114)    (100)       (63)    (145)    (156)    (182)    (176)
National Savings                 (128)    (153)      (59)      (44)      51       223       742     1,014
PART B: CONSTANT PRICE DATA  ( Billions of CFAF; 1987 Prices)
Acl'aal           Prd~    ~     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~. . .. .. .. .. 
,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.                           .. .   . .   . -. . . . ""'"
Gross Domestic Product           2,961    2,938     2,938    2,905     2,954     3,117     3,608     3,978
Resource Balance                  486       482       501      548       590       616      768       860
Imports (GNFS)                    725       671       689      621       603       692      869       977
Exports (GNFS)                   1,211    1,152     1,189     1,169    1,193     1,307     1,637     1,837
Total Expenditure                2,476    2,456    2,437    2,357    2,364    2,501        2,840     3,118
Totall Consumption               2,335    2,249    2,222      2,208    2,177     2,296     2,565    2,784
Government                       435       430      412       411       372       355      353       374
Private                         1,900    1,819     1,810     1,797    1,805     1,940    2,211     2,410
Total Investment Expenditure       140      207       215       149      187       206      275       334



Annex Bl
Page 2 of 2
Cote d'Ivoire -- National Accounts
PART C: VALUE ADDED BY SECTOR (Sectoral Shares, %)
Agriculture                       35        34       33       34        36       35        33       32
Industry, of wbch:                22        21       20       21        23       25        28       28
Manufacturing                    12        12       12        13       15       15        14       14
Minung I/                         0        0         0        0         1        2         6        6
Services                          43        46       47       45        41       40        39       41
Total                           100       100      100      100       100      100       100      100
Note: Shares are calculated from current price data.
PART D: LONG TERM GROWITH RATES ( %)
..i, ...,....i, ,.  .,. i,Rii  iiiS ................................    i'..
Gross Domestic Product (m.p.)              8.6                6.8               -0.3               5.1
Agriculture                               4.9                3.3               -0.1                4.5
Industry of which                         12.5              11.8                2.5                9.3
Manufacturing                             ..                 ..                ..                 5.1
Mining 1/                                  .                 7.5              -8.7               60.1
Services                                  11.2                8.1               -1.3               3.1
Imports of GNFS                            7.6               11.3               -3.4               8.4
Exports of GNFS                            6.2                6.5               -0.4               7.5
Total Expenditures                         8.8                7.9               -1.3               5.2
Total Consumption                          9.0                7.1                0.0               3.9
Government                               14.6                8.7              -1.2                0.1
Private                                   8.0                6.6               0.3                4.9
Gross Domestic Investment                  8.1               10.8               -9.5               12.4
Memorandum Items:
Population                                4.0                4.0               3.8                3.8
Labor Force                               ..                 2.5               2.6                2.6
GDP per capita                            4.1                2.7              -4.0                1.3
1/ Includes petroleum and gas extraction.



Anna 82
Page I of 2
Cote d'Ivoire - External Trade
-                                                                         ,, .,, .,. ,,, ,,,,,,-.   -  - -,- ,-,-,,--,. --.---. -_ ......... E g r . E E 2 t . . E~~~-~   .   . ....     ... .
..........~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~..-......
Merchandise Exports:  Volume Indices 1987=100
Cocoa                                       132.6   140.0   132.5   136.1   133.4   149.7   156.5   162.0   166.0   170.1    174.2
Fuel                                        108.5   112.2   152.4   147.2   138.4   159.0   237.0   251.8   266.5   282.7   300.3
Timber                                       97.7    76.9    75.2    64.3    91.2   104.7   110.5   113.1   113.1   113.7   114.4
Coffee                                      146.2   128.4   135.9   138.0   106.3   122.9   133.9   150.5   172.6   186.4   201.5
Total Merchandise Exports (FOB)            108.3   109.9   104.0    98.6   102.5   113.4   127.2   135.1    144.0   152.8   161.7
Merchandise Exports: Current Prices (US$ millions)
Cocoa                                       823.7   895.1   838.3   830.9   952.7  1,152.3  1,292.2  1,365.6  1,436.1  1,510.3  1,588.3
Fuel                                        326.8   317.6   402.9   387.4   326.0   406.0   600.4   645.4   701.2   761.3   827.7
Timber                                      377.5   278.6   330.6   273.0   348.8   416.8   456.4   483.3   504.1   525.9   548.6
Coffee                                      286.2   238.6   202.9   205.5   245.3   409.0   359.9   374.9   413.9   429.1   444.9
Manufactures                                809.9   735.8   696.9   573.1   647.6   697.0   772.1   886.9  1,035.7  1,199.3  1,381.7
Other Exports                               378.4   345.7   392.2   335.0   337.2   398.0   379.6   370.1   396.5   425.3   456.9
Total Merchandise Exports (FOB)          3,002.6  2,811.4  2,863.7  2,604.9  2,857.6  3,479.1  3,860.6  4,126.2  4,487.5  4,851.7  5,248.1
Merchandise Imports:  Volume Indices 1987=100
Food                                         84.0    85.3    57.8    77.3    58.7    62.6    65.7    69.6    71.9    75.0    78.1
Other Consumer Goods                         67.5    64.8    84.2    78.1    69.5    78.9    84.3    89.8    92.9    96.1    99.2
POL and Other Energy                        133.8   139.2   177.5   164.4   159.5   172.6   174.3   179.2   184.1   189.1   194.0
Manufactured Goods                           79.1    68.6    84.1    71.3    70.6    80.6    86.3    92.7    97.7   102.0   106.2
Capital Goods                                62.2    60.6    75.9    65.1    84.6   115.2   140.6   163.4   187.5   210.9   233.7
Total Merchandise Imports (CIF)            81.3    80.0    79.6    69.0    66.2    77.3    84.9    91.8    98.7   104.9   111.8
Merchandise Imports: Current Prices (US$ millions)
Food                                       466.5   489.9   376.7   431.1   331.0   374.2   412.7   458.1   499.6   544.8   593.7
Other Consumer Goods                        385.3   454.1   551.6   500.7   457.9   558.2   606.5   654.8   695.6   739.3   786.3
POL and Other Energy                        568.6   530.0   510.8   430.4   418.3   463.3   490.3   543.1   600.1   662.9   732.2
Manufactured Goods                          255.6   236.4   300.7   253.9   250.2   307.2   334.6   366.3   393.9   421.7   451.7
Capital Goods                               419.1   393.5   531.2   332.3   430.5   627.2   782.4   925.5  1,085.8  1,255.0  1,427.1
Total Merchandise Imports (CIF)         2,098.0  2,103.5  2,270.9  1,948.4  1,887.9  2,330.1  2,626.5  2,947.8  3,275.0  3,623.7  3,991.0
US$ Prices Indices 1987=100
Merchandise Export Prices                    76.6    76.8    73.4    75.1    79.6    87.1    86.6    87.1          88.6    90.1    92.4
Merchandise Import Prices                   107.7   109.0   104.1   111.0   112.1   118.7   122.0   126.5   130.9   135.4   140.9
Merchandise Terms of Trade                   71.1    70.4    70.5    67.7    71.0    73.4    70.9    68.9    67.7    66.6    65.5
(conAwed)



Annex B2
Page 2 of 2
Cote d'lvolre - External Trade
Shares                                Growth rates_
Merchandise Exports  ( % )               (In Current Prices)                      (From Constant Prices)
Cocoa                             26.3     36.1      31.6     27.2                8.9      0.9     3.1
Fucl                              21.4      13.9     14.9     14.7               11.2      7.2    13.6
Timber                            15.7      9.0      11.2      9.1             -10.0      -6.5      1.8
Coffee                             2.3      7.7       6.1      7.4                1.7     -6.2    10.6
Manufactures                      21.6     20.7      22.5     29.1               9.5       0.6    12.0
Other Exports                     12.6      12.6     13.7     12.5               4.0       2.9     4.2
Total Merch. Exports FOB        100.0    100.0    100.0    100.0                5.2      -1.1     7.4
Merchandise Imports  (   )
Food                              14.5     22.1      18.5     15.1               ..       -5.6     4.5
Other Consumer Goods              21.0     25.7     21.3      18.0               ..       -1.2     4.7
POL and Other Energy              18.6     22.1     23.4      22.5               ..        5.0     2.3
Manufactured Goods                11.0     13.0      13.5     11.9               ..       -1.8     5.6
Capital Goods                     34.8      17.1     23.4     32.5               ..        6.8    15.2
Total Merchandise Imports (CIF)    100.0    100.0    100.0    100.0             ..       -3.4     7.6
1/ Compound rates.



Annx 83
CMte d'Ivoire -Balance of Payments                                                                 Page I of I
(In Millions of US Dollar)
.......... ~ ~       ~           ~          ~           X~~*                                                                 ~      :      .~:
.......... ~ ~ ~ ~ ~       ~        ~        ~       ~        ~       ~       ~       ~      ~      ..-..   .
,..,,, W.,.,    ,,...  ......... ,gg
Trade Balance                    399.0    1,297.7    1,120.4    1,038.0    1,006.7     1,325.0     1,587.6    1,728.4    1,733.2    1,828.9    1,910.0    2,001.3
Exports, f.o.b.               3,012.6    3,002.6    2,811.2    2,863.7   2,604.9     2,857.6      3,479.1    3,860.6   4,126.2    4,467.3    4,851.7    5,243.1
Imports, fo.b.                2,613.6    1,705.0   1,690.8    1,825.7    1,598.2      1,532.5     1,891.5   2,132.1    2,393.0    2,658.6    2,941.7    3,239.3
Net Services                  (1,518.4)  (2,038.4)  (1,997.5)  (1,998.9)  (1,809.3)    (1,838.4)    (2,043.1)  (1,741.4)  (1,885.6)  (1,974.3)  (2,073.3)  (2,1S7.1)
Receipts                       635.2      595.8      534.9      576.5     605.9        514.1        547.1      607.8     666.4      720.0      774.9      831.4
Payments                      2,153.6    2,634.2    2,532.4    2,575.5    2,415.2    2,352.5      2,590.2    2,349.2    2,552.0    2,694.3    2,848.2    3,013.5
FactorPayments                 533.9    1,125.8    1,230.4    1,217.3    1,465.0     1,374.7     1,429.7    1,054.7    1,114.8    1,112.3    1,111.9    1,119.4
o/w: Interest                327.5      928.5    1,037.9    1,015.5    1,270.2     1,354.8      1,367.0     725.6      769.2      748.0      728.1      711.6
OtherServices                1,619.7    1,508.4    1,302.0    1,358.2    950.2        977.8      1,160.5    1,294.5    1,437.2    1,582.0    1,736.3    1,399.1
Net Transfers                   (706.2)    (409.6)   (254.3)    (256.3)    (220.7)     (260.4)      (305.4)    (317.3)    (331.5)    (336.0)    (316.2)    (321.8)
Private                       (705.7)    (501.4)    (403.0)    (416.7)    (319.6)     (312.3)      (342.8)    (349.7)    (352.8)    (356.3)    (335.4)    (340.0)
Public                           (0.5)     91.8      148.7      160.4      98.9         51.9         37.4       32.4      21.3       20.3       19.2       13.2
Current Account Balance       (1,825.5)  (1,150.3)  (1,131.4)  (1,217.3)  (1,023.3)    (773.8)      (760.9)    (330.3)    (483.9)    (481.4)    (479.5)    (500.6)
Long-Term Capital Inflow       1,099.1      145.7      76.1      (46.9)    (243 9)      261.0        (60.2)      41.4      55.1      (48.8)      18.6      (57.6)
1. Direct Investment            83.3       47.7       46.1      46.1       40.3        100.0        105.0     110.0      125.0      130.0      160.0      180.0
2. NetLTLoans(DRS data)       1,015.8      98.0       30.0      (93.0)    (284.2)      161.0       (165.2)     (68.6)    (69.9)    (178.8)    (141.4)    (237.6)
a. Disbursements             1,738.0    1,030.0     900.0      789.0     678.9       1,059.9       830.7    838.6       824.1      756.9      746.3      691.5
b. Amortization due          (722.2)    (932.0)    (870.0)    (882.0)    963.1        898.9        995.9     907.2      894.0      935.7     387.7       929.1
Other Items (Net) 1/             688.4    (572.1)    (268.2)    (240.0)      34.5        75.0         10.0       20.0      20.0       30.0       80.0      150.0
Overall Balance                  (38.0)  (1,576.6)  (1,323.5)  (1,504.2)  (1,234.4)    (437.7)      (811.0)    (268.9)    (408.7)    (500.2)    (380.8)    (403.3)
Financing                         38.0    1,576.6    1,323.5    1,504.2    1,234.4      437.7        811.0      268.9     408.7      500.2      380.8      408.3
NetlMFcredit                     38.0      30.0      (60.0)     (92.0)     (493)        996          91.1       91.4      81.0      104.5       (3.S)     (37.3)
Operations Account Changes        0.0     257.1       10.6      324.9      33.9       (769.7)      (425.0)    (280.0)    (120.0)    (50.0)      20.0       70.0
Adjmt. to sched. debt serv. 2/    0.0    1,289.6    1,372.8    1,271.3    1,250.0     1,107.8     1,144.9     457.5      447.6      445.7      369.6      376.1
Shares of current GDP:
I. Trade Balance                3.9%/.    13.1%      11.8%      10.2%     10.8%        19.6%        18.4%     18.9%      17.3%      16.7/      16.0%/     15.4%
2. MLT Interest Payments         3.2%      9.4%      10.9"/D    10.0^%    13.7%        18.9%       15.2%       7.3%      7.01%      6.2%       5.5%1.     4.9%
3. Current Account Balance     -17.90/D   -11.6% - 11.9%/6   -12. 0% - 11. 0/        -11.5%        -8.8%      -3.6%     -4.8%      -4.4%      -4.0%      -3.8%
Memorandum Items:
GDP                           10,175.6    9,899.0    9,503.1   10,158.3    9,303.9     6,750.0     8,617.3    9,142.8   10,023.8   10,957.3   11,957.1   13,047.8
Exchange Rate (CFAF/USS)
Annual Average                  211.3     272.3      282.1      275.3     283.2        556.0        510.0     535.0      538.0      540.0      543.0      546.0
1/ Includes short-term capital and errors and omissions.
2/ Includes arrears accumulation and Paris Club reschedulings.



Annex B4
Page I of I
CMte d'lvoire --Financial Operations of the Central Government
(In Biionas of CFAF at current prices)
.,,,,,,,,.,,.,m,,..,...,;..,,.,-. g   X   g   E..........
'.''','',,..',''{,,.,'W'.'''~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.: ..........
TOTAL REVENUES                    630.8    589.4    597.6    522.3        852.5      978.9   1.057.9   1,152.4   1,257.7   1.353.8   1.458.9
Tax Revenues                      516.1    499.8    499.9    432.7        667.9      798.4    86i0.3    958.9   1,045.6   1,133.7   1,231.0
Direct Taxes                     142.2    120.6    120.8      98.7       126.6      150.4    170.3    200.3    214.9    235.8    258.7
Dom.TaxesonG&S                   118.7    130.3    131.5    115.9        131.3      157.1    175.1    200.1    222.6    248.1    275.3
Taxes on Imports                 247.2    240.9    242.0    212.4        269.9      307.4    350.5    402.3    452.6    500.9    552.0
Taxes on Exports                   8.0      8.0       5.6      5.7       140.1      183.5    164.4    156.2    155.5    148.9    145.0
Non-Tax Revenues                  114.7     89.6      97.7     89.6       184.6      180.5    197.6    193.5    212.1    220.1    227.9
CGPP Surplus 1/                   21.6     26.8      20.5     11.2         6.4        0.0      0.0       0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0
CSSPPA Surplus 21                   ---       -      19.2      18.1      111.5      103.6     84.5      66.1      55.6     49.5      42.0
Social Security Contributions     43.2     38.3       37.8    41.0        42.7       43.9     44.6      46.5      50.0     53.7      57.7
Other Non-Tax Revenue             49.9     24.5      20.2     19.3        24.0       33.0     68.5      80.9    106.5    116.9    128.2
CURRENT EXPENDITURE               908.3    887.3    851.3    886.0    1,295.4    1,296.0   1,013.1   1,075.0   1,129.2   1,192.1   1,258.4
Wages and Salaries                339.9    335.0    334.2    330.8        355.9      365.9    371.4    387.4    416.4    447.6    481.2
Social Security Benefits           36.7     35.6      36.4     39.8        49.8       65.9      66.9     69.7      75.0     80.6      86.6
Other Current Expenditures        102.2    115.2    114.7    113.6        148.2      180.2    205.4    226.5    254.4    285.7    313.5
Special Accounts                   63.2     45.7      27.4     22.8        35.3       30.8      31.8     27.0      23.7     26.0      28.5
CG Autonomous Entities             42.9     30.8      32.3     30.2        39.4       31.6      34.2     37.7      41.4     45.4      49.9
CSSPPA Deficit                     35.0      2.0       0.0      0.0         0.0        0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0       0.0
interest Due                      288.4    323.1    306.3    348.8        666.8      621.6    303.4    326.7    318.3    306.8    298.7
Domestic Debt                     35.6     29.3      36.4     47.6        47.4       39.0     36.5      39.3     41.8      40.7      39.2
External Debt                    252.8    293.8    269.9    301.2        619.3      582.6    266.8    287.4    276.5    266.1    259.5
CURRENT ACCOUNT BALANCE    (277.5)   (297.9)   (253.7)   (363.7)         (442.9)     (317.1)   44.8      77.4    128.5    161.7    200.5
CAPITAL EXPENDITURE                74.7     87.1      89.5     73.8       172.8      205.1    239.3    264.0    288.2    314.5    343.2
OVERALL BALANCE                  (352.2)   (385.0)   (343.2)   (47.      (615.7)    (522.2)   (194.5)   (186.6)   (159.7\   (152.8)   (142.7)
Memorandum
Primary Balance                    -68.8    -61.9    -36.9    -88.7        51.1        99.5    109.0    140.1    158.6    154.0    156.2
Revenues /GDP (%)                   23.4     22.0     22.3      19.8       22.7        22.3     21.6      2t.4     21.3      20.9     20.5
Primary Expendinures I GDP (%)     25.8      24.3     23.7      23.2       21.4        20.0     19.4      18.8     18.6      18.5     18.3
Primary Balance/IGDP (%)            -2.4     -2.3      -1.4     -3.4        1.4         2.3      2.2      2.6       2.7       2.4      2.2
Interest/GDP(%)                     10.7     12.1      11.4     13.2       17.8        14.1      6.2      6.1       5.4       4.7      4.2
Overall Balance/GDP(%)             -13.1    -14.4    -12.8    -16.6       -16.4       -11.9     -4.0      -3.5     -2.7      -2.4     -2.0
1/ Caisse Generale de Perequation des Prix (Price Equalization Fund)
2/ Caisse de Stabilisation (Coffee/Cocoa Marketing Hoard)
3/ Includes nransfers to public enterprises.
Source: Ministry of Economy, Finance, and Planning, and staff estimates.



Annex B5
Page I of I
Cote d'lvoire ---- Monetary Survey
(In Billions of CFAF)
End of Year Stocks:
Net Foreign Assets                       -495.2    -473.6    -511.3    -515.0         -81.8
Domestic Credit                          1,307.1    1,303.3    1,334.6    1,289.3    1,372.4
of which:
Claims on central govt. (net)            203.8     216.3      367.7      376.1       506.5
Claims on private sector                1,072.7    1,065.9    946.4      896.3       854.9
Claims on other fin. institutions         30.6       21.0      20.5       16.9        10.9
Money                                     526.4      510.1     489.4      494.0       798.8
Quasi-Money                               319.0      336.3     346.9      331.0       412.1
Long-Term Foreign Liabilities              64.6       62.4      45.7       47.6        47.8
Other Items (net)                         -98.1      -79.1     -58.7      -98.3        31.9
Annual Chaneez
Net Foreign Assets                         -9.6       21.6     -37.7       -3.7       433.2
Domestic Credit                           -67.2       -3.8      31.3      -45.3        83.1
of which:
Claims on central govt. (net)            -26.1       12.5     151.4        8.4       130.4
Claims on private sector                 -33.8      -6.8    -119.5      -50.1        130.4
Claims on other fin. institutions         -7.4       -9.6      -0.5       -3.6        -6.0
Money                                      15.2     -16.3      -20.7        4.6       304.8
Quasi-Money                               -37.5       17.3      10.6      -15.9        81.1
Long-Term Foreign Liabilities              -5.7       -2.2     -16.7        1.9         0.2
Other Items (net)                         -48.9       19.0      20.4      -39.6        63.7
Memorandum:
Money / GDP (%)                            19.5       19.0      18.2       18.8        21.4
Quasi-Money / GDP (%/6)                    11.8       12.5      12.9       12.6        11.1
Broad Money / GDP (%/6)                    31.4       31.6      31.1      31.3         32.5
Velocity of Money                           3.2       3.2        3.2        3.2         3.1






ANNEX C:
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM:
MATRIX OF ACTIONS






Amnex C
Page 1 of 3                                            Cote d'Ivoire: Agricultural Sector Adjustment Program - Matrix of Actions
OBJECTJVS                      ACTIONSALREADY                                                         ACTIONS TO BE TAKEN BEF_ORE
TAKEN                       BOARD PRESENTATION                         SECOND TRANCHE                          THIR TRANCHE
1. COCOAICOFFEE SECTOR
Internal Marketing
Eliminate the role of Caistab in  - Ministerial circular of June 1995,  - Government announcement,         - Maintenance of a liberalized internal    - Maintenance of a liberalized internal
internal marketing so as to         announcing that distribution of bags  eliminating purchasing centers as of  marketing system.                        marketing system.
stimulate private sector            will be handled by private sector as  the crop season 1995/96.
development and efficiency in the   of the 1995/96 crop season.
marketing chain.                                                      - Government announcement,
eliminating the Government's role in
the per&quation transport as of
1995/96 crop season.
External Marketing
Reduce role of Caistab and increase                                   - Adoption of auction system for     - Satisfactory implementation.             - Satisfactory compliance.
transparency in external marketing.                                      export rights.
- Limitation of direct sales of Caistab    - Satisfactory compliance.          - Satisfactory implementation.
to 15 % of the annual production of
cocoa and coffee.
- Agreement to terms of reference for   - Submission of intermediary report.   - Adoption of an action plan and
a study evaluating options for                                                 implementation of those actions
liberalizing export marketing of                                               relating to the crop season 1996/97.
coffee.
Operating Expenditure of Caistab
Reduce Caistab expenditures to   - Reduction of about 40% in Caistab                                       - Agreement on the level of Caistab
yield greater public sector         expernditures to CFAF 62.8 biUion                                         expenditures for 1996/97 crop season.
efficiency and transparency.        for 1995/96 crop season, including
elimination of all subsidies.
- Decision to: (i) limit allocations to                                   - Review operations of technical reserve  - Review operations of technical
technical reserve fund to CFAF 8                                          fund and its allocation and agree to      reserve fund and allocation for the
billion for 1995/96 crop season and                                       changes, if necessary.                    crop season 1996/97, and agree to
(ii) adjust reference export price if                                                                               changes, if necessary.
the reserves have been depleted
during the crop year.
Export Taxation
Reduce export taxation consistent    - Agreement on reduction of export                                    - Review of export taxation within the PFP    - Review of export taxation within the
with macroeconomic frarework        taxation (consistent with                                                 context.                                   PFP context.
and sector needs,                   macroeconomic framework).



Annex C
Page 2 of 3                                               C8te d'lvoire: Agricultural Sector Adjustment Program - Matrix of Actions
,,   O,BJ:ECTIVES                ACTIONSALREADY                                                            ACTIONS TO BE TAKEN BEFORE
TAKEN                         BOARD PRESENTATION                          SECOND TRANCHE                             THIRD TRANCHE
i1. RICE SECTOR
Increase rice production through:  Decision of July 11, 1994 published in    - Lifting of import prohibition for rice    - Price liberalization of ordinary rice and  - Full liberalization of imports of
(i) improvement of incentive       Official Journal in September 1994,      of more than 35% broken and            elimination of transport equalization       ordinary rice; (*)
framework,                     announcing the government's future rice  permission to import 45,000 tons of    payments (*)
(ii) retrenchment of the State from    policy and time tables for          this type of rice during a test period                                             - Based on the results of the test period
productive activities in rice,  implementation of specific measures.    between 1.1.1996 and 3.31.1997.                                                     for importing broken rice, decision on
and                                                                                                                                                         measures to be taken regarding
(iii) expansion of private sector  Privatization of rice mills during first                                                                                     imports of broken rice.
role.                          quarter 1995 (*)
Transfer of management of security
stock to private sector in March 1995.
(*)
Liquidation of the Price Equalization
Fund (CGPP) in March 1995.
II. TRADE AND PRICE
REFORM
Promotion of exports and efficient    - Decision No. 017 of May 30. 1994  - Elimination of NTBs on tobacco,      - Elimination of NTBs and on agricultural   - Elimination of NTB (import quota) on
import substitution in the          which identifies all products to be     coffee, synthetic textiles, and used  tools and wheat flour.                       ordinary rice.
agricultural sector through          eliminated by January 1, 1996.         bags.
elimination of non-tariff barriers.
- Decision of July 11, 1994 stipulates
that the NTB on rice be eliminated by
Jan. 1, 1997.
Liberalize domestic agricultural   - Decision that once a NTB is          - Lifting of price controls on tobacco,    - Elimination of price controls on flour, nce,
prices.                              eliminated and this product is still   palm bunches, rubber, coconut and      and agricultural tools.
subject to price controls, price      copra.
liberalization would follow.                                                - Publication of interministerial decision,
announcing that the NTBs and price controls
on sugar and cotton-grain will be removed
effective not later than the privatization of
SODESUCRE and CIDT, respectively.
Limit protection to local production                                                                             - Effective protection of local flour milling  - Maintenance of agreed protection
industry will not exceed 40%, and adoption  levels, including compensatory duties.
if necessary of compensatory duties on
wheat, flour, jute bags and plastic sheets in
amoumts determined after agreement with
IDA.
(*) ERC supervision



Annex C
Page 3 of 3                                              CMte d'Ivoire: Agricultural Sector Adjustment Program - Matrix of Actions
OBJECTIVES                      ACTIONS ALREADY                                                          ACTIONS TO BE TAKEN BEFORE
TAKEN                        BOARD PRESENTATION                          SECOND TRANCHE                            THIRD TRANCEIE
IV. PUBLIC INVESTMENT
Increase public sector efficiency  - Revision of public investment                                             - Adoption of agricultural investment budget    - Satisfactory review of execution of
through improving and rationalizing  program in agriculture for 1995-97 in                                       for 1996 consistent with the three-year     1996 investment budget in agriculture.
programming and execution of the    collaboration with the Bank and other                                        rolling investment budget.
agricultural investment budget.     donors.                                                                                                                - Adoption of agricultural investment
- Agreement on main components of             budget for 1997 consistent with the
agricultural investment program proposed    three-year rolling investment
for 1997.                                   program.
- Agreement on main components of
agricultural investment program
proposed for 1998.
V. I'UBILIC DIESfIIIRF
Promotion of private sector
development and growth in
agricultre.
SOGR                              - In February 1995, the Government:
(i) sold 60 percent to a company called
SOCFINAL- KOFFY,
(ii) will offer 14.8 percent of shares to
staff and individual Ivorians through
the Abidjan Stock Exchange, and
(iii) will retain a 20 percent holding.
Eald iu                           - Adoption of privatization strategy                                         - Selection of successful bidders and invitation   - Selection of successful bidders and
to negotiate for sale of agroindustrial     invitation to negotiate for sale of
facilities in South-eastem and South-westem  remaining agroindustrial units and
areas of the country and the Vridi kemel   industrial plantations.
factory.
- Offer for sale agroindustrial facilities in
central eastem area of the country.
- Privatization strategy being                                              - Offer for sale.                            - Selection of successful bidders and
elaborated.                                                                                                             their invitation for negotiation.
CIIY                              - Selection of consultants to belp carry                                     - Adoption of privatization strategy.       - Selection of successful bidders and
out privatization study.                                                                                                 their invitation for negotiation.






ANNEX D:
LETTER OF AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT POLICY






Annex D
Page I of 22
Translation
REPUBLIC OF COTE D'IVOIRE
MINISTRY OF AGRICULTURE AND ANIMAL RESOURCES
MINISTRY ATTACHED TO THE PRIME MINISTER WITH RESPONSIBILITY FOR
THE ECONOMY,
FINANCE AND PLANNING
MINISTRY OF INDUSTRY AND COMMERCE
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT CREDIT (ASAC)
Letter of Agricultural Development Policy
August 1995



Annex D
Page 2 of 22
TABLE OF CONTENTS
I    INTRODUCTION                                               3
II   MACROECONOMIC CONTEXT                                      3
2.1  PRELIMINARY RESULTS OF THE ECONOMIC REFORM IN 1994    4
2.2  MEDIUM-TERM OBJECTIVES AND STRATEGIES 1995-1997       5
III  AGRICULTURAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT FRAMEWORK                   5
3.1  PREVIOUS ADJUSTMENTS                                  5
3.2  AGRICULTURAL POLICY OBJECTIVES                        6
IV  TARIFF, NONTARIFF, AND AGRICULTURAL PRICING POLICIES        7
V    COMMERCIAL AND TAX POLICY IN THE COFFEE-COCOA SUBSECTOR    8
5.1  INTERNAL MARKETING                                    9
5.2  EXTERNAL MARKETING                                    10
5.3  EXPORT TAX                                            10
5.4  DELTA                                                11
VI  COMMERCIAL AND TAX POLICY IN THE RICE SUBSECTOR             11
6.1  LUXURY RICE AND CARGO RICE                            12
6.2  IMPORT POLICY FOR REGULAR RICE                        12
6.3  POLICY FOR THE IMPORT OF RICE MORE THAN 35% BROKEN   12
6.4  PRIVATIZATION OF RICE MILLS                          12
VII  PRIVATIZATION OF AGROINDUSTRIAL ENTERPRISES                13
7.1  STATUS OF THE PRIVATIZATION PORTFOLIO                14
VIII  PUBLIC INVESTMENT PROGRAM IN THE AGRICULTURE SECTOR       15
IX   CONCLUSION                                                 16



Annex D
Page 3 of 22
LETTER OF AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT POLICY
Mr. James D. Wolfensohn
President, World Bank
1818 H Street NW
Washington, D.C. 20433                             Abidjan, August 24, 1995
USA
I    INTRODUCTION
1.   The decision taken in January 1994 to change the parity of the CFA franc has had a
catalyzing effect, enabling C6te d'Ivoire to launch an ambitious economic and social
program. This program is geared to the economic and social development objectives and
adjustment policies described in the Economic Policy Framework Paper for 1995-1997.
2.   The Government is firmly resolved to implement the policies described in the
Policy Framework Paper.
3.   To this end, the Government of C6te d'Ivoire requests the grant of an Agricultural
Sector Adjustment Credit (ASAC), equivalent to US$ 150 million from the International
Development Association, to support implementation of its adjustment program in the
agriculture sector.
II    MACROECONOMIC CONTEXT
4.   In the early eighties, the Government of Cote d'Ivoire embarked on an economic
recovery program focusing mainly on the public and parastatal sectors.
5.   The decade of the eighties was characterized by the launching of structural
adjustment programs (SAPs). Despite the gradual success of these programs, the
expected revival of economic growth was short-lived, mainly as a result of a deteriorating
external environment. The drop in commodity prices on world markets affected the
balance of payments and government budget, leading to severe disequilibria in both
cases. This crisis highlighted not only the inadequacy of macroeconomic policies, but also
a progressive loss of competitiveness and the persistence of structural obstacles to
development.
6.   To cope with the deteriorating economic situation, the Government, in close
consultation with its partners in the CFA franc zone, resolved to supplement its internal
adjustment measures by realigning the CFA franc parity to CFAF 100 = FF. 1 as of
January 12, 1994. Following this devaluation of the CFA franc, the Government prepared



Annex D
Page 4 of 22
a new stabilization and structural adjustment program for 1994-1996, which has now been
updated for the period 1995-1997 and which comprises the following principal measures:
* a radical reform of the tax system designed to stabilize the public finances and
enhance the competitiveness of the economy;
* import duty reform, and gradual elimination of nontariff barriers;
* more intensive deregulation of marketing systems and of producer and consumer
prices;
* reform of the legal and regulatory framework designed to stimulate private sector
development and, to improve competitiveness;
* reorientation of public expenditure toward priority sectors;
* implementation of an expanded range of social measures.
7.   The program adopted within the framework of this strategy was designed to
revive the economy, stabilize the public finances, and rapidly reestablish price stability,
taking advantage of the opportunities created by the change in parity. This strategy was
consistent with the new perspective of regional integration. Its implementation was
supported by structural adjustment lending from the International Monetary Fund and
the World Bank and by financial assistance from other multilateral institutions and
bilateral donors. In addition, the international community agreed to reschedule C6te
d'Ivoire's external public debt within the Paris Club framework on enhanced Toronto
terms, thus making it possible to foresee a progressive solution to the problem of C6te
d'Ivoire's external debt.
2.1   PRELIMINARY RESULTS OF THE ECONOMIC REFORM IN 1994
8.   Following devaluation of the CFA franc, the Government introduced a number of
tax measures which contributed to the start of the economic recovery process. The
revenue structure was overhauled, both through a reduction in the rates of customs
duties and indirect taxes and through reintroduction of a single tax on cocoa and coffee
exports. Expenditure was made subject to strict controls, particularly with respect to civil
service pay, the average basic wage increase being limited to 10%. The other primary
expenditures were realigned toward the education and primary health care sectors and
toward public investment.
9.   The year 1994 was a period of stabilization. The reforms and economic measures
implemented by the Government have already yielded positive results. Devaluation and
supporting measures have brought positive changes in the competitiveness of the
economic subsectors, the balance of payments situation, the external debt, and private
sector confidence.
Following are some of the results obtained:
* overall GDP increased by around 1.7% in 1994;
* agricultural production increased from 4% to 5%;



Annex D
Page 5 of 22
* nominal agricultural incomes rose overall from 30% to 50% thanks to an increase in
producer prices;
* inflation was contained within the projected limits (32%);
* agricultural exports increased overall; and
* the budgetary equilibria were restored (settlement of arrears, payments to
suppliers, etc.).
2.2   MEDIUM-TERM OBJECTIVES AND STRATEGIES 1995-1997
10.  The principal objective of the medium-term program is to achieve a high growth
rate, thanks to the sustainable recovery of private sector development. The updated
program targets a minimum annual growth of real GDP of 6%, with a moderate rate of
inflation and a gradual return to external viability.
11.  The economic adjustment program already largely under way will continue,
particularly where the following sub-objectives are concerned:
 rapid improvement of the competitiveness of the Ivorian economy both to meet
domestic needs as satisfactorily as possible and to increase exports;
* strengthened development through a dynamic private sector while maintaining
the pace of economic reform.
12.  The Government intends to pursue the efforts to increase agricultural income that
it initiated in 1994, particularly by transferring a larger share of export proceeds to the
farmers.
13.  To maintain the pace of economic reform and generate sustainable growth, the
Government intends to support and pursue the efforts already under way by introducing
a number of new adjustment programs, including the Agricultural Sector Adjustment
Program.
III - AGRICULTURAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT FRAMEWORK
3.1  PREVIOUS ADJUSTMENTS
14.  Since 1990, the Government has been attempting to increase the efficiency and
competitiveness of the agriculture sector within the framework of the first Agricultural
Sector Adjustment Program (PASA). Some progress has been made, but the sharp drop
in international prices and producer prices over the period has had a very unfavorable
impact on production. The macroeconomic situation and the overvaluation of the CFA
franc have been added hindrances to the sector's recovery.



Annex D
Page 6 of 22
3.2 AGRICULTURAL POLICY OBTECTIVES
15.   The agriculture sector, which accounts for practically one third of GDP, two thirds
of export earnings, and two thirds of employment, continues to be one of the principal
drivers of the growth process. The sector's development has been limited over the past
few years by the depressed level of world commodity prices and excessive government
intervention.  To revitalize the development and diversification of agricultural
production, the Government will work to establish an appropriate incentive framework,
and will withdraw from production activities in favor of the private sector. The changes
already in place, and those planned for 1995-1997 in the areas of tariff reform, elimination
of nontariff barriers, price deregulation, and privatization, should have a particularly
positive impact on the agriculture sector.
16.  In its Agricultural Development Master Plan for 1992-2015, the Government
defines the major objectives of agriculture sector policy as follows: (i) improvement of the
sector's productivity and competitiveness; (ii) achievement of food security; (iii)
diversification of agricultural production, in terms both of marketable produce and of on-
farm activities; (iv) development and exploitation of all livestock potential (stockraising,
maritime fisheries, lake and continental aquaculture); (v) rehabilitation of the forest
resource.
17.   Following are the main approaches for achieving the above objectives:
* the Government withdraws from the direct performance of certain functions in the
competitive sector, refocusing its activities on policy-making and the planning of
strategies and monitoring of their implementation;
* the various subsectors hitherto managed by the State are slated for takeover by the
private sector;
*  training and extension in the rural environment are based on a global approach to
agricultural production, with priority to management advice and the
dissemination of research findings;
* consistent efforts need to be made to develop available resources and ensure their
optimum utilization;
* ways of improving farmer incomes and living conditions will be explored;
* effective methods of agricultural sector financing will be investigated.
18.   The Government has decided, within the context of adjustment of the agriculture
sector, to pursue efforts already made in the following specific areas:
* tariff, nontariff, and agricultural pricing policies;
* commercial and tax policy in the coffee-cocoa subsector;
* commercial and tax policy in the rice subsector;
* privatization of agroindustries;
* public investment.



Annex D
Page 7 of 22
IV TARIFF, NONTARIFF, AND AGRICULTURAL PRICING POLICIES
19.   Trade liberalization will continue in light of the progress made since 1991. The
weighted average tariff applied to taxable imports fell from 32% in 1989 to about 24% in
1993 and 19% in 1994. Following devaluation, the Government installed a scale running
from 0% to 35%. The Government has also reduced the heavy impact of nontariff barriers
on the trade system.
20.   Following a massive study concerning the advisability and impact of the
dismantling of quantitative restrictions and nontariff barriers that took place within the
framework of the Competitiveness and Regulatory Reform Adjustment Program
(PASCO), the Government took certain regulatory measures resulting in:
* immediate liberalization of a number of manufactured products (Arrete No. 041 of
May 11, 1994 of the Ministry of Industry and Commerce);
* introduction of a timetable for the elimination of barriers on other products within
two years (Decision No. 17 of May 30, 1994 of the Ministry of Industry and
Commerce).
21.   Whereas progress was slow prior to 1994, numerous barriers were lifted in May
1994 and again on January 1, 1995. The Government's objective is to eliminate the
remaining barriers by January 1996. Non tariff barriers, to which several major
agricultural products such as rice, sugar, raw tobacco, coffee, used bags, cotton and
synthetic fabrics, wheat flour, machetes and agricultural tools are subject, will be
eliminated by the end of 1996. Consequently, the Government will eliminate nontariff
barriers on raw tobacco, coffee, used bags and synthetic fabrics by the end of August 1995.
Nontariff barriers on wheat flour, machetes and other farm tools will be lifted on January
1, 1996.
22.   Nontariff barriers on sugar and cotton fabrics and price controls on sugar and
cotton-grain will be lifted as of the date on which the majority of the capital of the
agroindustrial companies in question are controlled by the private sector, following the
transfer of State shareholdings. However, in order to ensure that privatization proceeds
smoothly, the Government will announce these arrangements through an Interministerial
Decision that will be included in the specifications for the respective invitations to bid.
23.  In addition, in the context of the Economic Recovery Credit (ERC), the
Government deregulated imports and prices of luxury rice and ordinary rice (Decision
MIC/MINAGRA No. 20 of July 11, 1994, and Arrete MIC/MINAGRA No. 32 of February
20,1995).
24.   The Government has also adopted the principle of liberalizing consumer prices
when nontariff barriers are replaced by adequate tariff protection. This policy will be



Annex D
Page 8 of 22
pursued and broadened to basic agricultural products, on a case by case basis. In this
context, the Government decided to eliminate price controls for tobacco, sugar and farm
tools when the nontariff barriers for those products are lifted. Price controls on regular
rice and wheat flour will be eliminated on January 1, 1996.
25.   With regard to producer pricing, the Government's policy seeks to make farmers
and processors accountable for decision-making through joint committees and boards of
directors without the intervention of the Government. It also seeks to pass market signals
from the world market on to producers. Consequently, before the end of August 1995,
the Government will end price controls on palm bunches, natural rubber, coconut and
copra.
26.   Regarding its tariff policy, the Government reaffirms the principle adopted under
PASCO whereby the effective protection accorded to local industry is not to exceed 40%.
In that context, the Government will introduce customs tariffs on wheat and wheat flour,
in accordance with that principle. However, in certain cases, such as imports of wheat,
wheat flour, jute bags and synthetic fabrics, the Government reserves the possibility of
adopting countervailing duties in accordance with C6te d'Ivoire's international
commitments.
27.  In the specific case of sugar, a transparent and automatic mechanism will be
developed to protect the Ivorian export market from subsidized prices and to cushion the
effect of excessive price fluctuations in the international market.
V    COMMERCIAL AND TAX POLICY IN THE COFFEE-COCOA SUBSECTOR
28.   For many years following independence, the coffee-cocoa sector, through the
Agricultural Price Stabilization Fund (CSSPPA, or CAISTAB), was the most important
subsector in terms of mobilizing agricultural sector surpluses and facilitating their
transfer into the general economy. By stabilizing prices, CAISTAB played a decisive role
in coffee and cocoa marketing. However, when world prices plunged, attempts to
support producer prices rapidly proved unsustainable, and CAISTAB was unable to
stabilize prices in 1988-89 and 1990-91. In the present context of surpluses arising from
the CFA franc devaluation, the Government has pledged to improve CAISTAB's external
marketing operations.
29.   Pursuing its policy to improve public sector efficiency and stimulate private sector
development, the Government has decided to step up the reform of CAISTAB with effect
from the 1995-96 cropping season. This reform has five components: (i) withdrawal of
CAISTAB from internal marketing; (ii) curtailment of its external marketing activities; (iii)
introduction of greater transparency into its operations; (iv) reduction of its operating
costs; and (v) reduction of export taxes, in accordance to the 1995-97 policy framework
Paper.



Annex D
Page 9 of 22
30.   As of the 1995-96 crop season, the Government intends to completely liberalize
domestic marketing in the cocoa and coffee subsectors, particularly by eliminating the
purchasing centers, the distribution of jute bags by the public sector, and government
intervention in transport equalization payments. On the external marketing issue,
CAISTAB will implement for the 1995-96 crop season, a system to sell export rights by
tender, with a view to optimizing export receipts and making the mechanism more
transparent through the use of electronic messaging.
5.1  INTERNAL MARKETING
31.   The Government has decided to take the following measures to liberalize the
domestic marketing of coffee and cocoa:
(a)  transfer of the administration of the transport equalization payments to the
private sector as of the 1995-96 crop season. The payments will be handled individually
by the exporters on a lump-sum basis. Under this system, each coffee-cocoa exporter will
pay for transport of product shipments on the basis of the current rate per km/ ton.
As a consequence of this measure:
- the purchasing centers, where the documents related to the administration of the
transport equalization payments are issued, will be eliminated;
* the premises (leased offices) of the purchasing centers will be surrendered;
* the government workers who issued the documents will be redeployed;
- the Govermnent will no longer be involved in transport equalization payments.
(b)  liberalization of bag distribution operations and their transfer to the public
sector; consequently, as of the 1995-96 crop season the Government will propose separate
indicative prices for loge and non-loge products;
(c)   responsibility for the accreditation of buyers is left with the exporters.
5.2 EXTERNAL MARKETING
32.   The Government intends to introduce, as of the 1995-96 crop season, an auction
system for allocating coffee-cocoa export rights, using electronic messaging, as a means of
improving the system's efficiency and transparency.
33.   The practical modalities of the system will be as follows (see annex on allocation
system):
* the auctions will be open to national exporters and international traders;
* direct sales by CAISTAB will be limited to 15% of production, including sales of
cocoa to PHIBRO;



Annex D
Page 10 of 22
* financial guarantees will be required and executed in the event of default;
* the auctions will be organized daily by CAISTAB, which will determine the
quantity to be sold;
* three daily sessions will be held;
* the period to confirm contracts will be 30 minutes;
* the opening price at the auctions will be set by CAISTAB in accordance with the
London market and spread in force. It will be the minimum auction price;
* factories will only participate during the confirmation period and for a quantity
limited to their current processing capacity, i.e. 180,000 tons of all grades
combined. Beyond that volume, they will participate in the auctions on the same
terms as exporters and international traders;
*  three committees will be set up to ensure transparency and the viability of the new
system: Crop Season Monitoring Committee, Interministerial Monitoring
Committee and Confidentiality Committee;
* the marketing of coffee is largely liberalized. However, in order to pursue and
broaden the improvements in coffee marketing, the Government plans to
undertake a study, after which it will adopt and implement an action plan as of the
1996-97 crop season.
5.3   EXPORT TAX
34.   The first priority will be to reduce the rate of tax levied on the coffee and cocoa
subsectors, whose high level in 1994 was linked to devaluation of the CFA franc and the
rise in international prices. It is the Government's intention to reduce this rate over the
medium term. Given the world prices assumed in the program, export duty on those
products should, at the end of the period, be down to some 7% of the c.i.f. price for coffee
and around 20% for cocoa. This rate for cocoa is justified by Cote d'Ivoire's dominant
position on the world market and by the volume of financial charges relative to the
offsetting of losses recorded during the 1988-1992 cropping seasons. However, it should
help to promote the diversification that is essential to the Ivorian economy, while
reducing the risks of unfavorable fluctuations in world cocoa prices. Consequently,
between 1994 and 1997, based on the assumptions adopted, the share of total government
revenues contributed by the coffee and cocoa subsectors will decline from 27.9% to 18.6%.
5.4   DELTA
35.   Direct costs in the coffee-cocoa subsector (Delta) are established by CAISTAB's
Board of Directors. However, in a macroeconomic context involving specific fiscal
constraints, the Government's position is to analyze the "delta" in light of the
liberalization of CAISTAB's operations and of the new functions assigned to the private
sector, CAISTAB and the Government. CAISTAB will restructure the cost structure of the
subsectors (delta) during the 1995-97 period, by reducing current expenditures and
transferring all subsidies and other State expenditures to the national budget.



Annex D
Page 11 of 22
36.  In addition, the Government has limited allocations to the Technical Reserve Fund
to CFAF 8 billion in order to bring the level of the Fund in 1994-95 to 35 billion for the
1995-96 crop season. This will lower the overall level of the delta from CFAF 100 billion
in 1994-95 to CFAF 61 billion in 1995-96, i.e. a drop in the unit rate from 111 CFAF/kg to
62 CFAF/kg, making it possible to transfer a non-negligible share of the market price to
the producer.
37.  For future crop seasons, studies will be conducted to determine the optimum level
of the stabilization technical reserve fund.
VI   COMMERCIAL AND TAX POLICY IN THE RICE SUBSECTOR
38.   The basic aim of the Government's rice policy is to boost local rice production and
thereby strengthen C6te d'Ivoire's food security. The strategy proposed by the
Government to achieve these objectives is based on a gradual liberalization of operations
in the rice subsector, with the introduction of more streamlined incentives and with
appropriate investments being made in the productive sector within a liberalized
framework.
39.   Within the context of its rice policy, the Government has pledged to implement a
number of measures designed to culminate in January 1997 in the complete liberalization
of ordinary rice (35% broken) and the simultaneous establishment of a tariff-regulating
mechanism that will be adjustable in response to changes in world prices for rice and
foreign exchange, in accordance with commitments made under PASCO.  The
Government has been gradually carrying out its commitment to expedite the reform of
the rice subsector. Within the framework of its rice development policy, it has
deregulated imports of luxury and cargo rice. The price of ordinary rice imported since
January 1, 1995 by the private sector will be deregulated on January 1, 1996. The
following steps have been taken:
6.1   LUXURY RICE AND CARGO RICE
40.  The Government deregulated imports and prices of luxury rice on the domestic
market in 1994, providing adequate tariff protection of 25%. Imports of cargo rice have
now also been deregulated (Arrete No. 32/MIC/MINAGRA of February 20,1995).
6.2 IMPORT POLICY FOR ORDINARY RICE
41.   Following devaluation, locally produced rice became competitive with imported
rice as an import substitute. In February 1995, the Government officially increased the
price of regular rice to CFAF 230 per kg. Previously, the General Price Stabilization Fund
(CGPPGC) had the monopoly over rice imports, transferred the difference between the
external and domestic price to the Treasury, managed a buffer stock and ensured



Annex D
Page 12 of 22
transport equalization payments. In January 1995, it ceased all participation in rice import
operations and was replaced by the private sector. Then, on March 30, 1995, the
Government dissolved the CGPPGC (Decree No. 95-373). However, the price of ordinary
rice will be fully deregulated as of January 1, 1996, and transport equalization payments
will be abolished at the same time.
42.   During the transition period, the Government will limit the volume of authorized
imports, based on local production and the needs of the domestic market. For this
purpose, the Interministerial Rice Committee, composed of all the actors of the rice
subsector (the Government, the Chamber of Commerce and Industry, producers, rice
millers, importer-distributors, wholesalers, consumers, and women), will set up import
quotas for 1995-96. Import operations proper will be handled freely by the private sector.
6.3 IMPORT POLICY FOR RICE MORE THAN 35% BROKEN
43.   On a pilot basis, the Government will authorize the import of up to 45,000 tons of
rice for the period from January 1, 1996 to March 31, 1997 in accordance with the tariff
provisions agreed under PASCO. After that period, an evaluation will be made to
determine what action will be taken in the wake of the pilot operation.
6.4 PRIVATIZATION OF RICE MILLS
44.   Government divestiture, initiated in 1994, has resulted in the privatization of rice
mills and storage silos within the framework of the securitization of arrears. Nine of the
eleven rice mills have been sold to operators who have taken over management of the
respective milling facilities and the other two are being liquidated.
VII PRIVATIZATION OF AGROINDUSTRIAL ENTERPRISES
45.   The principal objective of the privatization process is to enable the private sector to
gradually regain control of all production activities, the Government limiting its
intervention to the establishment and enforcement of policies, laws and regulations.
46.   The complexity of agricultural enterprises implies that their privatization requires
special legal, economic and financial measures. To avoid obstacles linked to the sectoral
context, the Government has taken steps to sensitize agroindustrial enterprises, such as
collaboration between the Privatization Committee and enterprises slated for
privatization, and organization of agricultural associations (OPAs) in such a way that the
farmers are able to become true private sector actors.
47.   The macroeconomic context has had major effects on the privatization process: it
initially created obstacles, particularly in the agricultural sector, where the agroindustrial
subsectors were operating at a deficit. The realignment of the CFA franc parity in 1994
reversed the country's economic trend so that agroindustry, having regained its



Annex D
Page 13 of 22
competitiveness, is now posting surpluses and private investors have renewed confidence
in the country's economy.
48.   The Government earmarked some 50 enterprises for privatization, of which 21, or
two-fifths of the portfolio to be privatized, are in the agriculture or agroindustrial sector,
and 15 of which were privatized between 1991 and 1994. During the first half of 1994, the
privatization program slowed down because of the need to prepare and enact the new
privatization law and all its regulatory instruments. However, it speeded up in the
second half of 1994, when seven enterprises were sold for a total of CFAF 7 billion. Nine
other enterprises were put up for sale at end 1994, and the sale of five of these was
completed in the first half of 1995. Privatization is now continuing at a steady pace, with
10 additional enterprises scheduled to be sold in 1995.
49.   The privatization of agroindustrial enterprises is part of the Government's overall
privatization program. In their case, the privatization approach consists first of defining a
privatization strategy that takes account of the specific aspects of each of the subsectors
concerned, and then implementing the privatization operations per se.
50.  In 1994, the Government embarked on the process of privatizing the following
agroindustrial enterprises: SAPH, SOGB, PALMINDUSTRIE, SODESUCRE, CIDT.
51.   Palmindustrie is the largest agro-industrial enterprise in C6te d'Ivoire. It has
80,000 ha of industrial oil palm and coconut plantations and 11,000 employees. In
addition to its industrial activities, it oversees 80,000 ha of outgrower plantations.
52.   SOGB and SAPH are two of the largest agro-industrial enterprises in the rubber
subsector, with 30,000 ha of industrial plantations and rubber production of some 50,000
tons/year. They also oversee some 30,000 of outgrower plantations.
53.   SODESUCRE, a sugarcane development company, has industrial plantations of
22,000 tons and employs 2,500 employees on a permanent basis. It produces 130,000 tons
of sugar per year, which is sufficient to satisfy domestic demand.
7.1   STATUS OF THE PRIVATIZATION PORTFOLIO
54.   Privatization is at different stages, depending on the enterprise:  start of
consultation for some, adoption of privatization strategies by the Government for others
or completed process in certain cases.  Moreover, the Government has asked the
enterprises in question to limit their investments in the pre-privatization phase. The
status of the agro-industrial enterprises slated for privatization is as follows:
* SOGB (rubber plantations and processing plants): The majority of SOGB's -capital
was sold by January 1995.



Annex D
Page 14 of 22
* SAPH (rubber plantations and processing plants): SAPH was privatized in June
1994 through the sale of 45% of its capital to a private operator.
* PALMINDUSTRIE   The Government prepared a strategy to privatize five
agroindustrial units, regrouped into seven lots: Lot A covers the agro-industrial
unit located in the southeastern part of the country, which includes the Ehania and
Toumangue industrial oil palm plantations and refineries, and related assets. Lot
B is the agro-industrial unit located in the southwestern region of the country, and
includes the neka, Iboke and Blidouba oil palm plantations and refineries, and
related assets. Lot C is the agro-industrial unit located in the central-eastern region
of the country and includes the Inguededou, Eloka and Dabou oil palm plantations
and refineries, as well as the other related assets. Lot D covers the agro-industrial
unit located in the central-westem region of the country, and includes the Irobo
and Boubo industrial oil palm plantations and refineries, as well as the other
related assets. Lot E designates the agro-industrial facilities located in the central-
western part of the country, including the Soubr6 and Bolo oil palm plantations
and the related assets. Lot F covers the Assinie and Port Bouet, Jacqueville, Glike,
Grand Lahou and Fresco industrial coconut plantations. Lot G is the Vridi oil palm
production plant. This strategy will be implemented by December 31, 1996 at the
latest. To that end, lots A, B and G will be offered for sale by the end of 1995, lot C
during the first quarter of 1996 and the other three before the end of 1996. The
Government wishes to conclude the privatisation transactions for the company by
the end of the first quarter of 1997 at the latest.
* SODESUCRE (sugarcane plantations, manufacture and marketing of sugar and
derivatives): The Privatization Committee has commissioned a study that will
recommend the strategy to be adopted. The Government intends to adopt the
privatization strategy during the last quarter of 1995 and offer the company for
sale during 1996. The strategy will include the new regulatory framework, in
particular the pricing and tariff protection systems. The Government wishes to
finalize the privatization by December 31, 1996 at the latest.
* CIDT (cotton production, seed cotton ginning): The agreement between the
Government and CIDT, signed during the PASA, contains provisions making it
possible to lay the bases for CIDT's future privatization. A study will be launched
during the second half of 1995 to formulate a privatization strategy for the
enterprise. The Government plans to adopt the CIDT privatization strategy by the
end of the first quarter 1996. The strategy will also include the new regulatory
framework, in particular pricing and tariff protection systems. The Government
wishes to finalize the privatization by the end of 1996, at the latest.
VIII PUBLIC INVESTMENT PROGRAM IN THE AGRICULTURE SECTOR
55.   The evolution of the public investment program reflects the importance assigned
by the Government to the agricultural production sector over the years. During the
seventies, rural development accounted for a mere 20% of overall public investment. In
the eighties, the agricultural PIP represented a large share, 40% of the total PIP. Over the



Annex D
Page 15 of 22
past few years, agricultural PIP has fallen dramatically, as a result of the widespread
economic crisis and the Government's policy of budgetary austerity. However, the
Government has stressed its determination to make agriculture the driving force behind
the country's development through a better allocation of public funds in the sector.
56.   Since devaluation, the PIP has been overhauled to take account of the
Government's primary objective, namely the rapid recovery of economic growth. The
agricultural PIP will be streamlined and reoriented to better cover some of the key
development zones and open the way to sustainable growth in the sector. Progress has
been made over the past few years in realigning the PIP toward priority actions,
particularly in the area of natural resource management.
57.   Following the period of transition in 1994, the PIP now reflects a commitment to
renewed investment activity. This approach on the part of the Government will
strengthen private initiative, allowing for the recovery of production sectors and making
a significant contribution to economic growth.
58.   The Government has prepared the final version of a rolling three-year public
investment program for the period 1995-1997, setting sectoral priorities and determining
the amounts and sources of financing of all investment expenditures of the various public
administrations.
59.   The Rural Development PIP 1995-1997 represents approximately CFAF 310 billion,
i.e. an annual growth of 18.4%. These estimated expenditures comprise a government
investment on the order of CFAF 271 billion, parastatal contributions of CFAF 18 billion,
and private sector contributions of CFAF 21 billion.
60.   The measures aim at improving productivity and competitiveness, via:
* agricultural extension, training and research/development;
* support for the structuring of subsector operators;
* development of private agricultural credit;
* encouragement of private investment in agricultural productive and commercial
activities, and the progressive reduction of public investment in those activities;
* improvement of rural infrastructure.
61.   The Government has pledged to apply clear and objective criteria to public
investment programming and to maintain consistency among its investment programs
and budgets.



Annex D
Page 16 of 22
IX    CONCLUSION
We take this opportunity to reiterate the commitment of the Government of Cote
d'Ivoire to the program described in the Letter of Agricultural Development Policy. The
Government is convinced that this program will help to further the economic and social
development of Cote d'Ivoire.
Based on reforms already launched, and in light of the program mentioned above,
the Government of Cote d'Ivoire urges you to give favorable consideration to our request
for an Agricultural Sector Adjustment Credit to support our efforts in the area of
economic and social development.
H.E. Mr. N'Goran Niamien                   H.E. Mr. Lambert Konan Kouassi
Minister Delegate to the Office of the Prime  Minister of Agriculture and Animal
Minister With Responsibility for           Resources
the Economy, Finance and Planning



Annex D
Page 17 of 22
New Auction-based System of Allocation of Exports Rights
I.    Bidders
1.    Bidding in the new auction-based marketing system will be open to:
a) exporters;
b) international traders. Nevertheless, international traders will be limited to the amounts of
direct sales by the Stabilization Fund (CAISTAB);
c) local processors, whose right to negotiate contracts will be limited to their current
processing capacity, i.e. 180,000 tons for all grades combined. Beyond that volume, they
will bid on the same terms as exporters and international traders.
2.    New conditions to license exporters will be adopted before the auction system is
introduced. The new conditions will involve, in particular, minimum primary equity of CFAF 200
million and a joint guarantee of CFAF 100 million.
II.   Auction sessions
1.    There will be three auction sessions daily.
2.1   The first morning session will begin at 9:45 a.m.
2.2   The second morning session will begin at 11:30 a.m.
2.3   The third session will begin at 3:30 p.m.
2.4   The schedule of the sessions will be adjusted to reflect London summer time.
III.   Volumes put up for sale
1.    CAISTAB will determine the volumes of coffee and cocoa to be sold prior to the opening of
each session.
2.    The tonnages put up for auction for each delivery period and, for coffee, for each grade, will
be registered in real time by CAISTAB, but not communicated to the bidders.
3.    The volumes put up for sale and registered by CAISTAB will be made known only to the
Interministerial Monitoring Committee (see XIV).
IV. Minimum price
1.    At the start of each session, CAISTAB will publish the minimum prices for each delivery
period and grade, below which no sales shall be made.



Annex D
Page 18 of 22
New Auction-based System of Allocation of Exports Rights
2.    For cocoa, there is a minimum price per delivery period corresponding to a standard grade.
The minimum price is the London futures price, adjusted for the actual delivery date by the average
spread for the corresponding quarter.
3.    For coffee, there are four minimum prices per delivery period for grades 1 through 4. The
minimum price for coffee is the London futures price, taking into account the differential for
robusta.
V.    Bidding
1.    Bidders will have 15 minutes after the opening of the session to submit their bids.
2.9    During that 15-minute period, bids will be inaccessible to bidders and CAISTAB agents
alike.
3.    Each bidder can make only one bid per delivery period and, with regard to coffee, per grade.
4.    A bid consists of a delivery period, price, grade and tonnage.
VI.   Bid selection
1.    After the 15-minute bidding period, the system will automatically block access such that no
other bids can be received.
2.    After the expiration of the period to receive bids, the system will automatically classify the
bids received for each delivery period and grade, in decreasing order of price. In the event of
identical prices, the bids will be ranked in chronological order of their receipt.
3.    The selection criterion is the highest price if the quantity bid by that bidder exhausts the
quantity put up for sale by CAISTAB. The highest bidder must confirm the contract within the
following 30 minutes, for the volume put up for sale by CAISTAB. Nevertheless, the period to
conlfirn contracts may be revised by the Crop Season Monitoring Committee.
4.    If the highest bidder does not exhaust the quantity put up for sale, the system classifies in
decreasing order the participants with an offer above the minimum price and within the limit of the
quantity put up for sale by the Caistab. The selected participants are invited by Caistab to confirm
an export contract for the offered quantities at the second highest price registered during the bidding
period. The last selected bidder is allowed to confirm for a quantity equal to the difference between
the total quantity auctioned and the quantities awarded to the higher bidders.
5.    If there are not enough qualified bids for the entire quantity being auctioned at each session,
the remaining quantity will be carried over to a future session.



Annex D
Page 19 of 22
New Auction-based System of Allocation of E xprts Right.
6.    If a winning bidder cannot confirm the conclusion of an export contract for part or the
whole quantity authorized by Caistab, then the quantity which is not confirmed will be carried over
to a future session.
VII. Publication of bids
1.    At the end of the day CAISTAB will publish for the information of all exporters and
traders, the prices of bids authorized to negotiate a contract, by delivery period and grade. The
prices will be published by electronic messaging.
VIII. Direct sales
1.    Direct sales of cocoa by CAISTAB are limited to 15% of the production during each crop
season. Direct sales include sales to PHILBRO, i.e. 55,000 tons per year.
2.    Direct sales of coffee by CAISTAB are limited to 15% of the production during one crop
season.
3.    There are no separate auctions for direct sales. The preceding limits apply to each session.
4.    CAISTAB will assign direct sales contracts either to GEPEX, which will then assign those
contracts to the exporters on the basis of the inventories declared weekly, or to the exporter
designated by the buyer.
IX.   Financial guarantees
1.   It is essential that a system of financial guarantees be established for the new marketing
system to guarantee the commitments of exporters and traders.
2.    To that end, the validation of each authorization to export is subject to the presentation of a
financial guarantee of CFAF 25/kg for coffee or cocoa.
3.    This financial guarantee must be furnished to CAISTAB at the same time as the
confirmation of the export contract within 1 working day following the authorization to negotiate
such a contract.
4.    The financial guarantee may be secured from a financial institution domiciled in Cote
d'Ivoire or abroad.
X.    Authorizations to local processors
1.    The agreement between the Government and the local processing factories guarantees that
the Government will supply them with raw materials at the international market price. In return,



Annex D
Page 20 of 22
New Auction-based System of Allation of Exports Rights
the factories are obliged to process cocoa of a grade that does not meet Ivorian export standards,
and they have no other choice with regard to the origin of their raw materials. These factories thus
enjoy preferential treatment.
2.    The contract price for these factories is the lowest price bid above the minimum price
proposed by CAISTAB for the auction.
3.   In any event, given the volumes to be sold to the existing factories (see 1.2), the latter are
restricted to a maximum of two sessions (one in the morning and one in the afternoon), at the fixed
times, for negotiating contracts with Caistab within 30 minutes. CAISTAB has discretion with
regard to the tonnages to be sold.
4.    With regard to capacity above and beyond the current 180,000 tons, the processing factories
are subject to the same treatment as other bidders.
XI.   Confidentiality of the computerized data
In order to ensure the confidentiality of the computerized data and in particular to ensure
that bidders do not have access to bid information during the black-out period, a Confidentiality
Committee will be established.
1.    Memberip
The Confidentiality Committee will have three members appointed in their personal
capacity by the Minister of Agriculture and Animal Resources, the President and Managing
Director of CAISTAB and the President of GEPEX.
2.    Responsibilities
a) To ensure the reliability of the computer system set up to guarantee the confidentiality of bids
during the bidding period;
b) To verify that there is no access to bid information in the system during the bidding period;
c) To verify periodically that the system is running properly.
The first two tasks must be carried out in the presence of all three members.
3.    Duration of term
Committee members will be appointed for a period of six months, after which the team will be
replaced.



Annex D
Page 21 of 22
New Auction-based System of Allocation of Exports Rights
XII. Sanctions
1.    Bidders in any of the following circumstances will have their bids rejected:
a) with arrears due to CAISTAB;
b) penalized for contractual non-performance, for irregular practices, or if a guarantee is not
produced within the required timeframe, as defined in 2 to 4 below.
2.    Bidders who do not confirm three successive authorizations to negotiate will be considered
to have engaged in irregular practices. In such circumstances, these bidders will be excluded from
the auction for five working days.
3.    If a bidder defaults on a contract, CAISTAB will call in the guarantee on that contract and
the bidder will be liable for the balance between the selling price and the price at which the same
contract can be resold for prompt delivery, multiplied by the tonnage in question.
4.    If the exporter or trader is unable to produce the necessary guarantee within the required
period (Section IX.3), the sale is canceled and the bidder is excluded from the sessions for one
month.
5.    The sanctions provided for in points 2 to 4 above do not apply in the event of force majeure,
as defined by the system's internal regulations.
6.    In the event of dispute between CAISTAB and bidders, other than the commercial disputes
envisaged in the contract, The Crop Season Monitoring Committee can arbitrate. Should the
dispute persist, the Conmmittee will refer the matter to the Interministerial Committee.
XIII. Crop Season Monitoring Committee
I     Membership
The committee consists of a representative of each of the following bodies:
The Ministry of Agriculture and Animal Resources, the Ministry of Industry and Trade, the
Ministry of Raw Materials, the DCGTx, CAISTAB and private operators in the form of one
representative per occupational group:
-     producers;
-     intermediaries (traitants);
-     transporters;
-     financial institutions;
-     exporters;
-     processors.



Annex D
Page 22 of 22
- 00  ) - --    Auctionbase Sstm of Aoain+ of  ot Rigts0X   :   
i . .   .   E       ......  .    .:    i: ..........       : .       _ S 
The Committee will be chaired by the Minister of Agriculture and Animal Resources or his
alternate.
2.    Responsibilities
- Regular analysis (one meeting a month during the season) of dysfunctional areas, slippages
and unforeseen adverse effects of the system.
- Recommendation of necessary modifications and refinements to ensure the smooth running of
the new system.
- If necessary, the committee may make proposals with a view to the amicable settlement of
differences or disputes having emerged among subsector operators.
XIV. Interministerial Monitoring Committee
1. Membership
- Chairmn: the Prime Minister
-Members: the Minister of Agriculture and Animal Resources, Minister of Raw Materials,
Minister Delegate to the Prime Minister responsible for Economy, Finance and Planning
- Secretariat: CAISTAB/Office of the Prime Minister
12. Responsibilities
- Validate the statistics on harvest projections and volumes marketed, exported and processed;
-  Authorize exporters;
-  Determine the terms and conditions for the operation of each crop season (date of opening,
FOB reference price, indicative prices, date of season closing, etc.);
- Prescribe regular system audits (terms of reference, validation of regular reports, etc.);
- Analyze and implement the findings of the audits;
- Propose to subsector operators and donors all appropriate modifications, corrections and
adjustments to the system;
- Formulate the Government's policy in the area of coffee-cocoa production, marketing and local
processing



ANNE:iL
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS






Annex E
Page I of 4
Debt Service and Net Transfers to the World Bank, 1987-95
(In USS millions; by calendar year)
... ......  ......  ..  .::...............9j..::..X      :. 1 9$    19 $     95      1 9
W0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~i AM 11
..   ..........   .....    -, i;. ..   .i
Commitments           183.4      ...  316.0   184.1   450.0    15.0    23.7   553.9   125.5
Project loans       183.4      ...    66.0   104.1       ...    15.0    23.7    41.0   125.5
Program loans          ...     ...  250.0    80.0   450.0         ...     ...   512.9      ...
Disbursements         364.8   112.6   123.9   260.8   219.9   178.2    24.9   468.8    99.1
Project loans       127.1   100.3    73.8    66.2    54.3    54.3    24.9    24.0    14.1
Program loans       237.7    12.3    50.1   194.6   165.6   123.9         ...   444.8    85.0
Debt Service          198.9   285.0   248.5   262.9   319.7   316.1   336.7   342.0   207.5
Interest            124.4   154.9   135.3   139.8   168.5   159.1   155.8   145.7    87.9
Principal            74.5   130.1   113.2   123.1   151.2   157.0   180.9   196.3   119.7
Net Disbursements     290.3   -17.5    10.7   137.7    68.7    21.2  -156.0   272.5   -20.6
Net Transfers         165.9  -172.4  -124.6    -2.1   -99.8  -137.9  -311.8   126.8  -108.5



AnnexE
Page 2 of 4
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN COTE D'IVOIRE
Statement of IBRD Loans and IDA credits
(As of July 31, 1995)
or wd | | 0~~~~~~~~.                   :    0i000t          3: ~:;:  . 0 .:: .. . . . .   ...   ... ..   ... ..   . 000 00000000000 ..   . Sil .... ;;00000
Credit No. 0 Year;00;000 Borwer;:i 2 :0  :S30j_-i X: X-- ;   0 ?uros  lBfl  IDA g   Undbursed
67 loan(s) closed                                           , .385.3
Ln. 3155-0   1990     RCI   Abidjan Env. Protection           21.9                    3.3
Ln. 3186-0   1990     RCI   Forestry Sector                   80.0                   53.3
Total number of Loans =2                                     101.9                  56.6
10 credits closed                                                      620.4
Cr. 2363-0   1992     RCI   Privatization Support                        15.0        13.6
Cr. 2503-0   1993     RCI   Economic Management TA                       17.0        13.1
Cr. 2505-0   1993     RCI   Human res. Dev. Management                   6.7          6.0
Cr. 2597-0   1994     RCI   Rural Savings                                2.2          2.0
Cr. 2636-0   1994     RCI   Natural Agr. serv. Sup. Proj.               21.8        23.1
Cr.2637-0   1994      RCI   Labor Force Training Sup. Proj.              17.0        18.7
Cr. 2704-0   1995     RCI   Municipal Support 1/                        40.0        42.3
Cr. 2749-0   1995     RCI   Export Promotion 2/                          5.8          5.8
Cr. 2754-0   1995     RCI   Private Electricity 1/                      79.7        78.8
Total number of Credits =9                                             205.2       203.6
Total (IBRD and IDA) 3/                                     2487.2     825.6
of which has been repaid                                1124.6       1.2
Total now held by IBRD and IDA                              1363.3     824.4
Amount sold                                       $5.1
of which has been repaid                     $5.1
Total undisbursed                                                                  279.6
X:~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ X
1/ Not yet effective
2/ Not yet signed
3/ Total approved, repayments, and outstanding balance represent both active and
inactive loans and credits.



Annex E
Page 3 of 4
C6te d'Ivoire - Implementation Issues
Portfolio
During FY95, four IDA credits were approved by the Board, totalling US$303.4 million.
They included the Economic Recovery Credit (US$100 million complemented by a
supplemental credit of US$77.9 million under the Fifth Dimension program), the
Municipal Support credit (US$40 million), the Export Promotion and Diversification credit
(US$5.8 million) and the Private Electricity credit (US$79.7 million).
During FY95, two IBRD investment projects (Municipal Development and Pilot Women
in Development) and three IDA adjustment credits were closed (Economic Recovery,
Human Resources Adjustment, and Regulatory Reform). By the end of FY95, the active
portfolio consisted of nine IDA credits and two IBRD loans with an undisbursed balance of
US$283.8 million.
Project implementation
A Country Portfolio Performance Review was organized in December 1994. In close
collaboration with the Ivorian authorities, an action plan was agreed upon to improve
project implementation. In this context, more time was allocated by Bank staff for
supervision of investment projects. (19.4 staffweeks in FY95 compared to 17.0 staffweeks
in FY94). In addition, the Resident Mission is increasing its participation in project
supervision.



Annex E
Page 4 of 4
Statement of IFC Investments
(As of April 30, 1995)
tFiscuiil t:DS   ;:   ::   V0         0    ;;7:t $t::Ti::  :t:   : i ::  ?::  0Et}  :i;  t  :  ;: :;:Amount ih USi     million
Year       :Oblgor                                             Bulnss               an   Eq uity   T: tal
1965/78  Banque Ivoirienne de Developpement Industriel, S.A. Development Finance       ..    0.4       0.4 *
(BIDI)
1977   Ets. R. Gonfreville, S.A.                      Textiles & Fibres               ..    0.9      0.9
1979   Societe Ivoirienne d'Engrais (SIVENG)          Fertilizers                    5.1     1.3     6.4 *
1980   Moulin du Sud-Ouest                            Food & Food Processing         2.9     0.4     3.3 *
1986   Ets. R. Gonfreville, S.A.                      Textiles & Fibres              9.3      ..    9.3
1987-93  Omnium Chimique et Cosmetique, S.A.            Food & Food Processing        6.7     0.2      6.9
(COSMIVOIRE)
1987   Societe des Industries Alimentaires et Laitiers  Food & Food Processing       3.1     0.5     3.7
(SIALIM)
1988   Industrial Promotion Services                  Capital Markets                 ..    0.8      0.8
1989/93  Pechazur (AEF)                                 Food & Food Processing        1.1      ..    1.1
1990   Omnium Transformations Alimentaires (AEF)      Food & Food Processing         0.6     0.2     0.8
1990   Societe des Industries Alimentaires et Laitiers  Food & Food Processing       1.8     0.3     2.1
(SIALIM)
1991   Transformation Industrielle de Bois (TRIBOIS)  Wood & Wood Processing         0.4     0.2     0.6
(AEF)
1991    Plantivoire (AEF)                             Food & Agribusiness            1.1      .     1.1
1991   Interagri (AEF)                                Food & Agribusiness            1.0      ..    1.0
1992   Ivoire-Cafe (AEF)                              Coffee Manufacturing           0.0     0.1     0.1
1993   Block Cl                                       Oil and Gas                     ..   38.6    38.6
1994   Multiproduit (AEF)                             Grain Mill                     0.4      ..    0.4
1994   Filtisac S.A.                                  Weaving                        1.0      ..    1.0
1994   BACI                                           Capital Markets                5.3      ..    5.3
1995   CIPREL                                         Electric Power                18.5     0.8    19.3
1995   Laborex                                        Pharmaceuticals                3.1      ..    3.1
Total gross commitments:                                                    614    44.7   1062
Net Commitments now held by IFC                                             48      251
Total undisbursed (including participants portion)                          14.    2Q.      34.9
* Investments sold or written off



ANNEKE
SUPPLEMENTAL CREDIT DATA SHEET






Annex F
Page l of 3
REPUBLIC OF COTE D'IVOIRE
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
Supplemental Credit Data Sheet
Section I: Timetable of Key Processing Events
Time taken to prepare:      14 months
Project prepared by:        Government with the assistance of IDA staff
Loan Committee:             April 19, 1995
Appraisal:                  April 23 - May 5, 1995
Negotiations:               July 20 - 28, 1995
Board Presentation:         September 26, 1995
Closing Date:               December 31, 1997
This report is based on the findings of the World Bank mission which visited C6te d'Ivoire in
April 1995 to assist the Government in the appraisal of the ASAC. Mission members
included: Messrs./Mmes van Trotsenburg (Task Manager, AF4CO); Michailof (Advisor,
AF4DR); Humphreys, (Lead Economist, AF4DR); Cook (Division Chief, AF4AE); Balcet
(Agriculture); Ehoud (Resident Mission); Ballivian (Resident Economist); Labaste
(Consultant). The French Government was represented by Messrs. Marset, Supera, Ancey,
Gravellini from the Caisse francaise de Cooperation and Mr. Chartier from the Ministry of
Cooperation. The Kreditanstalt fuir Wiederaufbau (KfW) was represented by Messrs.
Fleischhacker and Duve. Messrs. Portugal, Marquet, Manceau, and Laerke represented the
European Union and Mr. Dikombe the African Development Bank. Additional contributors
from within the Bank include: Messrs./Mmes Ferrer (Principal Economist, AF3AE); Morin,
(Sr. Counsel, LEGAF); Varangis (IEC); Ngo (Research Assistant, AF4CO); and Roffe (Sr.
Staff Assistant, AF4CO). Mmes Cook and Okonjo-Iveala, and Mr. Olivier Lafourcade are
the Division Chiefs and Department Director, respectively for the operation.



Annex F
Page 2 of 3
Section II: Special Conditions
Board Conditions:
(i)  Coffee/Cocoa Sectors:
Internal Marketing: Government announcement eliminating (a) the
purchasing centers and (b) any CAISTAB or Government role in
managing the system of equalizing transport cost;
External Marketing: adoption by CAISTAB of a system through
which export rights for cocoa and coffee are auctioned off; and
agreement on terms of reference for a study evaluating options to
liberalize external marketing of coffee;
CAISTAB expenditures: reduction of CAISTAB expenditure by 40
percent to CFAF 62.8 billion for the 1995/96 crop season;
(ii)  Rice Sector:  Permission to import 45,000 tons of broken rice during a test
period between January 1, 1996 and March 31, 1997;
(iii) Trade Reform: elimination of NTBs on tobacco, coffee, synthetic textiles, and
used bags; and
(iv)  Price Reform: lifting of price controls on tobacco, fresh palm fruit bunches,
coconut, copra, and rubber.
Second Tranche Release Conditions:
(i) Coffee/Cocoa Sector:
External marketing:  compliance with the requirements established
under the system of auctioning off export rights; submission of an
intermediary report on the export marketing of coffee and definition of
the process to complete the study;
CAISTAB expenditures: agreement on CAISTAB expenditures for
1996/97 crop season; review of operations of technical reserve fund
and its allocations, and agreement to changes, if necessary;
(ii)  Rice Sector: price liberalization of ordinary rice and elimination of system of
equalization for transport costs;
(iii) Trade and Price Reform: elimination of NTBs on agricultural tools and wheat
flour, liberalization of their prices and reduction of effective protection to local
flour production to 40% or less; publication of interministerial decision,
announcing that the NTBs and price controls on sugar and cotton-grain will be
removed effective not later than the privatization of SODESUCRE and CIDT,



Annex F
Page 3 of 3
announcing that the NTBs and price controls on sugar and cotton-grain will be
removed effective not later than the privatization of SODESUCRE and CIDT,
respectively; and adoption, if necessary, of compensatory duties on wheat, flour,
jute bags, and plastic sheets determined after agreement with IDA;
(iv)  Public Expenditures in Agriculture:  adoption of an agricultural investment
budget for 1996 in line with the three-year rolling investment program and
agreement on main components of the proposed 1997 agricultural investment
program; and
(v)  Public Enterprises:
Palmindustrie: selection of successful bidders and their invitation to
negotiate for agro-industrial facilities in the south-eastern and south-
western areas of the country as well as the kernel factory in Vidri, and
offer for sale of agro-industrial facilities in the central region of the
country;
Sodesucre: offer for sale;
CIDT: adoption of privatization strategy.
Third Tranche Release Conditions:
(i)   Coffee/Cocoa Sector:
External marketing: compliance with all requirements under the system
of auctioning off export rights; adoption of action plan on external
marketing of coffee and implementation of those actions relating to the
1996/97 crop season;
CAISTAB expenditures: satisfactory review of technical reserve fund
operations during 1996/97 crop season;
(ii)  Rice Sector: elimination of import quotas on ordinary rice; based on the results
of the test period for importing broken rice, decision on measures to be taken
regarding imports of broken rice;
(iii)  Public Expenditures in Agriculture: implementation of the 1996 agricultural
investment budget agreed for second tranche release; adoption of an agricultural
investment budget for 1997 in line with the three-year rolling investment
program and agreement on main components of the proposed 1998 agricultural
investment program; and
(iv)  Public Enterprises:  selection of successful bidders and their invitation to
negotiate for remaining agro-industrial units and plantations of Palmindustrie;
and for entire company in the case of Sodesucre and CIDT.









I      a   i l 
, I  j  '        i                I".   ,;   D           ,                                         !:   j      ''      ; 
:     :,          ,;    I..       i,       : 



