Report No. PIC649
Project Name              Cote d'Ivoire-Agriculture Sector Adjustment
Region                         Africa
Sector                         Agriculture
Project ID                     CIPA35603
Implementing Agency            Government of Cote d'Ivoire
Financing Plan                 IDA: US$ 120 million
Date this PID Prepared         July 20, 1994
Projected Board Date           March 14, 1995
Country Background
1.   Cote d'Ivoire is one of the principal countries in the CFA zone,
with a population of about 13 million and a GDP of US$9.3 billion in
1993. In recession since 1986, the country faces a severe external debt
problem. High population growth coupled with economic decline has
resulted in a steady fall in living standards. GNP per capita in 1993
was about US$640, compared to well over US$1000 in the early 1980s.
2.   As the internal adjustment strategy pursued under the Bank
supported 1991-95 medium-term economic framework (MTF) fell short of
expectations, the Government decided, together with the other CFA zone
member countries, to devalue by 50 percent the CFA franc vis-a-vis the
French Franc in January 1994.
3.   The Bank and the Fund have responded quickly to the parity change
by obtaining approval from their respective Boards, during February and
March 1994, for four IDA credits totalling US$335 million equivalent,
and an agreement under the three-year Enhanced Structural Adjustment
Facility (ESAF) totalling about US$467 million equivalent. In addition,
an Economic Recovery Credit ($US100,000,000) is expected to be presented
to IDA's Board in September 1994.
Cote d'Ivoire Adjustment Program
4.   The Government has spelled out its adjustment program in a Policy
Framework Paper (PFP) for the 1994-96 period. The PFP aims at: (i)
increasing real GDP growth to an annual rate of approximately 6 percent
beginning in 1995-96,, (ii) generating sustained and increasing primary
budget surpluses, (iii) further strengthening external competitiveness
through trade, price, and regulatory reforms, (iv) intensifying human
resource development and increasing efforts to alleviate poverty, and
(v) protecting the country's natural resource base.
5.   With the decision to complement the internal adjustment measures
with a devaluation of the CFA franc, the Government is effectively
addressing some of the main obstacles for renewed growth, including the
lack of international competitiveness and unsustainable fiscal and
balance of payments deficits. This historic change in policy direction
appears indeed to have improved chances for successfully implementing
the reform program in which trade and price policies, as well as



deregulation and divestiture rank prominently.
6.   The implementation of sound macroeconomic policies and structural
reforms should lead to a better utilization of the country's existing
resources and productivity gains. The impact of these reforms would be
manifested in increases of value added and income in agriculture and
manufacturing, especially agro-industries. The ensuing recovery of the
economy is expected to stimulate the demand for labor, thus helping
reduce poverty, especially in rural areas. While volumes of traditional
exports would grow at rates consistent with their international demand,
rapidly expanding non-traditional exports would provide a source of
dynamism over the medium to long run. Under the PFP scenario, the
successful stabilization effort, coupled with the envisaged structural
measures, would be translated into improved efficiency and performance
of the tradable sector, and a marked increase in public and private
investment levels. This should result in sustained growth rates of as
much as 5 to 6 percent per annum, beginning in 1995-96.
Project objectives
7.   The proposed agricultural adjustment credit is helping the country
achieve its overall objective of restoring economic competitiveness and
broad-based sustainable growth by supporting the Government's program of
trade and domestic market liberalization and the privatization of
productive activities in the agricultural and agroindustrial sectors.
The agricultural adjustment program would complement policy reforms
undertaken, or decided upon by the Government in the PFP and supported
by several bank/IDA operations (ERC, PASCO, Privatization Project).
Project Description
8.   In line with stated Government policies, the proposed operation
would broaden and deepen the scope of previous reforms. It would
contribute to improving the efficiency and competitiveness of the
agricultural sector, and rationalize the role of the Government in
productive enterprises. All with the view to facilitate and increase
the efficiency of the country's agricultural investment program. This
program is also designed to face issues of poverty, population pressure,
low agricultural productivity and natural resource expoliation.
Activities under the Credit would:
(a) improve efficiency and competitiveness of production by
eliminating structural constraints to trade (non-tariff barriers to
imports, export taxes) affecting the growth of the export sector and the
efficiency of the agricultural and agroindustiral production sectors;
(b) reduce public sector intervention in domestic marketing and
pricing of agricultural outputs, primarily rice, coffee and cocoa and
inputs, as well as in fixing consumer prices. These measures would
improve the ability of the agricultural and agroindustrial sector to
adjust to changing internal and external circumstances and to permit the
freer interplay of market forces; and
(c) concentrate the role of the public sector in policy areas and
areas of public domain where externalities exist, thus reduce its
- 2 -



participation in the ownership and management of productive enterprises.
Project Costs and Financing
9.   A credit equivalent to US$120 million credit is proposed.    The ASAC
would be disbursed in two tranches. Tranche releases would be
contingent upon maintaining the agreed policy reform program and the
appropriate macroeconomic framework, in line with the IMF's ESAF
program.
Project Implementation
10. The adjustment operation is to be coordinated by the Ministry of
Agriculture with the support of other central ministries. Appraisal,
scheduled for December 1994, will depend on up-front decisions by the
Government concerning elimination of import restrictions, reduction
and/or elimination of export taxes, reduction of public sector
interventions in marketing and pricing of rice, coffee and cocoa, and
other domestic prices, and privatization of public sector enterprises.
Environmental Impact
11. The project has no impact on the environment.
Poverty Category
12. The proposed credit will have an indirect but positive impact on
poverty alleviation. The implementation of the proposed structural
measures will help improve growth prospects and, hence, increase
employment opportunities, especially in the rice area, and improve farm
income of coffee and cocoa smallholders.
Contact Point:       Public Information Center
The World Bank
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202)458-5454
Fax No.: (202)522-1500
Note: This is information based on an evolving project. Certain
components may not necessarily be included in the final project.
- 3 -



