Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 19528
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF COTE D'IVOIRE
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
(Credit No. 27790-IVC)
June 29, 1999
Macroeconomics Group 4
Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World
Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit                        CFA franc (CFAF)
US$1.00                              CFAF 615 (May 1999)
CFA franc 1 million      =           US$1,626
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
FISCAL YEAR OF BORROR
January 1-December 31
Vice President                Jean-Louis Sarbib, AFR
Acting Country Director       Chantal Dejou, AFC1 1
Technical Manager             Charles Humphreys, AFTM4
Task Team Leader              John McIntire, AFTM4



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AfDB                African Development Bank
ANADER              Agence Nationale d'Appui au D6veloppement Rural (Extension Agency)
ASAC                Agricultural Sector Adjustment Credit
ASAL                Agricultural Sector Adjustment Loan
BNEDT               Bureau National d'Etudes Techniques et de D6veloppernent
(Government Research and Study Group)
CAISTAB             Caisse de Stabilisation (Agricultural Stabilization Fund)
CAS                 Country Assistance Strategy
CFD                 Caisse Francaise de Developpement (French Aid Agency)
CGPP                Caisse Generale de Perequation des Prix (Rice Price Equalization Fund)
CIDT                Compagnie Ivoirienne des Textiles (Cotton Company)
CNRA                Centre National de Recherche Agronomique (Research Agency)
EU                  European Union
GDP                 Gross Domestic Product
GEPEX               Groupement Profesionnel des Exportateurs de Cafe/Cacao (Coffee-
Cocoa Exporters Association)
HIPC                Heavily Indebted Poor Countries
ICR                 Inplementation Completion Report
IDA                 International Development Agency
KfW                 Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaufbau (German Aid Agency)
NTBs                Non Tariff Barriers
PSAC                Private Sector Adjustment Credit
SAPH                Societe Africaine des Plantations d'Hevea (Rubber Plantation)
SDR                 Special Drawing Rights
SOGB                Soci6t des Caoutchoucs de Grand-Bereby (Rubber Plantation)
TSAC                Transport Sector Adjustment Credit
WTO                 World Trade Organization
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World
Bank authorization.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF COTE D'IVOIRE
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
(Credit No. 27790-IVC)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page
PREFACE..........................................................................................................................
EVALUATION SUMMARY ........................................                                                                                             ii
IMPLEMENTATION   COMPLETION  REPORT.....................................................I..
PART 1 - PROGRAM IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT ..................................................1I
A. BACKGROUND ................................................                                                                                  I
B. PROGRAM OBJECTIVESAND DESIGN .................................................2
C. ACHIEVEMENTOFPROGRAMOBJECTIVES ..................................................4
D. MAJOR FACTORSAFFECTING THE PROGRAM.                                                             ................................................7
E. BANKAND BORROWER PERFORMANCE ..................................................8
F. ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOMEAND SUSTAINABILTY ................................................. 9
G. FUTURE OPERATION ................................................                                                                             12
H. LESSONS FROMEXPERIENCE .................................................                                                                      12
Chart 1: Production, exports and FOB  price of Cocoa ..................................................                                     14
Chart 2: Production, exports and FOB  price of Coffee ..................................................                                    14
Table 1: Ex ante equilibrium  of the coffee and cocoa sectors ..................................................                              15
Chart 3: Production and lmport of Rice ..................................................                                                   16
Chart 4: Retail Price of Rice ..................................................                                                            16
PART 2 - STATISTICAL TABLES ..................................................                                                                       17
Table 1: Summary of Assessments ..................................................                                                          17
Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits ..................................................                                                      18
Table 3: Project Timetable ..................................................                                                                19
Table 4: Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual * ................................................ 19
Table 5 : Key Indicators for Project Implementation and Operation .................................................. 20
Table 6: Key Indicators for Project Operation ..................................................                                            20
Table 7: Studies Included in the Project ..................................................                                                 20
Table 8-A: Project Costs .................................................. 20
Table 8-B: Project Financing ...................                                                                                             20
Table 9: Economic Costs and Benefits .............................................. 20
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants .............................................                                                           21
Table 11:   Compliance with Operational Manual Statements ............................................. 22
Table 13: Bank Resources: Staff Missions .............................................                                                      23
APPENDICES .............................................                                                                                            24
AppendixA   Mission'sAide-Memoire ...........................................                                                                    25
Appendix B   Borrower Contribution to the ICR ...........................................                                                       28



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF COTE D'IVOIRE
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
(CREDITS NO. 27790/1-IVC)
PREFACE
1.    This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Agricultural
Sector Adjustment Credit in the Republic of C8te d'Ivoire, for which Credit No.
27790-IVC in the amount of SDR 95.8 million (US$150 million equivalent) was
approved on September 26, 1995 and made effective on October 11, 1995. A
supplementary Credit (No. 27791-IVC) in the amount of SDR 49.1 million (US$73.6
million equivalent) was approved in December 1995 under the Fifth Dimension
program.
2.    The credit closed on December 31, 1998, one year after the original closing
date. This was a three-tranche operation which was fully disbursed in March 1998.
3.    This ICR was prepared by Messrs. J. Chevallier and J. Amprou and reviewed
by the country team.
4.    This ICR is based on material in the credit file and other related documents,
discussions with World Bank staff and government officials currently or formerly
charged with project implementation. The Borrower contributed to this report by
commenting on the draft ICR and by writing its own evaluation as Appendix B.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF COTE D'IVOIRE
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
(Credit 2779-0-IVC and Credit 2779-1-IVC)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Introduction
1.    Since independence in 1960, C6te d'Ivoire has followed an export oriented
policy based on agricultural production, especially cocoa and coffee. This policy was
successful until the late 1970s, when a commodity boom generated excessive price
expectations and led to overspending and heavy borrowing. In the late 1980s Cote
d'Ivoire pursued an internal adjustment strategy, which did not achieve its objective of
restoring growth. The devaluation of the CFA franc in January 1994 was a turning
point for C8te d'Ivoire. After seven years of recession, growth resumed and
accelerated from 2 percent in 1994 to 7 percent in 1995/6 and 6 percent in 1997/8.
Renewed competitiveness and favorable terms of trade triggered a 50 percent growth
of exports from 1994 to 1997. Private investment almost doubled between 1993 and
1997.
Program objectives and description
2.    As part of the post-devaluation country assistance strategy, centered on a series
of sectoral adjustment operations to help Cote d'Ivoire fully reap the benefits of the
change in the parity, the Agricultural Sector Adjustment Credit was designed in late
1994-early 1995, with the objectives of further liberalization of the sector and
reduction in the role of Government. The program included reforms in the
coffee/cocoa and rice sectors, trade liberalization for a number of agricultural products
and inputs, privatization of key agro-industries, and streamlining of the public
investment program. The credit was designed as a three-tranche operation with co-
financing from France and Germany and with parallel actions supported by the
European Union and the African Development Bank. It was approved in September
1995. A supplementary credit was extended in December 1995 under the Fifth
Dimension program.
Implementation experience and results
3.    The Government has implemented the reformn program supported by the ASAC
in a generally satisfactory manner, though with some delays in tranche release. The
second tranche was released in December 1996 and the third tranche in March 1998.
The closing date of the credit was extended by one year to December 31, 1998. A
waiver was sought and approved for the condition on the level of effective protection
for wheat flour and for the compensatory duties for jute bags at the time of the second
tranche release. The two conditions were amended and eventually met for third
tranche. Another waiver and amendment of third-tranche conditionality was sought
and approved for the privatization of CIDT, the cotton company. The original
condition was met soon after the third-tranche disbursement.



-iii-
4.    To oversee program implementation, the Government established a Steering
Committee, including representatives from ministries and agencies concerned, under
the chairmanship of an advisor to the Prime Minister. The chairman and many
members stayed on during the entire duration of program implementation. The Prime
Minister was kept constantly informed of progress and acted when needed.
Supervision of the operation was conducted from the resident mission in COte d'Ivoire,
which contributed to maintaining a close dialogue among the Bank, the Government
and other donors.
5.    The reforms in the coffee/cocoa sector, combined with the devaluation and
favorable international prices, have helped boost cocoa production and reverse the
sharp decline in coffee production experienced during the 1990-93 period. They have
paved the way to full liberalization of external trade which became effective on
October 1, 1998 for coffee, and is expected to be implemented a year after for cocoa.
The liberalization in the rice sector has been beneficial to consumers and producers
alike. lmports and domestic production have increased and prices have remained
stable. The liberalization of other products and inputs is now achieved. The
privatization of key agro-industries has halted a long process of deterioration for lack
of resources and autonomy; the agroindustrial privatizations have also provided needed
financing for the government budget deficit while removing future operating losses
from the government account. Investment has picked up, as the new owners have
started a much needed rehabilitation process. The public investment program in
agriculture has improved, even though some quarters in Government fought hard for
inclusion of a few investments with dubious viability.
6.    The outcome of the operation is satisfactory, and the changes brought about
during its implementation are sustainable. It has contributed to a reduction of the
pervasive intervention of Government in the sector. The long tradition of government
paternalism, which has stifled private initiative, is giving way to a new approach
emphasizing the role of the private sector, including producers' organizations.
Lessons from experience
*  Starting the operation from a stronger macroeconomic position, resulting from the
devaluation of the CFA, allowed much a greater positive impact from this
operation than its predecessor ASAL.
*  A gradualist approach was adopted during the design stage to ensure that all key
stakeholders would be and remain on board.
*  Supervision was conducted from the field, which helped maintain close
coordination among all partners.
*  Staff continuity on both sides contributed to the smooth implementation of the
program.
*  A monitoring and evaluation system should have been put in place at the outset of
the operation.
*  More efforts should have been made to disseminate information well beyond the
small group of government technocrats involved in program implementation.



-iv-
* Detailed papers written by Bank economists during implementation were important
in maintaining a high-quality technical dialogue, notably in the supervision of the
cotton, coffee, and cocoa sectors.



-1-
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF COTE D'IVOIRE
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
(Credit 2779-0-IVC and Credit 2779-1-IVC)
PART 1 - PROGRAM IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A. BACKGROUND
1.    On January 12, 1994, C6te d'Ivoire, along with other members of the CFA
franc zone, devalued their common currency, the CFA franc, from its fixed parity of 50
CFA francs per French franc to a new parity of 100 CFA francs per French franc. The
devaluation took place after a prolonged period of economic recession in the 13 CFA
zone member countries, resulting from a deterioration of the terrns of trade and a
significant appreciation of the CFA franc since the mid-eighties. The devaluation was
a turning point for Cote d'Ivoire. After seven years of recession, growth resumed and
accelerated from 2 percent in 1994 to 7 percent in 1995/6 and 6 percent in 1997.
Renewed competitiveness and favorable terms of trade triggered a 50 percent growth
of exports from 1994 to 1997. Private investment almost doubled between 1993 and
1997.
2.    Since independence in 1960, C6te d'Ivoire has followed an export oriented
policy based on agricultural production, especially cocoa and coffee. This policy was
highly successful until the late 1970s, when a commodity boom generated excessive
expectations and led to overspending and heavy borrowing. In 1981, C6te d'Ivoire
initiated an adjustment program supported by the Bank. Good progress was made,
but, starting in 1985, the CFA franc appreciated sharply in relation to the US dollar.
This was soon aggravated by the collapse of cocoa and coffee prices. The situation
would have called for a devaluation, but this was not considered an option by the
members of the monetary union at the time. In the absence of this option, Cote
d'Ivoire pursued an internal adjustment policy to re-establish the competitiveness of its
economy, but it proved insufficient to stop the economic decline. During that period,
the Bank extended a series of adjustment loans, including the Agricultural Sector
Adjustment Loan (ASAL) approved in 1989. The main objective of this loan was to
increase the competitiveness of agriculture through a series of measures intended to
improve the domestic terms of trade in favor of agriculture, reduce costs in the agro-
industrial sector and limit public sector involvement in productive activities. As noted
in the Project Completion Report for the ASAL issued in 1994, good progress was
made in a number of areas, including liberalization of domestic trade, elimination of
rent-seeking activities and rationalization of public investment. However, the
adjustment loan could not achieve its objective of restoring growth in the agriculture
sector, in the absence of a change in the parity of the CFA franc.
3.    Following the devaluation of the CFA franc in 1994, Cote d'Ivoire was
declared eligible for IDA credits only. The Government reformulated its adjustment
program and a new Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) was presented to the Board in
June 1994. Its main priorities were to achieve macroeconomic stability, promote



-2-
private sector development, and improve the efficiency of resources in the social
sectors. In view of Cote d'Ivoire's high indebtedness, including to the Bank, the CAS
proposed exceptionally high support, mostly through adjustment lending. The first
adjustment operation was a one-tranche Economic Recovery Credit approved in
October 1994. It was followed by sectoral adjustment operations in agriculture,
transport, private sector development and finance. Building on results achieved by the
ASAL, the Agricultural Sector Adjustment Credit (ASAC) was the first sectoral
operation to be approved (September 1995). It was followed by a Private Sector
Adjustment Credit (PSAC) approved in FY96 and a Transport Sector Adjustment
Credit (TSAC) approved in FY98.
B. PROGRAM OBJECTIVES AND DESIGN
4.    Program objectives. The Agricultural Sector Adjustment Credit aimed at
deepening the reforms supported by the ASAL in the areas of trade liberalization,
farmers' incentives and public sector role. More specifically, its objectives were to (i)
reduce export taxation of cocoa and coffee consistent with a viable macroeconomic
framework, (ii) improve the efficiency and transparency of internal and external
marketing of cocoa and coffee as well as the operations of the Agricultural
Stabilization Fund (CAISTAB), (iii) liberalize rice imports and reduce Government
intervention in the sector, (iv) remove a series of non-tariff barriers and price controls
in the agricultural sector, (v) improve the programming and execution of the
agricultural public investment program, and (vi) privatize the principal agro-industries
in rubber, palm oil, sugar, and cotton. The successful implementation of the reform
program was expected to create the conditions for renewed agricultural growth,
increased employment opportunities and enhanced incomes for cocoa and coffee
producers.
5.    Program designing and cofinancing. The proceeds of the credit (US$150
million) were disbursed in three tranches: US$60 million upon effectiveness and two
tranches of US$45 million each after a satisfactory performance review. France and
Germany cofinanced the program with a Caisse Francaise de Developpement (CFD)
credit of FF300 million (about US$60 million) and a Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaufbau
(KfW) credit of DM30 million (about US$21 million equivalent). The African
Development Bank (AfDB) supported the establishment of a monitoring system for the
program through a grant approved in September 1997. The operation was appraised
in April 1995 and approved in September 1995. A supplementary credit of US$74
million was approved in December. 1995 under the Fifth Dimension program.
Reform in the Cocoa/Coffee Sector
6.    Cote d'Ivoire is the leading world producer of cocoa, accounting for about one
third to 40 percent of world production. Cocoa and coffee production is the main
source of income for about 600,000 small farmers. In 1994 these two crops accounted
for 16 percent of GDP, 46 percent of exports and 30 percent of government receipts.
Building on reforms implemented under the ASAL, the ASAC sought to raise output
and improve farmers' incomes through a series of measures intended to give farmers an
increased share of world prices, including actions to reduce market inefficiencies,
increase the transparency of CAISTAB operations, and lower export taxation. These



-3-
actions were viewed as steps leading gradually to full liberalization over time. More
specifically, the credit supported the following reforms:
(a)   Internal marketing: elimination of CAISTAB's costly intervention in
setting uniform, national prices at three points of the marketing chain
and of its purchasing centers, which were in charge of the distribution
of bags and the certifying of transport allowances designed to preserve
the pan-territorial policy for producer prices.
(b)    External marketing: introduction of more transparency and efficiency
in CAISTAB export operations. CAISTAB intervened in the export
markets for coffee and cocoa through a system of forward sales that
was intended to introduce more certainty and stability in fixing a
reference export price. It assigned export rights to private exporters in
a discretionary way. The reforms supported by ASAC included
auctioning off export rights and limitation of direct sales by CAISTAB
to 15 percent of one season's cocoa and coffee production.
(c)   CAISTAB's expenditures: reduction of CAISTAB's expenditure
through withdrawal from internal marketing activities, elimination of
subsidies and transfer of all expenditures of a budgetary nature to the
state budget. The objective was to reduce CAISTAB's expenditures by
25 percent in the first year, with the next reduction to be agreed upon
as condition of second tranche release. The credit also supported a
streamlining of the stabilization fund introduced in 1993/94 to cover
price fluctuations. The amount of this fund was capped and the
functioning of the fund was to be reviewed as a condition of second and
third tranche release.
(d)   Export taxes: reduction of export taxes to be agreed upon annually
during program implementation. Following the devaluation, the
Government reintroduced a fixed tax on coffee and cocoa (equivalent
to about 20 percent and 30 percent respectively of export price).
Revenues from these taxes together with CAISTAB's stabilization
surpluses were equivalent to 30 percent of total government revenues in
1994.
Reform in the Rice Sector
7.    The Government's rice policy aimed at increasing domestic production with a
view to attaining self-sufficiency. Before the devaluation, the border price of imported
rice was substantially below the domestic price. A price equalization fund (Caisse
Generale de Perdquation des Prix - CGPP) collected the price differential and held a
monopoly on granting import quotas to rice importers. CGPP also managed a security
stock and a transport equalization scheme to maintain a uniform official price
throughout the country. CGPP earned substantial surpluses before the devaluation.
The devaluation made domestic rice production competitive and the Government
formulated a new rice policy. Under the ASAC, the Government agreed to liberalize



-4-
imports (quotas were to be eliminated by January 1, 1997, except for 100 percent
broken rice) and eliminate the transport equalization scheme (second tranche
condition). In January 1995 CGPP was liquidated.
Trade and Domestic Price Reform
8.    Since 1989, the Government has gradually liberalized its trade regime. A tariff
reform was implemented at the time of the 1994 devaluation, creating a structure in the
0-35 percent range and reducing the average weighted tariff on taxable imports from
27 percent in 1990 to 19 percent. Under the ASAC, Government undertook to further
remove non tariff barriers (NTBs) on a number of agricultural products, tools and
inputs. It also agreed to lift domestic price controls on these items. The NTBs and
price controls on sugar and seed cotton were to be removed when privatization of the
two parastatals concerned was completed (second and third tranche release). The only
major local agro-industry that would continue to enjoy extra protection was the flour
milling industry, but effective protection was not to exceed 40 percent
Public Divestiture
9.   In the 1970s the Government pursued an aggressive agriculture diversification
strategy through investment in public enterprises. The strategy was successful in its
early stages, but over-investment (particularly in rice and sugar) and high levels of
protection when the CFA franc became overvalued led to inefficiencies. In addition
many of these public enterprises were asked to perform a development role through
the delivery of extension and social services and the provision of rural infrastructure.
Under the ASAC, the Government agreed to divest itself from all major agricultural
parastatals, including those in charge of rubber (SOGB, SAPH), oil palm
(PALMINDUSTRIE), sugar (SODESUCRE) and cotton (CIDT).
Public Investment
10.   Public investment fell to a low 2.5 percent of GDP during the period 1990/93.
Following the devaluation, the sharp reduction in real wages and fiscal reform gave
room for an expanded investment budget. At the Consultative Group Meeting in June
1995, the Government presented a revised public investment program for agriculture.
Adoption and implementation of annual budgets in line with this program were
conditions for second and third tranche release.
C. ACHIEVEMENT OF PROGRAM OBJECTIVES
Macroeconomic stability
11.   The Government has controlled inflation following the parity change and has
maintained the competitiveness gains from the devaluation. It has met its revenue and
expenditure targets and maintained primary surpluses of about 3.1 percent of GDP in
both 1996 and 1997. This was achieved through tax reform and expenditure control.
The public sector wage bill fell from 11 percent of GDP in 1993 to 6 percent in 1997.
With support from donors and creditors, the Government has managed its external
debt effectively.



-5-
Reform in the Cocoa and Coffee Sector
12.   The reforms under ASAC, combined with the devaluation and favorable
international prices, have helped boost cocoa production and reverse the sharp decline
in coffee production experienced during the 1990-93 period. Cote d'Ivoire has
capitalized on the new cocoa plantings of the mid-to-late 1980s that came to maturity
in recent years. With favorable weather, cocoa output rose from 830,000 tons during
the 1993/94 crop season to an average of 1.145 million tons during the last three crop
years (1995/1998). Coffee production reached a record 290,000 tons in 1996/97 and
maintained a stable level of 250,000 tons in 1997/98.
13.  Internal marketing. The planned reforms were achieved. The CAISTAB
purchasing centers were eliminated at the beginning of the 1995/96 crop season.
Coffee and cocoa domestic marketing is now completely liberalized, resulting in
greater marketing efficiency. The management of the transport cost allowance system
was transferred to the private sector. Reforms consisted of providing
exporters/processors with an allocation under their direct management, with ex-post
assessment by the exporters' association (GEPEX).
14.   External marketing. The program objectives were met. The auction system
was adopted and started in May 1996. It has improved the transparency and efficiency
of external marketing. With this system, the Government now auctions export rights.
CAISTAB involvement is limited to the definition of the quantity of export rights
offered at each session and the opening minimum bid price. A statistical analysis of the
distribution of cocoa prices in the Abidjan auction found them to be closely linked to
London market prices, indicating the auction mechanism has helped to improve market
efficiency. The limitation of CAISTAB direct sales to 15 percent of one season's
production was met for cocoa (8.8 percent in 1995/96) and partially met for coffee (19
percent for 1995/96). In 1996/97 CAISTAB sold about 10 percent of the combined
cocoa and coffee production. In line with the recommendations of an independent
study on the liberalization coffee exports completed in 1997, the Government decided
to fully liberalize coffee exports as of October 1, 1998.
15.   CAISTAB's expenditures and export taxes. The ASAC objectives were met.
As the result of measures supported by ASAC, CAISTAB's expenditures dropped
from about CFAF 100 billion in 1994/95 to CFAF 64 billion in 1995/96 and to CFAF
53 billion for 1997/98. In line with ASAC objectives, the stabilization fund did not
exceed CFAF 35 billion during the 1995/96 campaign, and after detailed consultations
between Govermnent and IDA, it was agreed to maintain it at CFAF 50 billion during
the 1997/98 season. Export taxes on cocoa fell from CFAF 200/kg in 1995/96 to
CFAF 150/kg in 1996/97 and 1997/98. Export taxes on coffee fell from CFAF 200/kg
to CFAF 110/kg in 1995/96 and to a nominal CFAF 10/kg in 1996/97 and thereafter.
The Government intends to maintain the DUS, relative to the FOB prices, at the
current rates of about 20 percent for cocoa and 1.5 percent for coffee for the
foreseeable future, although total export taxes will be higher once other levies are
added to the DUS.



-6-
Reform in the Rice Sector
16.   The liberalization in the rice sector has continued well. CGPP was liquidated in
January 1995 and rice imports were transferred to the private sector, under quotas to
be maintained until January 1, 1997. The Government liberalized the price of ordinary
rice as of January 1, 1996 and eliminated the equalization of transport costs. The
NTBs on ordinary price and broken rice were removed in January 1997. The import
ban on 100 percent broken rice was lifted and the import of up to 45,000 tons was
allowed during a test period. The test proved successful and imports of 100 percent
broken rice were fully liberalized in January 1997. Rice imports have increased from
an average of 310,000 tons in the 1980s to over 450,000 tons in recent years, mostly
to feed urban consumers.
Trade and Domestic Price Reform
17.   All NTBs on agriculture and related products have been removed, except for
products deserving protection for environmental or public health reasons. In August
1995, the Government eliminated NTBs on tobacco, coffee, synthetic textiles and used
bags as Board condition of the ASAC. In March 1996, it removed NTBs on
agricultural tools and wheat flour. It lifted NTBs and price controls on sugar when the
privatization of the sugar parastatal (SODESUCRE) was completed in June 1997;
NTBs and price controls on cotton cloth were lifted after the sale of CIDT's ginneries
in 1998.
18.   The NTBs and price controls on flour wheat were removed in March 1996, but
the Government introduced a revised tariff, including a spread of 20 percent between
wheat (10 percent) and wheat flour (30 percent), resulting in an effective protection
rate of 110 percent, much higher than the level agreed under ASAC. The Government
sought a waiver at the time of second tranche release, arguing that subsidies to the
European milling industry and implicit dumping practices should be integrated into the
basic tariff structure. Given the delays in setting appropriate compensatory duties and
filing for dumping with the World Trade Organization (WTO), the Bank granted the
waiver and agreed to amend the condition which provided that the Government would
commission a study by international consultants to devise an appropriate protection
level and structure and implement its conclusions in 1998. The study was completed in
November 1998. In keeping with the study's recommendations, the Government
adopted a tariff of 10 percent on wheat and 20 percent on wheat flour in December
1997, resulting in a rate of effective protection of 60 %. While this exceeds 40%, the
Bank accepted this measure as satisfactory for third tranche on the grounds that it was
consistent with Cote d'Ivoire's regional trade agreements.
19.   The introduction of compensatory duties on importation of jute bags and
plastic sheets in the 1996 budget was postponed from the second to the third tranche.
On the basis of a study of jute bag protection, and following consultations with the
WTO, the Government adopted compensatory duties of CFAF 200 per jute bag on
imports exclusively from Bangladesh, which, the study had shown, was the only
exporter giving export subsidies.



-7-
Public Enterprise Divestiture
20.   The privatization program has been fully implemented. The Government
completed the privatization of the two rubber companies (SOGB and SAPH) in 1995.
This sector enjoys a strong international comparative advantage and less than two
years after privatization, the two companies reported substantial profits. The bidding
for PALMINDUSTRIE attracted intense competition and yielded a substantial profit
to the Government. The agro-industry was split into five complexes, which were sold
to three private companies in December 1996. The privatized complexes are expected
to be profitable, benefiting both smallholders and agro-industrial firms. The
Government sold SODESUCRE in July 1997, but gave the buyers a highly favorable
import tariff and reference price structure. The Government is committed, however, to
review the amount of protection after a minimum of five years and a maximum of eight
years.
21.   The selection of successful bidders and their invitation to negotiate for CIDT
was a condition of third tranche release. Because of expected delays in bid analysis,
the Government requested a waiver based on publication of bid documents. The
waiver was granted. The Government's strategy consisted on privatizing six of
CIDT's 10 ginneries, which had been separated into three lots (northwest, northeast
and "CIDT nouvelle"). During an interim period of two years, the "CIDT nouvelle"
will continue to handle extension, credit and primary marketing, as well as four cotton
ginneries. At the end of the transition period, input supply, extension, credit and
primary marketing will be fully liberalized and the Government will further decide on
the fate of the mills held by the "CIDT nouvelle". The six ginneries have been sold in
two lots (three each in the Northwest and Northeast) in August 1998 at a very
favorable price The new ginnery owners are now (December 1998) negotiating the
1998/99 seedcotton price with growers' organizations.
Public Investment Program
22.   The Borrower prepared a three-year rolling public investment program for
1997/99. Throughout ASAC supervision intensive discussions took place on three
social funds in agriculture and two programs aimed at developing turnkey plantations
for young farmers and irrigated areas for rice production. The three social funds for
agriculture were created following the 1994 CFAF devaluation, together with other
social funds in other sectors, to provide a safety net to vulnerable groups. The three
funds were designed to give subsidized credit to farmers and focused on export
promotion, young farmers and livestock. These funds were poorly managed, with low
repayment rates. The Government agreed to phase them out and to discontinue
resource allocation in the 1999 budget. The two turnkey plantation and rice
developement programs were insufficiently prepared and the Government agreed,
albeit with considerable reluctance, not to fund them at the levels initially planned.
D. MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE PROGRAM
23.   The Government has implemented the reform program supported by the ASAC
in a generally satisfactory manner, though with persistent delays and with poor
ownership of reforms in many instances. The second tranche was released in January



-8-
1997 and the third tranche in March 1998. The closing date of the credit was extended
by one year to December 31, 1998. A waiver was sought and approved for the
condition on the level of effective protection for wheat flour and for the compensatory
duties for jute bags at the time of the second tranche release. The two conditions were
amended and eventually met for third tranche. As indicated earlier, another waiver and
amendment of conditionality was sought and approved for the privatization of CIDT,
though the condition was fully met soon after disbursement of the final tranche.
24.   The major risk foreseen in implementing the operation was that the
Government might yield to vested interests opposed to reforms. There was internal as
well as external opposition to reform. Non Ivoirian interests were the most vocal and
were instrumental in delaying some key reforms. The flour mill industry, a monopoly
controlled by a foreign interest since 1962, lobbied hard to maintain a high level of
protection, the jute bag factory insisted on high import duties on jute bags, and the
French public minority partner in CIDT used delaying tactics to maintain its control
over the industry. Within the administration, the CAISTAB repeatedly delayed
implementation of agreed reforms in the conduct of the cocoa and coffee price
stabilization programs.
25.   To oversee program implementation, the Government established a Steering
Committee, including representatives from all ministries and agencies concerned, as
well as from producers' organizations, under the chairmanship of an advisor to the
Prime Minister. The chairman and many members stayed on during the entire duration
of program implementation. The committee met on a monthly basis to monitor
implementation of program activities. Donors' representatives were invited to attend
committee's meetings on an ad hoc basis. The committee helped ensure a smooth
program implementation. The Prime Minister was kept constantly informed of
progress and stepped in when needed. However, control of certain key issues --
notably concerning the cotton, coffee, and cocoa sectors -- was maintained to some
extent outside the Steering Committee by the CIDT and CAISTAB.
26.   Supervision of the operation was conducted from the resident mission in Cate
d'Ivoire. This contributed to maintaining a close dialogue between the Bank, the
Government and the donors. A number of studies were commissioned during program
implementation to help establish a consensus among partners. Funding for these
studies was provided under the two ongoing technical assistance credits (economic
management and privatization). In addition, the resident economist wrote several
technical papers (informal ESW) that were used as the basis for technical dialogue
during implementation.
E. BANK AND BORROWER PERFORMANCE
27.   The Bank's performance in the identification, preparation, appraisal and
supervision of the operation was fully satisfactory. At the time of program
preparation, there were deep concerns among government agencies and external
donors on the appropriate pace of liberalization in the sector. There was great
reluctance in the public sector to relinquish control. The donors active in the
agriculture sector, namely the EU, CFD and KfW, had all their own views on what
should be done, and, more importantly, what should not be done. The debate was at



-9.-
times tense. Under these circumstances, the Bank team took great care during
program preparation to establish a broad consensus among all partners, local and
external. A donors' meeting was organized in March 1995. A gradualist approach
was adopted to ensure that all partners remained on board throughout the operation.
28.   During program supervision, the close cooperation established among donors
continued. It was facilitated by the presence of the main protagonists in the field. Two
task managers were responsible for supervising program implementation, both based in
the resident mission in Cote d'Ivoire. This ensured permanent dialogue with the
technicians and the authorities. Progress reviews were conducted at regular intervals.
During these reviews, highly specialized expertise was called upon when needed.
Several studies were commissioned on key aspects of the program, including coffee
liberalization and protection of the flour milling and jute bag industries.
29.   The performance of the Borrower has been generally satisfactory throughout
the program's life. As indicated earlier, the Borrower established a Steering
Committee for this operation and maintained a considerable amount of staff continuity.
Through the committee's chair, the Prime Minister was constantly kept informed on
progress, and he stepped in whenever difficult decisions were required. At times, he
had. to overcome strong resistance to change, as several government officials and
managers of public agencies concerned were reluctant to lose influence or afraid of
dire consequences for the farmers and the consumers. Eventually, the liberalization
agenda supported by the adjustment credit was implemented without any of the
negative impacts feared by those resisting change.
30.   A negative aspect of the Borrower's performance has been the failure to
develop strong ownership of reforms or to advance powerful counter-arguments where
the government genuinely believes that the reforms will be detrimental. This is seen, for
example, in the extended discussions of the public expenditure programs, in the
liberalization of coffee exports, in wheat import policy, where government resisted
apparently well-justified reforms without marshaling strong quantitative evidence in
favor of its position. Another illustration is the government's interim reports on overall
progress with the operation; these reports were technically weak and reflected only
mechanical compliance with project conditionality, rather than serving as the basis for a
statement and defense of the government's position, including an evaluation of its
positive effects.
F. ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME AND SUSTAINABILITY
31.   During appraisal no attempt was made to define performance indicators to
measure the impact of the program, and, despite KfW's insistence, no mechanism was
established early on to monitor and evaluate results. During the course of program
implementation the Bureau National d'Etudes Techniques et de Developpement
(BNETD), a government agency reporting directly to the President was requested to
develop a monitoring and evaluation system. In April 1997 BNETD formulated a
detailed proposal focusing on the program's impact on agricultural prices, household
incomes, farming systems, agro-industries and farmers' organizations. It also
reconstituted a pre-program situation against which progress would be measured. The
BNETD proposal was eventually funded by an AfDB grant approved in September



-10-
1997, and a Government contribution. Due to delays in grant effectiveness, however,
most of the work remains to be done. It is expected that the impact study will be
available by end-1999.
32.   During program preparation there was considerable uneasiness with the
proposed reforms, particularly as concerns trade liberalization and privatization of
agro-industries. Government officials were concerned that middlemen would take
advantage of farmers in the coffee and cocoa trade, that the quality of coffee and cocoa
would decline, that international trading houses with easy access to credit would wipe
out local competition, and that there would be massive defaults among exporters
unable to deliver the quantities of coffee and cocoa at the price they bid for. In the rice
sector, there were fears that the market would be flooded by cheap imports and that
price volatility for urban consumers would increase with the planned reduction of the
government-managed security stock. Government officials were also concerned that
the new owners of agro-industries would neglect outgrowers.
33.   None of the dire consequences of trade liberalization and privatization of agro-
industries, which were announced in some quarters, materialized. The reforms in the
coffee/cocoa internal and external trade have not brought about major changes to
farmers so far. Their share in international prices has remained stable, and at a low
level, between 45 and 55 percent. The elimination of the uniform pricing policy across
the country has not yet resulted in significant differences in farmgate prices. It is not
clear whether the reforms had any impact on the quality of the exports of coffee or
cocoa. The number of buyers and exporters has increased and the share of
cooperatives in the collection of coffee and cocoa has climbed from 22 to 29 percent
during the last season (1997/98). The reforms have reduced the role of CAISTAB in
the coffee/cocoa trade and introduced more transparency in the sector. They have set
the stage for full liberalization, which is effective since October 1, 1998 for coffee, and
is expected to be introduced a year later for cocoa. In anticipation of that reform, on
October 14, 1998, the Government has announced that the farmgate price of cocoa
would be increased from CFAF 455 to 575 per kilo. Farmers are thus expected to
increase their share in international prices from 52 percent in 1997/98 to 60 percent in
1998/99. It is significant to note that, in announcing this new price, the Government
emphasized that farmers' incomes would increase by about CFAF 132 billion, an
amount that is significantly higher than the surplus officially reported by CAISTAB for
the entire coffee and cocoa trade in 1996/97 (CFAF 80 billion) and 1997/98 (CFAF 92
billion). This shows that there is still progress to be made to achieve full transparency
and accountability in CAISTAB's operations. In any event, this issue will become less
important when full liberalization of the sector has been completed as the discretionary
authority of CAISTAB will have been removed.
34.   As indicated in paragraph 16 above, imports of rice have increased. Local
production has also increased by about 12 percent from 1991/93 to 1995/97. The
consumer price of rice has remained stable in the past four years. During program
preparation the Bank team argued that lifting the ban on imports of 100 percent broken
rice was highly desirable as a means to reduce price to consumers and thus alleviate
urban poverty. The Government strongly resisted this move on grounds that cheaper
broken rice imports would destabilize local production. At the same time, some
government officials argued that Ivorians would not consume 100 percent broken rice.



-11-
The ban was eventually lifted, but cheap rice imports did not materialize. Expectations
on the Bank side and fears on the Government side were exaggerated, as reality has
shown that it is difficult to change consumption habits.
35.   During implementation of the agricultural sector reform program the quality of
public investment in the sector improved slightly, owing mainly to the privatization of
the principal public agroindustrial complexes. Progress was also made in the execution
rate of public investment in agriculture. This rate increased from a low 36 percent
during the period 1991-93 to 72 percent during the period 1995-97. In constant 1997
CFA Francs, however, this did not make a big difference, as annual public investment
in the agriculture sector remained almost at the same low level of about CFAF 2200
per capita per annum. Further improvements are needed in the planning system to
screen investments on profitability and public goods criteria and to ensure the prompt
implementation of appropriate investments.
36.   The privatization of rubber and palm oil industries went smoothly. It halted a
long process of deterioration due to a lack of resources and autonomy. The new
owners of the companies have started the rehabilitation process. The fear that they
would neglect outgrowers proved unfounded. Thanks to favorable international prices
until the impact of the Asian crisis began to be felt in 1998, outgrowers were able to
sell their output under more favorable conditions than before privatization.
Overstaffing was a problem before privatization. It is expected to be gradually taken
care of through attrition, and the opening up of employment opportunities as new
investment takes place. Privatization did not solve a longstanding issue, however.
Land was taken from local communities when the Government established the
plantations decades ago. The local communities were expecting that they would get
the land back through the privatization process. They were disappointed as this did
not happen. This issue should have been addressed during the preparation of the
privatization strategy for the plantations.
37.   During the privatization of SODESUCRE in July 1997, the government gave
the buyers a highly favorable import tariff and reference price structure. One result of
this protection is that consumer prices of sugar rose more than 25 % soon after
privatization of SODESUCRE and have stayed at a high level since. This implies that
the profit realized by the government on the sale of SODESUCRE was to an important
degree a tax on sugar consumers.
38.   During the privatization of some of CIDT's assets in 1998, the government had
to decide how to use the residual in the cotton price stabilization fund. There had been
no clear guidelines in the privatization dossier and the issue soon because importantly
politically, as the producers insisted that the money be returned to them, a move which
was resisted by the management and some shareholders of CIDT. Another important
lesson is that the privatization process needs to evaluate all assets, including financial
ones, so that holders of the latter receive equitable treatment from privatization.
39.   The outcome of the operation is overall satisfactory, and the changes brought
about during its implementation are sustainable. It has contributed to a reduction of
the pervasive intervention of Government in the sector. Its overwhelming presence in
the trade of coffee, cocoa and rice is on the wane. The long tradition of government



-12-
paternalism, which has stifled private initiative, is giving way to a new approach
emphasizing the role of producers' organizations in the collection of output, as well as
in the management of support services. Under a recently approved IDA credit for the
financing of the Second National Agricultural Services Support Project, the
Government has transferred the control and funding of the two agencies (CNRA and
ANADER) in charge of agricultural research and extension to farmers' organizations.
G. FUTURE OPERATION
40.   The Agricultural Sector Adjustment Credit has contributed to a broad advance
in trade liberalization. With the liberalization of cocoa trade expected in October
1999, all agricultural exports will be liberalized. All agricultural inputs are now
liberalized. Food imnports are liberalized, with two exceptions, however, sugar and
wheat flour. Protection of sugar will be phased out after a five-to-eight year transition
period. Further reduction of the effective protection granted to wheat flour is not
under consideration, however. The credit has also contributed to a better
understanding by policy makers on how to use compensatory duties in case of
dumping. The privatization of agroindustries was well managed and the large
investment made by the Government in the first two decades of independence in this
area is now more likely to generate satisfactory retums to the economy. The public
investment program in the sector is of better quality, reflecting an increased capacity of
the Ministries of Agriculture and Planning. Further progress is being made in ensuring
better consistency between investment and recurrent expenditures, with the
introduction of a single budget for 1999.
41.   Two operations will consolidate the results achieved by the Agricultural Sector
Adjustment Credit. The Second National Agricultural Services Support Project,
approved in July 1998, will support the strengthening of farmers' organizations, which
is a key to ensuring that a larger share of international prices accrues to producers.
The credit is the first phase of a three-phase program aimed at accelerating
technological change and generating sustained productivity increases in agriculture
through the decentralization of agricultural services institutions. Eventually, farmers'
organizations are expected to be the majority stakeholders of agriculture research and
extension institutions. The second operation -- the Structural Adjustment Grant --
which is under preparation under the HIPC initiative is expected to help complete the
liberalization of the coffee/cocoa trade through the privatization of CAISTAB and the
strengthening of farmers' organizations.. It will also further improve the quality of
public spending and reinforce the financial sector, which has been subject to excessive
risks from coffee/cocoa export financing.
H. LESSONS FROM EXPERIENCE
42.   In the preparation and supervision of the credit, great care has been taken to
establish and maintain a consensus among local stakeholders and external partners.
The preparation team made the deliberate choice to opt for a reform path that was
feasible and acceptable to all partners, even it meant a less ambitious agenda than
initially envisaged. Funding was available during program implementation to finance
studies that helped partners reach consensus on difficult or controversial issues. Close



-13-
coordination was maintained among donors throughout program implementation, with
the exception of the initiative taken by the Bretton Woods institutions in early 1998 to
press for full liberalization of the coffee/cocoa trade. The other donors, support the
principle and share the Bank's opinion that it should be carefully prepared with
appropriate transition measures. As the Government agreed to move ahead, however,
the other donors have accepted to follow its lead.
43.   Staff continuity on both sides has been an important factor in the successful
implementation of this adjustment program. The presence of the task manager
responsible for credit supervision has been also an factor in maintaining a close degree
of cooperation between the various partners throughout program implementation.
44.   During program implementation. the Bank demonstrated flexibility in agreeing
to waivers for the release of both the second and third tranche. Such flexibility was
essential for the overall success of Cote d'Ivoire's reform efforts, as timely Bank
disbursements were crucial for helping meet an extremely tight debt payment schedule.
The flexibility paid off as initial conditions were met in each case not long after tranche
release.
45.   A monitoring and evaluation system has been put in place at the end of
implementation. The Bank should have insisted on the need to establish a mechanism
to measure the impact of the reforms supported by the credit at its inception.
46.   More efforts should have been made to disseminate information beyond the
narrow circle of the membership of the Steering Committee. The privatization
component was the only one for which a deliberate public information campaign was
launched, making it much better accepted by public opinion than would have been the
case without it. As noted earlier, though, more care should have been taken to discuss
the program with the local commnunities in the vicinity of the plantations to be
privatized.
47.   The government showed itself to be too favorable to the interests of the buyers
of the privatized companies, notably for cotton and sugar, because it assigned too high
a weight to the fiscal revenues expected from privatizations compared to the possible
loss of consumer welfare (sugar) and producer welfare (seed cotton). More analytic
work needs to be done on both the Bank and the Borrower sides to balance the state's
fiscal interests against those of producers and consumers.



-14-
Chart 1: Production, exports and FOB price of Cocoa
1400                                                             800
1600~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0
400~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0
SWS
0                                                             0
91192   92/93   93/94   94/95   96/96   96/97   97198
| _Pmducion  r Exportsofbeans  -+--FOBPrce
Source: Ministry of Agricu}lure, Republic of C8te d'lvoire
Chart 2: Production, exports and FOB price of Coffee
300                                              ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1200
250                                              ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1000
200                                               Soo~~~~~~~~~~~~~0
a
iso                                              ~~~~~~~~~600~
100                                              ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~400
50                                               ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~200
0                                                                0
91/92   92/93   93/94   94/96   95/96   96/7   97198
Production          Exports      --- FOB Pe
Source: Ministry of Agriculture, Republic of C6te d'lvoire



-15-
Table 1: Ex ante equilibrium of the coffee and cocoa sectors
(CFAF/Kg)
cocoa                           coffee
1995/96    1996/97    1997/98    1995/96   1996/97    1997/98
Producer              315       315        455        695        500       520
Marketing            100.8      109       111.9       161.5     148.1      143.9
CAISTAB              45.4        40       43.6        45.4      39.6       32.6
Export taxes          160       150        150        110        10         10
Government other     38.8        93        70.4      -158.5     26.6       65.3
Source: Wbrld Bank Estimates



-16-
Chart 3: Production and Import of Rice
(Thousands of tons)
700
400
300
200
100
0
1991     11992      11993     11994      199       199       1997
*Total impolts              *Local production of paddy rice
Source: Programme National Riz, Republic of Cote d'lvoire
Chart 4: Retail Price of Rice
(FCFA/Kg)
400
350-
200
1994             1995              1996              1997              199
-.-.----- Domestic rice  -    Regular imported rice        Luxcury imported rice
Source: Indice des Prix i la Consommatiori, Republic of Cote d'Ivoire



-17-
REPUBLIC OF COTE D'IVOIRE
AGRICULTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
(Credit 2779-IVC)
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
PART 2 - STATISTICAL TABLES
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
A. Achievement of Obiectives     Substantial      Partial       Negligible    Not Applicable
Macroeconomics policies                             0              0               0
Sector policies                                     0              0               0
Financial objectives                                0              0               0
Institutional development                                                          0 E  O3
Physical objectives                 00             0
Poverty reduction                                           0                      0
Gender concerns
Other social objectives             O               O              a               E
Enviromnental objectives            a               E              O
Public sector management
Private sector development
B. Project Sustainability            Likely             Unlikely              Uncertain
RI_0                                      0
C. Bank Performance            Highly Satisfactor      Satisfactorv           Deficient
Identification                        O0                                         0
Preparation assistance                O0                                         0
Appraisal                             a0                                        0
Supervision                                                                     0 E  O
D. Borrower Performance        Highly Satisfactorv     Satisfactorv           Deficient
Preparation                           0                    0                     0
Implementation                        01                    1                   0
Covenant compliance                   aE                                        0
Operation                             0                                         0
E. Assessment of Outcome          H             Satisfactor    Unsatisfacton      Highly
Satisfactory                                 Unsatisfactoty
0                              0               0



-18-
Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits
Loan/Credit Title                    Pur                         Year of      Status
Anvroval
Agricultural Sector      Increase the competitiveness of agriculture and
Adjustment Loan          stimulate the production and marketing of      1989     Completed
(L.3127)                 tradable goods, by implementing pricing                   1991
reforms, market liberalization, and institutional
strengthening and restructuring.
Competitiveness          Enhance competitiveness. eliminate non-tariff
Adjustment credit        barriers. Liberalize prices. Study reforms in  1992     Completed
(Cr. 2324)               maritime transport regulations. Provide                   1994
budgetary support.
(i) reduce, through privatization, government
Privatization Support    holdings in productive activities, (ii) restructure
(Cr. 2363)               and Reduce Ivorian foreign commercial debt,    1992      Active
and (iii) strengthen Abidjan Stock Exchange
Technical assistance, training and studies in
Economic Management      support of government adjustment program for   1993       Active
TA (Cr. 2503)            macroeconomic management and civil service
reform.
(i) strengthen Government finances through
Economic Recovery Credit  elimination of import tax exemptions and      1994     Completed
(Cr. 2656)              improved investment programming, (ii) pursue               1995
trade liberalization through the elimination of
non-tariff barriers, (iii) further price
liberalization, (iv) liberalize price and marketing
policies for rice, and (v) increase competitiveness
in maritime transport.
Policy and economic reforms to improve the
Private Sector           business environment for the Private Sector    1996     Completed
Development Adjustment   (settlement of domestic arrears, reforms of               1998
Project (Cr. 2843)       business laws and legal environment;
streamlining of port/customs procedures,
simplification of investment code and
procedures, liberalizatiorn of maritime transport
and removal of other restrictions to the free
exercise of entrepreneurship.
The grant would support: (i) miaintenance of the
Structural Adjustmnent   magnitude and composition of public spending
Grant                   to meet the agreed targets under Cote d'Ivoire              in
HIPC program, (ii) full liberalization of exports      Negotiations
of coffee and of cocoa; and (iii) restructuring of
the financial sector.



-19-
Table 3  Project Timetable
Steps in Proiect Cycle           Date Planned            Actual Date
Identification                             Jul-94                08-Jul-94
Appraisal                                  Apr-95                23-Apr-95
Negotiations                               Jul-95                20-Jul-95
Policy Statement                           Ju1-95                  Jul-95
Board presentation                         Sep-95                26-Sep-95
Signing                                    Sep-95                27-Sep-95
Effectiveness                              Oct-95                11-Oct-95
Credit closing                            31-Dec-97              31 -Mar-98
Table 4: Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual *
US$ million                       Credit 27790                  Cr. 27791
1995       1996       1997      1998        1996
Appraisal estimate            60         45         45         0          73.6
Actual                        60         45         0          45         72.9
Actual as %of estimate       100        100         0                     100
Date of final disbursement:               31 -Mar-98                   04-Jan-96
* The arnounts differ from the original amounts of the Credit in terms of US$ due to changes
in the SDR/US$ exchange rates.



-20-
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation and Operation
(Not applicable)
Table 6: Key Indicators for Project Operation
(Not applicable)
Table 7: Studies Included in the Project
(Not applicable)
Table 8-A : Project Costs
Item          Dater            Appraisal estimate iUS$M)   Actual / latest estimate  S$M)
Local   Foreign    Total     Local    Foreign    Total
It Tranche    October 1995       60                 60        60      _            60
2hiTranche     December 1996     45      _          45         45                  45
3W Tranche    March 1998         45                 45         45                  45
5* dinension   December 1995    73.6               73.6       73.6                 73.6
Table 8-B: Project Financing
Appraisal estimate US$M L   Actual / latest estimate (US M)
Source          Local    Forei      Total    Local       Foreign     Total
IDA              150         0       150       150          0         150
Govermment        0          0        0         0           0          0
Total            150         0       150  1   150           0         150
Table 9: Economic Costs and Benefits
(Not applicable)



-21-
Table 10  Status of Legal Covenants
Credit     Covenant    Present
Agreement      Type       Status*             Description of Covenant         |Comments
Section           -
3.01     Monitoring,     C      (a) The Borrower and the Association shall
review and             from time to time, at the request of either party,
reporting              exchange views on the progress achieved in
carrying out the Program; (b) Pror to each such
exchange of views, the Borrower shall furnish
to the Association for its review and comment a
report on the progress achieved in carrying out
the Program, in such detail as the Association
shall reasonably request;
(c) Without limitation upon the provisions of
paragraph (a) of this Section, the Borrower shall
exchange views with the Association on any
proposed action to be taken after the
disbursement of the Credit which would have
the effect of materally reversing the objectives
of the Program, or any action taken under the
Program, including any action specified in
Schedule 3 of this Agreement.
3.02     Procurement     C      Except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods to be financed out of
the proceeds of the credit shall be governed by
the provisions of Schedule 2 to this agreement.
3.03      Accounts/      C      (a) the Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
Audits              maintained records and accounts adequate to
reflect in accordance with consistently
maintained sound accounting practices the
expenditures financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit.
(b) The borrower shall: (i) have the records and
accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this
Section for each fiscal year audited, in
accordance with appropriate auditing principles
consistently applied, by independent auditors
acceptable to the Association; (ii) furnish to the
Association as soon as available, but in any case
not later than six months after the end of each
such year or ninety days after the last
withdrawal from the credit account, whichever
date is the earliest, a certified copy of the report
of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and
in such detail as the Association shall have
reasonably requested; and (iii) furnish to the
Association such other information concerning
said records and accounts and the audit thereof
as the Association shall from time to time
reasonably request.
(c) For all expenditures with respect to which
withdrawals from the Credit Account were  I



-22-
made on the basis of statements of expenditures,
the borrower shall: (i) maintain or cause to be
maintained, in accordance with paragraph (a) of
this section, records and accounts reflecting
such expenditures; (ii) retain, until at least one
year after the Association has received the audit
report for the fiscal year or the period in which
the last withdrawal from the Credit Account
was made, al records (contracts, orders,
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents, or
customs certificates, as appropriate) evidencing
such expenditures; (iii) enable the Association's
representatives to examine such records; and
(iv) ensure that such records and accounts are
included in the audit referred to in paragraph
(b) of this Section and that the report of such
audit contains a separate opinion by said
auditors as to whether the statements of
expenditure submitted during such fiscal year or
period, together with the procedures and
internal controls involved in their preparation,
can be relied upon to support the related
withdrawals
*  Present status:   C  =  complied with
CD =   complied with after delay
CP =   complied with partially
NC =   not complied with
Table ll: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
(Not applicable)



-23-
Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Stage of Project Cycle                      Actual                          Actual
Staff Weeks                      US S (000)
Through appraisal                                    77.20                            247.30
Appraisal h   Board                                  35.60                             138
Supervision through completion                       148.80                          384.20
Total                                               261.60                           769.50
Table 13: Bank Resources : Staff Missions
Performance Rating
Number   Days 
Stage of   Month        O of   in    Specialized Staff Skills   bnplmeration |Devlopnjnt    Types of
Project Cycle    Year    Persons   Field    Repente              Status_         pact        Problems
Through
Appraisg
Appraisa
through board
Supervision
1        04/96       3             2 Agro-economist           s              S
I Economist
II       06/96        1            1 Agro-economist           S              S
m         08/96       1             I Agro-economist           S              S
IV        05/97       2             I Agro specialist          S              S
I Agro-economist
V         11/97       1             1 principal economist      S             S
Completion    10/98       2             1 Senior economist
I Econoniist
Key to status as shown in Supervision Form 590: ratings are S (satisfactory) or from I (highest) to
4 (lowest).



-24-
APPENDICES



-25-
Appendix A Mission's Aide-Memoire
CREDIT D'AJUSTEMENT DU SECTEUR AGRICOLE (CASA)
MISSION D'ACHEVEMENT
11-23 octobre 1998
AIDE-MEMOIRE
1.    Une mission de la Banque mondiale composee de MM. Jerome Chevalier,
responsable de l'unite de soutien operationnel, et Jacky Amprou, consultant, s'est
rendue en Cote d'Ivoire du 11 au 23 octobre 1998 pour effectuer la revue en fin de
parcours du programme de reforne dans le secteur agricole, finance en partie par un
credit d'ajustement de la Banque mondiale. MM. Nicaise Ehoue et Gaston Gohou du
bureau de la Banque mondiale a Abidjan ont participe activement aux travaux de la
mnission, a qui Mime. Christiane Tenda-Lasme a apportd son soutien logistique. La
mission a eu une seance de travail avec le comite de suivi du CASA sous la presidence
de M. Philippe Mian, conseiller technique a la Primature. Elle a eu des reunions avec
les principaux responsables de la preparation et de la mise en oeuvre du programme de
reformes, ainsi qu'avec des representants des producteurs et opdrateurs dans le secteur
agricole. Elle remercie tous ses interlocuteurs pour leur disponibilite et leur
contribution. a l'analyse des resultats obtenus par le programme.
2.    Le credit d'ajustement structurel pour le secteur agricole d'un montant de 150
millions de dollars a ete approuve en septembre 1995. Un credit supplementaire de
73,6 millions de dollars a ete approuve en decembre 1995 dans le cadre de la
cinquieme dimension, pour couvrir les interets au titre de la dette BIRD pendant la
periode. Le credit a et debourse en trois tranches, la premiere en octobre 1995, la
deuxieme en decembre 1996 et la derniere en mars 1998, trois mois apres la date
initiale de cloture.
3.    La devaluation du franc CFA en janvier 1994 a permis de restaurer la
competitivitd de l'economie ivoirienne et de son secteur agricole en particulier. Pour
consolider les resultats de la devaluation et permettre au secteur agricole de reprendre
son role de moteur d'une croissance durable, les autorites ivoiriennes etaient bien
conscientes de la necessite de continuer et d'approfondir les reformes engagees dans le
secteur vers la fin des annees 1980 avec l'appui d'un pret de la Banque mondiale. Les
objectifs du programme etaient de poursuivre la liberalisation du commerce et des prix
et le disengagement de l'Etat dans le secteur agricole. Les benefices attendus du
programme etaient une croissance forte et durable dans le secteur agricole, un
accroissement de l'emploi et une augmentation des revenus des producteurs de cafe et
de cacao grace a un moindre prelevement du secteur public sur les recettes
d'exploitation. Les benefices attendus du programme n'ont pas etd chiffres. II n'est
donc pas possible de comparer les resultats aux objectifs initiaux.



-26-
4.    Le programme comportait deux volets concernant les filieres cacao/cafe et riz,
un volet liberalisation du coafmerce et des prix des produits agricoles et des inputs, un
volet privatisation des principales agro-industries et un volet amelioration du
programme d'investissements publics dans le secteur agricole. Le programme de
reforme a gte soutenu par plusieurs bailleurs de fonds, y compris l'Union Europeenne,
la France, I'Allemagne (KfW) et la Banque Africaine de Developpement (BAD). Une
concertation etroite s'est etablie entre les responsables ivoiriens et les baileurs de
fonds durant la preparation et la mise en oeuvre du programme. Un comite de suivi
rassemblant les repr6sentants des principaux ministeres et organismes concernes sous
la pr'sidence d'un representant de la Primature s'est reuni de facon reguliere tout au
long de la preparation et de l'execution du programme. Ce comite a permis d'etablir
un consensus sur les mesures a prendre pour mettre en oeuvre le programme.
5.    Toutes les mesures envisagees lors de la preparation du programme ont ete
executees. La deuxieme et la troisieme tranche ont toutes les deux ete lib&ees sur la
base d'une dispense, la conditionalite n'ayant pas te entierement remplie. Les
dispenses ont port6 sur la protection effective de la farine de ble, les montants
compensatoires pour les sacs de jute et la privatisation de la Compagnie Ivoirienne des
Textiles (CIDT). Toutes les conditions ont etg finalement remplies.
6.    Au moment de la preparation du programme, des craintes ont ete emises par la
partie ivoirienne sur l'impact de plusieurs mesures envisag6es dans le programme, en
particulier en ce qui conceme la liberalisation du commerce. En fin de compte ces
craintes se sont revelees sans fondement. Les reformes ont ete engag6es sans que ne
produisent les desastres annonces par certains. Deux grands risques etaient
mentionnes dans le rapport de presentation de l'operation d'ajustement au conseil
d'administration de la Banque mondiale. II y etait indique que la pression de certains
int6r6ts particuliers et une capacite institutionnelle limit6e pouvaient contribuer a
retarder la mise en oeuvre des reformes. Le premier risque s'est effectivement
rnaterialise.
7.    Comme deja mentionne, il n'est pas possible a ce stade d'6valuer l'impact des
mesures prises dans le cadre du programme de reforme. Le programme faisait partie
d'un ensemble plus vaste de reformes qui ont toutes contribue a une croissance rapide
de la production et des exportations. Une conjoncture favorable sur le plan
international a aussi ete un facteur important pour la reussite du programme. Des
etudes d'impact avaient ete envisagees au moment de la preparation du programme de
r6formes, mais leur financement n'a ete mis en place que recemment, grace au soutien
de la BAD. Des propositions concretes ont ete faites par le Bureau National d'Etudes
Techniques et de Developpement (BNETD) pour mesurer l'impact du programme sur
les productions, les consommations, les revenus, tant des producteurs que des
consommateurs, et les couts de commercialisation. Une situation de reference a e
etablie et il est prevu de completer les etudes d'impact avant la fin de 1999.
8.    De fa,on shematique on peut dire que des etapes importantes ont e
accomplies sur la voie de la liberalisation de la filiere cacao/cafe, que la liberalisation de
la filiere riz s'est traduite par une amelioration de l'approvisionnement en riz des
consommateurs, que les privatisations des agro-industries ont ete en general suivies de
la reprise de l'investissement dans les filieres concernees et que le programme



-27-
d'investissements publics dans le secteur agricole a dte ameliore, m8me s'il reste
encore quelques initiatives des pouvoirs publics dont la rentabilite n'est pas fermement
etablie.
9.    Le programme de reformes s'est poursuivi apres le ddboursement de la
troisieme tranche, en particulier dans la filiere cafe/cacao. La filiere cafe a 6t6 libere
et le 15 octobre 1998 le gouvernement a decide de relever le prix indicatif du cacao de
455 FCFA a 575 FCFA pour la campagne 1998-99. Cette decision devrait se traduire
par une augmentation substantielle de la part des producteurs dans les recettes
d'exportation (passant de 52% a 60% du prix FOB d'apres le communique du
gouvemement), ce qui etait un objectif important du programme. II est interessant de
noter a cet egard que le communique du gouvernement indique que les producteurs de
cacao devraient ben6ficier d'un montant suppl6mentaire de revenus de 132 milliards de
FCFA, ce qui est largement superieur au surplus de 80 et 93 milliards de FCFA degage
par la filiere cafe/cacao en 1996/97 et en 1997/98.
10.   Le programme de reformes a contribue a faire changer les perceptions et
mentalitds. Dans les annees anterieures au programme, la tendance des responsables
dans le secteur etait de considerer que les paysans et consommateurs avaient besoin
d'etre proteges par la puissance publique contre les dangers et aleas du marche. Le
programme a permis de montrer de facon concrete que la liberalisation etait dans
l'interet bien compris des producteurs et consommateurs. II a ouvert la voie a une plus
grande responsabilisation des producteurs. II a aussi introduit plus de transparence
dans les circuits commerciaux.
11.   La mission estime que les resultats du programme sont satisfaisants et ne
risquent pas d'etre remis en question. Le programme a permis un developement
institutionnel non negligeable. La performance de l'emprunteur et celle de la Banque
ont ete satisfaisantes, tant au moment de la preparation du programme que lors de sa
mise en oeuvre. La supervision du progamme s'est faite a partir d'Abidjan, ce qui a
grandement facilite un dialogue continu. Des etudes ont ete engag6es pendant
l'execution du programme pour donner un eclairage objectif avant la prise de decision
par les autorites. Ces etudes ont ete dans 1'ensemble de bonne qualite et ont jete les
bases des consensus n6cessaires.
12.   La mission va maintenant preparer le rapport d'achevement du programme.
L'objectif est de remettre ce rapport au conseil d'administration de la Banque mondiale
avant la fin de 1998. Le projet de rapport sera envoye aux partenaires (Gouvernement
et bailleurs de fonds) avant sa finalisation. La contribution du Gouvernement au
rapport d'achevement est vivement souhaitee. II conviendrait qu'elle soit envoyee A la
Banque au plus tard vers la mi-novembre 1998.
Abidjan, le 22 octobre 1998



-28-
Appendix B Borrower Contribution to the ICR
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF COTE D'IVOIRE
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
ADJUSTMENT CREDIT (CASA)
(CREDIT 2779-IVC)
November 1998



-29-
I - INTRODUCTION
1.  Since the 1980s, the Govemment of Cote d'Ivoire has begun a program of
economic reform in the public and para-public sectors. This decade saw the
installation of sector and structural adjustment programs (SAP). In spite of the
progressive success of these programs, the revival of economic growth was very
transitory because of the fall of basic commodity prices on the world markets.
2.   Since 1990, the Government has endeavored to increase the efficiency and the
competitiveness of the agricultural sector within the framework of the first program of
agricultural sector adjustment PASA (1989-1992). Significant progress was
accomplished. Then, the devaluation of the FCFA intervened in January 1994; this
contributed to the economic revival of the country. The reforms put in place by the
Government gave positive results and particularly involved major changes in
competitiveness of the agricultural sectors.
3.  To this end, on the basis of reform already undertaken in the agricultural sector,
the Government of C8te d'lvoire requested an Adjustment Credit for the Agricultural
Sector (CASA) with the following donors: The World Bank, (150 million dollars),
French Agency of Development (100 million FF), KFW (30 million DM) French Co-
operation (80 million FF), and African Development Bank (15 million Units of
Account) to support the implementation of the program of the agricultural sector
adjustment.
4.   The principal data?relating to the calendar of execution of this operation
agricultural sector adjustment were the following ones:
(a)   Letter of Agricultural Policy (LAP)  August 1995
(b)   Negotiations                    July 1995
(c)   Signature of the loan agreement  September 1995
(d)   Effectiveness                   October 1995
(e)   Release of the 1st tranche      October 1995
(f)   Release of the 2nd tranche      December 1996
(g)   Release of the 3rd tranche (final)    March 1998
5.  This completion report describes the economic and social environment in which
the program was carried out, its objective, the measures and actions as defined in the
Letter of Agricultural Policy (LAP), the implementation of these actions, and
economic results of the-program in the agricultural sector.



-30-
6.   Within the framework of the execution of the disbursement conditions for the
second and third tranches of CASA, the donors jointly carried out two missions of
supervision which led to the production of a Memorandum, (June 1996 and May
1997) to evaluate the status of actions and measures undertaken. Two progress reports
of CASA were worked out by the Monitoring Committee of CASA in November
1996 and September 1997 and many technical meetings between donors and the
Monitoring Committee of CASA were organized.
7.   This report contains the formalization of the objectives of the agricultural sector
within the framework of CASA, the evolution of the conditionalities and the reforms
implemented, the carrying out of the measures and impacts of the program CASA. A
section of the report is devoted to the analyses and follow-up of reform defined in the
disbursement conditionalities of the various tranches. Lastly, lessons from the
program are presented for future adjustment efforts.
II - EVOLUTION AND EXECUTION OF THE DISBURSEMENT
CONDMONALITES
A. COFFEE AND COCOA SECTORS
8.   Within the framework of the conditionalities relating to the reform of coffee and
cocoa system of marketing, significant progress had been made at the time of the
preceding agricultural sector adjustment program. However, it is advisable to point
out the objectives assigned within the framework of CASA with these two sectors.
9.   It is mainly:
(a)   The withdrawal of CAISTAB from the activities of interior marketing
in order to stimulate the development of the private sector and the
effectiveness of the commercial chain;
(b)   The centering of CAISTAB role on its fundamental attributions in
order to increase the transparency of its operations in coffee and cocoa
markets;
(c)   The reduction of export taxation within the limits authorized (in
conformity with the macro-economic framework) by the budgetary
constraints so that the producer receives a higher share of the FOB
price.
10. In accordance with the Credit Agreement, the Government took all measures
relating to the coffee and cocoa sectors, notably the Resolutions of the Council of
Administration of the CAISTAB of August 10, 1995. This resolution adopted the
system of the auction sales of the export rights of coffee and cocoa, reduction of the
operating costs of the CAISTAB and reduction of the tax on exports (the DUS).



-31-
Interior marketing
11.  In effect, the reforns relating to the liberalization of the interior marketing of
coffee and cocoa included the suppression of purchase centers, the CAISTAB
withdrawal of the distribution of the bags and the management of the transport
subsidy by the exporters were accomplished successfully. The Monitoring Committee
of the coffee-cocoa campaign produced periodic reports. Moreover, the socio-
economic system of impact set up within the framework of CASA caried out
analyses on the development of coffee-cocoa marketing season.
External marketing
(a)   Auctions of coffee-cocoa export rights
(i)    Conditionality of the 2nd tranche:
"(A) The Comite Interministeriel e Suivi has furnished evidence satisfactory to
the Association that the system of auctioning off cocoa and coffee export rights
adopted pursuant to CAISTAB Board of Directors' decision of August 10, 1995
has been complied with".
12.   The system of auction sale of coffee and cocoa export rights was applied on
May 2, 1996 with a delay due to the availability of the electronic auction system.
13.   The system provoked various reactions on the part of the Borrower in
particular concerning the management of bids; there was overbidding practiced by
certain operators and the excessive concentration of allocations among some
exporters. These two problems were highlighted following the analysis of the
statistics provided to the donors by the CAISTAB. Thus, after disbursement of the
2nd tranche, it was agreed to apply proposals to amend the system to give 85 % of
allocations to domestic exporters and 15 % to foreign exporters; and to permit three
levels of differentiated prices.
14.   The World Bank, which had doubts about the realism of these changes, made
in addition a request aiming at having the complete statistics relating to the following
elements: the distribution of the sales by trader, export prices, the failure rate on the
contracts of exporters and delays of exports, and the levels of stock (fluidity of
exports). These data elements should make it possible to analyze the evolution of the
bidding system.
15.   Concerning this conditionality above, banking guarantees, sanctions and their
application in the event of failure, and the conditions of approval of the operations
were discussed with the donors.
16.   This stage of the execution of CASA and particularly on the level of coffee-
cocoa sectors, the discussions between the World Bank and the govemment of Cote
d'Ivoire were focused on the complementary statistics to provide by the CAISTAB in
order to judge effectiveness of the bidding system, then the government of Cote



-32-
d'Ivoire considered that certain data required are strategic for the marketing of Cote
d'Ivoire coffee/cocoa.
17.   After the disbursement of the 2nd tranche CASA, the conditionality relating to
the auction system for the 3rd tranche related to the maintenance by the
government of the system functioning according to rules' agreed upon in the
CASA agreements.
18.   The donors reiterated the request to receive data brought up to date on the
principal indicators of activity of the biddings above quoted, with a list of statistical
data by month. Moreover, the financial donors proposed, instead of a Bid
Confidentiality Committee, whose operation did not appear to them effective and
satisfactory, a co-administration with the whole of the interested partners. From this
arose the installation of an ad hoc committee which will have to consider the methods
of equal management of the biddings, bank guarantees, the modification of the
procedures of setting in market, the application of the sanctions in the event of
default, etc.
(b)   Coffee Study
(i)   Conditionality of disbursement of the 2nd tranche:
"(B) The Borrower has furnished to the Association for its review and comments,
the intermediary report of the study aiming at further improving the coffee
marketing, and on the basis of the conclusions of said report, has decided on the
process for completing said study".
(ii)   Conditionality of disbursement of the 3rd tranche:
"(B) Following completion of the study aiming at further improving the coffee
marketing, the Borrower has adopted a plan of actions and implemented those
actions relating to the crop season 1996-1997".
19.   The study on the marketing of the coffee started on June 1, 1996 with
International Cabinet LMC (Landell Mills Corporation) and was completed in
September 1997. The interim reports (September 1997) and final report (October
1997) were transmitted to the World Bank and the other donors.
20.   The interim report presented four scenarios from which the government gave a
first position choosing the stabilization of the prices and a more operational role of the
CAISTAB in order to preserve the optimization of the public revenue. This
governmental position was contrary with that of the World Bank and other donors
whose objective was a thorough and immediate liberalization sectors coffee/cocoa as
of the marketing year 1997/98.
21.   These two divergent positions created a considerable delay in the preparation
of the action plan and its implementation in order to satisfy the conditionality of the
3rd tranche relating to the study on the coffee marketing. Several meetings were
organized on high level between the Bank and the part of the Cote d'Ivoire in order to
reach a consensus on the option to be retained for the proposal of the action plan in
the coffee/cocoa sector.



-33-
(c)   Technical Reserves of stabilization
(i)    Disbursement Conditionality of the 2nd tranche:
"(ii) CAISTAB Expenditures. The level of CAISATB expenditures for 1996-97
crop season has been determined in agreement with the Association, and with a
view to providing for the appropriate functioning of CAISTAB technical reserve
fund during the 1996-97 crop season, the Borrower has caused CAISTAB to
limit allocations to such fund, not to exceed CFAF 35 billion equivalent or such
other amount as agreed upon between the Borrower, CAISTAB and the
Association".
(ii)   Disbursement Conditionality of the 3rd tranche:
"(ii) CAISTAB Technical Reserve Fund: With a view to providing for the
appropriate functioning of CAISTAB technical reserve fund during the 1996-97
crop season, the Borrower has caused CAISTAB to limit its net allocations in the
aggregate to such fund, not to exceed the amount determined pursuant to
paragrah 1 (a) (ii) of this Schedule".
22.   The conditionnality was respected 1996/97. The statements of the technical
reserve account of stabilization were regularly communicated to the World Bank, just
as the reports of audit of the accounts of the marketing years 1993/94 and 1994/95.
Moreover, the questions related to the execution of delta CAISTAB, financial
balances of the sectors and the policy of transformation of the cocoa were the subject
of exchanges of views between the Bank and the part of the Cote d'Ivoire. The regular
examination of delta was the occasion to seek explanations on the CAISTAB
operation costs, on the policy of subsidy to the factories for sub-standard cocoa beans
(60 FCFA/kg on a basis of 100,000 metric tons) and on the reduction of export taxes
"droits uniques de sortie" (DUS in French) for cocoa (150 FCFA/kg, approximately
19 % of the estimated CIF); and for coffee there was a symbolic DUS of 10 FCFA/kg.
23.   Concerning the conditionalities of CASA on the liberalization of the sectors
coffee/cocoa, the "difficult moments n of the adjustment program of the agricultural
sector were June and July 1997 during the preparation of the new ESAF 1998-2001
(Enhanced Structural Adjustment Facility) on the liberalization of the coffee/cocoa
sectors and the disbursement of the 3rd tranche of CASA.
24.   To this end, the govemment through the study on the marketing of coffee was
to present an action plan on the coffee/cocoa sectors. During the joint mission of WB
and IMF relating to the preparation of the negotiations on coffee and cocoa sectors
liberalization in the new ESAF, technical meetings between the donors and the
government of Cote d'Ivoire) allowed to define certain positions on the "thorny"
question of coffee/cocoa liberalization; in particular the meeting on June 3, 1997
chaired by the Prime Minister.



-34-
25.   The principal points of agreement were the following:
(a)   The co-administration of the system of the electronic auctions;
(b)   Identification and the implementation of measures preliminary to the
total liberalization of the sectors coffee/cocoa: training and technical
assistance to peasants, the organization and strengthening of producers
organizations (OPAs) and the exporters' group (GEPEX), the rural
land tenure and the agricultural credit;
(c)   The liberalization of coffee marketing during campaign 1998/99; the
problem of the maintenance of PVAM in a liberalized system will
remain and will be left to the judgment of private operators;
(d)   At the end of the campaign 1998/99: this reform will be evaluated in
order to adopt possible corrective measures. If this evaluation gave a
positive result, the two sides agreed to fix the conditions of its
extension to cocoa because of the position of leader which CMte
d'Ivoire occupies on the world market of cocoa and which is not
comparable with its rank of fourth world producer of Robusta.
26.   Following these proposals for reforms mentioned above, the World Bank
prepared two documents of which one relating to the response to the arguments
advanced above and the other heading "action plan for the reform of the sectors coffee
and cocoa". Then, the World Bank wrote one second technical note to look further
into its analyses on certain parts of the problem of the liberalization of coffee/cocoa
marketing systems (producer prices and FOB prices, DUS for cocoa, marketing costs,
product quality, impacts of the PVAM and CASA).
27.   Following the Washington negotiations of June 24 to July 1, 1997 within the
framework of the ESAF 1998-2001, the government proposed concrete reforms in the
coffee and cocoa sectors contained in a letter addressed to the World Bank. Principal
actions of these reforms summarizing itself with three essential aspects:
(a)   The liberalization of coffee sectors to the opening of the marketing
year 1998/99, and the implementation of a program of follow-up and
the evaluation of the reform. This liberalization of coffee on October 1,
1998 should result in specific measures: an end to fixing a minimum
indicative price; and end to the bareme and the PVAM for coffee; the
installation of a reliable mechanism of recovery of the DUS; the
freedom of the operators to choose their system of sale (auctions or
not).
(b)   On the basis of possible correction and result obtained to bring, the
liberalization of the cocoa sector will have to intervene with the
opening of the marketing year 1999/2000.
(c)   The reorganization of the CAISTAB should be carried out in several
phases. The plan suggested by the World Bank could be used as a basis
to build a calendar of reorganization of CAISTAB, in phase with
liberalization.



-35-
28.   During the campaign 1997/98, the government already took following
measures: (a ) new rules of management of the system of auctions in order to improve
its effectiveness and (b) creation of a joint committee CAISTAB/GEPEX (exporters
group) in order to more associate the sector deprived with the management of the
sectors.
29.   Following these reforms, the indicative price of cocoa producers was raised in
October 1997 from 320 to 415 FCFA; then the surpluses of cocoa and coffee sectors
for the marketing years 1995/96 and 1996/97 were used, in agreement with the donors
concerned, to raise the producer price of cocoa fixed at 455 FCFA per kilo (at the
beginning of 1997), for reducing the debt of the Caistab and finally to finance
measures of accompaniment necessary to a good preparation of the total liberalization
of the cocoa and coffee sectors. Moreover, in December 1997, the producer price of
coffee rose from 500 to 520 FCFA per kilo. After the 3rd tranche of CASA
disbursement, the reforms in the coffee-cocoa sectors continued. Thus, the coffee
system was liberalized in January, 1999; and on October 15, 1998, the Government
decided to raise the indicative price of the cocoa of 455 FCFA to 575 FCFA for the
marketing year 1998/99. This decision makes it possible to carry out a significant
objective of CASA -- to increase incomes of the producers thanks to a smaller share
of the public sector in export earnings; this increase is estimated at 60 % of the FOB
price. In order to continue the reforms of the coffee/cocoa sectors, the government
will implement in connection with the partners of the coffee sector (State, donors,
exporters, OPAs, and banks) measures necessary to the success of the liberalization of
the sector. It consists primarily of:
(a)   Establishment of a base of bench-mark data allowing to appreciate the
results of coffee sector liberalization;
(b)   Training and technical assistance for farmers;
(c)   Organization and reinforcement of the professional capacities of the
OPAs and GEPEX;
(d)   Adaptation of the mechanisms of financing to the needs for the
agricultural sector; and
(e)   A broad information program for all sector operators.
30.   The reorganization of CAISTAB includes the search for the solutions relating
to the problems raised by the liberalization of the coffee/cocoa sectors: review of
existing conventions with the cocoa processing and coffee roasting factories; the
installation of an instrument to preserve the detailed statistics of the coffeelcocoa
sectors such as the single window installed at the port of Abidjan in May 1998; the
monitoring of international markets; the defense of the origin "Cote d'Ivoire";
redimensioning and the adaptation of the CAISTAB to its new role; and the
maintenance of a system of forward sales organized by the private sector. The
government has launched a feasibility study for creation of a commodities exchange
in Abidjan.



-36-
B. MARKETING POLICY AND TAX IN THE RICE SECTOR
31.  The Government is committed to promote the increase of local rice production
in order to reinforce food security in Cote d'lvoire. The commitments entered into by
the government in order to speed up the reforms of liberalization of the rice sector
were all implemented. The imports of luxury rice and brown rice were liberalized on
January 1, 1995 and the operations of importation are assured freely by the private
sector.
(i)    Conditionality of 2nd tranche:
"The Borrower has removed all price controls on ordinary rice and for such
purpose has published a decree modifying Decree No. 92-50 of January 8, 1992
and has eliminated the system of equalization for transport costs and for such
purpose has published an arrete No. 298 MEFCP/CGP of June 21, 1995".
32.   The liberalization of ordinary rice prices and the elimination of the transport
subsidy were carried out by the government through the decree n 96-246 of March
13, 1997 for the liberalization of the price and ministerial decree MC/053 of 06 June
1996 eliminating the system from equalization and abrogating the preceding decree no
298 MEFCP/CGP of June 21, 1991.
33.   The liberalization of the imports and the rice price on the national market was
carried out with a current tariff protection of 15 % on brown rice and ordinary rice
and 25 % on luxury rice.
(ii)    Conditionality of the 3rd tranche:
"(i) The Borrower has eliminated the import quota on ordinary rice and for such
purpose has published a decree modifying Decree No. 93-313 of March 11,
1993".
34.   The liberalization of the importation of ordinary rice and broken rice was
effective by the decree of the Ministry of Trade n 001 of January 8, 1997. To this
end, the import quota on ordinary rice was abolished.
(iii)    Conditionality of the 3rd tranche:
"(ii) On the basis of the results of the evaluation of the pilot operation for the
importation of broken rice during the calendar year 1996, the Borrower has
adopted a decision to the measures to be taken concerning the importation of
said product, in agreement with the Association".
35.   The policy of rice importation to more than 35 % of brokens was proposed by
the World Bank in order to strengthen food security and to fight against poverty. To
this end, on an experimental basis, a quota of 45,000 tons of rice was authorized for
marketing in accordance with the tariff provisions into force. At the end of the test
period, an evaluation was made through a report transmitted to the World Bank in
May 1997. The complete liberalization of rice imports (all categories) made it
possible to satisfy this-conditionnality.
36.   On the level of the rice sector, the government liberalized the imports of all
the categories of rice. In the context of liberalization, the current situation (at the end
of 1998) of the rice market in Cote d'Ivoire is the following:



-37-
(a)   drop in the production of local rice (paddy);
(b)   rise in prices to the producer (125 F - 165 FCFA/kg);
(c)   rise of rice imports (470,000 tons in 1997);
(d)   rise in price to consumers (250 - 400 FCFA/kg);
(e)   clogging of the market with a stock of 140,000 tons in May 1998.
37.   The essential reasons of this situation are the drought recorded at the end of
the year 1997, the strong competition of the rice imports in all categories and the
absence of a policy as regards food and in particular cereal production. The
government launched in May 1998 an ambitious program of food production to
support food security in Cote d'lvoire.
C. TRADE AND PRICES REFORMS
38.   The objective of the government as regards liberalization of the trade and the
prices are to continue the dismantling of the quantitative restrictions and the nontariff
barriers carried out within the framework of the Program of Sectoral Adjustment
Competitiveness (PASCO). Considerable progress was accomplished mainly on rice,
sugar, rough tobacco, coffee, used bags, synthetic fibers and cotton fabrics, wheat
flour, machetes and agricultural tools.
(i)   Conditionality of the 2 d Tranche:
"(i) The Borrower has removed non-tariff barriers on importation of the
agricultural tools and wheat flour and all price controls on said products, and for
such purpose the Borrower has published decrees modifying Decrees No. 93-313
of March 11, 1993 and No. 92-50 of January 8, 1992".
"(ii) The Borrower has introduced in its 1996 budget law: (1) customs duties on
importation of wheat and flour such that the effective protection rate of the local
milling industry does not exceed 40 %; and (2) compensatory duties on
importation of wheat, flour, jute bags and plastic sheets in an amount
determined in agreement with the Association".
39.   The non-tariff barriers on the agricultural tools were lifted by ministerial
decree MIC/5 of January 22, 1996. Moreover, another decree taken in 1995 raised the
NTB on wheat flour. In addition, the decree n 96-246 of March 13, 1996 made it
possible to remove the price control on agricultural tools and wheat flour.
40.   Concerning liberalization of trade and prices, two significant points were
raised during the execution of CASA:
(a)   Tariff protection of the flour industry in Cote d'Ivoire (wheat and
wheat flour); and
(b)   Countervailing duties on jute bags.



-38-
41.   The process of liberalization of the sectors wheat and wheat flour was set up in
May 1995. In order to respect the conditionality of the Economic Recovery Credit
(ERC) relating to wheat flour, the government introduced into the law of finances of
1996, the import duties on wheat and wheat flour by the ordinance n 96-182 of
March 7, 1996. This ordinance fixed tariff protection on wheat flour at 30 % including
5 % customs duty and 25 % revenue duty of input and to 10 % on wheat   (5 %
customs duty and 5 % revenue duty).
42.   According to the World Bank, this protection induced an effective protection
of the industry of flourmill higher than 40 % agreed upon as the ceiling within the
framework of the PASCO. The difference between the tax on wheat and that on flour
should not exceed 5-10 points of percentage. On the part of Cote d'Ivoire, the reaction
was guided by a preoccupation with a convergence of the tariff policies of the
11EMOA where the Cote d'Ivoire has the lowest level of nominal protection.
43.   At the time of the disbursement of the 2nd tranche of ASAC, the
conditionality relating to the flour of wheat and bags of jute was deferred to the 3rd
tranche in accordance with the agreements agreed upon with the World Bank in
December 1996 as follows:
i An exemption of one (1) year is granted to the Cote d'Ivoire until December
1997. In this term, either the common external tariff of the UEMOA is adopted,
or the customs duties are modified in accordance with the conclusions of the
study on the effective protection of the flourmill of the Cote d'Ivoire within the
framework of the UEMOA.
The examination of the level of the compensatory tariffs on the jute bags is
deferred 2nd to the 3rd tranche CASA.
44.   Thus, this conditionality of disbursement of the 2nd tranche of CASA was
completely deferred to the 3rd tranche to make it possible to do two thorough studies
of these questions of wheat and wheat flour, on the one hand; and of the
countervailing duties of jute bags in addition.
45.   The terms of references of these studies were prepared and adopted by the two
sides. These studies were carried out by the American Firm Associates for
Intemational Resources and Development (AIRD) whose final reports were
transmitted to the donors.
(a)   Study on the tariff level of protection of the Cote d' Ivoire flour
mill industry in the context of UEMOA.
46.   C6te d'Ivoire has two flour mills (Grands Moulins d'Abidjan and Grands
Moulins de San-Pedro) of an annual total capacity of 230,000 tons flour (GMA
190,000 tons & GMA San-Pedro 40,000 tons). The annual wheat imports in Cote
d'Ivoire are 250,000 tons to produce 200,000 tons of flour. The GMA sells the
produced flour to 2255000 FCFA per ton to local bakeries. Indeed, the more than 90
percent of wheat flour consumed in C6te d'Ivoire is made into bread in the form of
baguettes whose price is fixed at 125 FCFA per unit of 228 grams. Since May 8,
1995, the government engaged in liberalization of the wheat sector by Decree n 54
MIC on liberalization of the imports of wheat flour.



-39-
47.   According to the results of the competitiveness analysis of the flour of GMA,
the simulation which approaches the most effective protection of 40 % as proposed by
the conditionality of CASA, is the differential of 10 points between the tariffs on
wheat and those on flour. Also, the study proposed a reduction of the tax on flour
imported to 20 % by maintaining the level of the import duty of wheat to 10 %.
Following these results of the study, the Government issued ordinance n 97-712 of
December 20, 1997 which modified duties and import taxes on wheat and flour. The
adopted provisions led to the reduction of 10 % of the import duties on flour from 30
to 20%.
48.   However, within the framework of the UEMOA, the classification of wheat as
a raw material is located in category I, subject to a customs duty of 5 %, and that of
wheat flour in category III subject to the customs duty of 20 %. The harmonization of
the tariffs on the wheat flour in the sub-region will be carried out within the
framework of the UEMOA.
(b) Countervailing Duties on natural fiber bags
49.  Jute fiber bags dominate the sector of packing bags made from vegetable fiber.
In CMte d'Ivoire, the demand for packing bags made out of vegetable fibers is
primarily derived from the activities of production and export of coffee and cocoa.
50.   The total demand for bags of export in Cote d'Ivoire is about 20 million bags
per annum. With a rotation of 3.3 export bags from bush bags, it is estimated that 6
million bush bags are produced each year.
51.   Conceming the production of vegetable fiber bags, it is mainly carried out by
the Company FILTISAC of which close to two-thirds of capital is held by the
financial group Industrial Promotion Services (IPS). The output of FILTISAC is about
19 million bags with a productivity average day laborer of 80 bags/hour against 20
bags/hour only in Bangladesh, principal world producer of jute bags.
52.   Within the framework of the liberalization of the economy of Cote d'Ivoire,
the import of bags (formerly prohibited), was liberalized in 1994. The marketing
policy installed by the Government is based on the countervailing duties to protect
FILTISAC against dumping by Bangladesh, the principal exporter of jute products. In
addition, the results of the study showed the high level of the countervailing duties
applied (300 FCFA / bag by decree 95-543 of July 14, 1995). Following the
recommendations of the study, the Government made the decision to lower the
countervailing duty on the bags of jute to 200 FCFA/bag.
53.   The realization of these two studies and the taking into account of their
recommendations made it possible to satisfy the conditionality relative to reforms
concerning trade and prices on wheat flour and jute bags.
(i)   Conditionality of 2nd tranche
"(iii) The Borrower has published an interministerial decision pursuant to
which: (1) non-tariff barriers on importation of, and price controls on, sugar
shall be removed effective not later than the date when the majority of the share
capital of SODESUCRE is controlled by the private sector; and (2) non-tariff



-40-
barriers on importation of cotton textiles and price controls on cotton-grain shall
be removed effective not later than the date when the majority of the share
capital of CIDT is controlled by the private sector, and for such respective
purposes the Borrower shall publish corresponding decrees".
54.   At the time of privatization of SODESUCRE and CIDT, the government took
an inter-ministerial decision announcing the suppression of the non-tariff barriers on
sugar and the cotton fabrics on the one hand and of price controls on sugar and cotton
seed on the other hand when the private sector took control of these two public
companies. This measurement was the subject of the decision n 299
MlNAGRA/MC/MEF/MDPD.
55.   With regard to price controls on sugar and cotton-seed, it was decided to
eliminate them at the time of privatization of SODESUCRE and CIDT. Concerning
sugar, a legal framework for the sugar market of sugar was instituted in accordance
with the provisions of OMC as regards tariff protection. This concern was taken into
account at the time of the privatization of SODESUCRE.
56.   The price of sugar was liberalized, which initially caused a relatively
significant rise of about 4 % of the price of sugar on the domestic market. Since then
the rise in the price of sugar is at a price definitely higher than that before
liberalization.
57.   The price control on seed-cotton had to be maintained because of the
privatization scheme of the cotton sector which envisaged a two year transition
period. At the end of this transition, the price of seed cotton will be liberalized as was
the price of cotton seed and the price of cotton fiber within the framework of the
privatization of the CIDT.
D. PUBLIC INVESTMENT PLAN IN AGRICULTURE
58.   Since the devaluation of CFA franc, the PIP was overall revised so as to take
account of the major objective of the Government with knowing the fast recovery of
the economic growth. In this context, the agricultural PIP was reoriented so as to
better cover the key targets of development and to carry out the priority actions of the
Government. The National Assembly adopted the budgets of the State for 1998, in
December 1997.
59.   Since the beginning of 1998, the Government has adopted a new budgetary
nomenclature that will be operational for the new unified budget beginning in 1999.
(i)    Conditionality of 2nd tranche
"(i) The Borrower has adopted, in accordance with the three-year 1996-1998
rolling public investments program in agriculture, its agricutural investment
budget for fiscal year 1996, which has been approved in the Borrower's budget
law for said year". -
"(ii) The main components of the agricultural investment program for fiscal year
199 have been agreed upon between the Borrower and the Association".



-41-
60.   The Government set up clear and objective criteria of programming of public
investments to maintain a conformity of the programs and budgets of investment. The
principal components of the agricultural Public Investment Plan were discussed often
between the World Bank and the Government during the approval of the budgets of
investments 1997 and 1998. These discussions related in particular to:
(a)  the definition of the operations on the basis of a regionalized program
approach;
(b)   social funds functioning on a "revolving" basis (without new budgetary
allocations);
(c)  the assignment of "Kennedy Round" funds, PL 480 etc; and
(d)  the program of support to young farmers (known as "turn-key
plantations").
61.   The divergences raised on these components of the agricultural PIP resulted in
adjustments in the orientation and the content of these projects. Updates were made to
the donors before the approval of the agricultural investment plans of the fiscal years
1997 and 1998.
62.   The discussions continued within the framework of the installation of the
unified budget in 1999 in order to make it possible to better articulate the main
components of the agricultural investment plan.
E. PRIVATIZATIONS OF THE AGRO-INDUSTRIAL COMPANIES
63.   The privatization of the agro-industrial companies falls under the overall
program of privatization of the government. The step taken for privatization of the
agro-industrial companies initially aims at defining a strategy of privatization taking
account of specificities of each sector concemed before engaging the operations of
privatization themselves. Since 1994, the operations of privatization of these agro-
industrial companies (SAPH, SOGB, PALMIvNDUSTRIE, SODESUCRE and CIDT)
were launched.
(i)   Conditionality of Disbursement
"(i) All bids received for Lots A, B and G of PALMINDUSTRIE have been
analyzed, and the successful bidders have been selected and invited to enter into
negotiations".
"(ii) Lot C of PALMINDUSTRIE and SODESUCRE have been offered for sale,
i.e. prospectuses and tender documents have been prepared and advertisements
and notices have been published".
"(iii) The Borrower's Council of Ministers has adopted a privatization strategy
for CEDT, satisfactory to the Association".



-42-
64.   The situation of privatization of the agro-industrial companies is as follows:
(a)   SOGB (plantations of rubber and processing factories): the transfer of
a majority of the capital of the SOGB was completed in January 1995.
(b)   SAPH (rubber plantations and processing factories): the SAPH was
privatized in June 1994 per transfer of 45 % of the capital to a private
operator.
(c)   PALMINDUSTRIE: the five agro-industrial oil palm complexes were
sold in December 1996 to three private operators PALMCI,
PALMAFRIQUE and SIPEF-CI, the factory at Vridi was ceded to IPS
(OLEATECH) in September 1996.
(d)   SODESUCRE: the privatization of the SODESUCRE was completed
in July 1997. The two sugar cane blocks were ceded to two operators:
BGI and SIFCA.
(e)   CIDT: privatization was completed in August 1998.
65.   The privatization of the CIDT was the cause of one of the conditionality
having obtained a waiver at the time of the disbursement of the 2nd tranche of CASA.
The process of privatization of the CIDT was long because of the importance of the
interests of the partners of the cotton sector.
66.  Initially, the strategy of privatization adopted by the government on
September 25, 1996 according to which the CIDT (known as "new CIDT") remains
qualified for the management of activity agricultural on the whole of the national
territory, after have yielded to the private sector six of ten ginneries. Then, in the
consultations with partners of the cotton sector for the application of the adopted
strategy, the government encountered some reactions of partners of the sector;
particularly the French which feared that the strategy of privatization adopted by the
government is not likely to guarantee the sustainability and the development of the
cotton sector of the Cote d'Ivoire; thus, it worried about a disorganization of the
cotton activity. Furthermore, some cotton producers were dissatisfied not to be
consulted at the time of privatization. Finally, the govermnent maintained the strategy
of privatization adopted since September 1996 and proceeded to its implementation
during 1998. In August 1998, the CIDT was privatized. The transfer was made to
three operators:
(a)   "new " CIDT with the factories of Seguela, Bouake and Zatta;
(b)   IPS with the factories of Boundiali I & 2, Diarra and Mankono;
(c)   Aiglon with the factories of Korhogo I & 2 and Ouangolo.
67.   The effective privatization of the CIDT in August 1998 completed the
execution of the program CASA begun in July 1995.



-43-
68.   With privatizations of the agro-industrial companies, the disengagement of the
State of the sectors concerned was effective; and while waiting for the installation of
the various professional organizations and the inter-profession to ensure the changing
at the level of the services provided by these companies, of the bodies of management
and support to the growers were born within the sectors. The aims of the majority of
these bodies are: the promotion and the organization of the co-operative movement in
villages, relations between the growers and ginweries, the supervision of the
programs of extension, negotiations of purchase price to the growers, supply of
inputs, access to credit, maintenance of roads etc.
69.   How do these bodies function? There are many questions which deserve
answers after a complete evaluation of the privatization of agro-industrial companies.
Already within the framework of the socio-economic system of impact of CASA,
terms of reference of the impact studies of privatization in the agro-industrial sectors
were prepared and the studies have begun with field investigations.
F. SOCIO-ECONOMIC IMPACT OF CASA
70. In addition to the reforms and measures taken in the agricultural sectors within
the framework of CASA, it was agreed with the donors, to set up a system of
monitoring of the economic and social impacts of CASA. The Government entrusted
its execution and its follow-up to the BNETD. This system of monitoring of the socio-
economic effects of CASA will make it possible to fill a vacuum noted up to now as
regards structural adjustment.
71.   The principal objective of this system of follow-up of impact is to allow the
govemment and the donors to have a set of reliable and regular information on the
evolution of the sectors concemed with CASA on the level of production, processing,
marketing and household consumption. The use of this information collected within
the framework of the system of follow-up must allow on the one hand, to take (with
the need) corrective measures necessary during the execution of CASA and on the
other hand, to learn the lessons for future programs of adjustment.
G. MEASURES OF ACCCOMPANIMENT OF CASA - STUDIIES
72.   Within the framework of CASA, studies were programmed and realized as
measures of accompaniment in the adjustment of the agricultural sector. They are the
following studies:
(a)   The socio-economic impact studies of CASA which cover mainly the
industrial sectors coffee-cocoa, rice sector and agro-industrial sectors
(palm oil, rubber and cotton). Certain studies were already carried out
and others are in process within the framework of the socio-economic
system of impact financed by the ADB (African Development Bank).
The terms of reference and the reports of the completed studies are
available. In addition, a plan of financing of the work program of the
years 1998/99 was elaborated.



-44-
(b)   Study on rural finance. The study was carried out by the Cabinet
ICEA/HORUS whose final reports were transmitted to all the donors.
The conclusions and recommendations following were presented to the
authorities of the Cote d'Ivoire:
(i)   enormous needs for financing, and supply is insufficient;
(ii)  identification of the risks both independent of and dependent on
the borrower (natural risks, cattle disease and mortality...) and
installation of the mechanisms of insurance for the assumption
of the risks (feasibility studies);
(iii)  the economic environment: liberalization of the agricultural
sectors (coffee/cocoa, rubber, cotton, palm oil ...) causes a risk
for the institutions of agricultural credit related to the
variability of producer prices. Installation of measures to
compensate for impossibility of takdng credit repayment at the
time of product sale;
(iv)  legal environment and legal system to be strengthened;
(v)   technical management and level of organization of the
producers (strengthening of the OPAs, control of marketing and
input supply, financial reinforcement of the village OPAs,
support for the administrative and financial management of the
OPAs);
(vi)  equity contributions: encouragement of individual and
collective saving;
(vii)  improvement of land title security;
(viii)  increase in the long-maturity financial resources in Cate
d'Ivoire through the creation of a regional financial market, and
the installation of credit lines from donors.
73.   This study was confided to two economic entities: the MACI and the National
Chamber of Agriculture who were interested in the installation of an agricultural
bank. Moreover, they were involved with the validation of the conclusions of the
study by the Steering committee.
(c)   Study on the food production plan. The study was carried out by the
BNETD and the conclusions were given to the MINAGRA for the
decision making concerning food production. Following the results of
the study, the govemment launched in May 1998 a program of food
production to reinforce agricultural policy as regards food production
in order to support food security and to fight against poverty in Cate
d'Ivoire-.



-45-
(d)   Study on the promotion of young farmers and study on agro-industrial
processing. These two studies are financed by the BAD within the
framework of PASA 11-BAD. The studies were launched respectively
by the Minister Delegate of the Ministry of Agriculture for the
Promotion of Young Farmers and the Ministry for Industrial
Development and for Small and Medium Enterprises.
mI - EXPERIENCE AND LESSONS DRAWN FROM CASA.
74.   The execution of CASA of 1995 to 1998 made it possible the Government to
accelerate the liberalization and the modernization of agriculture of the Cote d'Ivoire
and to facilitate its contribution to economic growth.
75.   The results of CASA are not easy to measure more especially as certain
decisions were made with delays. However, one recorded a positive impact on the
economic stakes in particular the liberalization of the agricultural sectors and the
privatization of the agro-industrial companies. One also noted a rationalization of
public expenditure in the agricultural sector with the unified budget.
76.  In addition, one currently notes first steps encouraging as regards food
production with the liberalization of wheat, rice imports in Cote d'Ivoire and other
foodstuffs. The progressiveness of the reforms by CASA and the regular dialogue of
the Government to the measures made it possible to avoid social strains against
reform in progress.
77.   The initial calendar of the disbursements was not respected; this was felt on
the mobilization of the financial resources of the state and particularly the financing
of the deficit of the public sector. However, the follow-up of CASA was carried out
by a mobilization of the administration through a monitoring committee led by the
Cabinet of the Prime Minister.
IV - CONCLUSION
78.   The apprehensions on the part of Cote d'Ivoire in the execution of CASA
resulted in looking further into the consequences and the impact of measures; and to
carry out significant studies before measures are taken. Finally, the reforms of CASA
did not involve upheavals, and original fears appeared excessive. At the time of the
review at the end of CASA, one could judge overall the results of the program of
CASA satisfactory because it contributed to the revival of the economy of Cote
d'Ivoire through the growth of the production and agricultural exports. It is desirable
on the part of the Cote d'Ivoire that the effort of adjustment undertaken by CASA, by
the ESAF 1998-2001 and through the HIPC is continued in the form of a third
program of adjustment structural of the agricultural sector. This third program will
have to allow the continuation of the reforms already taken into account in the sectors
and under agricultural sectors; and to take into account fields such as rural land, the
forest and the environmnent, financial inter-mediation, and the formation of the
professional organizations.



