Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 2779-1 IVC
(Amendment)
Agreement Amending
Development Credit Agreement
(Agricultural Sector Adjustment Credit)
between
REPUBLIC OF COTE D'IVOIRE
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated December 13, 1995
CREDIT NUMBER 2779-1 IVC
(Amendment)
AGREEMENT AMENDING
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated December 13, 1995, between REPUBLIC OF COTE D'IVOIRE (the 
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower and the Association have entered into a Development 
Credit Agreement (Agricultural Sector Adjustment Credit) dated September 27, 1995 (the 
Development Credit Agreement), for the purpose of assisting in the financing of 
urgently needed imports required during the execution of the Borrower's program 
designed to achieve structural adjustment in the agricultural sector (the Program);
(B)
the Borrower has requested the Association to provide further additional 
assistance towards the financing of the Program by increasing the amount made 
available under the Development Credit Agreement by an amount in various currencies 
equivalent to forty-nine million one hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 
49,100,000); and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, 
to provide such additional assistance to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions 
set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Page  2
Amendments of the Development Credit Agreement
Section 1.01. Section 1.02 of the Development Credit Agreement is amended by the 
addition of a new paragraph (o) reading as follows:
"(o) 'Amending Agreement' means the Agreement Amending the Development 
Credit  
Agreement (Agricultural Sector Adjustment Credit) between the 
Borrower and the Association, 
dated September 27, 1995."
 
Section 1.02. Section 2.01 of the Development Credit Agreement is amended to 
read as follows:
"Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the 
terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit 
Agreement, an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to one hundred 
forty-four million nine hundred thousand 
Special Drawing Rights (SDR 
144,900,000) (the Credit), which includes: (a) an original 
amount in various 
currencies equivalent to ninety-five million eight hundred thousand 
Special Drawing Rights (SDR 95,800,000) (the Initial Financing); and (b) an additional 
amount in various currencies equivalent to forty-nine million one hundred 
thousand Special 
Drawing Rights (SDR 49,100,000) (the Additional Financing).
 
Section 1.03. Paragraph (b) (i) of Section 2.04 of the Development Credit 
Agreement is amended by adding after the term "canceled" the following proviso 
reading:
"and that any commitment charge on the Additional Financing shall accrue 
from a date 
sixty days after the date of the Amending Agreement."
 
Section 1.04. Paragraph 4 of Schedule 1 to the Development Credit Agreement is 
amended by substituting: (a) "SDR 38,300,000" by "SDR 87,400,000" in sub-paragraph 
(a); and "SDR 67,000,000" by "SDR 116,100,000" in sub-paragraph (b).
Section 1.05. The following paragraph is added at the end of Schedule 1 to the 
Development Credit Agreement:
"6.  After a date twelve months from the date of the Amending Agreement, 
no 
withdrawal shall be made and no commitment shall be entered into to pay 
amounts to or on the 
order of the Borrower in respect of expenditures to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the 
Additional Financing. At any time after such 
date, the Association may, by notice to the 
Borrower, cancel the unwithdrawn 
amount of the Additional Financing from the Credit Account 
or any part thereof."
 
ARTICLE II
Effective Date; Termination
Section 2.01. This Amending Agreement shall not become effective until evidence 
satisfactory to the Association shall have been furnished to the Association that the 
execution and delivery of this Amending Agreement on behalf of the Borrower have been 
duly authorized or ratified by all necessary governmental action.
Section 2.02. As part of the evidence to be furnished pursuant to Section 2.01 
of this Amending Agreement, there shall be furnished to the Association an opinion or 
opinions satisfactory to the Association of counsel acceptable to the Association 
showing, on behalf of the Borrower, that this Amending Agreement has been duly 
authorized or ratified by, and executed and delivered on behalf of, the Borrower and 
is legally binding upon the Borrower in accordance with its terms.
Section 2.03. This Amending Agreement shall come into force and effect on the 
date upon which the Association shall dispatch to the Borrower notice of its 
acceptance of the evidence required by Section 2.01 of this Amending Agreement.
Section 2.04. If this Amending Agreement shall not have come into force and 
effect by a date ninety (90) days after the date of this Amending Agreement, this 
Amending Agreement and all obligations of the parties hereunder shall terminate, 
Page  3
unless the Association establishes a later date for the purposes of this Section. If 
this Amending Agreement shall terminate under the provisions of this Section, the 
Development Credit Agreement shall continue in full force and effect, as if this 
Amending Agreement had not been executed.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Amending Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
REPUBLIC OF COTE D'IVOIRE
By /s/ Moise Koumoue Koffi
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Edward V. K. Jaycox
Regional Vice President
Africa
