CREDIT NUMBER  V11  IVC
Development Credit Agreement
(Agricultural Sector Adjustment Credit)
between
REPUBLIC OF COTE D'IVOIRE
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated Se,QWjao  A    1995


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 4119 IVC
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated &fkUA6k        al7    , between REPUBLIC OF COTE
D'IVOIRE (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
(the Association).
WHEREAS: (A) the Association has received a letter dated August 24 , 1995
(hereinafter called the Letter of Agricultural Development Policy) from the Borrower,
describing a program of actions, objectives and policies designed to achieve structural
adjustment of the Borrower's agricultural sector (hereinafter called the Program),
declaring the Borrower's commitment to the execution of the Program, and requesting
assistance from the Association in the financing of urgently needed imports required
during such execution; and
(B) on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, the Association has decided in
support of the Program to provide such assistance to the Borrower by making the Credit
in three tranches as hereinafter provided;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit
Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, with the modifications thereof
set forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
(a)    Section 2.0 1, paragraph 9, shall be modified to read:
"'Project' means the imports and other activities that may be financed
out of the proceeds of the Credit pursuant to the provisions of Schedule I to the
Development Credit Agreement";
(b)    Section 9.06 (c) shall be modified to read:
"(c)   Not later than six months after the Closing Date or such later
date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the
Association, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Association a report,
of such scope and in such detail as the Association shall reasonably request, on
the execution of the Program referred to in the Preamble to the Development
Credit Agreement, the performance by the Borrower and the Association of their
respective obligations under the Development Credit Agreement and the
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit";
c)    the last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted; and
(d)    the second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to read:


﻿-2-
"Except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, no
withdrawals shall be made: (a) on account of expenditures in the territories of any
country which is not a member of the Bank or for goods produced in, or services
supplied from, such territories; or (b) for the purpose of any payment to persons or
entities, or for any import of goods, if such payment or import, to the knowledge of the
Association, is prohibited by a decision of the United Nations Security Council taken
under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations."
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in
the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
a)     "CAA" means Caisse Autonome _d'Amortissement, a public financial
institution of the Borrower.
b)     "CAISTAB" means Caisse de Stabilisation et de Soutien des Prix de
Productions Agricoles, the Borrower's cocoa/coffee marketing board.
c)     "PALMINDUSTRIE" means Soci6t6 Palmindustrie of the Borrower.
d)     "Lot A of PALMINDUSTRIE" means the agro-industrial units in the
South-East area of the Borrower's territories, including the palm oil industrial
plantations and mills of Ehania and Toumanguie and all other related assets.
e)     "Lot B of PALMINDUSTRIE" means the agro-industrial units in the
South-West area of the Borrower's territories, including the palm oil industrial
plantations and mills of Neka, Iboke and Blidouba and all other related assets.
f)     "Lot C of PALMINDUSTRIE" means the agro-industrial units in the
Central-Eastern area of the Borrower's territories, including the palm oil industrial
plantations and mills of Angu6d6dou, Eloka and Dabou, and all other related assets.
g)     "Lot D of PALMINDUSTRIE" means the agro-industrial units in the
Central area of the Borrower's territories, including the palm oil industrial plantations
and mills of Irobo and Boubo.
h)     "Lot E of PALMINDUSTRIE" means the agro-industrial units in the
Central-Western area of the Borrower's territories, including the palm oil industrial
plantations and mills of Soubr6 and Boulo.
i)     "Lot F of PALMINDUSTRIE" means the coconut industrial plantations
of Assinie, Port Bouet, Jacqueville, Glik6, Grand Lahou and Fresco.
j)     "Lot G of PALMINDUSTRIE" means the kernel factory of Vridi.


﻿-3-
k)     "SODESUCRE" means Socit6 p-Qur Le D6veloppement de Plantations
de la Canne a Sucre, F'Industrialisation et la Commercialisation du Sucre of the
Borrower.
1)     "CIDT" means Compagnie Ivoirienne de D6veloppement des Textiles of
the Borrower.
m)     "SITC" means the Standard International Trade Classification, Revision
3 (SITC, Rev. 3), published by the United Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M, No.
343 (1986).
n)     "Environmentally Hazardous Goods" means goods prohibited to be
imported under the laws of the Borrower or international agreements to which the
Borrower is a party.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in
various currencies equivalent to ninety-five million eight hundred thousand Special
Drawing Rights (SDR 95,800,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agriement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1997 or such later date as
the Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of
such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment
charge on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to
be set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-
half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)    The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after
the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts
shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or canceled; and (ii) at the
rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date or at such other rates as
may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above. The rate set as
of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next payment date in that year specified
in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)    The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed by, or
in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement for


﻿-4-
the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other eligible currency
or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected pursuant to the
provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the
Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment and service charges shall be payable semiannually on
March 1 and September 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below, the Borrower shall
repay the principal amount of the Credit in semi-annual installments payable on each
March I and September 1 commencing March 1, 2006 and ending September 1, 2035.
Each installment to and including the installment payable on September 1, 2015 shall be
one percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be two
percent (2%) of such principal amount.
(b)     Whenever (i) the Borrower's gross national product per capita, as
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790 in constant 1985 dollars for
five consecutive years and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for
Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by the
Executive Directors of the Association and after due consideration by them of the
development of the Borrower's economy, modify the terms of repayment of installments
under paragraph (a) above by requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each
such installment not yet due until the principal amount of the Credit shall have been
repaid. If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise such modification to
include, in lieu of some or all of the increase in the amounts of such installments, the
payment of interest at an annual rate agreed with the Association on the principal amount
of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the
judgment of the Association, such revision shall not change the grant element obtained
under the above-mentioned repayment modification.
(c)    If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b)
above, the Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition has
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, further
modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as provided in
paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the French Republic is hereby specified for the
purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
Section 2.09. (a) The General Director of Caisfe Autonome d'Amortissement
(CAA) is designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of taking any
action required or permitted to be taken under the provisions of Section 2.02 of this
Agreement and Article V of the General Conditions.


﻿-5-
(b)    Without limitation or restriction to the foregoing, the Borrower hereby
entrusts CAA with responsibility for the preparation of withdrawal applications under
the Credit and for the collection of the documents and other evidence to be furnished to
the Association in support of such applications; such withdrawal applications shall to the
extent practicable be consolidated so as to apply for withdrawal of aggregate amounts of
not less than $1,000,00( equivalent.
ARTICLE III
Particular Covenants
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower and the Association shall from time to time, at
the request of either party, exchange views on the progress achieved in carrying out the
Program.
(b)    Prior to each such exchange of views, the Borrower shall furnish to the
Association for its review and comment a report on the progress achieved in carrying out
the Program, in such detail as the Association shall reasonably request.
(c)    Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section,
the Borrower shall exchange views with the Association on any proposed action to be
taken after the disbursement of the Credit which would have the effect of materially
reversing the objectives of the Program, or any action taken under the Program,
including any action specified in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of
the goods to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the
provisions of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records
and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained sound
accounting practices the expenditures financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
(b)    The Borrower shall:
(i)    have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this
Section for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with
appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, by
independent auditors acceptable to the Association;
(ii)   furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case
not later than six months after the end of each such year or
ninety days after the last withdrawal from the Credit Account,
whichever date is the earliest, a certified copy of the report of
such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as
the Association shall have reasonably requested; and


﻿-6-
(iii)  furnish to the Association such other information concerning
said records and accounts and the audit thereof as the
Association shall from time to time reasonably request.
(c)    For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit
Account were made on.the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)    maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with
paragraph (a) of this Section, records and accounts reflecting
such expenditures;
(ii)   retain, until at least one year after the Association has received
the audit report for the fiscal year or the period in which the last
withdrawal from the Credit Account was made, all records
(contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other documents,
or customs certificates, as appropriate) evidencing such
expenditures;
(iii)  enable the Association's representatives to examine such
records; and
(iv)   ensure that such records and accounts are included in the audit
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the report of
such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors as to
whether the statements of expenditure submitted during such
fiscal year or period, together with the procedures and internal
controls involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to
support the related withdrawals.
ARTICLE IV
Additional Event of Suspension
Section 4.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General Conditions, the
following additional event is specified, namely, that a situation has arisen which shall
make it improbable that the Program, or a significant part thereof, will be carried out.
ARTICLE V
Termination
Section 5.01. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.


﻿-7-
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. Except as provided in Section 2.09 (a) of this Agreement, the
Minister of the Borrower responsible for finance is designated as representative of the
Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Economy,
Finance and Plan
B.P. V 125
Abidjan
Republic of C8te d'Ivoire
Cable address:              Telex:
MINFIN                     23747 MINFIN
Abidjan
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:              Telex:
INDEVAS                    248423 (RCA)
Washington, D.C.            82987 (FTCC)
64145 (WUI) or
197688 (TRT)


﻿-8-
IN  WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective
names in the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first
above written.
REPUBLIC OF COTE D'IVOIRE
By/[SI t69               w
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Regional Vice President
Africa


﻿-9-
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.     Subject to the provisions set forth or referred to in this Schedule, the proceeds of
the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit Account for expenditures made (or, if the
Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods
required during the execution of the Program and to be financed out of such proceeds.
2.     Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph I above, no withdrawals shall be
made in respect of:
(a)    expenditures for goods included in the following SITC groups or
subgroups, or any successor groups or subgroups under future revisions to the SITC, as
designated by the Association by notice to the Borrower:
Group             Subgroup                 Description of Items
112                  --            Alcoholic beverages
121                  --            Tobacco, unmanufactured, tobacco refuse
122                  --             Tobacco, manufactured (whether or not
containing tobacco substitutes)
525                   --            Radioactive and associated materials
667                   --            Pearls, precious and semiprecious
stones, unworked or worked
718               718.7            Nuclear reactors, and parts thereof,
fuel elements(cartridges), non
irradiated for nuclear reactors
728               728.43            Tobacco processing machinery
897               897.3            Jewelry of gold, silver or platinum
group metals (except watches and
watch cases) and goldsmiths' or
silversmiths' wares (including set gems)
971                   --            Gold, non monetary (excluding gold
ores and concentrates)


﻿-10-
(b)    expenditures in the currency of the Borrower or for goods supplied from
the territory of the Borrower, excluding, if the currency of the Borrower is also that of
another country, expenditures in such currency for goods supplied from the territory of
such other country;
(c)    payments made for goods imported prior to the date of this Agreement,
except that withdrawals in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of
SDR 19,200,000 may be made on account of payments made for such goods imported
before that date but after the date falling four months prior to the date of this Agreement;
(d)    expenditures for goods procured under contracts costing less than
$ 10,000 equivalent;
(e)    expenditures for goods supplied under a contract which any national or
international financing institution or agency other than the Association shall have
financed or agreed to finance;
(f)    expenditures for goods intended for a military or paramilitary purpose or
for luxury consumption; and
(g)    expenditures for Environmentally Hazardous Goods.
3.     Withdrawals for expenditures under contracts for the procurement of
goods estimated to cost less than $5,000,000 may be required by the Association upon
the basis of statements of expenditure under such terms and conditions as the
Association shall specify.
4.     No withdrawal shall be made and no commitment shall be entered into
to pay amounts to or on the order of the Borrower in respect of expenditures to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit:
(a)    after the aggregate of the proceeds of the Credit withdrawn from the
Credit Account and the total amount of such commitments shall have reached the
equivalent of SDR 38,300,000, unless the Association shall be satisfied, after an
exchange of views as described in Section 3.01 of this Agreement, based on evidence
satisfactory to the Association:
(i)    with the progress achieved by the Borrower in the carrying out
of the Program;
(ii)  that the actions described in paragraph I of Schedule 3 to this
Agreement have been taken and are satisfactory to the
Association; and
(iii)  that the Borrower's macro-economic policy framework is
consistent with the objectives of the Program on the basis of
indicators agreed with the Association; and


﻿-11-
(b)    after the aggregate of the proceeds of the Credit withdrawn from the
Credit Account and the total amount of such commitments shall have reached the
equivalent of SDR 67,000,000, unless the Association shall be satisfied, after an
exchange of views as described in Section 3.01 of this Agreement, based on evidence
satisfactory to the Association:
(i)    with the progress achieved by the Borrower in the carrying out
of the Program;
(ii)  that the actions described in paragraph 2 of Schedule 3 to this
Agreement have been taken and are satisfactory to the
Association; and
(iii)  that the Borrower's macro-economic policy framework is
consistent with the objectives of the Program on the basis of
indicators agreed with the Association.
5.     If, after any such exchange of views described in paragraphs 4(a) or 4(b) above,
the Association shall have given notice to the Borrower that the progress achieved and
actions taken are not satisfactory and, within 90 days after such notice, the Borrower
shall not have achieved progress satisfactory to the Association and taken actions
satisfactory to the Association, then the Association may, by notice to the Borrower,
cancel the unwithdrawn amount of the Credit or any part thereof.


﻿-12-
SCHEDULE 2
Procurement
Section 1.    Procurement of Goods
Part A: General
Goods shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I of the
"Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the
Bank in January 1995 (the Guidelines) and the following provisions of this Section, as
applicable.
Part B: International Competitive Bidding
I.     Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods shall be
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the
Guidelines, subject to the provisions of paragraphs 2.63, 2.64 and 2.65 thereof.
2.     Goods shall be exempted from preshipment price inspection by a third
party inspection firm.
Part C: Other Procurement Procedures
Goods estimated to cost less than $5,000,000 equivalent per contact may be
procured:
1.     by purchasers required to follow the Borrower's public procurement procedures
for the importation of goods, under contracts awarded in accordance with such
procedures, provided that such procedures shall have been found acceptable by the
Association; and
2.     by other purchasers:
(a)    under contracts awarded on the basis of international shopping
procedures in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the
Guidelines; or
(b)    in the circumstances described in paragraph 3.7 of the Guidelines, under
direct contracting procedures in accordance with the provisions of said paragraph of the
Guidelines.


﻿-13-
Part D: Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
I.     Prior Review
With respect to each contract estimated to cost more than $5,000,000 equivalent,
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall
apply.
2.     Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 1 of this Part, the
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.


﻿-14-
SCHEDULE 3
Actions Referred to in Paragraphs 4(a) (ii) and 4(b) (ii)
of Schedule I to this Agreement
1. For the purposes of the release of the second tranche, the Borrower has taken the
following actions in accordance with paragraphs 21, 22, 24, 26, 32, 33, 35, 36, 37, 39,
41, 54, 56, 58 and 59 of the Letter of Agricultural Development Policy:
(a)    Coffee and Cocoa Sector:
(i)    External Marketing.
(A)    The Comit6 Interminist6riel de Suivi has furnished
evidence satisfactory to the Association that the system
of auctioning off cocoa and coffee export rights adopted
pursuant to CAISTAB Board of Directors' decision of
August 10, 1995 has been complied with.
(B)    The Borrower has furnished to the Association for its
review and comments, the intermediary report of the
study aiming at further improving the coffee marketing,
and on the basis of the conclusions of said report, has
decided on the process for completing said study.
(ii)   CAISTAB Expenditures. The level of CAISTAB expenditures
for 1996-97 crop season has been determined in agreement with
the Association, and with a view to providing for the appropriate
functioning of CAISTAB technical reserve fund during the
1996-97 crop season, the Borrower has caused CAISTAB to
limit allocations to such fund, not to exceed CFAF 35 billion
equivalent or such other amount as agreed upon between the
Borrower, CAISTAB and the Association.
(b)    Rice Sector: The Borrower has removed all price controls on ordinary
rice and for such purpose has published a decree modifying Decree No. 92-50 of January
8, 1992, and has eliminated the system of equalization for transport costs and for such
purpose has published an arr6t6 abrogating Arr8t6 No. 298 MEFCP/CGP of June 21,
1995.
(c)    Trade and Price Reform:
(i)    The Borrower has removed non-tariff barriers on importation of
agricultural tools and wheat flour and all price controls on said
products, and for such purpose the Borrower has published
decrees modifying Decrees No. 93-313 of March 11, 1993 and
No. 92-50 of January 8, 1992.


﻿-15-
(ii)   The Borrower has introduced in its 1996 budget law: (1)
customs duties on importation of wheat and flour such that the
effective protection rate of the local milling industry does not
exceed 40%; and (2) compensatory duties on importation of
wheat, flour, jute bags and plastic sheets in an amount
determined in agreement with the Association.
(iii)  The Borrower has published an interministerial decision
pursuant to which: (1) non-tariff barriers on importation of, and
price controls on, sugar shall be removed effective not later than
the date when the majority of the share capital of SODESUCRE
is controlled by the private sector; and (2) non-tariff barriers on
importation of cotton textiles and price controls on cotton-grain
shall be removed effective not later than the date when the
majority of the share capital of CIDT is controlled by the private
sector, and for such respective purposes the Borrower shall
publish corresponding decrees.
(d)    Public Expenditures in Agriculture:
(i)    The Borrower has adopted, in accordance with the three-year
1996-1998 rolling public investment program in agriculture, its
agricultural investment budget for fiscal year 1996, which has
been approved in the Borrower's budget law for said year.
(ii)   The main components of the agricultural investment program
for fiscal year 1997 have been agreed upon between the
Borrower and the Association.
(e)    Public Enterprise Sector:
(i)    All bids received for Lots A, B and G of PALMINDUSTRIE
have been analyzed, and the successful bidders have been
selected and invited to enter into negotiations.
(ii)   Lot C of PALMINDUSTRIE and SODESUCRE have been
offered for sale, i.e. prospectuses and tender documents have
been prepared and advertisements and notices have been
published.
(iii)  The Borrower's Council of Ministers has adopted a privatization
strategy for CIDT, satisfactory to the Association.
2.     For the purpose of the release of the third tranche, the Borrower has taken the
following actions in accordance with paragraphs 21, 32, 33, 35, 36, 37, 39, 43, 54, 56, 58
and 59 of the Letter of Agricultural Development Policy:


﻿-16-
(a)    Coffee and Cocea Sector:
(i)    External Marketing.
(A)    The Comit6 Interminist6riel de Suivi has furnished
evidence satisfactory to the Association that the system
of auctioning off cocoa and coffee export rights adopted
pursuant to CAISTAB Board of Directors' decision of
August 10, 1995 has been complied with.
(B)    Following completion of the study aiming at further
improving the coffee marketing, the Borrower has
adopted a plan of actions and implemented those actions
relating to the crop season 1996-1997.
(ii)   CAISTAB Technical Reserve Fund: With a view to providing
for the appropriate functioning of CAISTAB technical reserve
fund during the 1996-97 crop season, the Borrower has caused
CAISTAB to limit its net allocations in the aggregate to such
fund, not to exceed the amount determined pursuant to
paragraph 1 (a) (ii) of this Schedule.
(b)    Rice Sector:
(i)    The Borrower has eliminated the import quota on ordinary rice
and for such purpose has published a decree modifying Decree
No. 93-313 of March 11, 1993.
(ii)   On the basis of the results of the evaluation of the pilot
operation for the importation of broken rice during the calendar
year 1996, the Borrower has adopted a decision on the measures
to be taken concerning the importation of said product, in
agreement with the Association.
(c)    Public Expenditures in Agriculture:
(i)    The Borrower has implemented its agricultural investment
budget for fiscal year 1996, referred to in paragraph I (d) (i) of
this Schedule.
(ii)   The. Borrower has adopted, in accordance with the three-year
1997-1999 rolling public investment program in agriculture, its
agricultural investment budget for fiscal year 1997, which has
been approved in the Borrower's budget law for said year.


﻿-17-
(iii)  The main components of the agricultural investment program
for fiscal year 1998 have been agreed upon between the
Borrower and the Association.
(d)    Public Enterprise Sector: All bids received for Lots D, E and F of
PALMrNDUSTRIE, SODESUCRE and CIDT have been analyzed, and the successful
bidders have been selected and invited to enter into negotiations.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true copy
of the original in the archives of the International
Development Association.
FOR SECRETARY


