Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 3053 CH
(Second Industrial Finance Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
BANCO CENTRAL DE CHILE
Dated May 12, 1989
LOAN NUMBER 3053 CH
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated May 12, 1989, between INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND 
DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) and BANCO CENTRAL DE CHILE (Banco Central).
WHEREAS (A) by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between Republic of 
Chile (the Borrower) and the Bank, the Bank has agreed to make available to the 
Borrower an amount in various currencies that shall have an aggregate value equivalent 
to seventy five million dollars ($75,000,000), on the terms and
conditions set forth in the Loan Agreement, but only on condition that Banco Central 
agree to undertake such obligations toward the Bank as are set forth in this 
Agreement;
(B)
the Borrower will be made available to Banco Central the proceeds of the 
loan provided for under the Loan Agreement; and
WHEREAS Banco Central, in consideration of the Bank's entering into the Loan 
Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the obligations set forth in this 
Agreement;
Page  2
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the Loan Agreement and the General Conditions (as so defined) have the respective 
meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. (a) Banco Central declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement, and, to this end, shall 
carry out the Project and conduct its operations and affairs in respect of the Project 
in accordance with sound financial standards and practices, with qualified management 
and personnel, and in accordance with the Statement of Policies.
(b)
Banco Central shall duly perform all its obligations of fiscal agent of 
the Borrower. 
(c)
Without any limitation to paragraph (a) above, Banco Central shall have 
the Technical Unit, at all times, supervised by qualified and experienced management, 
assisted by competent staff in adequate numbers.
(d)
Banco Central agrees that during the execution of the Project it shall 
provide, out of its own funds and in addition to the proceeds of the Loan and any 
other financing, loans to Participating Banks, to be onlent to Investment Enterprises 
to finance Investment Projects, the total principal amount of such loans to be 
equivalent to at least fifty million dollars ($50,000,000). Such loans to 
Participating Banks and Investment Enterprises shall be made on the same terms and 
conditions as apply in respect of the Subsidiary Loans and the Sub-loans, 
respectively. The timetable for providing such loans by Banco Central and the lending 
policies applicable thereto shall be acceptable to the Bank.
Section 2.02. (a) Banco Central shall relend the proceeds of the Loan to 
Participating Banks under Subsidiary Loan Agreements, satisfactory to the Bank, and in 
accordance with the terms and conditions set forth in the Schedule to this Agreement. 
(b)
Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, Banco Central shall not take or 
concur in taking any action which would have the effect of amending, abrogating, 
assigning, waiving or failing to enforce any provision of any Subsidiary Loan 
Agreement.
(c)
Banco Central shall utilize the proceeds accrued to Banco Central from 
the repayment of principal of, and payment of interest and other charges on, the 
Subsidiary Loans which are not required for purposes of the repayment of the Loan, 
exclusively for making loans for the same purposes, and under similar terms and 
conditions as those set forth in this Agreement.
Section 2.03. (a) Banco Central shall cause the Participating Banks to make 
available the proceeds of the Subsidiary Loans to the Investment Enterprises pursuant 
to the terms and conditions set forth in the Schedule to this Agreement.
(b)
Banco Central shall exercise its rights in relation to each Participating 
Bank, each Investment Project and each Investment Enterprise in such a manner as to: 
(i) protect at all times the interests of the Bank, the Borrower and Banco Central; 
(ii) comply with its obligations under this Agreement; and (iii) achieve the purposes 
of the Project.
(c)
Banco Central shall promptly take all such action and exercise all such 
resources available to it under such Subsidiary Loan Agreement as the Bank shall 
request in order to ensure the prompt and full performance by each Participating Bank 
of its obligations thereunder.
Page  3
(d)
Banco Central shall not, without the prior agreement of the Bank, suspend 
or terminate the right of a Participating Bank to have access to the proceeds of the 
Loan under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement with each Participating Bank or declare the 
principal amount of the Subsidiary Loan thereunder due and payable prior to the agreed 
maturity unless the right of Banco Central to withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in 
respect of such Participating Bank shall have been suspended or terminated by the Bank 
or the Bank shall have declared the principal amount of the Loan to be due and payable 
immediately or a default shall have occurred in the due and punctual payment of any 
monies payable by such Participating Bank to Banco Central and such default shall 
continue for a period of thirty days after notice thereof shall have been given by 
Banco Central to such Participating Bank.
Section 2.04. (a) Banco Central shall furnish to the Bank at regular intervals 
all such information as the Bank shall reasonably request concerning the Participating 
Banks, the Subsidiary Loan Agreements, the expenditure of the proceeds of the Loan, 
the Project, the Investment Enterprises, the Investment Projects, the Sub-loans and, 
where appropriate, the benefits to be derived from the foregoing. 
(b)
The Bank and Banco Central shall cooperate fully to ensure that the 
purposes of the Loan will be accomplished. To that end, the Bank and Banco Central 
shall from time to time, at the request of either party, exchange views through their 
representatives with regard to the performance of their  respective obligations under 
this Agreement, the Participating Banks, the Investment Enterprises, and any other 
matters relating to the objectives of the Project.
(c)
Banco Central shall carry out the obligations set forth in Section 9.07 
(relating to records and reports) of the General Conditions.
Section 2.05. Banco Central shall promptly inform the Bank of any condition 
which interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of the Project, the 
accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan, or the performance by Banco Central of its 
obligations under this Agreement.
Section 2.06. Banco Central shall: (i) make the adjustments of interest rates 
provided for in paragraphs 5 and 6 of Part II of the Schedule to this Agreement; (ii) 
during the last quarter of each year exchange views with the Bank on the methods for 
the determination and adjustments of interest rates in respect of Subsidiary Loans and 
Sub-loans to be made during the remaining period of Project execution; and (iii) if 
necessary, promptly after such exchange of views, revise such methods in a manner 
satisfactory to the Bank so as to ensure that the interest rates on such Sub-loans 
determined thereby are consistent with the prevailing market conditions and to ensure 
that the interest rates on such peso-denominated Subsidiary Loans are sufficient to 
cover the cost of making payments of principal, interest and other charges on the 
Loan, and Banco Central's operating expenses in respect of the Project.
ARTICLE III
Financial Covenants
Section 3.01. Banco Central shall maintain separate accounts and records 
adequate to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained sound accounting 
practices the operations, resources and expenditures of Banco Central in respect of 
the Project. 
Section 3.02. (a) Banco Central shall: 
(i)
have the accounts and records referred to in Section 3.01 of this 
Agreement and the 
Special Account for each fiscal year audited in 
accordance with sound auditing 
principles consistently applied, 
by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank, as soon as available but in any case not 
later than four 
months after the end of each such year, (A) 
certified copies of the said records, 
separate accounts and the 
Special Account for such year as so audited and (B) the 
report 
of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank 
shall have reasonably requested;
Page  4
(iii)
furnish to the Bank monthly certified statements of the Special 
Account;
(iv)
furnish to the Bank, as soon as available but in any case not 
later than September 
30 and March 31 of each year, accounts and 
records pertaining to periods of the 
first six months of each 
year, respectively, as to Banco Central's cash flow in 
respect of the Project including, without limitation, cash made available from the 
proceeds of the Loan and other sources of funds, debt service payments on 
account 
of the Subsidiary Loans, Banco Central's operating 
costs in respect of the Project, 
and Banco Central's cost of funds in 
respect of the Project, including the debt 
service costs in 
respect of the Loan, such accounts and records to be of such scope 
and in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and
(v)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said records 
and accounts and 
the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to time 
reasonably request.
(b)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals are requested from 
the Loan Account on the basis of statements of expenditure, Banco Central shall:
(i)
maintain, in accordance with Section 3.01 of this Agreement, 
separate records and 
accounts reflecting such expenditures;
 
(ii)
retain, or cause to be retained until one year after the Closing 
Date, all records 
(contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and 
other documents) evidencing such 
expenditures;
 
(iii)
ensure that such separate accounts are included in the annual 
audit referred to in 
paragraph (a) of this Section and that the 
report thereof contains, in respect of 
such separate accounts, a 
separate opinion by the said auditors as to whether the 
statements of expenditure submitted during such fiscal year, together with 
procedures and internal controls involved in their preparation, 
can be relied upon 
to support the related withdrawals. 
 
Section 3.03. The Banco Central shall enable the Bank's representatives to 
inspect the records referred to in Section 3.01 of this Agreement and any relevant 
documents.
ARTICLE IV
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 4.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date upon 
which the Loan Agreement becomes effective. 
Section 4.02. This Agreement and all obligations of the Bank and of Banco 
Central thereunder shall terminate on the date on which the Loan Agreement shall 
terminate in accordance with its terms, and the Bank shall promptly notify Banco 
Central thereof. 
Section 4.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force 
and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the General 
Conditions.
ARTICLE V
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 5.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made 
under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by this 
Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been 
duly given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable, 
Page  5
telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted to be given or 
made at such party's address hereinafter specified or at such other address as such 
party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making such 
request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
 Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address: 
Telex:
 
INTBAFRAD 440098 
(ITT),
Washington, D.C.
248423 (RCA) or
 64145 (WUI)
For Banco Central:
Banco Central de Chile
Agustinas 1180
Santiago, Chile
Cable address: 
Telex:
 
240658
Section 5.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any document 
required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of Banco Central, 
or by Banco Central on behalf of the Borrower under the Loan Agreement, may be taken 
or executed by the President of Banco Central or such other person or persons as the 
President of Banco Central shall designate in writing, and Banco Central shall furnish 
to the Bank sufficient evidence of the authority and the authenticated specimen 
signature of each such person.
Section 5.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of 
which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
  RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Ping-cheung Loh
Acting Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean
BANCO CENTRAL DE CHILE
By /s/ Octavio Errazuriz
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE
Terms and Conditions of
Page  6
Subsidiary Loans and Sub-loans
I.
Eligibility of Investment Enterprises
 
The selection of  Investment  Enterprises  for the purpose of the Project shall 
be made on  the  basis of the criteria set forth in the Statement of Policies, 
including the following criteria for eligibility:
(a)
the Investment Enterprise is a duly incorporated entity, in accordance 
with the laws of the Borrower, the activities of which are  concentrated in the 
industrial sector, including mining, forestry, fishing industries, agro-industries and 
related industrial services;
(b)
the direct or indirect State participation in equity capital of the 
Investment Enterprise does not exceed 50%;
(c)
the equity capital of the Investment Enterprise is not, directly or 
indirectly, owned by financial institutions, except if the Investment Enterprise is 
judged eligible in consultation with the Bank;
(d)
the Investment Enterprise is not:
 
(i)
an enterprise which has issued bonds or other publicly offered 
debt securities in 
the three years preceding the date of the 
application for the Sub-loan; or
(ii)
an enterprise the securities of which have been quoted on any 
stock exchange in the 
twelve month period preceding the date of the 
application for the Sub-loan; or
(iii)
an enterprise the debt securities of which have been rated for 
risk classification 
purposes in accordance with the Borrower's 
laws and regulations;
unless eligibility of such Investment Enterprise is agreed to by the Bank after 
receiving evidence submitted to it by Banco Central to the effect that the Investment 
Enterprise in question, taking into account market conditions, is not able to raise 
all or part of the necessary funds to finance the Investment Project from the 
securities market, including stock and bond markets.
II.
Terms and Conditions of Sub-loans and Subsidiarv Loans
 
1.
Each Sub-loan shall not exceed the equivalent of 60% of the estimated cost of 
the Investment Project.
2.
Sub-loans may be denominated: (a) in U.F. equivalent of Pesos, repayable in 
Pesos equivalent to the U.F. adjusted value of the Sub-loan on the date of repayment 
(hereinafter peso-denominated Sub-loans); or (b) in dollars  (hereinafter 
dollar-denominated Sub-loans).
3.
Sub-loans shall be repayable within a period of up to 10 years, including a 
grace period of up to 3 years, provided, however, that in respect of Sub-loans made 
exclusively for financing permanent working capital, the repayment period shall be 
between a minimum of 18 months and a maximum of 3 years, with a grace period of up to 
6 months.
4.
Except as provided herein below, Subsidiary Loans shall be made on the same 
terms and conditions as those applicable to the corresponding Sub-loans.
5.
(a)
Subject to the provisions of Section 2.06 of this Agreement, interest on 
the principal amount of dollar-denominated Subsidiary Loans withdrawn and outstanding 
from time to time shall be payable at a rate to be determined and thereafter adjusted 
semiannually, on each February 1 and August 1, in accordance with the following 
formula:
-
r$ = {a(1+B)(1.001)(1.005)á -1} x 100
Page  7
where:
-
"r$" means the rate of interest applicable to the principal amount of 
each 
dollar-denominated Subsidiary Loan withdrawn and 
outstanding from time to time;
-
"B" means the Bank's interest rate prevailing on the date the Subsidiary 
Loan is made or, 
for the purpose of adjustment of the interest rate 
applicable to Subsidiary Loans, on the 
date of such adjustment;
 
-
"(1.001)" represents the estimated cost of the commitment charge on the 
undisbursed amount 
of the Loan provided for in Section 2.05 of the Loan 
Agreement; and
-
"(1.005)" represents the estimated cost related to the operation of the 
Technical Unit;
(b)
Subject to the provisions of Section 2.06 of this Agreement, interest on 
the principal amount of dollar-denominated Sub-loans withdrawn and outstanding from 
time to time shall be payable at a rate to be set by each Participating Bank by adding 
to the rate of interest applicable to the respective Subsidiary Loan a margin in 
accordance with the prevailing market conditions.
6.
(a)
Subject to the provisions of Section 2.06 of this Agreement, interest on 
the adjusted value of the principal amount of peso-denominated Subsidiary Loans 
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time shall be payable at a rate to be set by 
Banco Central at a level not higher than TIP (hereinafter defined) plus one percentage 
point (1%) per annum and not lower than TIP less one-half percentage point (0.5%)  per 
annum, and thereafter adjusted semi-annually on each February 1 and August 1.
For purposes of this paragraph 6 (a), "TIP" means "tasa de interes promedio", 
the average rate for 90 to 365 day deposits in UF for (A) the preceding three month 
period of October and November and December in respect of each interest rate period 
from February 1 through July 31, and for (B) the preceding three month period of 
April, May and June in respect of each interest rate period from August 1 through 
January 31, all as published by Banco Central in the "Diario Oficial de la Republica 
de Chile".
(b)
Subject to the provisions of Section 2.06 of this Agreement, interest 
payable on the adjusted value of the principal amount of peso-denominated Sub-loans 
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time shall be payable at a rate to be set by 
each Participating Bank by adding to the rate of interest applicable to the respective 
Subsidiary Loan a margin in accordance with the prevailing market conditions.
III.
Rules Applicable to Subsidiary Loan Agreements
 
Each Subsidiary Loan Agreement shall include provisions: 
(a)
enabling Banco Central to carry out its obligations under this Agreement; 
and
(b)
obliging the Participating Bank which is a party to such Subsidiary Loan 
Agreement to:
(i)
conduct its operations and affairs in accordance with sound 
financial and 
investment standards and practices, 
under the supervision of competent and 
experienced 
management and, with respect to the Project, in accordance with the 
Statement of Policies;
(ii)
cause the Investment Enterprises financed by it to carry out their 
respective 
Investment Projects with due diligence and efficiency 
and in accordance with sound 
technical, managerial and financial 
standards, including the maintenance of 
adequate records and 
documents;
(iii)
make Sub-loans in accordance with the terms and conditions set 
Page  8
forth in this 
Schedule and in the Statement of Policies;
 
(iv)
use, and cause the Investment Enterprises to use, the proceeds of 
the Loan 
exclusively to finance the goods and services 
required to carry out the Investment 
Project in respect of which such 
proceeds were withdrawn from the Loan Account, and 
ensure that such 
goods and services are used exclusively in carrying out such 
Investment Project and purchased at a reasonable price, account being taken also of 
other relevant factors, such as time of delivery, efficiency and 
reliability of the 
goods, availability of maintenance and spare parts 
therefor and, in the case of 
services, of their quality and 
the competence of the parties rendering them, 
provided, however, 
that in the case of goods estimated to cost $400,000 equivalent 
or 
more, at least three quotations, each from a different source of supply, shall 
be obtained or caused to be obtained from eligible countries in 
accordance with the 
Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans 
and IDA Credits, dated May 1985;
(v)
ensure the right of the Bank, Banco Central and the Participating 
Bank to inspect 
the goods financed out of the proceeds of the 
Loan, the sites, works, plants and 
construction included in 
each Investment Project, the operation thereof and the 
operation of the Investment Enterprise and any relevant records and documents;
(vi)
require that the Investment Enterprise shall take out and maintain 
with responsible 
insurers such insurance, against such risks and in 
such amounts, as shall be 
consistent with sound business practice 
and that, without any limitation upon the 
foregoing, such 
insurance shall cover marine, transit and other hazards incident to 
the acquisition, transportation and delivery of the goods financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan to the place of use or installation, and that any 
indemnity 
thereunder shall be payable in a currency freely 
usable by the Investment 
Enterprise to replace or repair 
such goods;
(vii)
have its accounts audited by auditors acceptable to the Bank and 
Banco Central and 
furnish to the Bank and the Banco Central within four 
(4) months after the end of 
each calendar year, the 
Participating Bank's audited financial statements and the 
auditors' report thereon, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank and Banco 
Central shall have reasonably requested;
(viii) ensure the right of the Bank and Banco Central to obtain all such 
information as 
the Bank shall reasonably request relating to 
the foregoing and to the 
administration, operations and 
financial condition of the Participating Bank and of 
the Investment 
Enterprises it shall finance; and
(ix)
ensure the right of the Participating Bank to suspend or terminate 
the right of the 
Investment Enterprise to the use of the proceeds of 
the Loan upon failure by such 
Investment Enterprise to perform 
its obligations to the Participating Bank.
