Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY                 L                  y
Report No. P 2529-IND
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
FOR A
FOURTH BAPINDO PROJECT
May 7, 1979
This document hus a reaultod dstbutlom ua  my he _ud by recipients only in the perfnrmaee of
their oflicial duties. Its coatets my net oerwise be diselmd without W.il Dank authoriltion.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit    =      Rupiah (Rp)
US$ 1                   Rp 625
Rp 100           =      US$0.16
Rp 1 million     =      US$1,600
ABBREVIATIONS
BAPINDO           -   Bank Pembangunan Indonesia
ICB (or BKPM)     -   Investment Coordinating Board
IDFC              -   Indonesian Development Finance Company
INVESTASI         -   Medium/Long-Term Investment Credit
KIB (Investasi)   -   Kredit Investasi Besar (Medium-term Investment
Credit Program)
KIK               -   Kredit Investasi Kecil (Small Investment Credit
Program)
KMKP              -   Kredit Modal Kirja Penanaman (Small Permanent
Working Capital Credit Program)
PDFCI             -   Private Development Finance Company of Indonesia
PUPN              -   State Committee for Settlement of Credit Claims
RDB               -   Regional Development Bank
FISCAL YEAR OF THE REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
April 1-March 31
BAPINDO'S FISCAL YEAR
January 1-December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
INDONESIA
FOURTH BAPINDO PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:                 The Republic of Indonesia
Beneficiary:              Bank Pembangunan Indonesia (BAPINDO)
Amount:                    $50 million equivalent in various currencies
Terms:                    The proposed loan will bear an interest rate of 7.9%
per annum, amortization to conform substantially to
the aggregate of the amortization schedules applic-
able to the specific investment projects financed out
of the proceeds of the proposed loan. The maximum
repayment period, applicable to subborrowers, would be
15 years, including 3 years of grace.
Relending Terms:          The Government would make available the proceeds of
the proposed loan to BAPINDO at a rate which would
allow BAPINDO a spread of 4 percentage points for
subloans above Rp 75 million and 2.5 percentage
points below Rp 75 million. BAPINDO would onlend the
proceeds of the loan to subborrowers at interest
rates varying from 13.5% per annum to 10.5% per annum
depending on the size of subloans for a maximum
period of 15 years, including 3 years of grace. The
foreign exchange risk will be borne by the Government.
Project Description:      The proposed loan would be used to help cover the
foreign exchange requirements of subprojects to be
financed by BAPINDO over the next two years; apart
from direct imports, the proceeds of the loan would
be utilized by BAPINDO to finance the foreign exchange
component of domestically produced capital goods
estimated at 60% of the invoice price of such goods,
50% of civil works and 40% of the cost of locally
procured vehicles. In order to support BAPINDO's
efforts to provide financial assistance to small- and
medium-scale, relatively labor-intensive enterprises,
a component of $15 million would be earmarked for
financing specifically: (a) enterprises with fixed
assets not exceeding $1.0 million; or (b) projects
generating employment at a fixed investment cost per
job not greater than $12,000. In addition, out of
the proceeds of the loan, $100,000 would be utilized
Thil docuenont hs a rtrkcted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their ofAcial dutie. Its contnts my not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorirtion.



-2-
to finance the services of a project promotion
specialist and a staff training program to help
BAPINDO improve its project promotion capability.
Project benefits and risks: The major benefits of
the project would be to contribute to industrial
development financing in Indonesia and to further
improve the institutional capabilities of BAPINDO.
No special risks are associated with the project.
However, its potential to contribute to industrial
development will, to a large extent, be critically
related to measures the Government may or may not
take to alleviate existing bottlenecks to industrial
development. The further development of BAPINDO's
institutional capabilities, particularly in project
promotion and the successful implementation of the
proposed training program in project promotion will
be dependent on the enthusiasm with which BAPINDO's
management pursues these objectives. Given their
past performance, prospects are encouraging.
Estimated Disbursements: Bank FY             1980      1981     1982      1983
($ million) ----------
Annual              5.0     15.9      25.7       3.4
Cumulative          5.0     20.9      46.6     50.0
Staff Appraisal Report:  Report No. 2397-IND, dated May 7, 1979.



REPORT ANT) RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO THE
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA FOR
A FOURTH BAPINDO PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
loan to the Republic of Indonesia for the equivalent of 950 million for
relending to a development finance company, Bank Pembangunan Indonesia
(BAPINDO). The loan would bear an interest rate of 7.9% per annum. The
proceeds of the proposed loan would be onlent to BAPINDO at a rate to allow
BAPINDO a spread of 4 percentage points for subloans of Rp 75 million and
above and 2.5 percentage points for subloans below Rp 75 million. The loan
will be amortized substantially in accordance with the aggregate of the
amortization schedules applicable to the specific investment projects financed
out of its proceeds. The maximum repayment period applicable to subborrowers
would be 15 years, including 3 years of grace. The foreign exchange risk
will be borne by the Government.
PART I - THE ECONOMY /1
2.        The latest economic report on Indonesia, "Indonesia:  Growth
Patterns, Social Progress and Development Prospects," of February 20, 1979
(No. 2093-INn) was circulated to the Executive Directors on February 26, 1979.
The report's main findings are that:
(a) aided by a massive improvement in the country's resource position
during the early 1970s and innovative policies, considerable
progress has been made towards raising the level of material
well-being for the bulk of the Indonesian population, including
the lowest income groups;
(b) due to a number of new, mostly exogenous circumstances, including
an expected slow-down in the growth of oil production, Indonesia is
now facing a rapidly tightening overall resource position which
will make it more difficult to maintain high levels of income and
employment growth, while at the same time preserving monetary
stability and external balance;
(c) the recent (November 15, 1978) devaluation of the Rupiah from
Rp 415 to Rp 625 to the ITS dollar, while strongly supportive of
the structural changes reauired to reduce economic dependence on
oil and to improve long-term development prospects, should not be
regarded as a substitute for efforts needed to remove physical and
administrative bottlenecks and to develop effective support services;
/1 Substantially unchanged from the President's Report on the Second Agri-
cultural Training Project (No. P-2506-IND), circulated under cover of
R79-75, dated April 12, 1979, and approved by the Executive Directors on
April 24, 1979.



-2-
(d) although the Government (because of the structure of its revenues
and expenditures) is a prime beneficiary of devaluation-induced
income shifts from import users to net-exporters, significant
additional public sector resource mobilization efforts will be
needed to prevent a sharp decline in the share of Government
savings in GNP beyond 1979/80; and
(e) while the next five to ten years may be difficult because of the
structural changes needed to adjust to a post-oil boom era, Indonesia's
long-term development prospects have been significantly enhanced by
the Government's successful population policies which have already
contributed to a substantial (approximately 20%) reduction of
fertility in Java and Bali during the past decade. These crucially
important demographic developments will, in due course, particularly
after the mid-1980s, be reflected in reduced and declining rates of
growth of the labor force. Declining labor force growth rates and
the prospects of declining income elasticities of demand for food
justify the hope and expectation that with sound policies, Indonesia
can and will eventually - possibly within the next two decades -
overcome the severe poverty and food security problems that still
plague the country today. The solution of these fundamental problems
through the pursuit of a pervasive employment-oriented development
strategy would set the economy firmly on a long-term growth path
towards much higher levels of social and economic development
involving all Indonesians. One of the key components of such a
strategy would be to aim at a high rate of labor-intensive manufac-
turing development.
Social Developments Since 1970
3.        Analysis of data from the National Household Surveys for 1970 and
1976 suggests that while overall income disparities have almost certainly
widened, the rapid overall growth of the economy /1 has contributed to a
considerable improvement in consumption of all income groups, including the
very poor. The data further suggest that increases in per capita consumption
were higher in Java than in the other islands and higher in urban areas than
in rural areas. Notwithstanding this, many Indonesians remain extremely poor:
in 1976 when average per capita income was about $280,/2 over 50 million
Indonesians (38% of the population) spent less than $90 (1976 prices and
exchange rate).
4.        Analysis of data from National Labor Force Surveys shows a remarkably
high rate of employment growth (over 4% p.a.) between September 1971 and October
1976. But during this period, the labor force also grew at a very high rate
and the data suggest that there was a slight increase in the rate of open
/1 GDP grew at 8.0% p.a. As a result of favorable terms of trade developments
during most of the period, GDY grew even faster - about 9.5% p.a.
/2  World Bank Atlas.  (Preliminary estimate for 1977:  $300).



- 3 -
unemployment. Since the labor force grew much faster than population in the
relevant age groups, a sharp increase in labor force participation rates, from
50% in September 1971 to 55% in October 1976, was observed. Thus, a substantial
part of the increased per capita consumption levels is believed to have been
related to increased labor force participation and declining dependency ratios.
5.        The share of agricultural employment between 1971 and 1976 declined
from 66% to 62%, implying rapid growth of nonagricultural employment - over
7% p.a. or 54% of the total increase in employment. Within the nonagricul-
tural sectors, the increase in employment occurred largely in proliferating
small-scale enterprises in the manufacturing and service sectors where labor
productivity is thought to be extremely low. This is indicated, inter alia,
by the stagnation of real minimum wage levels which are among the lowest in
the world. Employment growth in medium- and large-scale enterprises, which
absorbed the bulk of industrial investment, was very modest. The broad
picture of rapid employment growth since 1970, though encouraging in many
respects, thus reveals that a relatively large part of the incremental
employment has been of poor quality in residual types of activities.
6.        Much progress has been made in recent years with the provision of
education services. Enrollment rates increased at all levels of education.
For example, primary school enrollment (excluding over-age students) is
expected to reach 85% in 1979 for the 7-12 age group, compared to 60% in
1974; dropout rates - while still high - declined, and universal primary
education appears to be in sight. A promising nonformal education program
has been introduced to increase the basic employable skills of those who
never attended school (presently estimated at 23 million people) and others
who left school without completing primary education (a further 22 million).
Indonesia's adult literacy rate increased to 62% in 1974 which is much higher
than in India (36%), Pakistan (21%), or Bangladesh (23%), but lower than in
Thailand (82%) or the Philippines (87%). Within Indonesia, large differences
in levels of educational attainment between urban and rural areas still exist,
but differences between Java and other parts of the country are relatively
small.
7.        In the field of health care services, there has been a tremendous
expansion of physical infrastructure including medical training facilities.
Almost 3,000 rural health centers, designed to become the principal vehicles
for the delivery of basic health services, were constructed between 1969 and
1977. But much of the new physical infrastructure has so far remained
underutilized due to personnel shortage and a range of other factors,
including popular preference for traditional health care services in several
areas.
8.        Inadequate sewerage and sanitation facilities are still major
health hazards, especially in crowded urban areas. Even if the various
targets for rural and urban water supply for the Second Five-Year Development
Plan (Repelita II), which ended in March 1979, are fully met, over 100 million
Indonesians will still remain without easy access to safe water in 1979.
Similarly, housing conditions are generally very unsatisfactory, especially
in crowded urban areas.   Although simple and inexpensive improvements in
water supply, drainage, footpaths and community facilities, executed through



-4 -
Kampung Improvement Projects, including those supported by the Bank Group,
have contributed to better living conditions in several overcrowded urban
areas, specific socio-economic support programs to improve the living con-
ditions of the urban poor are needed.
The Devaluation of November 15, 1978
9.        The recent devaluation of the rupiah from Rp 415 to Rp 625 per US
dollar was designed to encourage labor-intensive import substitution and
nonoil export growth by reversing some of the adverse relative price shifts in
the economy that had occurred earlier this decade. The opportune timing of
this drastic and unique policy action is believed to be a strong factor in
enhancing the probability of its success. The strongest immediate effects of
the devaluation, however, will be a dramatic increase in budgetary revenues in
local currency terms. Government expenditures will, of course, also increase
as a result of the devaluation but the net budgetary position in terms of
rupiahs should improve strongly. While the recent devaluation will generally
tend to facilitate export promotion efforts, great emphasis needs to be placed
on the importance of developing effective support services and of reducing
administrative obstacles and other unnecessary cost-increasing factors.
10.       A number of supportive measures to prevent an upturn in domestic
inflation eroding the potential benefits of this devaluation have already been
taken. Such measures include the lowering of import tariffs by 50% on a wide
range of intermediate inputs, stringent temporary price controls, and a
temporary increase in budgetary subsidies to initially isolate key consumption
items, such as rice, from the effects of the devaluation. Aside from the
budget's influence on the prices via subsidies, the degree of monetary control
exercised will also be an important factor in minimizing devaluation-induced
inflation. There is likely to be conflict, however, between the need to
contain devaluation-induced monetary expansion and the need for additional
credit to promote new private investment in line with the structural objectives
of the devaluation. Nonetheless, a sizeable budget surplus in fiscal 1979/80
almost certainly will be needed to assist in neutralizing the effect of a sudden
sharp increase in the rate of monetary expansion following the devaluation.
11.       Prior to the November exchange rate adjustment, balance of payments
projections based on current trends and expectations suggested the probability
that, without special export promotion efforts, a shortage of foreign exchange
would become a binding constraint on development efforts within the next few
years. Although it is too early to make more than a very preliminary and
speculative assessment of the effect of the devaluation on imports and exports,
there is now less ground for the fear that the balance of payments will become
a development constraint. No dramatic changes, however, are foreseen in the
immediate future; the short-term export response, in particular, is likely to
be constrained by supply rigidities. Ultimately, changes in the size and
structure of imports and exports will be strongly influenced by the effect that
the devaluation will have on the overall growth performance of the economy.
Food Supply and Demand Prospects
12.       Despite impressive achievements in rice production, the past
decade has seen a continuing decline in Indonesia's food self-sufficiency.



-5-
Between 1968 and 1Q77, the composite trend growth rates of domestic food
calorie production and availability were approximately 3.2% and 3.7%, respect-
ively./l These growth rates reflect a growing import-dependence on rice,
sugar, wheat -nd recently coconut oil, as well as a reduction or disappearance
of maize, cassava, meat and coconut product exports. After three years of
stagnating or slow-growing rice production due to a combination of poor
weather and pest problems, 1978 showed an unprecedented increase in output
(over 10%), but import requirements in 1978/79, though much lower than in
1977, are still about 6% of total domestic consumption.
13.       Comparison of plausible food supply and demand scenarios suggests
the likelihood of increasing import requirements of basic foods and especially
of rice, wheat, sugar, coconut oil and possibly maize. There is an urgent
need for a comprehensive food production and consumption strategy. In the
case of rice, with the substantial completion of irrigation rehabilitation,
the recent shift in emphasis towards extension of irrigated areas and
swamp drainage projects will probably somewhat reduce rice production growth
rates, at least through 1985. However, the potential for increasing fertil-
izer and insecticide consumption and for improving the local performance of
the most recent IRRI varieties, suggests that an annual rate of growth of
rice production of around 3% is nevertheless feasible through 1985. The
recent devaluation has provided significant additional room for further rice
producer price increases aimed at stimulating supply.
14.       While slower growth in rice productivity is anticipated, a com-
parison of yields of secondary crops in a number of countries suggests that
these crops offer considerable potential for raising Indonesia's domestic
food self-sufficiency. With proper marketing and other support services, the
rate of growth of secondary crop production could probably be raised from
1.7% to 3.5% p.a. A gradual shift in the overall food production and con-
sumption pattern from rice to the secondary crops would assist low-income
farmers in unirrigated areas and reduce the cost and risks associated with
excessive rice import-dependency.
Overall Growth and Employment Prospects
15.       Medium-term prospects, as determined by developments already in
motion and by exogenous factors such as the expected temporary stagnation
in oil production, suggest that it will be difficult to achieve an overall GNP
growth rate of more than 6-6.5% during the next 3-5 years. This is consider-
ably less than the average growth performance of the economy during the
past decade. But if the broad pattern of relationships between output growth,
employment growth, and personal consumption growth observed for the period
1970-76 does not drastically change, a GNP growth rate of 6-6.5% could still
be consistent with an overall employment growth target rate of around 3% p.a.
The Government has already announced a GNP growth target of 6.5% p.a. for the
Third Five-Year Development Plan (Repelita III), which started in April 1979.
/1 The rice trend production growth rate was about 3.5% and the composite
trend for the 5 main secondary staples (maize, cassava, peanuts, sweet
potatoes, and soybeans) was 1.7%



16.        As the economy is entering a difficult period of adjustment to post-
oil boom conditions involving structural changes in the pattern of production
and the sources of savings, more reliance will have to be placed on agricul-
ture and industry and on the mobilization of Indonesia's most abundant and
inexhaustible resource: people. The devaluation may be expected to facilitate
the structural changes that are needed. With improved incentives for an employ-
ment-oriented strategy and adequate Government investment and institutional
support services for agriculture and small industries, it should in due course
be possible to raise the overall growth rate of the economy to at least 7% or 8%,
which would be a major help in accelerating the further elimination of poverty.
External Aid and Creditworthiness
17.        The heavy foreign borrowing in 1974, 1975 and the early part of
1976, together with a hardening of average terms during those years, has
raised the level of debt service payments which reached about $1.5 billion in
1978, or about 18% of projected export earnings.  The debt service ratio /1
was 16% in 1976 and 17% in 1977; the ratio is expected to remain below 20% in
1979 and 1980. This is the encouraging result of restraint with regard to
new borrowing in 1976 and 1977 and the recent replacement on more favorable
terms of $575 million remaining payments on cash loans (originally totalling
$1 billion) which had been obtained in 1975 from a number of private banks in
the wake of the Pertamina crisis. Total new loan commitments declined from a
peak of $3.4 billion in 1975 to $2.3 billion in 1978. Most of the decline
was achieved through a reduction in commercial borrowing. This means that
average loan terms have recently begun to soften again, which will be reflected
in future debt service payments.
18.        The Inter-Governmental Group on Indonesia (IGGI) continues to be
the principal source of external capital, including Official Development
Assistance (ODA), to the country. Total ODA (bilateral and multilateral)
commitments in 1977/78 (including grants) amounted to about $1.4 billion; the
IGGI (including the World Bank Group and Asian Development Bank) accounted
for over 90% of this amount. The Bank's most recent economic report on
Indonesia recommends that total ODA to Indonesia should reach at least
$1.93 billion in 1979/80, including both loans and grants, of which at least
70% should be on concessional and semi-concessional terms. At the meeting
of the IGGI in April 1979 the indications of probable commitments in 1979/80
made by bilateral and multilateral IGGI members amounted to this level; the
meeting therefore concluded that the Bank's recommendations would be approxi-
mately met.
19.        Our overall assessment of Indonesia's external accounts indicates
that the country will be able to finance essential imports of consumer,
intermediate and capital goods and to meet its debt service obligations. The
debt service ratio is expected to remain below 20%.  Although the November 15
/1 Ratio of debt service payments to commodity export earnings, with oil
and gas on a net basis.



- 7 -
Rupiah devaluation will provide a one-time revenue windfall, the Government
will need to raise substantial additional non-oil revenues over the coming
years if the relatively high rate of domestic investment already reached is to
be maintained. The Government has been quite cautious in increasing current
expenditures and there does not appear to be much scope for reducing them
further; expenditures should, in fact, rise in step with the growth in GNP and
inflation, to permit reasonable growth in Government salaries as well as
materials expenditures, a significant part of which is development-related.
In view of the pressure on public sector resources and since Indonesia's
total external financing requirements are in excess of the foreign exchange
components of the many projects planned for financing from external sources,
a limited measure of local cost financing is considered justified.
PART II - BANK CROUP OPERATIONS IN INDONESIA /1
20.      As of February 28, 1979, Indonesia had received 40 IDA credits
totalling $680.8 million, and 37 Bank loans amounting to $1,903.0 million;
IFC investments have totalled S61.3 million. The share of the Bank Group
in Indonesia's total (disbursed) external debt outstanding at the end of
1977 was about 8%, and the share of debt service about 1.8%. By the end of
1978, these ratios are estimated to have increased to around 12% and 5%,
respectively. Annex II contains a summary of IDA credits, Bank loans and
IFC Investments as of February 28, 1979, as well as notes on the execution of
ongoing projects.
21.      To date, the Bank Group has financed projects in virtually all
sectors of the Indonesian economy, although there has been particular stress
on agriculture, which accounts for over one third of all lending. Most of
the loans for agriculture have been for rehabilitation and expansion of
productive capacity, both for food and tree crop development. Several
national programs to provide credit inputs and advice to farmers and to
promote agricultural research have also been financed by the Bank Group.
More recently, an effort to aid the Government's transmigration program
has been initiated. In the industrial sector, while the major thrust has
been on expanding fertilizer production on the basis of Indonesia's gas
resources and on establishment and improvement of development finance institu-
tions, a credit has also been extended to finance a small enterprise develop-
ment project. The main emphasis in education has been on upgrading the
quality of education, improving primary and secondary education and manpower
training as well as on expanding non-formal education. In the social sector,
the Bank Group has financed projects for urban development (through neighbor-
hood improvement programs), urban water supplv, family planning, and nutrition.
A major portion of Bank Group financing has been used to rehabilitate and
expand Indonesia's inadequate infrastructure, particularly in the power and
transportation sectors. Credits have also been extended to finance a tele-
communications project and a tourism project. Finally, the Bank Group has
/1  Except for para. 24, substantially unchanged from the President's ReDort
on the Second Agriculural Training Development Project (No. P-2506-INT)),
circulated under cover of R7Q-75, dated April 12, 1979, and approved by
the Executive Directors on April 24, 1979.



assisted the Government's efforts to prepare and formulate its development
programs and projects through five technical assistance credits and a loan
for a natural resource survey and mapping project.
22.      The discussion in Part I of this report underscores the need for a
development program which will provide increasingly productive work oppor-
tunities and incomes for Indonesia's presently underemployed and growing labor
force and increase agricultural production, particularly of food crops.
Efforts to increase employment through programs directed towards improving the
incomes of the poor and their living standards are one of the major objectives
of the Third Five-Year Development Plan (Repelita III). While several of
these programs are likely to be suitable for Bank Group financing, it will
be some time before they are ready for implementation. However, as part of
this new focus, a small enterprise development project, designed to increase
non-agricultural employment in rural areas and small towns, has already been
approved by the Executive Directors, and an integrated rural development
project should be ready for presentation to the Executive Directors in a few
months. With respect to agriculture development, projects are being prepared
to further improve and expand research and extension services, rehabilitate
and expand irrigation systems, assist in watershed management and village
development, and develop presently underutilized land in areas outside Java
for transmigrants and other smallholders. In addition to the family planning
program, which continues to have high priority, other areas of particular
importance for Bank Group assistance will be the improvement of urban
services through construction of urban water supply systems and further
expansion of neighborhood improvement programs, and the improvement and
expansion of higher education, particularly of engineers, accountants and
agriculture specialists, as well as primary and nonformal education.
Finally, Bank Group financing continues to be important for the Government's
program of infrastructure rehabilitation and expansion, particularly in
transport and power, which will continue to require very large investments
for many years before these facilities are adequate to support Indonesia's
development. Compared to past lending activities, many of these projects
and programs reflect the shift of emphasis in the Government's development
objectives from rehabilitation and expansion to a better balanced and more
equitable and employment-oriented economic growth strategy.
23.      Bank Group lending to Indonesia started in 1968, and between 1968
and 1974 all Bank Group lending to Indonesia was on IDA terms. Following the
rapid increase in Indonesia's oil income which enabled Indonesia to borrow on
less concessional terms, it was decided that all lending to Indonesia after
June 30, 1974, would be on Bank terms. Since 1974, the Government has
saved and invested almost all of the increase in its oil revenues and greatly
expanded its development expenditures which reached about $6 billion in
1977/78. For reasons discussed in Part I above, and notwithstanding the
November 1978 devaluation, both the budgetary and balance of payments situa-
tions may be difficult in the years ahead. Thus, while Indonesia has always
qualified for assistance on concessional terms on grounds of its low per
capita income and the quality of its economic management, such terms are now
also necessary to enable it to maintain a high level of investment without



impairing its ability to service its external debt. Accordingly, starting in
FY78, a portion of Rank Group lending to Indonesia has again been provided on
IDA terms.
24.       Although overall project implementation performance in Indonesia is
now about the average for the Bank, Bank's staff and the Government have
become concerned in recent months about the level of disbursements which in
the last year or so has shown a declining trend. ~1any of the problems seem
to be attributable to cumbersome procedures for procurement and payment of
contracts, including issuance of letters of credit. In other cases, project
specific problems and unfamiliarity of some project executing agencies
with procedures also cause difficulties. A number of steps have been taken
by the Government and the Bank in an attempt to address these problems. In
the last year, two Bank missions were sent to Indonesia to analyze and make
recommendations for simplifying budgetary and financial procedures; the
Government is now reviewing their reports. The Government and the Bank are
holding regular joint review meetings in order to identify project specific as
well as more general problems and to work out corrective measures. The first
of these meetings was held in early March this year in Jakarta on a few
selected projects and a second meeting is scheduled for June. During the IGGI
meeting in April 1979 the Government announced several ameliorative measures
designed to streamline the more complex budgetary and financial procedures
which seem to affect implementation of almost all projects. Although, as a
result of these initiatives an improvement in implementation performance is
now anticipated, constant follow up in this area will be necessary in the
coming months.
25.       The proposed loan would be the eighth lending operation presented
to the Executive Directors this fiscal year and would bring total lending to
Indonesia this year to $462 million. Projects for transmigration, water
supply and power are expected to be ready for presentation before the end
of this fiscal year.
PART III - THE INDUSTRIAL SECTOR ANT) INnDJSTRIAL FINANCE
A. The Industrial Sector
Background
26.       The industrial sector, comprising the mining (including oil),
manufacturing and construction industries, has been the fastest growing
sector of the Indonesian economy since the late 1960s. During the period
1972-77 the growth rate of Indonesia's GDP averaged 7.8% p.a. while the
average annual growth rates of the mining, manufacturing and construction
industries were 10%, 15%, and 12.9%, respectively. In 1977, mining accounted
for 19.8%, manufacturing 9.8%, and construction 5.1% of GDP. According to a
1975 survey, the manufacturing sector accounted for only 8% of the total
labor force.



- 10 -
27.       The growth rate of manufacturing value added (excluding oil refin-
ing and other mineral processing) appears to have declined from about 15-16%
p.a. during the early 1970s to 11-12% in recent years. Over the recent
years, commercial bank credits for the manufacturing industries have also
been increasing at slower rates. After doubling in 1975 from Rp 359 billion
to Rp 719 billion, the total of these credits increased from Rp 990 billion
in 1976 to Rp 1,156 billion in 1977 or at 38% and 17%, respectively. The
relatively slack investment climate, coupled with the more cautious approach
of commercial banks and the rigid implementation of the Government's pribumi
(indigenization) policy, have been suggested as possible causes for the low
level of new investment credits.
28.       Traditional industries such as food processing, tobacco and textiles,
are still predominant, accounting for nearly two thirds of manufacturing value
added, but the structure of the manufacturing sector has changed substantially
in recent years. Modern, usually more capital-intensive industries, are
displacing the more traditional activities, with their share of manufacturing
value added increasing from 25% in 1973 to about 37% in 1975. Chemicals and
chemical products (including coal, petroleum, rubber and plastic wares) have
increased their share from 8% to 14%, metal products and machinery from 9% to
12% and non-metallic mineral products from 3% to 5% during this period.
Geographically, 72% of all manufacturing enterprises are concentrated on Java,
the majority in or near major urban centers.
Government's Industrial Development Policy
29.       The Government has not yet formulated a coherent industrial devel-
opment policy. However, it recognizes that the agricultural sector cannot
absorb the expected annual increment of about 1.14 million persons in the
labor force and that the need to develop a comprehensive labor-intensive,
export-oriented manufacturing sector strategy, is now urgent. Such a strategy
is considered essential if the Government's equity objectives are to be
attained and if the balance of payments is not to reemerge as a dominant
constraint on the economy in the medium- and longer-term. During the Third
Plan period (1979-84) the Government expects that the annual growth rate of
the manufacturing sector will average 11%. However, given the remarkable
performance of other developing countries such as Korea, the Republic of
China, Brazil and Colombia, which have sustained a high rate of industrial
development, Indonesia, with its natural resource endowment, large and
relatively literate labor force, low wage rates and large domestic market
potential, should be able to achieve a higher growth rate in the manufacturing
sector. The Bank's recently completed economic report (para. 2 above)
concludes that growth rates in manufacturing value added of 15% p.a. and 20%
p.a in manufactured exports are feasible. But achievement of these targets
will require significant changes in present policies and practices which now
constrain development of the sector.
30.       The Government took a strategic and major step towards these
objectives in November 1978 when it devalued the Rupiah by about 33 percent.
This move, coupled with some recent simplifications in industrial licensing
procedures and reduction in the import duties, should give a significant
boost to industrial exports. If a consistent framework is to be developed,



- 11 -
additional actions are required to adjust incentives and, more importantly,
to remove obstacles to industrial investment and exports. Some of these
obstacles are highlighted below.
Sector Issues
31.       Administrative bottlenecks and unofficial levies are perhaps the
greatest obstacles to industrial development. Not only are regulations
numerous and procedures cumbersome, but they also affect small enterprises
disproportionately. Coordination among regulatory agencies is weak and
priorities are not set clearly; for example, customs clearance procedures are
time consuming and the Investment Coordination Board (ICB), which has to
approve all investments for which incentive benefits are requested, has no
fixed and published appraisal criteria. To eliminate payment of unofficial
taxes, the Government has recently started an anticorruption (OSTIB) operation,
but its impact has so far been limited.
32.       Industrial investment incentives include tax holidays, reduction or
exemption of import duties and sales taxes, and accelerated depreciation allow-
ances. Industrial investment is also influenced by the tariff system, direct
import controls and, to a lesser extent, interest rate policy. This incen-
tive framework, taken as a whole, tends to favor final stage assembly over the
manufacturing of intermediate goods and capital goods and to encourage the use
of capital over labor. While the devaluation of the Rupiah in November
1978, and a subsequent 50% reduction in the level of many tariffs, have
improved the climate for export promotion, export-oriented industries still
do not enjoy the same degree of protection as import-substitution enter-
prises. In order to remove the biases of the incentive framework, the
Government should consider a shift towards a more uniform tariff rate struc-
ture and greater reliance on sales taxes, applied equally to imported and
domestically manufactured goods of the same description. The Bank will
discuss this matter with the Government in the context of future economic and
sector work programs.
33.       In view of the imbalance in the regional distribution of industrial
investment, the Government is giving greater attention to measures designed
to promote additional industrial growth centers in Java and the other islands.
Given the fact that over 95% of industrial employment is outside the Jakarta
region, but more than 50% of industrial investment in recent years has
taken place in Jakarta, the magnitude of this task is considerable. Adequate
geographical dispersion of industrial development requires greater decentral-
ization of decision-making for investment approval, industrial licensing, bank
financing, etc. The Government should therefore encourage local authorities
to play a larger role in the promotion of local industries.
B. Industrial Finance
Background
34.       In terms of diversity of institutions, financial services offered,
and the variety of financial instruments available, the financial system in
Indonesia is still in its early stages of development. The financial sector
consists of Bank Indonesia (the Central Bank), five large State-owned commer-



- 12 -
cial banks, 85 private banks, of which only 9 are authorized to engage in
foreign exchange transactions, and 10 branches of foreign banks. Most
development finance companies (DFCs) and investment banks were formed in
recent years. BAPINDO, the dominant DFC in the country established in 1960,
was reorganized in 1971 with Bank Group assistance, with a view to making it
the predominant source of medium- and long-term finance for industry. In
1972, the Indonesian Development Finance Company (IDFC) was reorganized as a
joint venture between Bank Indonesia and the Netherlands Finance Company for
Developing Countries. In 1973, again with Bank Group assistance, a third
development bank, P.T. Private Development Finance Company of Indonesia
(PDFCI) was formed. In 1973, the Government also set up P.T. Bahana as a
venture capital finance company providing equity finance and technical assist-
ance to financially weak enterprises.
35.       Because of the poorly developed capital market, the regulatory
environment governing credit and the present structure of interest rates,
banking institutions, as a whole have found it difficult to mobilize funds to
finance long-term investments, and therefore, are essentially geared to serving
short-term financing needs. To help meet the need for long-term funds, the
Government initiated the Medium/Long-Term Investment Credit (INVESTASI) in
1969 and the Small Investment Credit and Working Capital Credit (KIK/KMKP)
Programs in 1974, both of which are administered by Bank Indonesia, with the
State banks acting as handling banks. Term loans of up to 10 years are
extended by the State banks under the INVESTASI Program to pribumi (Indonesian)
entrepreneurs in virtually all economic sectors, with Bank Indonesia refinancing
65-80% of the loan amounts. BAPINDO is the only State-owned financial inter-
mediary which is allowed to make loans up to 15 years. INVESTASI loans to
medium and large enterprises finance fixed assets and working capital. The
KIK and KMKP Programs for small businesses are also administered by the State
banks and selected Regional Development Banks (RDBs) with Bank Indonesia
refinancing 75-80% of the loan amounts. Although limited in size, both
INVESTASI and KIK/KMKP Programs have shown favorable results.
36.       In January 1978, as a means of stimulating investment, Bank
Indonesia reduced lending rates for short-term credits from 9-24% to 9-21%,
medium-and long-term credits from 12-15% to 10.5-13.5% for fixed assets
financing, and from 18% to 12-18% for permanent working capital loans.
Interest rates on time deposits were reduced from a range of 6-18% to 6-15%.
Issues
37.       Outside Jakarta banking services are generally under developed.
One of the highest priorities is the execution of a policy aimed at acceler-
ating and decentralizing labor-intensive industrialization, which would
require measures designed to strengthen local banking institutions and enhance
their developmental role. Particularly, Regional Development Banks could play
a critical role in this regard by financing and promoting local initiative
and entrepreneural talent.
38.       Actions to increase the capacity of the financial sector to mobilize
additional resources in support of expanding private sector investment are
also needed. The capital market is poorly developed. The financial inter-
mediaries do not presently mobilize their own funds, but act as channels



-13 -
for Bank Indonesia and foreign funds. Action is particularly important on
this point, given the expected pressure on resources, which will lead to
greater competition between the private and public sector for investible
fu-inds.
39.       While the January 1978 revision of the interest rate structure was
clearly an important step in the right direction, the revised structure still
inhibits the financial intermediaries from mobilizing long-term resources
from the market in order to finance their term lending oDerations, since it
does not allow them a positive interest spread, i.e. interest rates on term
deposits (12-15%) still exceed interest rates for term lending (10.5-13.5%).
Furthermore, given the relatively low rate of inflation estimated to be about
8% in 1978, the new standard lending rates of 10.5-13.5% for medium- and
long-term credits were still positive in real terms but this may not continue
if the inflation rate reaches a higher level during the post-devaluation
period. The Bank estimates that the inflation rate may be 20% in 1979, 12% in
1980 and 10% in 1981. The Government's estimates are lower than these. As
noted in para. 10 above the Government has taken a number of steps to hold
down the inflation rate in the post-devaluation period and the official
statistics indicate that for the 12 month period ending on March 31, 1979 the
inflation rate was about 12%. However, the recent increases (averaging 32%)
in the domestic oil prices announced in early April 1979 will make the Govern-
ment objective difficult to achieve. The Government is aware of this issue
and is keeping the question of interest rates under constant review so as to
adapt to changing circumstances.
40.       The structural constraints on the State banks, operating under the
selective credit policies, and an interest rate structure fixed by Bank
Indonesia, may have contributed in recent vears to an uneven provision of
funds and financial services to various economic sectors. Consideration
should be given to opening up the financial system by allowing greater
freedom to the State banks in setting their own interest rates for non-
program lending and by reducing reliance on sector-specific credit ceilings
for program lending.
The Bank Group's Involvement in the Sector and Strategy
41.       The Bank Group's assistance to the industrial sector in the past
has been prima,ily for fertilizer production, TFC operations, industrial
estate and small enterprise development. The fertilizer projects have been
successfully implemented and domestic production of fertilizer can now meet
the demand. DFCs (BAPINDO and PDFCI), with which the Bank Group is asso-
ciated, have improved their institutional capabilities and operations.
The implementation of the Pulo Gadung Industrial Estate Project (Credit
428-IND) has been slow, but the basis of a soundly run estate which could be
replicated elsewhere has been established. To support the Government's small
credit programs (KIK/KNKP), the Small Enterprise Development Credit (Credit
785-IND) was made in 1978. It is a first project in small-scale industry



- 14 -
development in which there are great employment prospects. In the last 18
months or so, the Bank staff have accomplished a significant amount of economic
work on the sector. A report entitled "Problems and Prospects for Industrial
Development in Indonesia" (No. 6147-INM) was published on Hlay 25, 1978. This
report, as well as the latest economic report (para. 2), contain detailed
information on past performance and future development prospects of the
sector, as a whole, and highlight the constraints referred to in paras. 31-33
above. A small scale industry sector mission has recently returned from the
field and its report is now under preparation.
42.        The Bank Group's accumulated experience from discrete industrial
projects, and the results of the economic and sector work summarized above,
now provide the potential for a much greater and more comprehensive Bank
involvement in the sector. Additional sector work planned for FY80 is also
expected to provide the basis for specific policy recommendations designed to
promote export industries. Furthermore, the Government has expressed interest
in an apex-type DFC operation under which Bank's funds would be onlent through
an umbrella institution, Bank Indonesia, to eligible DFCs such as BAPINDO,
PDFCI and IDFC, and the RDBs. This aDex/DFC operation, planned for FY80, is
expected to provide an operational vehicle to address and help resolve critical
sector issues, such as inadequate incentive framework, concentration of invest-
ments around the major urban centers in Java, centralized and inefficient
investment approval procedures, and adequacy of the level and structure of
interest rates.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
43.        The project was appraised in August 1978.  The Staff Appraisal Report
(No. 2397-IND, dated May 7, 1979) is being distributed separately. Supple-
mentary project data are provided in Annex III. Negotiations were held in
Washington on April 10 and 11, 1979, with an Indonesian delegation led by
Mrs. Buly Surajatmadja, Director of External Funds, Ministry of Finance.
44.        The proposed loan of $50 million would be the Bank Group's fourth
to BAPINDO for industrial financing. To date the Bank Group's assistance for
BAPINDO has totalled $108.5 million. In 1972, two IDA credits of $10 million
(Cr. 310-IND) for financing industrial projects and S8.5 million (Cr. 318-IND)
for financing the rehabilitation of inter-island shipping were extended to
BAPINDO. Subsequent operations were on Bank terms: one loan of $50 million
(Ln. 1054-IND) in 1974, and another for $40 million (Ln. 1437-IND) in 1977,
both for industrial financing. Cr. 310-TND and Ln. 1054-INT) have been
closed. An OED Project Performance Audit Report on the implementation of
Cr. 310-IND will soon be reviewed with the Government and BAPINDO. The
completion report on Ln. 1054-IND has not yet been completed. Out of the
latest Bank loan of S40 million, (Ln. 1437-INn), which became effective in
September 1977, about $19 million has been committed and $13 million was
disbursed as of February 28, 1q79. The loan proceeds are expected to be
fully committed during the next several months.



- 15 -
BAPINDO's Past Reorganization and Progress
45.        BAPINDO was established by the Government in 1960 and, lacking any
degree of autonomy until 1965, served merely as a conduit for Government funds
for specified projects. In 1970, the Government and the Bank agreed on a
reorganization plan to strengthen BAPINDO's organization, management, staff,
procedures, financial condition and resources. A Technical Assistance
Program was executed by the Bank and financed jointly by UNDP, the Bank, and
the Governments of Australia and Japan.
46.        BAPINDO's present organizatonal structure consists of a Supervisory
Board and a Board of Managing Directors. The Supervisory Board is composed
of qualified alternates for the Minister of Finance and the Governor of
Bank Indonesia. The Board of Managing Directors, composed of a President
and four Managing Directors, is responsible for BAPINDO's day-to-day manage-
ment. BAPINDO currently has a staff of 778, including 414 professionals
working in 15 departments in the Head Office, 10 branches and 8 representa-
tive offices.
The 1977 Program of Action and its Implementation
47.       Although BAPINDO's implementation of the reorganization plan during
1971-76 had resulted in noticeable improvements, a Bank mission, which
appraised BAPINDO in October 1976 for the second loan (Ln. 1437-IND),
reviewed in detail the progress made up to that point and concluded that
BAPINDO still faced a number of problems which continued to constrain its
operations. During negotiations for that loan in early 1977, the Bank,
BAPINDO and the Government reached understandings on a comprehensive Program
of Action designed to remedy the short- and long-term problems still facing
BAPINDO and to achieve further improvements. The Program called for BAPINDO
to take the necessary steps to improve its serious arrears situation, reduce
its administrative costs, develop its branch network, expand its appraisal
and supervision staff, strengthen its Project Promotion and Research Depart-
ments, accelerate loan processing and project appraisal, improve its economic
analysis of projects, diversify its resources, increase its portfolio provi-
sions and seek to finance more medium-sized investment projects. The Govern-
ment also agreed to relieve BAPINDO of all financial liability pertaining to
projects financed by BAPINDO at the Government's behest, to arrange for all
State enterprises to settle their arrears with BAPINDO, to compensate BAPINDO
for its losses on raw cotton financing (undertaken by BAPINDO as a short-term
commercial banking operation in accordance with a Government directive), and
to streamline the operations of PUPN, the official collection agency, requir-
ing the agency to speed up the collection of BAPINDO's delinquent loans.
48.        Progress under the Program of Action has been very satisfactory,
and BAPINDO has kept the Bank informed on a regular basis of the progress
made. With the concurrence of the Government, all loans previously made by
BAPINDO at the Government's request were transferred to a managed fund, and,
in January 1978, BAPINDO received payment from the Government in settlement of
the arrears due from the State-owned enterprises, and the balance outstanding
was rescheduled. PUPN's (State Committee for Settlement of Credit Claims)
organization had also been strengthened by a Government order issued in



- 16 -
in September 1977. Based on a thorough study of its organizational set-up,
BAPINDO restructured its project appraisal and follow-up units in January
1978. BAPINDO also took action to upgrade the capabilities of the branch
offices by reassigning some experienced senior loan officers as branch managers
or deputy managers, and delegated more decision-making authority to the branch
network. This restructuring and delegation of authority has considerably
shortened the loan processing cycle.
49.       Despite these achievements in implementing the Program of Action
agreed upon in 1977, BAPINDO's management realizes that further efforts and
progress are needed especially to: (a) intensify project promotion work and
develop more labor-intensive projects; (b) strengthen sector studies;
(d) further shorten the project processing cycle; (d) improve the monitoring
of problem projects; and (e) intensify training of its staff. BAPINDO also
intends to further upgrade its operational standards, the efficiency of
the organization, and to reduce administrative costs. Out of the proceeds of
the proposed loan, $100,000 has been earmarked to finance the services of a
project promotion specialist and an overseas training program for BAPINDO's
staff in project promotion.
Operations
50.       In 1976, BAPINDO's total loan and equity investment approvals
reached a peak level of Rp 58.9 billion, compared with Rp 44.3 billion in 1974
and Rp 46.2 billion in 1975. However, in 1977, BAPINDO's operations declined
sharply, with total approvals dropping by 45% to Rp 32.1 billion. In 1978,
this downward trend was halted, with total approvals reaching Rp 35.8 billion.
51.       During 1974-77, the average size of BAPINDO's industrial term loans
increased from Rp 370 million to Rp 872 million, because public sector indus-
trial projects, for which 60% of BAPINDO's industrial financing had been
allocated during these four years, became larger and more capital intensive.
In 1978, BAPINDO financed more medium-sized projects with 58% of its indus-
trial financing being provided for private sector projects. As a result, the
average loan size dropped to Rp 379 million. The subsectors which absorbed a
dominant part of BAPINDO's industrial financing included metal works in 1974
(48%), cement in 1975 (40%), paper in 1976 (32%), cement again in 1977 (64%)
and rubber processing in 1978 (26%). As a result of the domination of
certain large projects, the sectoral distribution was not well balanced in
any particular year. Geographically, BAPINDO's industrial financing con-
tinued to be heavily concentrated in Java, which accounted for 86% in 1974,
79% in 1975, and 80% in 1976. A better geographical distribution was achieved
in 1977, with Java's share declining to 33%; however, in 1978, the percentage
went up to 85%. In view of the relatively advanced stage of industrialization
in Java, this degree of concentration is understandable, but BAPINDO's manage-
ment realizes the need for greater regional distribution of its financing.
Financial Position and Performance
52.       During 1974-76, BAPINDO's total assets increased at an average
annual growth rate of 21%, from Rp 87 billion at the end of 1974 to Rp 125
billion at the end of 1976. During the following two-year period up to



-17 -
December 31, 1978, the growth rate slowed to an annual rate of 8%, mainly
due to the transfer of loans originally made at the Government's behest into
a "managed fund." As of December 31, 1978, the term loan portfolio accounted
for 66% of total assets, the equity investment portfolio for 1.6%, and
current assets for 31%, compared to 50%, 1.4% and 48%, respectively, at the
end of 1976. The liquidation of raw cotton loans through transfer to the
"managed fund" in 1977 reduced the unusually high percentage of current
assets. On the liability side, BAPINDO's capital structure has been further
strengthened through an additional cash contribution of Rp 6 billion by the
Government to BAPINDO's paid-in capital and the conversion in 1977 of the Bank
Indonesia loans to equity. BAPINDO's long-term debt/equity ratio, as of
December 31, 1978, was 0.8:1, which is well within the ratio of 3:1 as speci-
fied under the Third BAPINDO project (Loan No. 1437-IND); the ratio of total
debt, including demand and time deposits, to equity was 1.3:1, and the current
ratio stood at 1.5:1. As of December 31, 1978, total reserves and provisions
amounted to Rp 20.9 billion, representing 17.3% of BAPINDO's loan and equity
portfolio, which is considered adequate.
53.       BAPINDO's profitability has been low and has fluctuated markedly in
the past. The return on average equity, after reaching its peak (5.7%)
in 1973, declined to 4.3% in 1974, 2.2% in 1975 and 0.6% in 1976. Large
annual provisions for possible losses and a build-up of equity were the main
causes for the decline. In 1977, the downward trend was reversed, but the
return (1.5%) was still very low. The rising cost of BAPINDO's borrowings
was another contributing factor. BAPINDO's profit after tax and provisions
for 1978 amounted to Rp 1.1 billion, 39% higher than the corresponding figure
for 1977 (Rp 0.8 billion). BAPINDO's return on average net worth rose in 1978
to 1.8%, the highest in the last three years.
54.       For a number of years BAPINDO's administrative expenses have
remained at a high level, relative to total assets. In 1974-77, the average
ratio of BAPINDO's administrative expenses to total assets was 3.7%, which
was much higher than the ratio for most of the DFCs associated with the Bank.
The ratio, calculated on the basis of audited accounts for 1978, remained at
the same level. The large staff size and a very extensive branch network
have been partially responsible for the high level of administrative expenses.
As a consequence of the 1977 Program of Action, BAPINDO has commissioned a
firm of consultants to carry out an organizational study. This study is
under way and is expected to recommend specific steps for reducing BAPINDO's
administrative costs.
Quality of Portfolio
55.       At the end of 1976, total arrears over three months of BAPINDO's
term loans reached Rp 6.2 billion, with one third of the term loan principal
outstanding affected by arrears. The arrears situation improved considerably
at the end of 1977, with total arrears going down to Rp 2.7 billion and the
portion of the loan portfolio affected by arrears to 7.1%. This has resulted
from the rescheduling of a large number of loans during 1977. As of December
31, 1978, however, the arrears increased to Rp 4.0 billion and loans affected
by arrears accounted for 12.3%, resuming the upward trend. Following the



- 18 -
devaluation of November 1978, a number of BAPINDO's borrowers are facing
liquidity problems. Although all borrowers are protected against the foreign
exchange risk (which is borne by the Government) on BAPINDO's foreign currency
loans, most have to import raw materials, which now cost 50% more. Borrowers,
therefore, need additional working capital to sustain their level of produc-
tion. BAPINDO is reviewing its portfolio and reassessing the situation on a
case-by-case basis. In a number of cases, BAPINDO will have to make addi-
tional working capital loans in time to avoid production slowdowns, or to
reschedule existing loans, or both. Loan arrears are also expected to rise,
so that, at least in the short run, the quality of BAPINDO's loan portfolio
is likely to deteriorate. BAPINDO is aware of this problem and is con-
templating corrective measures which could include the provision of supple-
mental loans to enterprises affected by devaluation induced liquidity diffi-
culties.
Resource Position
56.       BAPINDO continues to rely on the Government, Bank Indonesia,
and the other State banks for its local currency resources. During the
past three years, BAPINDO's resources have been further replenished by
share capital increases of Rp 10.3 billion (in 1976), and Rp 6 billion
(in 1977), and the payment by the Government of the arrears of Rp 7.6 bil-
lion on raw cotton loans and Rp 652 million on shipping loans. In addition,
some Government loans totalling Rp 10 billion have been converted into
"ipaid-in reserves." As a result, total long-term domestic currency resources
reached Rp 111 billion as of December 31, 1978. Against these resources
BAPINDO had, as of the same date, outstanding assets of Rp 95.5 billion, plus
undisbursed approvals and commitments of Rp 12.5 billion, leaving Rp 3
billion available for further approvals. As of December 31, 1978, short-term
rupiah funds available for utilization amounted to only Rp 69 million.
57.       BAPINDO has been successful in further diversifying its foreign
sources of borrowings, obtaining a loan of DM 20 million from KfW in 1976,
and a loan of $30 million from the Asian Development Bank in late 1977. As
of December 31, 1978, BAPINDO's foreign resources totalled $145.2 million.
Loan approvals of $117.4 million (81% of total foreign resources raised) were
granted against these resources, leaving a balance of $27.8 million available
for further approvals. Of the approvals, $77.9 million had been disbursed by
the end of 1978.
BAPINDO's Development Impact
58.       BAPINDO's role in financing the industrial sector has been expand-
ing since it resumed term lending in 1972. The volume of BAPINDO's indus-
trial term loan and investment approvals in 1974 (Rp 24.8 billion) was
equivalent to 14% of domestic industrial investment approved by the Investment
Coordinating Board (ICB) during that year. BAPINDO's share increased to
15.7% in 1975 and to 26.1% in 1976 as its term loans and investment approvals
increased to Rp 29.2 billion and Rp 46.9 billion, respectively. In 1977,
BAPINDO's industrial financing operations declined to Rp 23.7 billion, while
ICB approvals went up sharply, to Rp 411 billion, compared with Rp 179.4 bil-
lion in 1976. As a result, BAPINDO's share dropped to around 6%. This,



- 19 -
however, should not be taken as a trend, as most, if not all, of the contri-
butory factors are of a temporary nature such as the reduced number of large
public sector projects submitted to BAPINDO, more rigid implementation of the
Pribumi (Indonesianization) policy and a large number of staff reassignment
within BAPINDO as a result of its internal reorganization. Notwithstanding
these developments, BAPINDO was able to sustain its share of disbursements,
which accounted for some 10% of the country's total investment in the indus-
trial and maritime sectors.
59.       Since late 1976, BAPINDO has generally been doing economic rate of
return analyses of subprojects requiring financing of $1 million equivalent
or more. The economic rate of return on the projects calculated to date
ranged from 18.7% to 47.8%, with an average of 30.6%. The projects financed
by BAPINDO are economically viable and greater weight is being given to this
factor in BAPINDO's decision-making process.
60.       Available data on the projects financed by BAPINDO since 1976
indicate that these projects are estimated to generate a total investment of
Rp 241.1 billion, with BAPINDO financing approximately 40% of the total cost.
BAPINDO has also made cost-per-job analyses for the projects approved since
1976. Data available for 39 projects financed since early 1976 indicate
investment costs per job ranging from $1,160 to $741,554 equivalent, with an
average of $33,750, reflecting the capital intensiveness of industrial
investment taking place in Indonesia in recent years (para. 28 above).
Projected Operations and Resource Requirements
61.       BAPINDO has projected total loan and equity approvals of
Rp 463.5 billion over the five-year period, 1979-83. This amount represents
an average annual rate of growth of 13%. These projections reflect BAPINDO's
objective of obtaining a larger share in industrial investment, which is
estimated by economic planners to increase at an annual rate of 11%. The
projected approvals of Rp 78.4 billion for 1979 represent an increase of 116%
(or 97% if the devaluation impact on foreign currency approvals is elimi-
nated) over 1978, which, while appearing to be on the high side, appear to be
attainable since they are based substantially on the projects already in the
pipeline as of January 1979. Co-financing with the regional develoment banks
(RDBs) is expected to increase from Rp 3.5 billion in 1979 to Rp 6.1 billion
in 1983, in view of BAPINDO's policy to increase joint operations with the
RDBs under the KIK/KMKP programs outside Java. The consortium loans which
are made jointly with other State banks would increase by 77% from Rp 3 bil-
lion to Rp 5.3 billion during the projected five-year period. As a whole,
BAPINDO's assumptions are realistic and the projected business level is
achievable, since its promotion work will be expedited and its management and
appraisal staff strengthened.
62.       Total local currency loan and equity approvals for 1979-83 are
projected to amount to Rp 297.5 billion. The available balance as of
December 31, 1978, amounted to Rp 3.1 billion. BAPINDO's profits during the
five-year period would amount to Rp 11.2 billion and net collections to



- 20 -
Rp 48.1 billion, accounting for 4% and 16% of the resource requirements,
respectively. BAPINDO and the Government are exploring the possibility of
issuing domestic bonds but since the capital market is poorly developed, the
plan may not be realized. BAPINDO, therefore expects to receive special
deposits from the State Pension Fund totalling Rp 70 billion in 1979-83. The
remaining gap (Rp 165.1 billion or 55%) will have to be met through refinanc-
ing from Bank Indonesia, both directly under the INVESTASI scheme (under which
Bank Indonesia is currently refinancing 65-80% of the amount of loans) and
indirectly through consortium financing arrangements with other State banks.
BAPINDO does not anticipate any difficulty in mobilizing adequate local
currency resources.
63.       Projected foreign currency approvals during 1979-83 total $265.6 mil-
lion. The available balance of $27.8 million, as of December 31, 1978, includes
funds from the Bank ($1.3 million), KfW ($5.4 million) and ADB ($21.1 million),
and could be fully committed in early 1980, with Bank funds being expected to
be fully utilized in the first half of 1979. For the two-year period from
July 1, 1979 to June 30, 1981, BAPINDO's foreign currency approvals would
amount to about $80 million. A Bank loan of $50 million is recommended to
cover 63% of BAPINDO's foreign currency resource requirements during that
period.
Main Features of the Proposed Loan
64.       The Component for Financing Medium-Sized Labor-Intensive Projects.
In order to increase its development impact, BAPINDO has been seeking to
finance an increasing number of medium-sized /1, labor-intensive investment
projects undertaken by either the private or public sector. The result to
date has been encouraging. In 1977, only 8% of the investment loans approved
by BAPINDO were below $1 million equivalent; in the first half of 1978, the
percentage increased to 28%. Complete data on employment generation are not
available for all the projects. However, the available data on 8 projects in
the first half of 1978 show an average investment cost per job of $15,500,
compared with the average investment cost per job of $17,050 for 17 projects
in 1977. This trend is in line with both the Government's and the Bank's
current emphasis on assisting labor-intensive, medium- and small-sized projects.
In order to encourage BAPINDO to keep up the momentum towards assisting such
types of projects, it is recommended that a component of $15 million (or 30%
of the proposed loan amount) be earmarked for financing specifically:
(a) enterprises with fixed assets not exceeding $1 million equivalent; or
(b) projects generating employment at a fixed investment cost per job not
greater than $12,000 equivalent (Section 3.01 of the draft Loan Agreement).
Based on an analysis of the available data on subprojects, BAPINDO is expec-
ted, with a reasonable effort on its part, to be able to utilize fully this
special component. Also, to ensure that the proceeds of the proposed loan are
spread to finance a relatively large number of medium-sized projects, a
ceiling of $3.0 million would be set on the size of individual subloans
(Section 2.04 of the draft Project Agreement).
/1   Projects requiring subloans from BAPINDO of up to $1.0 million equivalent.



- 21 -
65.       Financing of the Foreign Exchange Component of Domestic Equipment.
The proposed loan would finance, in addition to direct imports of machinery
and equipment, the foreign exchange component of domestically procured
capital goods .3timated at 60% of the invoice price of such goods, 50% of the
cost of civil works, 40% of the cost of locally procured vehicles and 100% of
the expenditures on the project promotion specialist and the training program
(para. 49).
66.       Relending Rates.  As with the previous operations, the proposed loan
would be made to the Government which would onlend its proceeds to BAPINDO
under a subsidiary loan agreement acceptable to the Bank. BAPINDO will relend
the loan proceeds at an interest rate to allow BAPINDO 4 percentage points
spread for subloans above Rp 75 million ($120,000) and 2.5 percentage points
for subloans below Rp 75 million. The ongoing interest rate charged by the
state banks for medium - and long-term investment loans above Rp 200 million
is 13.5% p.a. for loans between Rp 75 million and Rp 200 million 12% p.a. and
for those below Rp 75 million, 10.5% p.a. After subtracting the 7.9% interest
rate which BAPINDO will pay to the Government, the difference between the
relending rates and BAPINDO's spread (13.5-7.9-4.0 = 1.6) would accrue to the
Government for its assuming the foreign exchange risk. These relending terms
and BAPINDO's spread will be specified in the subsidiary loan agreement to be
signed between the Government and BAPINDO which will not be changed without
the agreement of the Bank. The signing of the subsidiary loan agreement would
be a condition for loan effectiveness (Section 6.01(b) of the draft Loan
Agreement). The foreign exchange risk will be borne by the Government.
67.       Free Limit.  BAPINDO has made tangible progress in upgrading its
project appraisal work. It is therefore recommended that the free limit
($1 million under the previous Bank loan) be increased to $1.2 million, with
an aggregate free limit of $15 million (Section 2.03(b) of the draft Loan
Agreement). With this free limit, it is estimated that subloans accounting
for 70% of the proposed loan will require Bank review prior to approval.
This requirement should be sufficient for the purpose of effective subproject
monitoring by the Bank.
Benefits and Risks
68.       During the past decade, the Bank, apart from extending financial
assistance, has provided BAPINDO with advice and guidance and has closely
followed BAPINDO's achievements. The recent progress made by BAPINDO in
implementing the 1977 Program of Action has been very satisfactory. However,
given the long-term nature of a number of the proposed reforms included in
the Program of Action, much remains to be done to transform BAPINDO gradually
into an efficient and dynamic development finance institution. As the State
bank entrusted with the specific responsibility for financing a reasonable
portion of total industrial investment in the country, BAPINDO is expected to
play an increasingly important role in the development of Indonesian industry
especially during the post-devaluation period. The proposed loan would
enable the Bank to continue its institution-building role. With the Bank's
assistance, BAPINDO is expected to make further headway in implementing the
Program of Action and other measures aimed at enhancing both its institu-
tional capability and its developmental impact.



- 22 -
69.       In the past, BAPINDO's subprojects have yielded satisfactory
economic benefits; the economic rates of return on a reasonably sized sample
of BAPINDO-financed subprojects ranged from 18.7% to 47.8%, with an average of
30.6%, which is satisfactory.  The subprojects to be financed by BAPINDO
under the proposed loan are expected to yield similar economic benefits.
The project does not entail any unusual risk. However, its potential to
contribute to industrial development will, to a large extent, be critically
related to measures the Government may or may not take to alleviate existing
bottlenecks to industrial development. The further development of BAPINDO's
institutional capabilities, particularly in project promotion and the success-
ful implementation of the proposed training program in project promotion will
be dependent on the enthusiasm with which BAPINDO's management pursues these
objectives.  Given their past performance, prospects are encouraging.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
70.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Republic of Indonesia and the
Bank, the draft Project Agreement between the Bank and BAPINDO and the Report
of the Committee provided for in Article III, Section 4(iii) of the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank are being distributed to the Executive Directors
separately.
71.       Special conditions of the Project are listed in Section III of
Annex III of this Report. The signing of a Subsidiary Loan Agreement between
the Government and BAPINDO is an additional condition of effectiveness.
72.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
73.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
May 7, 1979
Washington, D.C.



ANNEX I
~-                                                B Page l of 5
INDONESIA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
RFPEREtCE GROtlPS (AD-JUSTED AVERAGES
tNDONESIA                                                    /a
LAND AREA (THOtSAND SQ. KM.)                                                       - MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)
TOTAL            1904.3                                                        SAME         SAME      NEXT HIOIER
AGRICULTURAL      283.8                                    MOST RECENT      GEOGRAPHIC    INCOME         INCOME
1960  Lb    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b         REGION /c   GROUP /d    GROUPI /e
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                      70.0        140.0      300.0             616.0       182.9        432.3
ENERCY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KliLOGRAMS OF COAI EQUIVALENT)       129.0        120.0      178.0             522.0        88.9         251.7
POPULATItN AND VITAL STATISTICS
TOTAL PIOPULATION, MIl)-YEAR
('1111 IONS)                         94.7        117.6      133.5
URBAN POPULATIUN (rERCENT OF TOTAL) 14.9             17.5       17.9              30.1        15.0         24.2
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. KM.                          50.0         62.0        70.0            156.8         46.8         42.7
P'ER SQ. tM. AGRICULTURAL lAND    317.0          419.0       470.0            794.8        254.1         95.0
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                            42.1 If      44.0        42.1             40.8        43.6          44.9
15-64 YRS.                            55.3 /f      53.5        55.1             55.4        53.3          52.8
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                      2.6 If        2.5        2.8              3.2          2.9          3.0
POP'ULATION CROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
rOTAL                                 2.1          2.0        2.0               2.3         2.4           2.7
URBAN                                  *-          3.7 /R    2.6                5.1         4.0           8.8
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)        46.0          45.9       40.3              34.6        44.3         42.2
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)        25.4          20.6       19.9               8.7        19.7         12.4
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                 2.8           3.2        2.5               2.6         2.9          3.2
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)          ..        181.1    1979.0
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)    ..             0.2        13.7             22.1         14.6         14.2
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF POOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1970-100)                96.5        100.0      102.7             106.8         96.4        104.3
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                      89.0         91.0       98.0             108.7        92.3          99.5
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)             43.0         43.0        43.8             57.7         50.0         56.8
OF UIIICH ANIMAL AND PULSE         15.0 /h      14.0       16.6              17.0        13.9          17.5
CHIILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE         ..            ..         ..              4.0           ..          7.5
HEA7.TH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)    47.5             45.0       45.3             59.0         45.8         53.3
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                             125.0 /f.i       ..      116.0             44.0        102.7         82.5
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                                  ..           3.0       11.0             21.9         26.4         31.1
URBAN                                   ..         10.0       41.0             58.3         63.5         68.5
RURAL                                   ..          1.0        4.0              9.8         14.1         18.2
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                   ..         12.0       15.0             28.6         16.1         37.5
URBAN                                   ..        50.0        60.0             66.6         65.9         69.5
RURAL                                  ..           4.0        5.0             14.8          3.4         25.4
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN            41380.0 /i  26830.0   16930.0              4103.1    13432.7         9359.2
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON             ..      7770.0 /1 7310.0 /1          1520.2      6983.3        2762.5
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                              1370.0       1670.0    1430.0              657.1       1157.6        786.5
URBAN                                   *-      1130.0          *-            145.5        183.3        278.4
RURAL                                   ..      1890.0          ..           1011.8      1348.8        1358.4
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED               ..           ..         ..              19.0        19.5         19.2
HOUSING
AVERAC.E SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                                 4.4          4.8          *-               5.2         5.2
URBAN                                 4.9           5.3         ..               5.2         4.8
RURAL                                 4.3           4.7         ..               5.4         5.3
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                                   ..          1.5         ..
URBAN                                   ..          1.6         ..                ..         1.8          2.3
RURAL                                   ..          1.6         ..
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                                   ..        63.5          ..             39.1         25.9         28.3
URBAN                                   ..         75.5         ..
RURAL                                   ..         39.1         ..                ..         8.7         10.3



249  -                                                      ANNEX I
-~~~~~~ ~~Page  2  of
INDONESIA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHE.ET
REFERENCE GROUPS (ADJUSTED AVERAGES
INDONESIA                                                   /
-MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)
SAW.         SANE.     NEXT HIGHER
MOST RECENT      GEOGRAPHIC    INCOME          INCOME
1960 Lb      1910 Lb ESTIMATE Lb        REGION Ic   GROUP /d    GROUP
EDUCAT ION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIKARY:      TOrTAL                 67.0         75.0       81.0              95.6        62.9          75.8
FEMLE                  55.0         70.0       75.0              93.7        65.9          67.9
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                    6.0         15.0       18.0              43.3         14.4         17.7
FEMALE                  3.0         11.0       13.0              38.6         8.8          12.9
VOCATIONAL (PERCENT OF SECONDARY) 20.0            22.0       21.0              11.3          6.6          7.4
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                              39.0         29.0       30.0              30.0         38.5         34.3
SECONDARY                            14.0         13.0        15.0             25.4         19.8         23.5
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)          47.0 /k       59.0       62.0 jk           84.0        36.7         63.7
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                            1.0          2.0        3.0               9.3          3.1          7.2
RADTO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                            7.0            ..      39.0              97.6        31.1          71.1
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                             ..          0.7         ..21.8                        2.8         14.1
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST') CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                       ..                    16.0             25.9          6.0         16.3
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANlCE PER CAPITA   ...                         .4.6                        1.4          1.6
EMPLOYMENT
TOTAL LABOR PORCE (THOUSANDS)    34600.0         44200.0   48430.0 jj
FEMALE (PERCENT)                     27.9         31.0       34.2              33.2        24.2          28.0
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)                75.0         69.0       60.1              48.4         60.7         54.1
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                    8.4          9.7        8.2
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                  54.1          49.9       52.6              38.9        39.8         37.8
MALE                                    79.8         68.7       73.8              48.6        53.3         50.3
FEMALE                                 29.4          32.1       36.8             28.4         19.6         20.9
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RLATIO                 1.4          1.3        1.2               1.2         1.3          1.3
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RLECEIV'ED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS        ..         33.7 /        .              17.3         20.3         19.5
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    ..            52.0 ]/       .              45.6         45.1         48.9
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS        ..6.8 /m                 .               6.5          5.7          5.9
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS        ..         17.3 Lim      .              17.3         16.8         15.7
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                   ...                 125.0             140.8         88.5        155.9
RURAL                                   ...                  95.0             112.8         71.9         97.9
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                  .             .          ..                        100.8         143.7
RUJRAL                                 .             .       55.0              76.8         42.0         87.3
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELO0W POVERTY
INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                  ...                   55.0              27.7         46.0         22.9
RURAL                                   .            .       59.0              40.4         48.0         36.7
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a The adjusted group averages for each indicator are population-weighted geometric means, excluding the extreme
values of the indicator and the most populated country in each group.  Coverage of counlries among the
indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
lb    Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1973 and 1977.
/c East Asia & Pacific;   Ld  Low Income ($280 or less per capita 1976);  /e  Lower Middle Income (S281-550
per capita. 1976);   /f  Eacludes W. Irian;   /I  1961-71;   /h  1961-63;   LI  1962;   11  Including
midwives;   /k  Aged 10 years and over;   /1  Excludes rural areas in East Nuaa Tenggara, Maluku and
Irian Jaya; Ja Income~ recipients.
September 1978



- 25-ANNEX I
P.age 3 of 5
DEPThITICNS OP '9OCIAL INDICATORS
Notes :Although the data ar  drown from, sources  generally lodged the moat antho-ltatve end reliable, it should also be noted that them may sot he inter-
nationally copar ble  ecus  of tIse lack of atandardieed definitions sod concepts used hy different countries in collecting the date.  The dateasre. nonetheless,
us.Efol to descrIbe ordr  of mgitue  Indictet toende, end rhar-nterlee certain major differeucee between countries.
The adjusted troo,p -voruon  for ..erh indi-etor are populstion-weigbted geometric mens  eclud1ng the entreme o-1-e  of the Indicator end the moser
popolatod coutry in ouh group.  Coverace of contries among the indincors- depends or  -val.lsh tir  of data ard is not uniforu.  Due to lack of data,
group oaverofes far Capital Surplus Oil Exporters aod indicators of access to waetr end escreta disposal1, bouning, lnoate distrIbution and poverty are
slmplo pnpclation-welchted gornutric  -,un  without th.e.oclusion of emtretse values.
LAND AREA (thosad sq. We                                                                    Population per hoptlhd-oa, urban. and  orerl - Population (total,
Ttl-Calsurface area conprising land area. and trlsasd watoer.                        urbon, and rural) divded hy their respective number of hospital beds
Agricultura~l - Funt recent es,timate of agricultural ares used temporarily                  availablo in poblic sod private general and specialIfied hospital and re-
or poroanen.tly for crops, postures, market and kitchen gardens or to                     habilitation renters.  Hospitals are entablishmests  pe rmanently staffed by
lie fallo.-                                                                               at least one physician.  Establishments providing principally custodial
care are not included. Rural honpitale. however, include health and medi-
ilNP PER CAIA(') - ill' per capita estimates at currant market prices.                        cal restore not pormnanetly staffed by a Physician (but by a nadical as-
calculated by came convetuius method as World Bank Atlas (1975-77 basis);                 aistant, nurse. midwife, etc.) witch offer in-patient accommodation sod
1960, 1970, and 1977 dAta.                                                                provida a linitrd range of medical facilities,
Admissions-per hoopital bed - Total num ber of admissions to or discharges
ENiERGY CiNZIJ~IIPTIIN PER CAPITA - Annual consumption of commercial energy                   Irma hospitals div,ided by the number of beds.
(coal and lignite, petroleum, natural gas and hydro-, nuclear and geo-
thermal electricity) io kilograms of coal equivalent per capita.                      HOUSING
Average sloe of household (persons per household) - total, urban, sod rural -
POPUILATIIP AND7 VITAL  ITATlIT7CS                                                            A household consists of a groop of indivduals who share living quarters
Total p-ouIati-"  uid-'oucariiu    - A. of July 1; if set available,                         and their main meals9.  A boarder or lodger may or map not he included in
average of two end-pear eoutinaton; 19h0, 1970, and 1977 date,                            the household for statistical purposes.  Statistical definitions of houseo-
Urban p.pclotior. (percent of totai) - Ratio of urban to total popula-                      hold vary.
tion; different definitionS of urban areas may affect comparability                     Average number of persons per room - total, urban, and rural - Average  um-
of dots among countrie..                                                                  bar of person.s per room In all, urban, and rural occupied conventional,
populatIon density                                                                          dwellings. respoctively.  Dwellings emclude nos-permaen-t structuares and
Per  so. km. - Mid-pear Population per square kilometer (100 hectares)                     unoccupied parts.
of total arno.                                                                          Access to electricity (percent of dwellinqcs) - total, urban, and rural -
Per so. Bus, agriculture land - Computed as above for agricultural land                    Conventional dwellings with eloctrioity in living quarters as percentage
only,                                                                                     of total, urban, and rural dwellings respectively.
Pepulotion age stru,cture (port ent) - Children (0-li years) ..wrking-age
(15-64 years). and retired (i5 pears and over) as percentages of mid-                EDUtATION
year population.                                                                       Adjusted enrollment rutios
Popuatin 5owthrat  (prcep) -totl, ad uban- Composnd annual                 Primary school - total, sod female - Total and female enrollment of all ages
grooth rtots of total and urban mid-year populatloos for 1950-60,                         at tbe primary lorI as percentages of respectively primary school-age
1960-70, und 1970-75.                                                                     pspulatins   norm ..ally includes children aged 6-11 years but adjusted for
Crude birth rate (yet th-ouad) - Aroul1 live births per thousand of                         different lengths of pricary educationl  fur countries with universal ed.-
aid-year p.pulacoc; tes-y-or arithmetic averages ending in 1960 and                       cation enrolnment map enred 100 Perceot since some pupila are below or
1970 sod flu-pear -eorogo ending in 1975 fur most recent estimate,                        above the official0 school age.
Cru~de _death rt,_ e (ceo rt husucdj_ - Asnu..l deaths per thousund of mid-               Secondary school -  .totl, and female - Computed as above; secondary educa-
year population; to-eorithmetic averages ending in 1960 and 1970                          tion requires at least four years of approved primary instructimon  pro-
and lice-pour averain ending in 1975 Inc most recet estimate.                             vides general ocoationa1, or teacher training insntructions for Pupils
irons reproduction rat,e - Aveesge number of daughters a woman w ill bear                   usualIly of 12 to 17 years of age; correspoodeore courses are generally
in her normal sop-ductise period if she ecperiences prese.nt age-                         eorluded.
specific fertility rates; usually five-pear averages ending in 1960,                    Vocational enrollmeri  (p.rcent of secondary) - Vocational institutiosn  in-
1970, and 1975.                                                                           dlude technical, industri.i, or other Programs which operate independently
Fa,ilv_olaon4n-  acceptors,atua  (thousands) - Annual num-ber of                            or as departmen.ts of secondadry institutiuos.
acceptors of birth-control device  under auspices of national family                   Pupil-testher ratio - prigsy  adncdry- Total atudenta enrolled in
plunmIng program,                                                                         primary and secondary levels divided by numbers of teachers in the corre-
Family Plux-ing - uuorn (pahuest of married wo )-Poe-entage of                              apsoding levels.                                         S
married women of child-beans1 age (15-hi years) who use birth-control                  Adult literacyers. (prcent) - Literate adults (able no toed and write) as
denices to all married wom en in name age grooup.                                         a percentage of total adult population aged 15 years end ovec.
.lodenof foo  poutnpecaita (1970-100) - Index number of pee                              Passenger cors (per thousand population) - Passeneger cars compeise motor cars
capita annual production of all food commodities.                                       seating less than eight persons; e-cludes ambulances, hearses and military
Per_rapira, uuypjy of calores (percent of -eguirements) -Computed iron                    vehicle..
energy equivaleut of net fond supplies -cilblahe in coun.try per capita                Radio receivers '(per thousan.d population) - All types of receivers for radio
per day.  Available supplieu comprise domestic Production, inports less                 broadcasts to general public per thousan.d of population;  -arldea unlicensed
entsand changes  in stock.  Net oupplies euclude animal feed, seeds,              receivers to coustriro and is years whom registrcation of radio sets was in
quantities used in food pl.c.usi.s, ond lo..sos in distribution.  Re-                   effect; data for recent years may not be comparable since most countries
quir.eontr  were estimated by PAl based on physuleogiral needs for nor-                 abolished licens.ing.
mal a-tioity and health conuidering e-irol-eonntal tempotatu-~,  _,-                   7'? ouccivers (Per thousund pyoplation) - TV receivers for broadcast to general
weig;,ts, aeo and rem diotriboutuon of populativo, and al1owirE 10 psr-                   puklic per thou....d Populationo; enciudes usllceo..ed TVt receivers inno-
cen t for was te at house.hold level,                                                     tries and in years when cagistration of TV sets was in effect.
Per capita 0251  u f poen(rsprda)-Protein content sf per                                 gewapapar cirrulationo (Per thous.and ponulotlon) - Shuws the average circula-
cspira not supply of food per day.  Ret supply of food is defined as                      tion of "daily general Intereut newpaper", defi1usd as a periodical puSli-
above   Requireo...ts ion all cooutrfes established by USDA provide for                   cstiou devoted Primarily to roc-rdiog geseral news.  It is cons-idered to
a minimum allowance of 60 grams of total pertain per day sod 20 grams                     be "daily" if it appears at ieast four tIme a. wee..k.
of animal and pulse protein, oi which 10 grao.shuould be animal protein.               Cinema, annual atreod.ace per capita per year - Base.d on the soaker of tickets
These st-diards are lower than those of 75 grams of total protein sod                     sold during the year, including adoissions to drive-in cinemas  sod mobile
23 grams of animal protein an an averge for the world, proposed by                        unita.
PAD in the Tbird World Food Sorvey.
Par 5git. proteInsplfrrail and Pulse - Proteio supply oi food                           fMlqOYKENlT
dorived iron animals and pulses io grams Per day.                                      Total labor force (thousads) - fcnomoically active persons,a includiog armed
Child (ageu 1-4) mortality into (per thousnsd)l - Annual deaths per thoue-                   forces and unemployed but emoludiog housewives, studenca, eec.  Begini-
and in age group 1-4 years, to children in thin age group.                                tions in various countries are not cusparable.
Female (percent) - Pe-ale labor force as percentage of total labor forcus.
HEALTH                                                                                    Agriculture (pe-rcot) - Labor force in farming, forestry, hunting and fishing
Life eApeT  nyo   ith (yearn) - Average num ber of years of liie                            as perc...toge of total labor force.
remainiog at birth; usuo.liy five-yea  averages ending in 1960, 1970,                  Industry (pe-rcet) -Labor force in miming, cons.truction, manufacturiog and
and 1975.                                                                                 electricity, eaeSn.rna   eretg  of total labor force.
Infant mortality rate (per t'souuand) - Annual doaths of infants under                   Psrticiystiunraeprcn)-talsl, and female1  - To tal, male, and
one year of age pee thoosu..d live birhts.                                                female lohur force an por-ntoges of their respective populatioss.
Access to sofa water  preto  pulotion) - total, urban, and rural -                           Th..e ore Ill's adjueted particLptpuio  rates reflecting age-..e.
Numbar of People (rural, ulbas, sod rural1) with roasouble a.a.... to                     structure of the population, cod long tine trend.
safr -oter  upply (includes treated outface waters or untreated bat                    tEronoit depeode...y ratio',- Patio of popula.tino  under 15 and 61 sod over to
oncortaminated water such au that from Protected hocehules, springs,                      telbrfrei   g   ru   i1-iyas
and n.aitary wells) as pevo-tuges of their respective population..                        telbrfceiaggouof164yrs
Is as urbum area a public foun.tain or stndpost lo-catd not more                      ItCOME DISTiRIBUTION
thac 200 raters from a bouse may be conusideced as hetog within r--                  -Pernoorage of pri-ote mons..  (both in cash and bind) received by richest 5
sosable a-ces  of that ho...e.  In rural areas no...on.ble -ccens would                   percent. richest 20 pooceut, Poorast 20 perceot, and poorest 40 percent
imply that the house wife or members of the household do not have to                      of house.holds.
speni a d-yrp-p-tionate part of the day in fetching the family's
water r-ef .                                                                          POytERY jARCTI GROUPS
Accesu to eo-sto  disiocl (rroto   oaaio)-total. urban, and                              tstinutod absolute poety income level (lISS Per capita) - urban and rural -
rrl-  uNhber ci pooplo (total, urban, aud rural) narood by eOcOeta                       Absolute p-orty io-ooe level in that income leve  below which a minimal
disposal  au fore-tgos of rhoir reopoctive populOti-n.  Eucrets                           nutritionally edeqoate diet plu  essen..tial  non-fond requlcreu.ts is mat
dinpo..ulIsay inclode th, colletion and disposal, with or without                         affordoblo.
treotment, of huran . o-rt  anod east0-wars  by water-borne systems                    Ratiated relation p-srry  ncome leve   USi  per cpt)-urban and rural -
or tho use of pit privion aud sliilar installatioons.                                     Relative povrty iro-ro leso  is that Icu.... level less than one-third
PopuClut on rmyvuitt   - P.pyolation dividod by number of Practicing                         per capita Personal Ilocume of tho count ry.
ph-siuioro qua1lified Iceso . ord.ical school at osivaraity level.                     Estiese4pruatvcelupreev   somo leve _(percent) - urban and rura I
Populut.iot,pe   urigIcu           Population dioldod by nunher of                          Percent of population  euhu   nd ruro.l) who are either "absolute poor" or
practiciog nab  and female gradusat  nurses, practical nurses, sod                        "ralstive poor"  hbichever is greater.
Economic and Social lDsts I2iciaio
Ecomomir Analysis and Projections Department



-26-                           ~~~~~~~~ANNEX I
-  26 -                                    Page 4 of 5
ECONOMIC INDICATORS
GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT IN 1977                                           ANNUAL RATE OF GROWTH (%, constant prices)
US$ Mln.      _                           1960-65            1965-70        1971-77
GNP at Market Prices           44,386        100.0                           1.9                4.9            7.8
Gross Domestic Investinent      8,667         19.5                           3.3               11.5           13.4
Gross National Saving           8,448         19.0                           5.8                5.1           16.9
Current Account Balance       -   725      -   1.6
Exports of Goods, NFS           7,592         17.1                           1.5                7.8           10.0
Imports of Goods, NFS           7,489         16.9                          0.2                10.9           18.0
OUTPUT, LABOR FORCE AND
PRODUCTIVITY IN 1976
2/
Value Added                    Labor Force-                    V. A. Per Worker
US$ 11nn.                             . s  M3US$                                 X_
Agriculture                    11,624       31.1                  35.3      62.6                   329          49.7
Industry                       12,672       33.9                   4.7       8.3                 2,696         407.3
Services                       13,043       35.0                  13.4      23.8                   973         147.0
Unallocated                      -            -                    3.0       5.3
Total/Average
T39         100.0                s5         100.0                   662        100.0
GOVERNT,ENT FINANCE
CENTRAL GOVERNMENT
(Rp. Billion)                                           % of GDP
1976/77             1977/78                           1976                  1977
Current Receipts               2,877                3,535                            18.6                 18.6
Current Expenditure            1,610                2,149                            10.4                 11.3
Current Surplus                1,267                1,387                             8.2                  7-3
Capital Expenditures           2,044                2,157                            13.2                 11.3
External Assistance (net)        784                  773                             5.0                   4.0
MONEY, CREDIT and PRICES                    1971 1973                  1974         1975        1976          1977
(8illion Rp  outstanding end period7F
Money and Quasi Money                        695           987        1,452        1,978        2,631        3,147
Bank credit to Public Sector                 129           153          209          990        1,051          865
Bank Credit to Private Sector                524           932        1,186        1,376        1,737        2,063
(Percentages or Index Numbers:)
Money and Quasi Money as % of GDP             15.2          14.6         14.8         16.3         17.0         16.5
General Price Index (1966 = 100)             807         1,9281       1,370        1,640        1,873        2,094
Annual percentage changes int
General Price Index                           25.7          27.h         33.3         19.7         14.2         11.8
Bank credit to Public Sector                 -14.0          18.6         36.6        473.7         -6.2        -17.7
Bank credit to Private Sector                 65.3          77.9      : 27.2          16.0         26.2         18.8
NOTE. All conversions to dollars in this table are at the average exchange rate prevailing during the period
covered.
1/ Conversion at an exchange rate of Rp 415 - Us$1
it Total labor force; unemployed are allocated to sector of their normal occupation. "Unallocated1' consists
mainly of unemployed workers seeking their first job.
not available
not applicable
East Asia & Pacific Programs
February 28, 1979



- 27 -
ANNEX I
Page 5  of 5
TRADE PAYMENTS AND CAPITAL FLOWS
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS                                                      MERCHANDISE EXPORTS (AVERAGE 1974-76)
1975     1976      1977(Provisional)                                      US $ Mln    7.
(Millions US $)
Exports:                       4,738   6,183    7,592                  oil                                  2,906      57.1
Oil (net)                    2,921   3,567    4,243                  Timber                                 605      11.9
Non oil                      1,817   2,216    3,349                  Rubber                                 461       9.]
Imports                       -5,533  -6,352   -7,489                  Palm Oil                               117       2.3
Resource Gap                -  795  -  169        103                Tin                                    107       2.1
Factor service:               -  462  -  646   -  828                  Coffee                                 104       2.0
Interest                    -  178  -  362   -  473
Investrent Income           -  284  -  284   -  355                    All other commodities                791      15.5
Balance on Current Account  -1,257  -  8 1-  -  7=3                            Total                        5,01F   lOO
Direct Foreign Investment        497      329       286                EXTERNAL DEBT, DECEMBER 31, 1977
Net MLT Borrowing
Disbursements               2,395   2,327    1,988                                                               US $ Mln
Amortization               -  322  -  625   -  826
Subtotal                    2,073   1,702    1,162                    Public Debt, incl. guaranteed               11,393
Capital Grants                                                           Non-Guaranteed Private Debt
Other Capital (net)           -2,250  -  205   )474                      Total outstanding & Disbursed
Other items n.e.i             -   46  -  604                                   o             & D u
1/12/
Increase in Reserves (+)    -  983        736    1,197                 DEBT SERVICE RATIO for 1977-  -
Gross Reserves (end year)        590   1,494    2,494                                   _                             7
Net Reserves   (end year)        490   1,226    2,423                    Public Debt, incl. guaranteed                17.1
Non-Guaranteed Private Debt
Fuel and Related Materials                                               Total outstanding & Disbursed
Imports                          93     119        28
of which:  Petroleum          89      114        26
Exports
of which:  Petroleum       2,921   3,567    4,243           IBRD/IDA LENDING, (Feb. 28, 1979)(Million US $)
RATE OF EXCHANGE                                                                                            IBRD          IDA
2/                Outstanding & Disbursed                596.1       490.7
Throuqh  - Aug. 1971             Since  -  1971-                   Undisbursed                         1,306.9        189.0
US $ 1.00 = R p 375              US $ 1.00 = Rp 415                Outstanding incl. Undisbursed    1,903.0           6?9.7
Rp   IDOL = US $2.67            Rp   1000 = US $2.41
1/  Ratio of Debt Service to Exports of Goods and Non-Factor. Services, with oil exports on a net basis
(i.e. excluding factor payments and imports of the oil companies).
2/  Since 11/15/78
US$ 1.00 = Rp 625
Rp 1000 = US$ 1.60
not available
not applicable
East Asia & Pacific Programs
February 28, 1979



-28 -                    ANNEX II
Page 1 of 20 pages
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN INDONESIA
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS (as of February 28, 1979)
US$ million
Loan/                                                                 Amount
Credit  Fiscal                                                  (less cancellations)
Number   Year                 Purpose                        Bank   IDA  Undisbursed
One Loan and seventeen Credits fully disbursed               50.0  228.1         -
220      1971    Third Irrigation Rehabilitation                     14.5       0.2
259      1971    Tea                                                 15.0       0.7
260      1971    Second Highway                                      34.0       0.2
289      1972    Fourth Irrigation Rehabilitation                    12.5       0.2
300      1972    Population                                          13.2       3.2
318     1972    Inter-Island Fleet Rehabilitation                     8.5       2.0
319     1972    Fourth Agricultural Estates                          11.0       2.0
355     1973    Beef Cattle Development                               3.6       0.2
358      1973    North Sumatra Smallholder Development               .5.0       0.8
387     1973    Third Education                                      13.5       4.7
388     1973    Third Highway                                        14.0       0.1
399     1973    West Java Thermal Power                              46.0       4.8
400     1973    Smallholder and Private Estate Tea                    7.8       6.3
405      1973    Sugar Industry Rehabilitation                       50.0       0.8
428     1974    Pulo Gadung Industrial Estate                        16.5      10.1
436     1974    Private Development Finance Co.  of
Indonesia (PDFCI)                                10.0       0.7
451     1974    Fourth Technical Assistance                           5.0       1.9
479     1974    Bali Tourism                                         16.0      10.7.
480     1974    Fisheries Credit                                      6.5       2.1
514      1975    Jatiluhur Irrigation Extension                      30.0      22.4
785     1978    Small Enterprise Development Project                 40.0      35.9
827     1978    Rural Credit                                         30.0      30.0
869     1979    Polytechnic /a                                       49.0      49.0
1005    1974    Railway                                      48.0               3.9
1040    1975    Jakarta Urban Development                    25.0               2.5
1049    1975    Five Cities Water Supply                     14.5               8.5
1089    1975    Second Fertilizer Expansion                 115.0               1.6
1100    1975    Sixth Irrigation                             65.0              49.8
1127    1975    Fourth Power                                 41.0               4.7
1139    1976    Fertilizer Distribution                      68.0               1.5
1179    1976    Agricultural Research & Extension            21.5              19.2
1197    1976    National Resource Survey & Mapping           13.0               8.5
1236    1976    Fourth Highway                              130.0             100.2
la Not yet effective.



-29 -                   ANNEX II
Page 2 of 20 pages
US$ million
Loan/                                                                  Amount
Credit  Fiscal                                                  (less cancellations)
Number   Year                  Purpose                        Bank   IDA  Undisbursed
1237    1976    Fourth Education                              37.0               31.2
1250    1976    Second Shipping                               54.0               46.7
1254    1976    Third Fertilizer Expansion                    70.0               14.3
1259    1976    Fifth Power                                   90.0               76.7
1267    1976    National Food Crops Extension                 22.0               15.8
1268    1976    Seventh Irrigation                            33.0               21.5
1318    1977    Trarnsnigration and Rural
Develcpment                               30.0               23.2
1336    1977    Second Urban Development                      52.5               22.0
1337    1977    Tanjung Priok Port                            32.0               23.9
1363    1977    Second Private Development
Finance Co. of Indonesia
(PDFCI-II)                                15.0               12.5
1365    1977    Sixth Power                                  116.0               86.9
1373    1977    Nutrition Development                         13.0               12.9
1433    1977    Teacher Training-Fifth Education              19.0               17.8
1434    1977    Eighth Irrigation                             63.0               61.1
1435    1977    Ninth Irrigation                              35.0               31.2
1437    1977    Development Finance Co.
(BAPINDO III)                            40.0               26.6
1472    1977    Second Population                             24.5               23.9
1486    1978    Non-Formal Education                          15.0               14.4
1499    1978    Nucleus Estates and Smallholders I            65.0               61.7
1513    1978    Seventh Power                                109.0              108.4
S 009   1978    Bukit Asam Coal Mining and Transport
Engineering                                10.0                9.1
1578    1978    Tenth Irrigation                             140.0              139.7
1579    1978    Eleventh Irrigation                           31.0               29.0
1604    1978    Nucleus Estates and Smallholders II           65.0               65.0
1645    1979    Irrigation XII /a                             77.0               77.0
1653    1979    Third Urban Development /a                    54.0               54.0
Total                                             1,903.0  679.7   1,495.9
of wlhich has been repaid                          13.8    0.0
Total now outstanding                             1,889.2  679.7/c
Amount sold                                          28.1    0.0
Total now held by Bank and IDA /b                 1,861.1  679.7
Total undlisbursed                                1,306.9  189.0   1,495.9
/a  Not yet effectivte.
/b  Prior to exohi.uhge adjustimient.
_  Amounlt of $1.1 millioni cancelled.



- 30 -                 ANNEX II
Page 3 of 20 pages
B.  STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS (as of February 28, 1979)
Fiscal                                Type of                    US$ million
Year         Obligor                  business            Loan    Equity    Total
1971    P.T. Semen Cibinong          Cement               10.6      2.5        13.1
1971    P.T. Unitex                  Textiles              2.5      0.8         3.3
1971    P.T. Primatexco
Indonesia              Textiles              2.0      0.5         2.5
1971    P.T. Kabel Indonesia         Cable                 2.8      0.4         3.2
1972    P.T. Daralon Textile
Manuf. Corp.           Textiles              4.5      1.5         6.0
1973    P.T. Jakarta Int. Hotel    Tourism                11.0       -         11.0
1973    P.T. Semen Cibinong          Cement                5.4      0.7         6.1
1974    P.T. Primatexco
Indonesia              Textiles              2.0      0.3         2.3
1974    P.T. Monsanto Pan            Electronics           0.9       -          0.9
1974    P.T. PDFCI                   Devel. Fin. Co.        -       0.5         0.5
1974    P.T. Kamaltex                Textiles              2.4      0.6         3.0
1976    P.T. Semen Cibinong          Cement                5.0      1.5         6.5
1976    P.T. Semen Cibinong          Cement                 -       1.1         1.1
1977    P.T. Daralon Textile
Manuf. Corp.            Textiles             0.3       -          0.3
1977    P.T. Kamaltex                Textiles              1.4      0.1         1.5
Total                                                50.8    10.5         61.3
Less:  sold or repaid and cancelled                  29.2      1.8        31.0
Total held by IFC                                    21.6      8.7        30.3
Undisbursed (including participant's portion)          -        -           -



-31-                   ANNEX II
Page 4 of 20 pages
C.  PROJECTS IN EXECUTION /1
These notes are arranged by sectors in the following order:
Agriculture                                                                   Pages
Irrigation (Cr. 289, 514, Ln. 1100, 1268, 1434, 1435, 1578,
1579 and 1645/2)                                                5-6
Other Agriculture Production (Cr. 259, 319, 355, 358, 400,
405, 480, Ln. 1318, 1499 and 1604)          6-9
Agriculture Support Services (Ln. 1179 and 1267)                             9-10
Agro-Business and Credit (Cr. 785 and 827)                                    10
Education (Cr. 387, 869/2, Ln. 1237, 1433 and 1486)                           11-12
Energy (Cr. 399, 1127, 1259, 1365 and 1513)                                   12-13
Industrial Development and Finance
Fertilizer Production (Ln. 1089 and 1254)                                   14
Industrial Estates (Cr. 428)                                                14
Development Finance Companies (Ln. 1437, Cr. 436 and Ln. 1363)              15
Coal Mining (Ln. S-9)                                                       15
Population and Nutrition
Population (Cr. 300 and Ln. 1472)                                           15-16
Nutrition (Ln. 1373)                                                        16
Technical Assistance (Cr. 451 and Ln. 1197)                                   16-17
Transportation
Fertilizer Distribution (Ln. 1139)                                          17
Highways (Ln. 1236)                                                         17
Marine Transport (Cr. 318 and Ln. 1250)                                     18
Ports (Ln. 1337)                                                            18
Railways (Ln. 1005)                                                         18
Tourism (Cr. 479)                                                             19
Urban Development (Ln. 1040, 1336 and 1653/2)                                 19-20
Water Supply (Ln. 1049)                                                       20
/1  These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any
problems which are being encountered and the action being taken to
remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the under-
standing that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of
strengths and weaknesses in project execution.
/2 Not yet effective.



-32-                   ANNEX II
Page 5 of 20 pages
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION
AGRICULTURE
Irrigation
Credit No. 289 Fourth Irrigation Rehabilitation: US$12.5 Million Credit
of March 9, 1972; Effective Date: May 5, 1972; Closing
Date: June 30, 1979.
The construction program has escalated in cost by 150% over the
appraisal estimate, due to an increase in the magnitude of the works and
unexpected inflation. The project is expected to be completed shortly.
Feasibility studies included in the project have been concluded and ground-
water investigations are nearing completion.
Credit No. 514 Jatiluhur Irrigation Extension: US$30 Million Credit
of October 3, 1974; Effective Date: January 10, 1975;
Closing Date: December 31, 1980.
Initial organizational difficulties and late awarding of the
first construction contract have caused a delay of about 2 years in the
project schedule. The first construction activity started in February 1977
and contracts for over 70% of the project works have been let. Based on bid
prices for the first contract and revised quantity estimates on the basis of
detailed design, total project cost is now estimated to be about 140%
over the appraisal estimate.
Loan No. 1100   Sixth Irrigation:  US$65 Million Loan of April 10, 1975;
Effective Date: June 20, 1975; Closing Date: June 30, 1982.
Good progress has been made on the rehabilitation works, but
construction of new works is behind schedule because of delays in preparing
contract documents. The two largest contracts have still not been let.
Substantial cost overruns are anticipated due to unavoidable major changes in
the design of the Sampean Baru dam and unit price increases in other compo-
nents.  These will be verified as bids are received for the major contracts.
Loan No. 1268   Seventh Irrigation:  US$33 Million Loan of June 4, 1976;
Effective Date: September 21, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981.
The implementing agencies have engaged the consultants. Construc-
tion is underway in the North Sadang and tertiary development areas, and
studies being funded under the project are expected to be completed shortly.
The mapping program is progressing satisfactorily. Disbursements are ahead
of schedule.



~ 33 -                ANNEX II
Page 6 of 20 pages
Loan No. 1434   Eighth Irrigation:  US$63.0 Million Loan of June 6, 1977;
Effective Date: July 7, 1977; Closing Date: March 31, 1983.
Disbursements are somewhat ahead of schedule, and the project is
being implemented satisfactorily.
Loan No. 1435   Ninth Irrigation:  US$35.0 Million Loan of June 6, 1977;
1977; Effective Date: July 7, 1977; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981.
While delays have arisen due to inadequate mapping in the Sungai
Dareh-Sitiung area, the project is ahead of schedule and progressing satis-
factorily. Some tender documents have been prepared and contracts are
expected to be let this year. Disbursements are ahead of schedule.
Loan No. 1578   Tenth Irrigation:  US$140 Million Loan of June 6, 1978;
Effective Date: August 16, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1984.
Initial delays in hiring consultants and in preparing tender
documents are slipping the start of project construction behind the appraisal
estimate.
Loan No. 1579   Eleventh Irrigation:  US$31 Million Loan of June 6, 1978;
Effective Date: August 16, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1983.
A smooth start has been made on some components but two components
are behind schedule due to unforeseen technical problems and delays in
drawing up tender documents.
Loan No. 1645   Twelfth Irrigation:  US$77 Million Loan of December 29,
1978. Not yet effective; Closing Date: March 31, 1984.
Consultant contracts are being finalized and a smooth start to
project implementation is being made.
Other Agriculture Production
Credit No. 259 Tea: US$15 Million Credit of June 24, 1971; Effective Date:
September 17, 1971; Closing Date: August 31, 1979
Nearly all the targets set at appraisal have been achieved one year
ahead of project completion, but factory capacity still has to be expanded



-34-                    ANNEX II
Page 7 of 20 pages
to take account of the increased production which exceeds appraisal estimates
by about 6,000 tons, or 30%. Financial, technical and managerial performance
has been excellent. Inflation and additional construction and equipment
costs are expected to increase project costs by about 17% above appraisal
estimate, but the economic rate of return is good and is expected to be over
20%.
Credit No. 319 Fourth Agricultural Estates: US$11 Million Credit of
June 28, 1972: Effective Date: January 30, 1973;
Closing Date: June 30, 1981.
Progress of the project continues to be good, with planting of
rubber and oil palm ahead of appraisal estimates and in excellent condition.
The project has been expanded to 15,000 ha (originally 11,400 ha). The
remaining area to be planted is about 3,500 ha, of which 2,300 ha have been
cleared and are ready for planting. Technical problems exist in processing
and equipment maintenance, but construction of the oil palm mill will be
accelerated and additional capacity for crumb rubber production will also be
provided. Profitability and cost of development at PNP X are satisfactory,
while the capital structure of PNP X is to be improved during the course of
the Nucleus Estates and Smallholders I Project (Loan 1499-IND). PNP X is
also participating in the Transmigration and Rural Development Project
(Loan 1318-IND).
Credit No. 355  Beef Cattle Development:  US$3.6 Million Credit of
January 31, 1973; Effective Date: May 30, 1973;
Closing Date: September 30, 1980.
Several problems seriously delayed project implementation. The
Government's budget allocation was insufficient, and financial management and
coordination were weak. Changes in the scope and design of the project,
from one of breeding and fattening of beef cattle for export to that of
production of improved cattle for domestic sale as draft and breeding
animals, were approved by the Executive Directors in June 1977. The project
was reviewed in November 1977 and May 1978 and is now being implemented
satisfactorily.
Credit No. 358   North Sumatra Smallholder Development:  US$5 Million Credit
of February 14, 1973; Effective Date: August 13, 1973;
Closing Date: December 31, 1981
Progress continues to be satisfactory, and the expected program of
planting rubber and oil palm by smallholders was accomplished at the end of
1977.  By 1981, when the project is completed, these plantings will have been
brought to maturity. The Government has decided not to expand the project in
its present location because of the extensive support already being given to
North Sumatra Province through this and other Bank-supported projects;



- 35 -                 ANNEX II
Page 8 of 20 pages
instead, the Government is seeking the Bank's assistance for smallholder
development projects in other Provinces, including Aceh, Jambi, Riau,
S. Sumatra, W. Kalimantan and S. Kalimantan.
Credit No. 400   Smallholder and Private Estate Tea:  US$7.8 Million Credit
of June 22, 1973; Effective Date: November 30, 1973;
Closing Date: March 31, 1982.
Since smallholders and estates prefer a heavier concentration on
replanting and less on rehabilitation, the mix had to be changed, thereby
reducing the overall area from 13,200 ha to about 10,200 ha. Although
production will not be affected, since yields from replanted tea are higher
than from rehabilitated tea, costs will exceed appraisal estimates by about
77%, since replanting is more expensive than rehabilitation and costs have
generally increased because of inflation. Delays were experienced in imple-
menting the institutional framework for long-term lending, a new venture for
Bank Rakyat Indonesia (BRI). Because of this, and difficulties in involving
the private estates in the project, disbursements are behind appraisal
estimates. A major review of the project is currently being undertaken by the
Resident Staff in Indonesia. While the project has experienced difficulties,
it is estimated that, because of the project-induced spin-off effects, an
area at least equal in size to the project is being improved. Over 500
farmers' groups have been formed to improve tea production supported by a
project training program presently involving nearly 4,000 farmers. These
developments have been helped by a surge in tea prices (2-1/2 times appraisal
estimates). Considerable investment in factory and field development is
taking place outside the project, largely financed by short- and medium-term
loans from BRI and by private investors.
Credit No. 405   Sugar Industry Rehabilitation:  US$50 Million Credit of
June 26, 1973; Effective Date: April 22, 1974;
Closing Date: June 30, 1979.
The rehabilitation of two sugar factories and the construction
of one new factory, financed by the Credit, have been completed on schedule
and trial runs are taking place. The research part of the project is slow in
materializing; the sugar research station still requires a major consultant
input. The two PTPs involved in the rehabilitation process are both in a
particularly weak financial position, and this problem requires attention.
The Government has started an evaluation of the financial status of the
industry, but progress of this study is slow.
Credit No. 480 Fisheries Credit: US$6.5 Million Credit of June 14, 1974;
Effective Date: January 8, 1975; Closing Date:
June 30, 1979.
After some initial delays, the overall project is now about
18 months behind schedule. Construction of shore facilities at Ambon is



-36 -                   ANNEX II
Page 9 of 20 pages
virtually completed. Boat construction is under way and all related equip-
ment is on site, ready for installation. While the quality of fishpond
lending has suffered some deficiencies in the past, remedial action taken by
Bank Rakyat Indonesia is gradually improving the situation.
Loan No. 1318   Transmigration and Rural Development:  US$30 Million
Loan of July 21, 1976; Effective Date: March 30, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1981.
Settlement and construction are lagging about a year behind ap-
praisal estimates, partly because of the initial delay in project effective-
ness and weak project organization and management. Nonetheless, 1,300
migrant families have been settled at Baturaja and are successfully growing
food crops. Initial incomes are satisfactory in spite of inadequate fer-
tilizer supplies and poor seed supply, although one third to one half
originates from construction and rubber planting. These incomes are substan-
tially above incomes the transmigrants received in Java. As evidence of the
relative attraction of the Baturaja community, 485 spontaneous settlers have
already been attracted to the site. In the existing settled area at Way
Abung, there has been little improvement in incomes because fertilisers are
not available on site and delayed road construction limits marketing of cash
crops. Experience to date highlights the need for improving project manage-
ment and ensuring that agricultural support services and input supply systems
are in place as settlement proceeds.
Loan No. 1499   Nucleus Estates and Smallholder I:  US$65.0 Million
Loan of November 18. 1977; Effective Date: January 12, 1978;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982.
This loan became effective in January 1978. Project implementation
has started slowly, due to inadequate budgeting of local funds and appoint-
ment of key consultants. Land clearing is in progress and planting material
is being distributed to smallholders.
Loan No. 1604   Nucleus Estate and Smallholder II:  US$65.0 Million
Loan of July 12, 1978; Effective Date: September 13, 1978;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983.
This loan has recently become effective.
Agriculture Support Services
Loan No. 1179 Agricultural Research and Extension I: US$21.5 Million Loan
of December 19, 1975; Effective D]ate: February 23, 1976;
Closing Date: December 31, 1981.
Due to prolonged negotiations over selection and terms and condi-
tions of employment of consultants, including architects and engineers, the



-37-                    ANNEX II
Page 10 of 20 pages
project is about 18 months behind the appraisal implementation estimates.
Design of all civil works has been completed, construction of extension
information a aters is progressing well and expected to be completed in FY79,
and the Agency for Agricultural Research and Development (AARD) plans to let
contracts for the remaining civil works shortly. At the present projected
pace of implementation all components, except fellowships, could be completed
by the Closing Date.
Loan No. 1267  National Food Crops Extension; US$22 Million Loan of June 4,
1976; Effective Date: September 21, 1976; Closing Date:
June 30, 1982.
Good progress is being made in the field and, despite organiza-
tional difficulties, an effective extension service is being created. Ap-
pointments of extension staff are ahead of schedule and the project director-
ate has been strengthened by the appointment of three additional Assistant
Directors. Civil works have been resumed and, after recent approval of
prefinancing requests for 1977-78, the training program has been started.
Disbursement is lagging in every category due to prefinancing difficulties
and delays in submission of withdrawal applications with supporting documen-
tation for equipment and furniture. The new procedure for prefinancing
(outlined by the Finance Ministry in October 1978) is expected to help solve
the problem and speed up project implementation and disbursement.
AGRO-BUSINESS AND CREDIT
Credit No. 785 Small Enterprise Development: US$40.0 Million Credit
of April 7, 1978; Effective Date: August 17, 1978; Closing
Date: December 31, 1981.
This credit became effective on August 17, 1978. Despite start-up
difficulties, Bank Indonesia (BI) is making good progress in revising lending
procedures and establishing new lending approaches to serve the medium-term
credit needs of small entrepreneurs. Training of BI and handling bank staff
is progressing and preparation for studies is on schedule.
Credit No. 827 Rural Credit: US$30.0 Million Credit of June 23, 1978;
Effective Date: November 3, 1978; Closing Date: March 31, 1985.
This project provides long-term credit to about 40,000 smallhold-
ers, primarily for fisheries, perennial crops and livestock, and technical
assistance to Bank Rakyat Indonesia (BRI) for program development, training,
credit procedures and accounting and management information systems.  BRI,
the implementing agency, is in the process of evaluating proposals for
project consultancy and preparing the lending program for the first year
(April 1, 1979 to March 30, 1980).



- 38-                   ANNEX II
Page 11 of 20 pages
EDUCATION
Credit No. 387   Third Education:  US$13.5 Million Credit of June 1, 1973;
Effective Date: August 29, 1973; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981.
The project finances the production and distribution of 138 million
primary school textbooks in four subjects, and related in-service training
for 350,000 primary school teachers and 2,800 supervisory personnel. About
90 million project books have been printed and 3,800 tutors and administra-
tors and about 400,000 teachers (114% of the project target) have received
training nation-wide. Despite the remarkable quantitative achievements,
problems of management, distribution, technology and pedagogy make the
project less effective than it could be. The training program, although on
schedule and making good progress, is out of phase with book production,
which is almost one year behind schedule due to delays in paper procurement.
Textbooks and teacher manuals would benefit from better design, organization
and illustrations, and their content is limited by the national curricula.
In response to Bank proposals, the Government has started a major review of
the project to focus on its relation to other ongoing Government textbook
programs and overall future needs for production of instructional materials.
Credit No. 869   Polytechnic:  US$49.0 Million Credit of December 29,
1978; Not yet effective; Closing Date: June 30, 1985.
The project is designed to help the Government meet demand for en-
gineering technicians and trained accountants. It will introduce a new system
(polytechnics) for training technicians at the diploma level by establishing
a Technician Education Development Center and six polytechnics in Java and
Sumatera, and improving the quality of accountancy training by establishing
four accountancy development centers in existing universities.
Loan No. 1237 Fourth Education: US$37 Million Loan of April 15,
1976; Effective Date: June 17. 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1980.
Initially, all three subprojects - under the Ministry of Education
(MOE), Ministry of Manpower (MOM), and National Institute of Administration
(LAN) respectively - suffered an eight month delay due to late signing of
the Funds-in-Trust (FIT) Agreements with the UN Agencies providing technical
assistance, as well as contracts with the consultant architects. Further delays
have occurred in the tendering and awarding of civil works contracts for the
Manpower and LAN components. Overall, the project is about 1-1/2 years
behind schedule. About 70% of civil works, 40% of furniture, and 100% of
technical assistance have been contracted. Implementation of the technical
assistance programs of all subprojects is in line with the FIT Agreements.
Overall, the Ministry of Education and LAN components are going well, but the
Ministry of Manpower has had difficulty in managing its diverse program of



~ 39        ~        ANNEX II
Page 12 of 20 pages
establishing 17 training centers. Delayed implementation may require post-
ponement of the Closing Date by about six months.
Loan No. 1433 Teacher Training: US$19.0 Million Loan of June 6, 1977;
Effective Date: July 7, 1977; Closing Date: June 30, 1983.
Implementation of the project closely follows the appraisal sched-
ule. The first and second phases of the program to train 160 Indonesian
educators in ways to improve teacher training and develop new curricula have
been carried out successfully. Curriculum development work is making good
progress, production of learning material is under way, and the research
designs for studies included in the project have been completed. Civil works
are on schedule, but equipment procurement is delayed by about nine months.
There are no specific implementation problems at this stage.
Loan No. 1486 Non-Formal Education: US$15.0 Million Loan of
September 14, 1977; Effective Date: November 4, 1977;
Closing Date: June 30, 1983.
The project aims at strengthening the nonformal education programs
of the Department of Education in seven Provinces. General progress in
project implementation is satisfactory. Renovation of two existing provin-
cial centers was completed on schedule, construction contracts for four new
centers are being awarded, and furniture and equipment is being tendered.
The technical assistance component is about nine months behind schedule due
to late signing of contracts and the November 1978 devaluation; however, the
training aspects of the project are on schedule. Recruitment of foreign
experts and domestic consultants is accelerating satisfactorily; initial
staff training, learning materials development, and evaluation activities are
being carried out. It will be another two years before the project can be
expected to make a significant impact on field activities.
ENERGY
Credit No. 399 West Java Thermal Power: US$46 Million Credit of June 22,
1973; Effective Date: August 28, 1973; Closing Date:
June 30, 1980.
Project implementation was initially delayed due to the necessity
of making additional financing arrangements to meet much higher costs of
equipment resulting from rapid inflation in 1974/75. However, implementation
is now progressing smoothly. Both 100 MW generating units have been syn-
chronized with the grid and are being loaded slowly.



-40-                    ANNEX II
Page 13 of 20 pages
Loan No. 1127   Fourth Power:  US$41 Million Loan of June 17, 1975: Effective
Date:  October 23, 1975; Closinp  Date: June 30. 1980.
Construction of the third 100 MW unit at Muara Karang is pro-
gressing satisfactorily. The scheduled commissioning date of February 1980
is about seven months behind the appraisal target, but no further delays are
expected and there is a good possibility that some of the delays may be
made up. The loan disbursement is proceeding as scheduled in the appraisal
report.
Loan No. 1259 Fifth Power: US$90 Million Loan of May 20, 1976: Effective
Date: September 20, 1976: Closing Date: March 31, 1981.
All equipment required for the project is scheduled to be procured
in three lots. Nearly 75% of the equipment which was covered by Lot 1
(valued at $13.6 million) has been received; orders for equipment covered by
Lot 2, (amounting to $32.4 million) are now being placed. The project
suffered an initial setback of about one year in procurement action but is
now progressing satisfactorily. It is expected that loan disbursements will
be completed prior to the Closing Date.
Loan No. 1365 Sixth Power: US$116 Million Loan of February 4, 1977:
Effective Date: June 6, 1977: Closing Date:
December 31, 1982.
Implementation of the project, consisting of 2 x 200 MW steam
generating units at Muara Karang, is progressing satisfactorily. Orders for
major electrical and mechanical equipment were placed during the period
December 1977-February 1978. So far progress is on or slightly ahead of
schedule. Currently, estimated commissioning dates for the units are about
four to six months ahead of the appraisal estimate.
Loan No. 1513 Seventh Power: US$109.0 Million Loan of February 3, 1978;
Effective Date: June 30, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31. 1983.
Tenders for major electrical and mechanical equipment required for
the 200 MW unit, including turbine generator, steam generator, cycle equip-
ment, electrical equipment and power transformer, were opened on August 21,
1978. Bids have been evaluated and the Bank indicated no objection to the
recommendations for award of contracts on February 6, 1979.



-41 -                   ANNEX II
Page 14 of 20 pages
INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT AND FINANCE
Fertilizer Production
Loan No. 1089 Second Fertilizer Expansion: US$115 Million Loan of
February 28, 1975; Effective Date: April 29, 1975;
Closing Date: August 31, 1979.
The project (PUSRI III) was commissioned April 9, 1977, one month
ahead of schedule. During the eight months of operation in 1977, the project
operated at 66% capacity utilization, which increased sharply to about 92% in
1978 with the overcoming of initial technical problems. Certain auxiliary
facilities, now being installed, are expected to be completed by mid-1979.
The project is not expected to show a cost overrun.
Loan No. 1254 Third Fertilizer Expansion: US$70 Million Loan of May 20,
1976; Effective Date: August 15, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1980.
The project (PUSRI IV) was commissioned November 26, 1977, about
four months ahead of schedule. During 1978, PUSRI IV produced nearly 470,000
tons of urea, reflecting a capacity utilization of 83% in the first year
of operation. Some auxiliary facilities are planned to be expanded by
1980. The project is not expected to show a cost overrun.
Industrial Estates
Credit No. 428 Pulo Gadung Industrial Estate: US$16.5 Million Credit
of September 14, 1973; Effective Date: November 13,
1973; Closing Date: December 31, 1980.
The estate is progressing satisfactorily. Of 430 ha of raw land
earmarked for acquisition, 313 ha has been acquired and acquisition of
another 31 ha is under negotiation. 119 ha of developed land have been sold
to 99 firms. Employment in these firms at full capacity will be around
19,000 and an estimated 1,400 persons are employed on the average in both
factory construction and land development. Overall, operations are profit-
able. The return on capital investment, which is now projected to be 22%, is
significantly higher than the appraisal forecast of 13.4%. This is due to
developed land values rising faster than the cost of raw land and development.
The project's development has been slower than forecast at appraisal, and the
Closing Date has been postponed to December 31, 1980.



- 42 -                ANNEX II
Page 15 of 20 pages
Development Finance Companies
Loan No. 1437   BAPINDO III:  USs40.O Million Loan of June 6, 1977;
Effective Date: September 23, 1977; Closing Date:
September 30, 1981.
At the time of loan appraisal (October 1976) BAPINDO was facing
many problems, including high portfolio arrears and slow loan processing.
Accordingly, the Bank sought and reached understanding with BAPINDO and the
Government on a comprehensive Program of Action designed to remedy BAPINDO's
weaknesses and achieve further improvements. A recent Bank mission found
that BAPINDO has effectively implemented the Program and achieved satisfac-
tory progress.
Credit No. 436 Private Development Finance Company of Indonesia (PDFCI):
US$10 Million Credit of November 2, 1973; Effective Date:
March 6, 1974; Closing Date: June 30, 1979.
This Credit is fully committed.
Loan No. 1363   Second PDFCI:  UIS815 Million Loan of January 28, 1977;
Effective Date: April 21, 1977; Closing Date: June 30, 1981.
The project is proceeding satisfactorily.
Coal Mining
Loan S-9         Bukit Asam Coal Mining and Transport Engineering:
IJS$10.0 Million Loan of May 19, 1978; Effective Date:
December 22, 1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1983.
This loan became effective on December 22, 1978, and consultants
are in place.
POPTJLATION AND NUTRITION
Population
Credit No. 300 Population: US$13.2 Million Credit of April 20, 1972;
Effective Date: November 2, 1972; Closing Date:
December 31, 1979.
The Indonesian national family planning program appears to have
slackened somewhat. As of October 31, 1978, 30.0% of eligible couples in
Java and Bali were estimated to be currentlv using contraceptives: the
comparable figure for the 10 provinces of the Other Islands covered by
the program is 8.2%. These figures as of March 30, 1978, were 30.1% and
9.6%, respectively. However, during the period covered there have been
some problems with data collection, which may be part of the reason for



- 43 -                 ANNEX II
Page 16 of 20 pages
the decline. The report of the consultant engaged to determine the needs for
in-house computer facilities for the National Family Planning Coordination
Board (NFPCB) is now being evaluated. Of the construction component, the
remaining two paramedical training schools are scheduled to be completed by
August 1979. No completion date has yet been estimated for one provincial
office building, which was destroyed by fire in September when it was half
completed. Other project activities which remain to be completed, including
the fellowship training program and several research studies, will also be
completed by August 1979.
Loan No. 1472   Second Population:  US$24.5 Million Loan of July 6, 1977;
Effective Date: August 4, 1977; Closing Date:
April 30, 1983.
Considerable progress has been made on the civil works and procure-
ment aspects of the project. Of the 21 facilities, contracts have been
awarded for 20, and design drawings for the remaining building approved. The
provincial offices and training centers are scheduled to be completed by
September 1979, and the National Family Planning Training Center (NFPTC) by
May 1980. Development of the national population education program and the
national family planning training program is proceeding well.
Nutrition
Loan No. 1373   Nutrition Development:  US$13.0 Million Loan of
March 14, 1977; Effective Date: March 31, 1977; Closing
Date: March 31, 1982.
Initial progress under the project is satisfactory. The Nutrition
Intervention Pilot Project, the anemia control and home gardens components,
as well as the fellowships program, are proceeding with minor delays. The
Nutrition Academy has increased its student enrollment from 100 to 160, and
48 graduates are expected this year, compared with 25 prior to project start.
Construction of the Nutrition Academy was completed in February 1979. The
Food Technology Development Center is about 50% completed, and the Center for
Research and Development in Nutrition about 63%. While monitoring and
evaluation units for each component have been operational for six months, the
central monitoring and evaluation unit of the Project Secretariat is just
starting to be staffed.
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
Credit No. 451 Fourth Technical Assistance: US$5 Million Credit of
January 2, 1974; Effective Date: February 15, 1974;
Closing Date: December 31, 1979.
Progress under the project is satisfactory and the bulk of the
funds have been committed.



44                   ANNEX II
Page 17 of 20 pages
Loan No. 1197   National Resource Survey and Mapping:  US$13.0 Mil-
lion Loan of February 5, 1976; Effective Date: April 2,
1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1981.
The BAKOSURTANAL complex at Cibinong is now structurally completed,
and most of the cartographic, photographic processing, and printing equipment
required to produce maps has arrived and is being installed. Resource evalu-
ation activities, including the compilation of data for Southern Sumatra
and a study for the Directorate-General of Estates of coconut lands to be
replanted in Sulawesi and Lombok, are also proceeding in the new complex.
Recruitment and training of new staff, particularly junior operatives,
has accelerated. The new photography financed under the Canadian parallel
project will shortly be available, by which time BAKOSURTANAL hopes to have
installed color photo processing equipment and to have fully trained special-
ized teams of operatives in the various map production fields.
TRANSPORTATION
Fertilizer Distribution
Loan No. 1139   Fertilizer Distribution:  US$68 Million Loan of
July 10, 1975; Effective Date: August 28, 1975;
Closing Date: June 30, 1979.
The project has been substantially completed at a cost 20% below
the appraisal estimate. Work on the five original port depots is completed
and the sixth depot, which was approved by the Bank in 1977 as an extension
financed from project savings, is nearing completion. All four ships,
including the additional ship approved in 1977 and paid for from project
savings, have been delivered and 52 of 58 inland storage depots are com-
pleted. All the ships, port depots and storage depots are operating.
Shipping operations have not been as cost effective as they could be, due to
some extent to existing large stocks of fertilizer requiring ships to be used
for longer distances for exports.  Costs have also been increased because of
delays in ship turnaround time caused by the need to clear customs on inter-
island voyages and the cumbersome procedures involved. These matters are
being taken up with PUSRI and improvements are expected.
Highways
Loan No. 1236   Fourth Highway:  US$130 Million Loan of April 15, 1976;
Effective Date: August 13, 1976; Closing Date: December 31,
1980.
Virtually all key activities in the initial implementation schedule
agreed with the Government have been completed, although with delays of up to
one year. Construction of 1,200 km of roads has been started. Some problems
in executing the road works have been revealed on contracts started in 1976
and delays were encountered in awarding some contracts in 1977, causing a
slower rate of progress than scheduled. The project is about 25% complete.
The delays, combined with slow progress, indicate that the project will
probably be completed about 15-18 months after the Closing Date.



-45 -                 ANNEX II
Page 18 of 20 pages
Marine Transport
Credit No. 318 Inter-Island Fleet Rehabilitation: USS8.5 Million
Credit of June 28, 1972; Effective Date: October 19,
1972; Closing Date: December 31, 1979.
Due to sharply increased costs and lack of creditworthy applicants,
just over half the tonnage of shipping expected at appraisal will have been
rehabilitated. The Credit has been entirely committed and is expected to be
fully disbursed by the Closing Date.
Loan No. 1250   Second Shipping:  US$54 Million Loan of May 20, 1976:
Effective Date: October 8, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1980.
Delay in the appointments of a number of consultants has caused a
slow start to the project and slowed project implementation and disburse-
ments. The acute financial problems of the State Shipping Company (PELNI)
have been tackled by the Government and new management is instituting a
recovery plan. The project entity (PANN) has committed, and the Bank has
approved, $22.3 million of subprojects- the Bank has disbursed and made
qualified agreement to reimburse, funds totalling 86.0 million as of
December 31, 1978. The recent change in exchange rate may adversely affect
this project in the future and slow disbursements further. This matter is
under study and being reviewed with the Government.
Ports
Loan No. 1337   Tanjung Priok Port Project:  US$32 Million Loan of November 4,
1976; Effective Date: March 3, 1977; Closing Date:
December 31, 1979.
Slow progress on the construction of Government-financed works
has delayed construction of the first component, but progress is being made
and these works are scheduled for completion in July 1979. The first construc-
tion contract for Basin III back up facilities has been awarded and work is
underway. The regional berths component has been delayed by slow withdrawal
of the Army, which was using the site for storage. However, 90% of the land
has now been released, the old buildings are being demolished, and a contract
for the new works has recently been awarded. These delays will probably
postpone overall completion of the project to mid-1981; it is too early to
estimate the full effect of delays on project cost. The Government intends
to establish statutory agencies (PERUMS) during 1979 for ports and dredging
functions which are currently administered by government departments.
Railways
Loan No. 1005   Railway:  UJS$48.0 Million Loan of June 14, 1974:
Effective Date: August 16, 1974: Closing Date:
June 30, 1979.
Project execution is behind schedule due to initial slow procure-
ment and execution of works. Procurement is now well under way and all
contracts have been placed or are about to be placed. Freight and passenger



- 46                   ANNEX II
Page 19 of 20 pages
traffic declined in 1976, due largely to poor service. However, some
improvements have been made since the first half of 1977 following the
arrival of new locomotives and rolling stock, and operations improved
with the aid of consultants. The financial performance of the railway
continues to deteriorate due mainly to increasing costs, including a large
wage raise in early 1977, to low traffic levels, and to inadequate tariffs
for major freight commodities. The Government is completing the reorganiza-
tion of the railway as a Government Department. It has undertaken to review
the role of the railway and determine which traffic should be carried at a
profit and which should be subsidized.
TOURISM
Credit No. 479 Bali Tourism: US$16.0 Million Credit of June 14, 1974;
Effective Pate: December 4, 1974; Closing Date:
August 31, 1979.
Construction of major infrastructure and related facilities for
the Nusa Dua tourism estate is under way and scheduled for completion in mid-
1980; construction of the hotel training school has been completed. The
completion of project components outside the estate (i.e., roads) is scheduled
for December 1980, about two years later than planned at project appraisal.
Visitor traffic to Bali has been growing; it rose by 8% in 1977 to 286,000
visitors and by a further 11.5% in the first eight months of 1978. Air
access is improving with the introduction of new international flights from
Singapore. At present, three potential hotel projects for Nusa Dua are under
consideration; however, while no final commitment has yet been made, changes
in the project description (recently approved by the Executive Directors)
which would allow use of savings in credit funds for hotel construction may
encourage hotel investment. It is unlikely that a first hotel at Nusa Dua
could be completed in 1980 to coincide with completion of the infrastructure.
URBAN DEVELOPMENT
Loan No. 1040 Jakarta Urban Development: US$25 Million Loan of
September 27, 1974; Effective Date: January 15, 1975;
Closing Date:  June 30, 1979.
The kampung improvement part of the project is substantially
complete. Some 2,080 ha have been upgraded, compared with the original
plan of 1,980 ha. The sites and services component is about 75% complete.
Problems which have arisen with regard to the standard of materials and the
procedures to be utilized in allocating the plots were resolved last year.
About 2,000 settlers have moved on the site and the remaining plots are
currently being allocated.



- 47 -                ANNEX II
Page 20 of 20 pages
Loan No. 1336 Second Urban Development: TTSS52.5 Million Loan of November 4,
1976: Effective Date: March 28, 1977; Closing Datp:
March 31, 1980.
The progress of civil works is ahead of schedule, and costs are
generally within appraisal estimates. Although land acquisition is causing
some delays, efforts are being made to speed up procedures. Progress is
being made in developing Government capabilities to undertake a nationwide
kampung improvement program in the future.
Loan No. 1653 Third Urban Development: TJSq54 Million Loan of January 31,
1979; Not yet Effective; Closing Date: December 31, 1983.
The national kampung improvement program has been expanded in this
project to include TJijung Pandang, Semarang and Surakarta, as well as follow-
up components in Surabaya and Jakarta. The latter includes a new solid
wastes component, and will stress drainage and maintenance.
WATER SUPPLY
Loan No. 1049 Five Cities Water Supply: US$14.5 Million Loan of
October 31, 1974; Effective Date: May 21, 1975;
Closing Date: June 30, 1980.
Due to administrative and managerial problems the project is now
running 24 months behind schedule. This delay, together with higher rates of
inflation than anticipated, is expected to increase project costs about 30%
above the appraisal estimate. Detailed engineering and preparation of tender
documents have been completed, and contracts for all equipment and for major
civil works have been signed. The project has reached the construction
phase. The reorganization of the Directorate of Sanitary Engineering has
been completed, and the establishment and development of local water enter-
prises is proceeding satisfactorily. In September 1978, the Government
issued an interministerial decree defining relationships between the various
Ministries and the Water Enterprises, which is expected to expedite current
and future projects in the sector.



- 48 -                         ANNEX III
INDONESIA
FOURTH BAPINDO PROJECT
Supplemental Data Sheet
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken to prepare the project: six months
(b) Project prepared by: BAPINDO
(c) First presented to the Bank: June 1978
(d) Departure of appraisal mission: August 1978
(e) Completion of negotiations: April 11, 1979.
(f) Planned date of effectiveness: September 1979.
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Actions
None.
Section III: Special Conditions
(a) Out of the loan, $15 million would be used for financing projects
for the enterprises with fixed assets not exceeding $1.0 million
equivalent or projects generating employment at a fixed investment
cost per job not greater than $12,000 (para. 64);
(b) the size of the individual subloans will not exceed $3.0
million (para. 64); and
(c) the signing of a subsidiary loan agreement between the Government
and BAPINDO will be an additional condition of effectiveness (para.
66).



