Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
CREDIT NUMBER 4618-MN 
 
Financing Agreement 
 
(Development Policy Financing) 
 
between 
 
MONGOLIA 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
Dated June 26, 2009  
 
Page  2
FINANCING AGREEMENT 
 
AGREEMENT dated June 26, 2009, entered into between MONGOLIA 
(
“Recipient”) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
(“Association”) for the purpose of providing financing in support of the Program (as 
defined in the Appendix to this Agreement).  The Association has decided to provide this 
financing on the basis, inter alia, of (a) the actions which the Recipient has already taken 
under the Program and which are described in Section I of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, 
and (b) the Recipient’s maintenance of an appropriate macro-economic policy 
framework.  The Recipient and the Association therefore hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I 
—
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in 
the Appendix to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE II 
—
FINANCING 
2.01. 
The Association agrees to extend to the Recipient, on the terms and conditions 
set forth or referred to in this Agreement, a credit in an amount equivalent to 
twenty 
six 
million 
nine 
hundred 
thousand 
Special 
Drawing 
Rights                  
(SDR 26,900,000) (variously,
 “Credit” and “Financing”). 
2.02. 
The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Financing in support of the 
Program in accordance with Section II of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
 
2.03. 
The Maximum Commitment Charge Rate payable by the Recipient on the 
Unwithdrawn Financing Balance shall be one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per 
annum. 
2.04. 
The Service Charge payable by the Recipient on the Withdrawn Credit Balance 
shall be equal to three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum. 
2.05. 
The Payment Dates are January 15 and July 15 in each year. 
2.06. 
The principal amount of the Credit shall be repaid in accordance with repayment 
schedule set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
Page  3
2
2.07. 
The Payment Currency is Dollars. 
ARTICLE III 
—
PROGRAM 
 
3.01 
The Recipient declares its commitment to the Program and its implementation.  
To this end: 
 
(a) 
the Recipient and the Association shall from time to time, at the request 
of either party, exchange views on the progress achieved in carrying out 
the Program; 
 
(b) 
prior to each such exchange of views, the Recipient shall furnish to the 
Association for its review and comment a report on the progress 
achieved in carrying out the Program, in such detail as the Association 
shall reasonably request; and 
 
(c) 
without limitation upon the provisions of paragraphs (a) and (b) of this 
Section, the Recipient shall promptly inform the Association of any 
situation that would have the effect of materially reversing the objectives 
of the Program or any action taken under the Program including any 
action specified in Section I of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE IV 
—
REMEDIES OF THE ASSOCIATION 
 
4.01. 
The Additional Event of Suspension consists of the following, namely, that a 
situation has arisen which shall make it improbable that the Program, or a 
significant part of it, will be carried out. 
 
4.02. 
The Additional Event of Acceleration consists of the following, namely, that the 
event specified in Section 4.01 of this Agreement occurs and is continuing for a 
period of sixty (60) days after notice of the event has been given by the 
Association to the Recipient. 
 
ARTICLE V 
—
EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION
 
5.01. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this 
Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE VI — REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
 
6.01. The 
Recipient
’s Representative is its Minister of Finance. 
Page  4
3
6.02. The 
Recipient
’s Address is: 
 
Ministry of Finance 
Government Building 2 
United Nations’ Street 5/1 
Ulaanbaatar, 210646 
 
Facsimile: 
976-11-262272 
 
6.03. 
The Association’s Address is: 
 
International Development Association 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
 Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
INDEVAS 
 248423(MCI) 
 1-202-477-6391 
Washington, D.C. 
  
 
AGREED at Ulaanbaatar, Mongolia, as of the day and year first above 
written. 
 
MONGOLIA  
 
By 
/s/ S. Bayarsogt 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION  
 
By 
/s/ Arshad Sayed 
 
Authorized Representative 
Page  5
4
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Program Actions; Availability of Financing Proceeds 
 
Section I. 
Actions Taken under the Program
1. 
The Recipient has excluded in its Revised Budget 2009, thirty (30) projects that 
do not have feasibility studies and that were originally budgeted for Fiscal Year 
2009, in order to improve its capital budget planning and screening process. 
 
2. 
The Recipient has protected the level of capital expenditures for maintenance of 
basic infrastructure in the transport, education and health sectors, as evidenced 
by: (i) the increase in the ratio of capital repairs to new investments from 2.5% 
(in its Original Budget for Fiscal Year 2009) to 3.4% (in its Revised Budget 
2009); and (ii) the allocation of Tugrig 12.4 billion therefor. 
 
3. 
The Recipient, through MSWL, has prepared a time-bound action plan for 
refining the roster of beneficiaries of the Child Money Program, in order to 
reduce the program’s coverage and improve its targeting on the poor. 
 
4. 
The Bank of Mongolia has prepared an action plan for the 
restructuring/resolving of the Bank currently under the conservatorship, on the 
basis of the Bank’s portfolio diagnostic and audit carried out by an 
internationally reputable auditor.   
 
5. 
The Bank of Mongolia has issued Resolution No. 513, dated November 24, 
2008, and Resolution No. 286, dated May 20, 2009, requiring that all banks 
report on a daily and/or weekly basis on key indicators regarding their liquidity 
and asset quality.  
 
6. 
The Bank of Mongolia has established a crisis management and systemic risk 
monitoring task force with adequate functions and powers, qualified staff and 
sufficient resources to carry out its mandate.  
 
7. 
The Recipient, through MMRE, has developed and adopted a model investment 
agreement for the mining sector, clarifying Mongolia’s mining policy, including 
taxation and the state’s capital participation in new ventures, and incorporating 
responsible mining practices consistent with the Equator Principles. 
 
8. 
The Recipient has transferred sufficient resources to the Mongolia EITI 
Secretariat in order to finance an independent validation of the Recipient’s 
national EITI Program, scheduled to be completed by March 31, 2010. 
Page  6
5
Section II. 
Availability of Financing Proceeds
A. General. 
 
The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Financing in 
accordance with the provisions of this Section and such additional instructions as 
the Association may specify by notice to the Recipient. Notwithstanding the 
foregoing, no withdrawal shall be made unless the Association is satisfied, as of 
the date of the request for such withdrawal: (i
)
with the Recipient’s progress in 
carrying out the Program; and (ii) that the Recipient’s macroeconomic policy 
framework is appropriate. 
 
B. 
Allocation of Financing Amounts.
 
The Financing shall be withdrawn in a 
single tranche.  The allocation of the amounts of the Financing to this end is set 
out in the table below: 
 
Allocations 
Amount of the Financing Allocated 
(expressed in SDR) 
 
Single Tranche 
26,900,000 
TOTAL AMOUNT 
26,900,000 
C. Deposits 
of 
Financing 
Amounts.
 
Except as the Association may otherwise 
agree:   
 
1. 
the withdrawal from the Financing Account shall be deposited by the 
Association into an account designated by the Recipient and acceptable 
to the Association; and 
 
2.  
the Recipient shall ensure that upon the deposit of the amount of the 
Financing into this account, an equivalent amount in local currency is 
credited in the Recipient’s budget management system, in a manner 
acceptable to the Association. 
 
D. Excluded 
Expenditures
.
The Recipient undertakes that the proceeds of the 
Financing shall not be used to finance Excluded Expenditures.  If the Association 
determines at any time that an amount of the Financing was used to make a 
payment for an Excluded Expenditure, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice 
from the Association, refund an amount equal to the amount of such payment to 
the Association Amounts refunded to the Association upon such request shall be 
cancelled.
 
E. 
Closing Date.  
The Closing Date is October 30, 2009. 
Page  7
6
SCHEDULE 2
 
Repayment Schedule 
Date Payment Due 
Principal Amount of the Credit 
repayable 
(expressed as a percentage)* 
On each January 15 and July 15: 
 
commencing July 15, 2019 to and including 
January 15, 2029 
1% 
commencing July 15, 2029 to and including 
January 15, 2049 
2% 
*
The percentages represent the percentage of the principal amount of the Credit to be 
repaid, except as the Association may otherwise specify pursuant to Section 3.03(b) of 
the General Conditions. 
Page  8
7
APPENDIX 
 
Section I. Definitions 
 
1. 
“Bank,” as used in Section I, paragraph 4, of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, 
means the commercial financial institution established and operating under the 
laws of the Recipient, and placed under the conservatorship of the Bank of 
Mongolia pursuant to the Law of Mongolia on Central Bank, dated 3 September 
1996, as amended, and the Bank of Mongolia Governor’s Order No.523 dated 10 
December 2008. 
 
2. 
“Bank of Mongolia” means the Recipient’s central bank, established pursuant to 
the Law of Mongolia on Central Bank, dated 3 September 1996. 
 
3. 
“Child Money Program” means the cash benefit to be distributed in size, as stated 
in provision 10 of the 2007 Annual Budget Law, based on Section 6.1.3 of the 
Law on Mongolia Development Fund of 6 February 2007, and in accordance 
with Sections 3.1.1, 4.1, and 8.1 of the Law on Benefit to Mothers, Children and 
Families, of 5 May 2006.  
 
4. 
“EITI Program” means the Recipient’s program adopted pursuant to Resolution 
of Government of Mongolia, dated 28 March 2007,  on the Approval of the 
functions of Governmental bodies participating in the implementation of the 
Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative, aimed at strengthening governance 
by improving transparency and accountability in the extractive sector through the 
publication of payments by private companies and the disclosure of 
government’s receipts of oil, gas, and mining. 
 
5. 
“Equator Principles” means the set of principles and financial industry 
benchmarks for determining, assessing and managing social and environmental 
risks in project financing developed by private financial institutions in June 2003 
and revised in July 2006, and modeled after the environmental standards adopted 
by the Association, and social policies promoted by the International Financial 
Corporation.  
 
6. 
“Excluded Expenditure” means any expenditure: 
 
(a) 
for goods or services supplied under a contract which any national or 
international financing institution or agency other than the Association or 
the Bank has financed or agreed to finance, or which the Association or 
the Bank has financed or agreed to finance under another credit, grant or 
loan; 
 
(b) 
for goods included in the following groups or sub-groups of the Standard 
International Trade Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev.3), published 
Page  9
8
by the United Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev.3 
(1986) (the SITC), or any successor groups or subgroups under future 
revisions to the SITC, as designated by the Association by notice to the 
Recipient: 
Page  10
9
Group
Sub-group Description 
of 
Item 
112  
Alcoholic 
beverages 
121  
Tobacco, 
un-
manufactured, tobacco 
refuse 
122  
Tobacco, 
manufactured 
(whether or not containing 
tobacco substitutes) 
525 
 
Radioactive and associated 
materials 
667 
 
Pearls, precious and 
semiprecious stones, 
unworked or worked 
718  
718.7 
 
Nuclear reactors, and parts 
thereof; fuel elements 
(cartridges), non-
irradiated, for nuclear 
reactors 
728 
728.43  
Tobacco processing 
machinery 
897  
897.3 
Jewelry of gold, silver or 
platinum group metals 
(except watches and watch 
cases) and goldsmiths’ or 
silversmiths’ wares 
(including set gems) 
971  
 
Gold, non-monetary 
(excluding gold ores and 
concentrates) 
(c) 
for goods intended for a military or paramilitary purpose or for luxury 
consumption; 
 
(d) 
for environmentally hazardous goods, the manufacture, use or import of 
which is prohibited under the laws of the Recipient or international 
agreements to which the Recipient is a party; 
 
(e) 
on account of any payment prohibited by a decision of the United 
Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the 
United Nations; and 
 
(f) 
with respect to which the Association determines that corrupt, fraudulent, 
collusive or coercive practices were engaged in by representatives of the 
Page  11
10 
 
Recipient or other recipient of the Financing proceeds, without the 
Recipient (or other such recipient) having taken timely and appropriate 
action satisfactory to the Association to address such practices when they 
occur. 
 
7. 
“Fiscal Year” means a fiscal year of the Recipient which commenced on January 
1
st
 and closes on December 31
st
 of each year.  
 
8. 
“General Conditions” means the “International Development Association 
General Conditions for Credits and Grants”, dated July 1, 2005 (as amended 
through October 15, 2006) with the modifications set forth in Section II of this 
Appendix. 
 
9. 
“MMRE” means the Recipient’s Ministry of Mineral Resources and Energy.  
 
10. 
“Mongolia EITI Secretariat” means the secretariat appointed pursuant to 
Resolution No. 25, dated 27 March 2007. 
 
11. 
“MSWL” means the Recipient’s Ministry of Social Welfare and Labor. 
 
12. 
“Program” means the program of actions, objectives and policies designed to 
promote growth and achieve sustainable reductions in poverty and set forth or 
referred to in the letter dated 20 May,  2009 from the Recipient to the Association 
declaring the Recipient’s commitment to the execution of the Program, and 
requesting assistance from the Association in support of the Program during its 
execution. 
 
13. 
“Single Tranche” means the amount of the Financing allocated to the category 
entitled “Single Tranche” in the table set forth in Part B of Section II of Schedule 
1
to this Agreement. 
 
14. 
“Tugrig” means the currency of the Recipient.  
 
Section II.  Modifications to the General Conditions 
 
The modifications to the “International Development Association General Conditions for 
Credits and Grants”, dated July 1, 2005 (as amended through October 15, 2006) are as 
follows:   
1. 
The last sentence of paragraph (a) of Section 2.03 (relating to Applications for 
Withdrawal) is deleted in its entirety. 
2. 
Sections 2.04 (
Designated Accounts)
 and 2.05 (
Eligible Expenditures
)
are deleted 
in their entirety, and the remaining Sections in Article II are renumbered 
accordingly. 
Page  12
11 
 
3. 
Section 2.05 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 2 above) is modified to 
read as follows: 
 
“Section 2.05.
 Refinancing Preparation Advance 
 
If the Financing Agreement provides for the repayment out of 
the proceeds of
 
the Financing of an advance made by the
 
Association or 
the Bank (“Preparation Advance”), the Association shall, on behalf of the 
Recipient, withdraw from the Financing Account on or after the 
Effective Date the amount required to repay the withdrawn and 
outstanding balance of the advance as at the date of such withdrawal 
from the Financing Account and to pay all accrued and unpaid charges, if 
any, on the advance as at such date.  The Association shall pay the 
amount so withdrawn to itself or the Bank, as the case may be, and shall 
cancel the remaining unwithdrawn amount of the advance.” 
4. 
Sections 4.01 (
Project Execution Generally
), and 4.09 (
Financial Management; 
Financial Statements; Audits
)
are deleted in their entirety, and the remaining 
Sections in Article IV are renumbered accordingly. 
5. 
Paragraph (a) of Section 4.05 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 above 
and relating to 
Use of Goods, Works and Services
)
is deleted in its entirety. 
 
6. 
Paragraph (c) of Section 4.06 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 
above) is modified to read as follows: 
 
“Section 4.06. 
Plans; Documents; Records 
 
…
(c) 
The Recipient shall retain all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing expenditures 
under the Financing until two years after the Closing Date. The Recipient 
shall enable the Association’s representatives to examine such records.” 
 
7. 
Section 4.07 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 above) is modified to 
read as follows: 
 
“Section 4.07. 
Program Monitoring and Evaluation 
 
…
(c)  
The Recipient shall prepare, or cause to be prepared, and 
furnish to the Association not later than six months after the Closing 
Date, a report of such scope and in such detail as the Association shall 
reasonably request, on the execution of the Program, the performance by 
the Recipient and the Association of their respective obligations under 
Page  13
12 
 
the Legal Agreements and the accomplishment of the purposes of the 
Financing.
”
8. 
The following terms and definitions set forth in the Appendix are modified or 
deleted as follows, and the following new terms and definitions are added in 
alphabetical order to the Appendix as follows, with the terms being renumbered 
accordingly: 
 
(a) 
The definition of the term “Eligible Expenditure” is modified to read as 
follows:   
 
“‘Eligible Expenditure’ means any use to which the Financing is put in 
support of the Program, other than to finance expenditures excluded 
pursuant to the Financing Agreement.” 
 
(b) 
The term “Financial Statements” and its definition as set forth in the 
Appendix are deleted in their entirety. 
 
(c) 
The term “Project” is modified to read “Program” and its definition is 
modified to read as follows:  
 
“‘Program’ means the program referred to in the Financing Agreement in 
support of which the Financing is made.”  All references to “Project” 
throughout these General Conditions are deemed to be references to 
“Program”. 
 
(d) 
The term “Program Preparation Advance” (renamed as such pursuant to 
subparagraph 8(c) above) is modified to read “Preparation Advance” and 
its definition is modified to read as follows:  
 
“‘Preparation Advance’ means the advance referred to in the Financing 
Agreement and repayable in accordance with Section 2.05.” 
 
