                   PROGRAM INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID)
                              APPRAISAL STAGE
                                                           Report No.: AB4784
 Operation Name         Mongolia-Development Policy Credit
 Region                 EAST ASIA AND PACIFIC
 Sector                 Mining and other extractive (25%);Banking (25%);Central
                        government administration (25%);Other social services (25%)
 Project ID             P115737
 Borrower(s)            MONGOLIA
 Implementing Agency    INISTRY OF FINANCE
 Date PID Prepared      May 12, 2009
 Date of Appraisal      May 14, 2009
 Authorization
 Date of Board Approval July 9, 2009

1. Country and Sector Background. The global downturn has hit Mongolia hard. This
   downturn has been most immediately felt through the collapse of mineral prices, in particular
   that of copper. Given Mongolia’s reliance on copper revenues in the budget (more than one-
   third of the budget relies on mineral revenues), the fiscal shock has been very large (from a
   2.9 percent of GDP surplus in 2007 to a 5.0 percent of GDP deficit in 2008). Export proceeds
   are expected to fall by one third (about US$800 million) this year. Inflation, fueled by
   domestic consumption (driven by large increases in wages and salaries and untargeted social
   transfers) and loose monetary policies, peaked at 34 percent in August 2008—the highest in
   the region. Economic growth is projected to slow down sharply—it would fall from 8.9
   percent in 2008 to a projected 2.7 percent in 2009.

2. Operation Objectives. This Development Policy Credit (DPC) is designed to support
   government efforts to: (i) improve the management of mining revenues, improve capital
   budget planning and protect the maintenance of basic infrastructure; (ii) protect the poor
   during the downturn by retargeting existing social policies to the poor; (iii) strengthen
   confidence in the financial sector; and (iv) clarify the mining policy framework. The
   proposed operation is processed under the IDA Financial Crisis Response Fast-Track Facility
   to help the government meet urgent financing needs.

3. Rationale for Bank Involvement. Managing the downturn is now the over-riding
   government priority. The size of the adjustments needed is such that multilateral and bilateral
   help for balance of payments support and budget support is urgently needed.

4. Financing. The World Bank’s proposed Development Policy Credit is a single-tranche
   operation of US$40 million. The proposed instrument is a single tranche operation, because
   of the existing uncertainties and risks, and the absence of a coherent and detailed medium-
   term policy framework. However, because of the magnitude of the shock, it is clear that the
   adjustment effort will take place over the next several years, and the government has started
   to outline a medium-term agenda.
5. Institutional and Implementation Arrangements. The Ministry of Finance will be the
   main implementing agency. Existing Bank TA projects are being restructured to improve its
   economic monitoring system in order to be able to obtain more timely feedback on policy
   performance. In parallel to the DPC, the Bank is processing a project to strengthen the
   statistical capacity of the government. The project will prioritize strengthening the statistical
   capacity to assess developments in the key areas relevant to the crisis.

6. Benefits and Risks. The policy actions to be supported by this operation are sharply targeted
   to the key crisis areas (the budget, social protection, and the financial sector) and the sector
   which can lead the recovery (the mining sector). The support of Mongolia’s multilateral and
   bilateral development partners comes at a critical time and can have high impact. This joint
   support will assist Mongolia to manage the current downturn and set the stage for economic
   recovery, allowing the country to continue on the path taken since 1990. The risks emanating
   from the external environment are significant, while domestically, populism could undermine
   the adjustment efforts and cause social instability. However, the actions so far taken by the
   current coalition government and approved by both parties in Parliament have demonstrated
   a clear bi-partisan resolve to correct past mistakes and set the stage for improved economic
   and fiscal policies. This DPC has as its objective to support this resolve.

7. Poverty and Social Impacts and Environment Aspects. Recently released poverty
   numbers are worrisome and justify the proposed DPC’s explicit focus on protecting the most
   vulnerable, in addition to managing the downturn. The latest poverty profile of Mongolia
   that was published by the government shows that even during the recent years of high
   economic growth, poverty was not reduced substantially. The poverty headcount declined
   little to 35.5 percent in the 2007/08 survey, down from 36.1 percent in the 2002/03 survey,
   with large regional differences between the Ulaanbaatar and the rural populations (NSO,
   2009).

8. The budget support provided under the DPC assists the government in absorbing the revenue
   shock and having to reduce public expenditures less than would have been the case without
   it. This could in principle mitigate the poverty impact of the current crisis. In addition, the
   specific policy reforms supported by the DPC could also have a pro-poor impact on the poor,
   if well-implemented. These reforms include the formulation of plan to start targeting certain
   social transfer programs. The possible impact on the poor of the reforms in capital
   investment planning, restoring confidence in the banking sector, and clarifying mining
   policies, while promoting socially and environmentally responsible mining practices, will
   either be positive or neutral, based on the current evidence.

9. Environmental Aspects. The proposed DPC is not anticipated to have negative impacts on
   the environment. Out of the four focus areas (fiscal reforms, social protection, banking and
   mining), the mining sector is most directly confronted the challenge of sustainable
   environmental management is the mining sector. Consequently, the policy action on mining
   to be endorsed by the DPC explicitly supports the introduction of environmentally and
   socially responsible mining practices following the Equator principles. And a Mining Sector
   Technical Assistance Project (running parallel to the DPC over the period 2009-2013)
   contains specific project components supporting the development of improved environmental
   regulations governing the mining sector.

10. Contact point
Contact: Rogier J. E. van den Brink
Title: Lead Economist
Tel: (202) 458-5928
Fax: (202) 614-5928
Email: Rvandenbrink@worldbank.org

11. For more information contact:
       The InfoShop
       The World Bank
       1818 H Street, NW
       Washington, D.C. 20433
       Telephone: (202) 458-4500
       Fax: (202) 522-1500
       Email: pic@worldbank.org
       Web: http://www.worldbank.org/infoshop
