Page  1
PROGRAM INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
CONCEPT STAGE 
Report No.:  AB4670 
Operation Name 
MONGOLIA - DPL 
Region 
EAST ASIA AND PACIFIC 
Sector 
Mining and other extractive (25%);Banking (25%);Central 
government administration (25%);Other social services (25%) 
Project ID 
P115737 
Borrower(s) 
MONGOLIA 
Implementing Agency 
INISTRY OF FINANCE 
Date PID Prepared 
April 2, 2009 
Estimated Date of 
Appraisal Authorization 
May 13, 2009 
Estimated Date of Board 
Approval 
July 8, 2009 
1.  Key development issues and rationale for Bank involvement 
 
This Development Policy Credit (DPC) is designed to assist the government to manage the current 
downturn, triggered by the collapse of the price of copper, by supporting reforms in the policy areas 
most affected: (i) the budget, which is dependent on mining revenues; (ii) social protection, because the 
poor are affected by the downturn; (iii) the financial sector, which was overheating when the global 
crisis hit, and experienced a major bank failure in late 2008; and (iv) mining, because this sector will be 
the key sector to drive the recovery. 
 
The government has recently undertaken strong policy actions demonstrating its commitment to taking 
the appropriate measures to keep the fiscal deficit below 6 percent of GDP by responsibly cutting non-
priority investments, while protecting the poor; restoring confidence in the local currency; resolutely 
taking action on a failed bank; and clarifying a number of key mining policies.  
The government’s 
program is being supported by an 18-month Stand-By Agreement with the IMF, as well as the Bank 
(this operation), the Asian Development Bank and Japan. 
 
2. Proposed objective(s) 
 
This Development Policy Credit (DPC) is designed to support government efforts to: (i) improve the 
management of mining revenues, improve capital budget planning and protect the maintenance of basic 
infrastructure; (ii) protect the poor during the downturn by retargeting existing social policies to the 
poor; (iii) strengthen confidence in the financial sector; and (iv) clarify the mining policy framework. 
 
3. Preliminary description 
 
The expected results of the government policy actions to be supported by the proposed DPC are to: 
(i)  Improve capital budget planning and execution and protect maintenance of basic infrastructure 
by: 
•
Substantially reducing the number of projects without feasibility studies;  
•
ensuring public investment outturns close to the planned levels; and 
Page  2
•
safeguarding the maintenance of key infrastructure during the downturn. 
(ii) Protect the poor during the downturn by retargeting social policies to the poor through 
•
Consolidating existing social protection programs and targeting “poor households” . 
(iii) Strengthen confidence in the financial sector by: 
•
Restructuring the failed bank; and 
•
Dealing quickly and decisively with any future bank failures.  
(iv)  Clarify the mining policy framework by: 
•
utilizing draft Standard Mining Agreements for new projects; and 
•
ensuring responsible mining practices through enhanced regulatory capacity. 
 
4. Environment Aspects 
 
The proposed DPC is not anticipated to have negative impacts on the environment. On the contrary, the 
prior action on mining to be supported by the DPC explicitly support the introduction of 
environmentally and socially responsible mining practices. 
 
5. Tentative financing 
Source: ($m.) 
BORROWER/RECIPIENT 0 
International Development Association (IDA) 
40 
 Total 
40 
 
6. Contact point 
Contact: Rogier J. E. van den Brink 
Title: Lead Economist 
Tel: (202) 458-5928 
Fax: (202) 533 1557 
Email: Rvandenbrink@worldbank.org
 
