Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFRCIAL USE ONLY
MICROFICHE  Copy                                              Repot No. 10209
Report NOb io. I.O2 E  Type: (PCR)
ALEGM-, )   / X31.755 / T9059/ OFDD'
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
MEXICO
AGRICULTURAL MARKETING PROJECT
(LOAN 2262-ME)
DECEMBER 30, 1991
Agriculture Operations Division
Country Department II
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Currency Equivalents
Currency Unit  N         Mexican peso (Mex$)
US$1.00            D     Mex$100 at appraisal (March  1983)
US$1.00            -     Mex$670               (July   1986)
US$1.00            -     Mex$2,520             (August 1989)
US$1.00            -     Mex$2,970             (April  1991)
Abbreviations
CONASUPO  -    National Marketing Corporation for Basic Foods
(Compaiiia Nacional de Subsistencias Populares)
DICONA    -    Trust Fund for Credit in Irrigated and Rainfed Areas
(Fideicomisos Instituidos en Relaci6n con la Agricultura y Riego)
FIDEC     -    Trust Fund for Marketing Development
(Fideicomisos Instituidos para el Desarrollo Comercial)
FIRA      -    Agricultural Trust Funds of the Bank of Mexico
(Fideicomisos Instituidos en Relaci6n con la Agricultura)
FONEP     -    Trust Fund for Preinvestment Studies
(Fideicomiso para Fondo de Pre-Inmersi6n)
GIRA      -    General Interest Rate Agreement
NAFINSA   -    National Finance Company (Nacional Financiera, S.N.C.)
SARH      -    Secretariat of Agriculture and Water Resources
(Secretaria de Agricultura y Recursos Hidradlicos)
SECOFI    -    Secretariat of Commerce and Industrial Development
(Secretaria de Comercio y Fomento Industrial)
SNIM      -    National Marketing Information Service
(Servicio Nacional de Informaci6n de Mercados)
SHCP      -    Secretaria de Hacienda y Credito Publico
Fiscal Year of Borrower
January 1 to December 31
Weights and Measures
Metric System



FOR OFFCIAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington D.C 20.433
U.S A.
Ofice of( DOfecgtc e!ral
Operatitus Evaluation
December 30, 1991
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT: Project Completion Report on MEXICO
Agricultural Marketing Prolect (Ln.2262-ME)
Attached, for information, is a copy of a report entitled
"Project Completion Report on Mexico: Agricultural Marketing Project
(Loan 2262-ME)" prepared by the Latin America and the Caribbean
Regional Office.  No audit of this project has been made by the
Operations Evaluation Department at this time.
Attachment
This document has a restricted distribution and may be utsed by recipients only in the perforrnance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
MEXICO
AGRICULTURAL, MARKETING PROJECT
(LOAN 2262-ME)
Table of Contents
Page No.
Preface           .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .  .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .  i
Evaluation Summary  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    iii
PART I    PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
1.  Project Identity  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .             1
2.  Project Background  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .              1
3.  Project Objectives and Description  . . . . . . . . . .             3
4.  Project Design and Organization . . . . . . . . . . . .             3
5.  Project Implementation  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .             5
6.  Project Results . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .             9
7.  Project Sustainability           ... . .11
8.  Bank Performance  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .            12
9.  Performance of the Main Executing Agency  . . . . . . .            13
10.  Project Relationships           ... . .13
11.  Consulting Services  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .            13
12.  Project Documentation and Data . . . . . . . . . . . .            14
13.  Lessons Learned  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .            14
PART II   PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
1.  Introduction  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .            16
2.  FIDEC's Performance . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .            16
3.  FIRA and FICART's Performance . . . . . . . . . . . . .            17
4.  Modernization of Food Marketing Sector  . . . . . . . .            18
5.  Benefits of the World Bank Loan . . . . . . . . . . . .            19
6.  Lessons Learned . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .            20
PART III  STATISTICAL  INFORMATION
1.  Related Bank Loans/Credits  . . . . .  . . . . . . . .             23
2.  Project Timetable.. .             .  .  .  .  . .  .    . . .      24
3a  Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbursemernts . . . . .           25
3b  Disbursement by Main Executing Agencies . . . . . . . .            26
4   Project Costs .                     . . . . . . . . . . . .        27
5   Project Financing . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .            29
6   Allocation of Loan Proceeds . . . . . . . . . . . . . .            30
7   Status of Covenants . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .            31
8   Staff Inputs by Stage of Pro4ect Cycle  . . . . . . . .            32
9   Physical Results Achieved by FIDEC's Subproject . . . .            33
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



PasRe No.
APPENDIX  1  Studies Undertaken for FIDEC  . . . . . . . . . .  . .    35
2  Illustrative Investment Plans (Tables 1-6)  . . . . . .    37
3  Borrower Approval Letter of January 9, 1991 . . . . . .    43
MAP IBRD 16508



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
MEXICO
AGRICULTURAL MARKETING PROJECT
(LOAN 2262-ME)
PREFACE
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the first Agricultural
Marketing Project for which Loan 2262-ME in the amount of US$115 million was
approved in April 1983. The closing date of the loan originally scheduled for
June of 1987, was extended three times. The loan closed on December 31, 1989,
and all loan funds were disbursed as of October 1989. The Bank and FIDEC signed
a new agreement, Loan 3141-ME on January 23, 1990 which finances the Second
Agricultural Marketing Project and is being implemented satisfactorily.
The PCR was prepared by a mission of the FAO/World Bank Cooperative
Program (Preface, Evaluation Summary, Parts I and III).   The Borrower had
prepared an extensive Completion Report, a summary of which is contained as Part
II of the report. This summary was approved by the Borrower by its letter of
January 9, 1991.



^ iii -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
MEXICO
AGRICULTURAL MARRETING PROJECT
(LOAN 2262-ME)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Objectives
1.        The project's objectives were in line with the Government's overall
marketing development strategy at the time of appraisal in 1982 to: (a) expand
and modernize marketing systems for perishables at the producer, wholesale and
retail levels through the adoption of modern technology and improved marketing
practices;  (b) reduce post-harvest losses and marketing costs;  (c) develop low-
cost perishable food distribution systems for low-3ncome groups; (d) rationalize
production and improve product quality; and (e) improve support services and
institutional capabilities.
2.        The major part of the project consiated in credit lines for marketing
investments. Marketing investments to be supported included, at the producer
level, modernization and construction of assembling and collection centers,
packing plants, storage and refrigeration facil'ties, and purchase of machinery,
equipment and transport. At the wholesale and retail levels, funds were made
available far the mcdernization and construction of warehouses and for upgrading
or purchasing of equipment, storage and refrigeration facilities, transport,
modernization of small retail stores as well as the construction of retail
centers and the purchase of shops/stands within these centers.
3.        The credit lines were to be administered through the banking system by
existing Fideicomisos (trust funds). The main executing agency, FIDEC, was a
newly established institution; the other two executing agencies, FICART ard, in
particular, FIRA, already had extensive experience in administering credit for
on-farm development.
4.        The project also was to support the establishment of a National Market
Information system (SNIM), training programs for project staff, and special
studies and technical services. The Second Agricultural Marketing Project has
continued the support for SNIM's activities with Loan 3141-ME.   This second
operation has built on the experience gained with Loan 2262-ME and has been
particularly effective in instituting a relationship of its own with commercial
banks.



- iv -
BackAround
5.        This loan was implemented at a time when Mexico was undergoing a severe
economic crisis. The government was embarking on a program of radical macro-
economic adjustments which included opening up the economy to foreign trade,
removal of price controls in agricultural markets and the withdrawal from direct
production and distribution of food products. With the opening of the Mexican
economy to foreign trade, the need for better and more efficient distribution
systems became specially important.
Project Performance
6.        Of particular relevance to the project was the high variability of
inflation and real interest rates which discouraged long-term investment even as
interest rates remained negative for a while.  In 1986/87, for example, inflation
soared to 150% while the cost of funds to the banks was around 105%. Real rates
were highly variable in 1985-1986, became consistently positive from 1988 onwards
and remained high in 1989 at aLtut 10% to 15%. The impact of a relatively small
credit program directed to the promotion and modernization of the food
distribution system is difficult to assess under this changing scenario. The
main achievement of the project was to establish an organization capable of
intermediating effectively long term funds to investments in food distribution
systems, a sector until then relatively unfamiliar to banks.  The ability to
involve commercial banks in financial schemes for small retailers became evident
in recent years when an increasing proportion of FIDEC's portfolio was placed in
loans to small retailers. The project also contributed to the improvement of
com ercial project evaluation by banks and to the development of regional
commercialization systems which compete effectively with established national
firms.  These achievements were possible after FIDEC went through a learning
period to establish its administrative processes, particularly to set up proper
information and disbursement systems.
7.        FIDEC had problems reaching originally planned disbursement targets due
principally to administrative inexperience, to the limited scope of its
promotional efforts and funds relative to well established trust funds and to
repeated changes  in targeted bEu2aficiaries.   After a slow start, FIDEC's
disbursement rate picked up a more sustained trend and accelerated in the latter
years of the project. Disbursements varied considerably among the participating
intermediaries.   FICART,  (a trust fund directed exclusively towards small
farmers) showed the most irregular disbursement pattern. In three of the six
project years FICART made no disbursements at all under the loan. FIRA, a trust
fund directed in general towards assisting commercial farms, effected
disbursements which declined sharply in 1985 and 1986 due to the availability of
cheaper funds through alternative lines of credit, though from 1987 disbursements
increased considerably.
8.        The  project  had  to  undergo  substantial  modifications  during
implementation reflecting the need to adopt more flexible and wide ranging
operating conditions and to adjust to the change in demand taking place after the
appraisal. An important consequence was that original goals of reaching directly



-v-
mostly small scale vendors and producers could not be attained.   This was
evidenced in the failure to reach the targeted amount of subloans for this group
which totalled some US$15 million, i.e. less than 40% of the original target,
while subloans to wholesalers and retailers amply exceeded the original target.
Another example, were short-term loans for working capital which were nct
originally planned under the project, but were introduced in 1985 in response to
demand and finally accounted for some US$15 million.
9.        Coordination of the overall project was less than satisfactory due to
differences in credit policies, scope, target populations and focus of the
participating intermediaries, FIDEC, FICART and FIRA.
10.       There are serious information gaps on the subloans financed,  and
particularly for FICART no records were available. However, information on the
subloans financed by FIDEC suggests that rates of return on investments
undertaken by beneficiaries were, in general, very high due partly to the fact
that many projects consisted of add-ons to existing infrastructure and adoption
of new improved technology. Participating banks report that arrears on project
subloans were not more than 3X-4%.
Sustainability
11.       Both FIDEC and SNIM were significantly strengthened under the project.
FIDEC after a slow atart and in spite of certain weaknesses, mainly poor
monitoring and evaluation systems, has established itself as an administratively
competent and viable institution. It is now wellknown to the banking system and
to large wholesalers, as well as to retailers in some regions. Similarly, SNIM
has been established as an efficient market information system and the structures
for more comprehensive support to the target group are in place. FIDEC is in a
position now, that it will be able to handle oerations on a larger scale than
during the past.
Findings and Lessons Learned
12.       Modernization of the food distribution sector in Mexico is a complex
task to achieve solely through the action of a relatively small rediscount
window. Deregulation and privatization of the entities in the sector currently
underway and supported with the AGSAL II operation is likely to have a major
impact in bringing it up to more advanced standards.
13.       A major shortcoming of the project was lack of subloan information
systems, which would have been useful for FIDEC in evaluating its programs and
in steering  in new directions.   A special unit  for loan monitoring was
established only in 1990.
14.       Many of the difficulties encountered during the project were inevitable
because of continuous changes in the food distribution sector in Mexico, i.e.
changes in the regulatory framework governing transport, progress towards free
trade, privatization of the government parastatals involved in food marketing and



- vi -
reforms in the financial sector. FIDEC had to remain very flexible in defining
its strategy and goals to be able to pace itself with these changing conditions.
15.       With hindsight, lessons learned can be summarized as follows:
(a) Project execution should have been entrusted to a single agency,
in this case, FIDEC, in order to minimi. 9 problems of inter-
institutional coordination;
(b) Consistency of interest rates across different and often
competing government funds is important.
(c) Data gathering and ex-post evaluation capacity within FIDEC
should have been significantly enhanced and a proper project
monitoring unit should have been in place before effectiveness.
(d)  The objectives of FIDEC should have been understood earlier in a
broader fashion to include modernization of all stages of the
marketing chain, not direct assistance to farmers. According to
this broader concept, schemes which induced commercial banks to
operate with small retailers or individuals which had not been
considered creditworthy constituted an effort to moderrize the
sector.
(e) Unless the government has in mind a very large increase in
personnel and promotional budget, FIDEC has to leverage its
activities by making maximum use of the banking system to reach
its target population rather than aim for direct contact with
final beneficiaries. It should also develop a support system for
servicing enquiries at the various commercial bank branches
throughout the country.
(f) In order to achieve a more effective application of resources
without burdening the line of credit with excessively complex and
restrictive regulations, investment activities should have been
prioritized on a regional bas's and funds directed on a
preferential basis towards areas or states (Guerrero and Oaxaca,
for example) where food supply problems are particularly severe.
(g) More resources should be dedicated to the training and
remuneration of well qualified personnel within FIDEC.



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
MEXICO
AGRlCULTURAL MARKETING PROJECT
(LOAN 2262-ME)
PART I:  PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
1. Proiect Identity
Project Name:  Agricultural Marketing Project
(Agricultural Marketing Project for Perishables was the name when
presented to the Board; "Perishables" was dropped from the name
later when the project was allowe.' Lo finance the marketing of a
broader category of food products)
Loan Number:   2262-ME
RVP Unit:      Latin America and the Caribbean
Country:       Mexico
Sector:        Agriculture
Subsector:     Marketing
2. Proiect Background
1.01      The justification for intervention in the perishable food marketing
system in Mexico was underpinned by the following considerations:
(a)       Mexico's population, estimated at about 70 million in 1980, had been
growing at about 3% p.a. for three decades. This rapid increase in
population had been accompanied by even more rapid urbanization. The
urban population was estimated in 1980 at over 60% of the total, a
figure that was expected to reach 75% by the year 2000. Approximately
50% of the population was concentrated in the five or six largest
cities. Given that the urban population consumed in 1980 an estimated
75% of total national goods and services and that food production was
fragmented and very widely dispersed, the food distribution system was
exposed to increasingly severe pressure;
(b)       In spite of a modern sub-sector within the food marketing system, the
bulk of food marketing was handled by the traditional sector, using
technologies inappropriate for a mass urban market;
(C)       Firms in the food distribution sector generated about 12% of total
employment and the sector comprised about 6.2% of GDP.
(d)       Although state intervention at the time was intensive in the grain and
staples marketing sector (through the National Marketing Corporation
for Basic Foods, CONASUPO), the marketing of perishables was
exclusively in the hands of the private sector, which received
virtually no government support and which, in the large majority of



-2-
cases, enjoyed only limited access to credit from commercial banks.
In recent years, the markating of all foods including grains is being
gradually privatized along with a reduced role for CONASUPO, and other
state agencies involved in the sector.
(e)       Consumption of perishables  (in particular eggs, beef,  fruit and
vegetables) increased in the early 1980s at over 5% p.a., while
consumption of maize and beans increased by only 1Z-2% p.a.
Relatively high income elasticities of demand for perishables
indicated that modernization of the sector waa urgent, since as
incomes increased demand would outstrip the system's capacity to
deliver;
(f)       At the time of project formulation retail margins were considered
excessive in relation to value added. Producers received 25% to 30%
of the consumer price for fruits and vegetables, while the retail
margin accounted for 26Z to 40% of the consumer price; and
(g)       Product handling and storage 103ses were thought to be unacceptably
high, since some 90% of fruit and vegetables were sold as fresh
produce, and assembly, storage, packaging and transportation
facilities were generally rudimentary.
1.02      Government Actions in Relation to Marketinz of Perishables.  In the
light of the above the Government took two main steps:
(a)       In 1979, a Presidential Commission,  the Project Development  and
Coordination Group (CPD), was set up to prepare a long-term market
development plan providing a framework for coordinated efforts by both
the public and private sectors. Substantial public sector investments
were to be made in a network of wholesale markets in major urban
centers, with private sector wholesalers having the opportunity to buy
or lease warehouse space;
(b)       In 1980, the Trust Fund for Marketing Development (FIDEC) was set up
under the Bank of Mexico to provide a line of credit through the
commercial banking system.  The goal was to supply finance for the
modernization of food marketing through private sector investments and
to provide technical assistance and training in support of such
investments.
Both these measures were also meant to promote modernization of the
sector with enhanced involvement of the private sector in food
marketing.
1.03      Bank ExDerience in Related Proiects.  This was the first agricultural
marketing project supported by the Bank in Mexico.   However, the Bank had
considerable experience in operating lines of credit for agricultural development
through the Trust Fund System.   The Trust Fund for Credit in Irrigated and
Rainfed Areas (FICART) and, in particular, the Agricultural Trust Funds of the



Bank of Mexico (FIRA) had long experience as recipients of Bank loans in the
operation of lines of credit for on-farm development.
3. Proiect Obiectives and Description
1.04      Project Obiectives.   The main objectives of the project were to
support: (a) expansion and modernization of perishable food marketing systems at
the producer, wholesale and retail levels, including adoption of modern
technology and improved marketing practices; (b) reduction of production losses
and marketing costs; (c) development of low-cost food distribution systems for
low income groups; (d) rationalization of production and improvement of product
quality; and (e) improvement of support services and institutional capabilities.
1.05      Proiect Description.  The project was primarily a credit program to
support private sector investment in perishable food marketing.
1.06      Producer-Level Investment. A credit line was established making funds
available for the improvement, modernization and construction of assembling
facilities, collection centers, packing plants, storage and refrigeration, etc.
as well as for the purchase of machinery, equipment and transport.
1.07      Wholesale and Retail-Level Investment.  Funds were made available for
the modernization and construction of warehouses and for upgrading and purchasing
equipment, storage and refrigeration facilities and transport. At the retail
level, modernization of small stores was to be funded, as well as the
construction of retail centers in strategic locations and the purchase of
shops/stands within these centers.   An important credit outlet was to be
voluntary chains and retailers buying groups.
1.08      Rational Market Information Service (SNIM).  Under the project this
service was to collect and disseminate daily information on prices of perishables
in the principal central wholesale markets.
1.09      Training and Extension.  Marketing training was to be provided under
the project to project staff (FIDEC, SNIM, etc.) and to staff of participating
banks.
1.10      Special Studies.  Funds were provided to enable special studies in
marketing, transportation and storage of perishables.
1.11      Technical Services.  Finally, funds were provided for some 100 man-
months of technical services to FIDEC and other participating institutions.
4. Proiect Design and Organization
1.12      Preparation of the project was carried out by the French Consultancy
Company SCET-AGRI in March 1982. The Bank appraisal took place in May/June 1982
and the appraisal report was completed in March 1983. The project was approved
by the Board in April of 1983.



1.13      The overall project concept was timely and appropriate but presented
special challenges of definition of the sector and of the activities within the
sector that were more deserving of financial support. This is evident in the
diversity of areas covered by the special studies later carried out by FIDEC such
as deregulation of transportation, design of master blueprints for building
special distribution centers, prospects for exports of specific crops and so on.
Project formulators did not have a well-tried methodology to draw upon and only
had a scant data base. Some of the deficiencies in design which emerged during
implementation can be ascribed to these facts.
1.14      Although the concept of supporting private sector investment in the
perishable food marketing sector was new for both the Bank and the country, the
procedural and organizational arrangements envisaged at design were well
established in the Mexican context. Nacional Financiera (NAFINSA), a government
financial agency designated as the borrower, maintained overall financial
supervision of the project.   Two of the three executing agencies, FIRA and
FICART, charged with disbursing loan funds to commercial producers and groups of
low income producers respectively, had extensive experience in channelling credit
to these target groups.- FIDEC, although a newly established institution, was
to be the main executing agency and was to rediscount subloans to wholesal rs and
retailers through commercial banks, according to similar procedures as employed
by FIRA for several years. Coordination between these three executing agencies
was to be effected by SECOFI, the Secretariat of Commerce and Industrial
Development.
1.15      At the appraisal stage, the main perceived project risks were in the
institutional support and coordination. FIDEC, founded in 1980, was a relatively
new institution while FIRA and FICART were not only well known in their
respective areas but were also much larger and had clear and well established
procedures.
1.16      Problems encountered during implementation are referred to in Section
5.  Many of these problems arose because of unforeseen changes at the macro-
economic level. Others however, can be seen retrospectively as being related to
shortcomings at the design stage. They can be summarized as follows:
(a)       An  excessive  number  of  subloan  categories.  There  were  three
(ultimately four) categories of subloans and beneficiaries under the
project, disbursable through three executing agencies for a total of
fourteen sub-categories and each sub-category qualifying for different
rates of interest. Greater simplicity of design in this respect would
have facilitated implementation for both potential beneficiaries and
participating banks;
FIRA and FICART are trust funds (Fideicomisos) set up under the Bank of Mexico to rediscount
lines of credit through commercial banks in the case of FIRA and through the Government Agricultural
Development Bank, BANRURAL, in the case of FICART.



- 5 -
(b)       the severe problems encountered in relation to interest rates on
subloans, referred to in Section 5, could have been anticipated if
more attention had been paid to the structure of interest rates
offered by the different development funds and the commercial banks;
(c)       the Project was originally entitled "Agricultural Marketing Project
for Perishables". The distinction made between perishable and non-
perishable foodstuffs, did not take account of the non-specialized
nature of much of the food marketing system in Mexico, particularly at
the low-income and retail levels, and was hence unduly restrictiv.
In response to this the project title was amended in July 1986 co
"Agricultural Marketing Project for Foodstuffs", and the target group
eligible for financing under the project was expanded;
(d)       it was envisaged that the project would assist FIDEC in (i) training
and technical assistance; (ii) planning and programming; and (iii) a
promotional program.   Further, the project would also strengthen
FIDEC's capabilities for gathering data on food supply and demand,
performing subsector analyses, and identifying subprojects, preparing
sound investment programs, and carrying out subproject technical and
financial analyses.   Few detailed proposals were made,  however,
outlining how these objectives might have been translated into
reality. While FIDEC's institutional capacity was strengthened during
the project, particularly in the areas of financial control and
analysis, its promotional program proved insufficient, and its ability
to perform subsectoral analysis or to provide technical as distinct
from financial support remains limited. In particular, project design
did not include explicit provision for monitoring and evaluation
activities.   This omission at the project design stage was not
remedied during implementation and lsd to a major shortcoming in the
project, namely the failure to generate and maintain an adequate data
base which would permit better follow up of the investments financed
and provide a basis for necessary adjustment of the program.
5. Prolect Implementation
1.17      Conceptualization of the project began in 1980 with the creation of
FIDEC. Appraisal took place in early 1983, the project was approved in April
1983 and the loan became effective in February 1984 (Part III, Table 2). Delays
between appraisal and erfectiveness were related to the difficulties in
completing interinstitutional arrangements between FICART, FIDEC and FIRA. The
project was originally scheduled to be implemented in about two and a half years,
closing in June of 1987.   The project implementation period was perhaps
optimistic and reflected the Bank's experience with other Mexican Trust Funds
with whom it has been operating for many year.   Due to the various and
significant adjustments to project design during the processing of this operation
and the effects that such adjustments had on loan commitments and disbursements,
the closing date was extended three times, the last extension being December
1989, although all loan funds were expected to have been disbursed by October
1989.



1.18      Planned and actual disbursements by year are shown in Part III, Table
3. It can be seen that the rate of actual disbursements was approximately 50Z
of that envisaged at appraisal, leading to a project of twice the planned
duration.
1.19      The specific reasons for the lag in disbursements are summarized below:
(a)       The project was implemented at a time when Mexico was undergoing a
severe  economic  crisis  and  when  far-reaching  macro-economic
adjustments were being adopted. The variable and high inflation rates
of 1986 through 1987 constituted a major diecouragement to private
investment.   The structure of interest rates was very distorted
particularly before 1985.   Government development funds competed
against each other with negative rates during most of the eighties.
Rates for FICART and FIRA were even lower than those prescribed under
the project. This explains the eventual lack of interest to promote
use of the resources provided by Loan 2262-ME after what appeared to
be a promising lead when the loan began to disburse.
(b)       Even though by 1983 FIDEC had been in operation for three years, it
came to being under adverse circumstances.  It was  llocated  small
budgetary appropriations by the Secretaria de Hacienda y Credito
Publico (SHCP), and its goal ar.d activities were not well understood.
Work undertaken for preparatirn and subsequent implementation of the
project prodded FIDEC to focus on defining further its long term
strategy and goals.
(c)       The importance of promotional efforts to familiarize institutions and
potential beneficiaries with a new credit facility were and possibly
still are, vastly underestimated.
(d)       The wide variety of participants in the food distribution industry and
marketing industry, i.e. commercial banks, food chains, transport
companies, farmers, builders, small retailers, etc., adds considerable
complexity to the efforts by FIDEC to define its information and
control systems.
(e)       The other operating agencies, FIRA and, in particular, FICART, had
erratic disbursement profiles. Project disbursements by FIRA, a trust
fund specializing in medium sized commercial farms, declined sharply
in the years 1985 to 1987, although they recovered significantly in
1988. In three of the six project years FICART made no disbursements
at all. The main reasons underlying the poor disbursement performance
of FIRA and FICART were:
(i)   availability of other sources of funds bearing lower interest
rates.   In particular, a credit line from the Bank and the
Inter-American Development Bank to finance agro-industry
investments, operated by FICART, overlapped with producer
marketing investments, and charged an interest-rate which in



1987 and 1988 was 10 to 15% below interest payable on subloans
under Loan 2262-ME. Efforts to rationalize interest rates in
the context of GIRA in 1985 only covered rates on Bank loans;
and
(ii)  since  principal  repayments  on  all  subloans  were  to  be
transferred to FIDEC exclusively as seed capital, there was
little incentive for FIRA and FICART to participate in the
project as enthusiastically as might have been desired. Both
FICART and FIRA preferred to relend the proceeds of repayments
on other funds.
(d)       As mentioned in para. 1.4.5 above, the categorization of types of
subloans and beneficiaries was excessively complicated. A result of
this was that participating banks were in some cases deterred from
participating.
1.20      Proiect Costs.  Estimated project costs at appraisal and actual costs
as of October 1989 are shown in Table 5. Total project costs were estimated at
appraisal at US$227 million. Actual costs are estimated at US$176.2 million.
The poor subloan recording systems maintained during the early years of the
project make figures inaccurate. Substantial amounts were committed under the
project, but information as to their final allocation according to cost category
will only be available as part of a data base which began to be compiled in 1989,
and then only some projects financed with proceeds of Loan ME-2262 will be
recorded there.  The data base covers subprojects from Loan 2262-ME and the
present Loan 3141-ME for FIDEC. The majority of subloans were medium-and long-
term principally in infrastructure (73%) and working capital loans (22%) for
retailers, wholesalers and producers.  The remaining 5% was allocated to the
financing of transport equipment.
1.21      Project costs were the best mission estimates, based on extrapolations
from loan disbursements since project cost categories as recorded during
implementation were not consistent with those established at appraisal. Although
NAFINSA maintained adequate records of expenditure and withdrawals of loan
proceeds, and FIDEC kept satisfactory financial accounts, prior to 1987, there
was no systematic attempt to record total project costs as distinct from
expenditures under the loan, and no attempt to distinguish between the local and
foreign cost composition of expenditure. This illustrates both the inadequacy
of the data systems supporting the project and the fact that, to a large extent,
the loan was seen by executing agencies to be the project, rather than an
instrument designed to support the project.
1.22      Proiect Financing.  As can be seen in Part III, Table 5, while it was
envisaged at appraisal that the contributions to total costs by the Government
and the banking system, beneficiaries and IBRD would be 30%, 19% and 51%
respectively, it is estimated at present that these contributions are 18%, 17%
and 65%.  In part as a reaction to competition from other development funds,
FIDEC decreased the minimum contribution of commercial banks to encourage their
participation.



1.23      During most of the implementation of the project, FIDEC financed
investments in higher and middle income states.  It began operations in the
Federal District and the north east. In 1986 it shifted its efforts to the
Central states.  FIDEC seemed to be poorly equipped to tap the poorer states
particularly with long term funds since banks are more reluctant to become
involved in lower income schemes.
1.24      Disbursement by Categories.  Part III, Table 6 (Allocation of Loan
Proceeds) shows original and revised allocations and disbursements by categories.
Alterations between planned and actual disbursements  in t-8s of types of
subloans are discussed in para. 1.6.1 below. Total disbursements under the line
of credit finally exceeded the original target (US$110 million as against US$95.2
million).
1.25      National Market Information System (SNIM).  SNIM was only established
in 1984 and was not able to make use of the Bank loan until mid-1985.
Insufficient counterpart funds constrained the operations of SNIM both by
limiting access to proceeds of the Bank loan and by making it difficult to retain
competent staff at the salary levels permitted by the Government.
1.26      Nevertheless, impressive steps were made towards establishment of a
comprehensive food market information system. Before 1984 food price information
was collected sporadically by the Ministry of Commerce and the Agricultural
Economics Division of the Ministry of Agriculture, with no systematic attempt to
disseminate information among interested parties. Now daily prices are collected
from 9 wholesale markets in Mexico City and 8 other major cities on 45 fruits and
vegetables (about 90Z of the total by volume) and transmitted to the press, radio
stations and a variety of producer groups.   Meat price reporting has been
established in Mexico City and is about to be extended nationally. Fish price
reporting has been started in Mexico City on a pilot basis. The operation is
equipped with modern data processing and transmiseion equipment through loan
proceeds. Staff training both within Mexico and in the U.S.A. has been provided
by USDA Market News Service, again under Bank funding. It is now planned to
strengthen SNIM's capacity to provide in-depth, historical and ad hoc market
analysis. Major operational difficulties remain: (a) the rapid staff turnover
referred to above; and (b) the absence of official commodity grading systems.
1.27      Training.   Training activities have not been staged as part of an
overall training program or directed to build up expertise in very technical
fields related to marketing such as packaging, refrigerated transportation,
regulatory framework, etc.).   The main thrust of training has been in the
direction of project evaluation and FIDEC has today staff capable of assessing
recurrent technical issues in project evaluations and have developed their own
project appraisal methodology.
1.28      Apart from the training of SNIM personnel, the main training activities
undertaken under the project have taken place within and by FIDEC. Training
activities began in 1986 when some 20 FIDEC staff were taught to diploma level
(8/9 months part-time) in project evaluation.  This training was coordinated
under a contract with the Technical Institute of the University of Mexico. Four



- 9 -
other staff took diplomas in finance in 1987. Two staff members are pursuing
master's courses in information technology. Four staff members participated in
short courses overseas (for example in post-harvest technology at the University
of California, Davis). Training activities by FIOEC have been constrained by
lack of personnel (two staff members) and its turnover.  Several FIDEC staff
moved to better-paid jobs in the private sector. These activities have only
taken place since 1986 and have, in general, been limited to updating meetings
with staff of participating banks and occasional seminars for traders held under
the auspices of regional chambers of commerce.   In spite of the limitations
described above, FIDEC has managed to groip a staff which is considered to have
the best knowledge of issues affecting the marketing and food industry in Mexico.
1.29      Studies.    Between 1980 and 1988 some 23 studies were undertaken on
FIDEC's behalf.   They cover a very wide variety of subjects which reflects
FIDEC's own difficultlis in defining the influence area of their activities.
Studies proposed under the present Loan 3141-ME illustrate a more successful
effort in linking in-house research to medium term goals.
6. Prolect Results
Modification of Proiect Objectives
1.30      The project was signed in September of 1983 but began evidencing
problems as early as April 1984. Increased uncertainty as to the course of the
economy and recession influenced FIDEC to broaden the eligibility of subloan
categories and undertake a more agressive promotion of its funds.   In 1985
FIDEC's management decided to include non perishables in response to the demand
for integrated product distribution facilities. Part III, Table 6 (Allocation
of Loan Proceeds) shows how cost allocations were modified during implementation.
Working capital loans were included which were not originally envisaged in the
project as a means to incorporate smaller retailers and distributors. In spite
of the authorization to grant short term loans, subloans for producers only
totalled some US$15 million, less than 40% of the origlnal target. On the other
hand, subloans to wholesalers and retailers amply exceeded the original target.
Short-term loans for working capital accounted for some US$15 million.
1.31      These modifications were made in response to perceived changes in the
nature of the demand for credit for the sector. FIDEC found that it needed to
offer a comprehensive package of long and short term finance in order to get the
commercial bank's involvement in the scheme. The need for working capital has
surfaced again with the on-going operation of Loan 3141-ME where amendments are
being made to increase the allocations for working capital from 20% to 34.61.
Working capital was found to be even more important in the case of small
retailers whose balance sheet structure shows a predominance of short term
finance. Voluntary chains were not as successful as anticipated at the outset
of the project.  Difficulties in training and homogenizing operating systems
among low income retailers discouraged investors from these kind of projects.
1.32      Failure to incorporate a higher proportion of food producers  is
attributable to the availability of cheaper alternative finance with other trust



- 10 -
funds (FICART and FIRA) which specialize in producers and have vast promotional
resources. It now seems that expectations for FIDEC to compete with these other
trust funds in the small and medium producer segments was unrealistic, given
FIDEC's relatively small resource base and its wider scope of eligible
activities.
1.33      Finan_ial Results. All indications suggest that investments undertaken
by beneficiaries, were, in general, highly profitable; participating banks report
that arrears on project subloans were not more than 3 to 4%.  Cash flow
projections for major marketing investments have been recalculated at 1981-88
prices for comparison with cash flow projections and financial analysis prepared
at project appraisal. Details are given in Part III, Appendix 2, and are
summarized here:
Financial Results of Maior Marketing Investments
Estimated        Estimated Financial
Financial Rate of       Rate of Return
Return at Appraisal      on Completion
Item                               (1988 prices)        (1988-89 prices)
-z-------  --------------
Complementary refrigerated
storage for fruits and vegetables           18                      54
Apple collection and cold
storage center                              44                      67
Producers' distribution center               32                     108
Renovation of a 1,000 m 2
wholesale warehouse                         15                      56
Construction of 2,000 M2
wholesale warehouse                         20                      45
Construction of a 220 m2
self-service store                          31                      53
Source: FIDEC
In all cases the FRR as recalculated is considerably higher than at appraisal.
Even allowing for a substantial margin of error, it is clear that these marketing
investments were very profitable, especially when they were expansions on
existing infrastructure. Although these rates do not fully represent FIDEC's
portfolio they indicate that the subprojects were on average quite profitable.



- 11 -
1.34      Impact.  The project's impact is best seen in later years when much of
the initial effort in setting up the systems and processes paid off and FIDEC had
established itself among the banks as a specialized institution in the financing
of food marketing.  There has been no ex-post evaluation of subloans made by
FIDEC. This effort will be undertaken under the present administration before
the end of the year and will include all subloans made during 1989 and 1990
financed both under Loan 2262-ME and the present operation Loan 3141-ME.
1.35      With FIDEC providing under 1% of all credit to the marketing sector
during the first three years of its implementation (1983-87), to define the
project's impact by its contribution to funds in the sector is hardly an
appropriate benchmark.   It is clear, however, that in the economic climate
prevailing during the initial project years, medium and long-term lending was
severely constrained by lack of liquidity of the banking system, and that
resources made available under the project, although relatively small in relation
to the banking sector as a whole, contributed to easing somewhat these
constraints.
1.36      Despite delays and project extensions, all loan funds were ultimately
disbursed on eligible investments. The main criticism of this project is the
underestimation of the time and resources needed to establish FIDEC as it is
today: a specialized financial institution for food marketing with such a wide
range of target beneficiaries and a sector that cuts across many areas of
economic activity. Even now FIDEC spends a fair amount of resources focusing on:
a) refining its strategy for promoting and implementing its program through the
banks, and b) designing a marketing and technical assistance program for final
beneficiaries.
1.37      A major shortcoming of the project was that no ex-post evaluation of
the subloans was made.  Until 1987, loan administration data was carried out
manually and only this year was a data base considered a priority.
1.38      Not much information is available on the socio-economic characteristics
of beneficiaries particularly those financed in the early stages of the project.
In the case of FICART specifically no information whatsoever was available on the
subloans. Because FICART has a relatively well defined clientele in rural areas
the lack of information on the subloans is not as serious as it could be
otherwise, but it illustrates the coordination problems and the lack of
monitoring mechanisms in the first few years of the project.
7. Prolect Sustainability
1.39      Both FIDEC and SNIM were significantly strengthened under the project
and their role is being consolidated with the ongoing project financed under Loan
3141-ME. In particular FIDEC has managed to set itself up as a competent and
financially viable institution, capable of assisting banks in the development of
initiatives to reach riskier segments such as small traders.   FIDEC is also
attempting to enter new areas such as financing the conversion of municipal
markets to privately run entities. FIDEC is now well known to the banking system
and to large wholesalers, as well as to retailers in some regions. In the food



- 12 -
retail sector in general, consisting of an estimated 350,000 outlets, FIDEC is
still not well known. However, given its size and the existence of other larger
well established government funds such as FIRA, it could make more sense for
FIDEC to concentrate on limited segments of the marketing chain, for example
small retailers and traders or municipal markets.
1.40      Similarly, SNIM has been established as an efficient market information
service and has already set up the structures for a more comprehensive operation.
Both dissemination and efficient exploitation of market data by users need
significant improvement. It will inevitably take years for significant numbers
of  clients  to  learn  to use  such  data  effectively.    SNIM  is  presently
contemplating selling some of its services to the banks and is preparing a tariff
system. The Government has decided to maintain both FIDEC and SNIM during a
systematic effort to streamline its development banking and trust fund system
supported under the Bank's 1989 Financial Sector Adjustment Loan.
8. Bank Performance
1.41      Defieiencies in project design were the result of: a) scant familiarity
of the Bank with the food distribution sector in Mexico, b) the underestimation
of the effects of a distorted interest rate structure on the pattern of demand
for and utilization of project funds and c) underestimation of the complexities
of coordinating three different agencies with different sets of incentives and
strategies. The project was frequently in a situation where it was competing
with cheaper government funds available to two of its own participating agencies,
FIRA and FICART, in the case of small farmers, and with NAFINSA in other areas.
The Bank's interest in including producers in this project was the main reason
for bringing FIRA and FICART into the scheme. In retrospect, it appears that
producers, the first link in the marketing chain, could have been better assisted
by FIRA and that it might have been preferable to allow FIDEC to consolidate its
operations and concentrate in a few but well defined promotional strategies. As
stated in the Staff Appraisal Report, FIDEC had the responsibility "to review and
coordinate the overall strategy for lending at the producer level".  It was
unrealistic to expect a new and small agency to oversee the lending strategy of
other larger and well established government agencies.
1.42      The food distribution in Mexico has been changing rapidly over the past
few years with the onset of deregulation, privatization of a number of
parastarals involved in food distribution and storage. In addition, FIDEC's main
delivery channels, the banking system, has staged profound reforms towards
greater liberalization, particularly in interest rate management.  All these
changes forced FIDEC to adjust its course frequently.  Early Bank supervision
missions often found themselves questioning FIDEC's deviation of stated
objectives and were sometimes perceived as insensitive to the changing nature of
the environment that FIDEC had to operate in. In addition, the Bank's bias for
favoring the earlier stages of the marketing process, namely producers, often was
at odds with FIDEC's broader view of small retail sector and other types of
investments.



- 13 -
1.43      Bank supervision was perhaps overly concerned with interest rate issues
due to the disbursement delays and did not pay sufficient attention to
institutional matters such as the interagency coordination and the lack of
information on aubloans.
1.44      With hindsight, lessons learned can be summarized as follows:
(a)       project execution should have been entrusted to a single agency,
FIDEC, in order to minimize problems of inter-institutional
coordination;
(b)       Rates of interest should have been consistent throughout the sector
and across government development funds; even after the GIRA was put
in place there were a number of rediscount lines that were priced
below the corresponding GIRA rates for that category; and
(c)       FIDEC should not have been expected to be an additional source of
finance for small and medium sized producers.
9. Performance of the Main Executing Agency
1.45      FIDEC's management lacked dynamism and resources, particularly in the
early years, and the institution failed to project itself at the national level
with the expected impact. Also, secondary executing agencies (FICART and FIRA),
and in particular, FICART, failed to participata fully in the project with the
required vigor.
1.46      Traditionally,  in Mexico  as  elsewhere,  agricultural  development
activity has been producer-oriented. It fell on project management not just to
affirm but to convince sponsoring entities as well as some areas of government
that investments in marketing would benefit producers and consumers as well as
direct beneficiaries. This, so far, has not been achieved.
10. Proiect Relationships
1.47      By and large, relationships between Bank staff and the executing
agencies (FIDEC, FIRA and FICART) were satisfactory. Similarly there was good
cooperation between the Bank and the U.S. Department of Agriculture Market News
Service, which provided technical assistance in setting up SNIM, was good. There
was regular exchange of information, participation in joint missions and
discussion of main issues.
11. Consulting Services
1.48      Technical Assistance. The short-term consultants appointed under this
component generally performed satisfactorily. Greater prioritization of the
fields with higher potential impact, i.e., small retailers vs. storage
facilities, medium sized chains, etc. would have resulted in a more compact
program for technical assistance.



- 14 -
1.49      Special Studies.  The material produced by these studies was generally
of good quality and relevant to the project's implementation (see Part III,
Appendix I).
12. Proiect Documentation and Data
1.50      There have been no major problems  in complying with the  legal
agreements for project implementation. Several modifications were agreed between
the borrower and the Bank. The Staff Appraisal Report and the Project Agreement
generally provided an adequate framework for project implementation. The
supervision reports and other relevant project documents available at the Bank
were at times short on information for preparation of the PCR.
1.51      A major issue of this project was the lack of data with which to
perform an ex post evaluation. Monitoring and evaluation systems should have
receixved more attention from the outset. There is little data on the nature of
the investments and even on simple aspects such as the number of loans approved
and disbursed by category, in the supervision reports nor in the files of the
executing agency.
13. Lessons Learned
1.52      The complexity and changing nature of food marketing subsystems in
Mexico should have been better understood before establishing the objectives of
the project financed with Loan ME-2262. These objectives were overly ambitious
for a relatively small and new entity.   The variety of players and issues
affecting the food marketing sector should have been a strategic consideration
and supported the decision to consolidate FIDEC as an intermediation channel with
sound information and control systems. Later stages of the project could have
expanded into more policy oriented directions. This was eventually accomplished
and carried on in the next Loan 3141-ME. With this loan FIDEC has cemented good
relations with the banks and has combined efforts with them to reach new
geographic and business areas such as the financing of privatization of municipal
markets.
1.53      Modernization in food marketing should be understood in a broader sense
as a process whereby participants learn new skills and techniques for delivering
their services. To assume that the process can be supported solely with directed
credit for long term investments was a narrow view of the manner in which the
service sector operates. According to this broader notion, the objective of
modernization could be attained by inducing commercial banks to accept small
retailers and transport agents which heretofore had utilized only the informal
sector for their financial needs. In this manner, working capital should have
been from the outset an acceptable part of the financing package if it made it
more likely for banks to open their lending to these riskier clients.
1.54      The  interest  rate  structure  should have  been consistent  across
government agencies. Mexico's financial sector is being liberalized and only
government development funds maintain lending at lower than market rates.



- 15 -
However, even today there is competition between NAFINSA and FIDEC on interest
rates for the same type of project and beneficiaries.
1.55      It takes a certain amount of time and experience for a second tier
organization to be acknowledged in the banking community as a player in its
chosen specialty and to reach a scale of operations from which it can have any
perceivable impact on the sector.  It seems unrealistic now to have expected
FIDEC's actions to have an effect for example on the retail margins of foodstuffs
in Mexico when even today it finances just 1% of total credit for this sector.



- 16 -
PART II: PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
1. Introduction
2.01      In 1983 FIDEC, FIRA, FICART and SNIM received a World Bank loan of
US$115 million, Loan 2262-ME, for modernization of marketing of perishable
products at the production, processing, wholesale an4 retail levels. The purpose
of this report is to analyze the implementation of the project, evaluate the
executing agencies' performance, particularly FIDEC, and draw the lessons learned
through this operation.
2. FIDEC's Performance
2.02      FIDEC has used the World Bank loan resources satisfactorily and is now
a recognized healthy financial institution with the necessary experience and
capacity to lend to domestic business successfully. Early on, FIDEC experienced
difficult situations, some of which could even have jeopardized its existence:
(a) it failed to comply with the original loan disbursement schedule; (b) it
modified the target business group (producers, small merchants, voluntary chains
and purchase groups) and the types of goods it originally intended to support;
(c) it did not achieve the expected coverage; and (d) its technical assistance
services still fall short of the needs of banks and businesses. The fact that
FIDEC has succeeded in disbursing Loan 2262-ME fully and reasonably is a tribute
to the dynamism of its managemeat, but other problems still remain to be dealt
with.
2.03      FIDEC came into being under extremely adverse conditions which made it
difficult for the institution to properly comply with the Loan Agreement
initially.   Lack of knowledge of the sector and skepticism concerning the
functions of marketing on the part of national authorities and the World Bank
left FIDEC with very small negotiating power to set flexible and wide-ranging
operating conditions to manage large volumes of financial resources. Conditions
of this agreement were too constraining su1ch as restrictive operating rules,
complex interest rate structure, and incomplete definition of FIDEC's target
group.   In addition to these problems, macroeconomic instability restricted
demand for credit and changed its composition.   FIDEC knew the market was
changing, but did not have the adequate sectoral knowledge to adapt its
operations accordingly. Moreover, because of the adverse economic situation, it
was difficult for FIDEC to recruit staff with marketing training and experience.
These external factors were aggravated by FIDEC's conservative management style.
FIDEC did not look for more flexible loan utilication conditions, limited its
promotion work, and held back on training programs. In just a few years, what
should have been a step-by-step learning process to establish FIDEC solidly in
the financial and marketing sectors became a struggle for survival--a struggle
for which FIDEC was ill-equipped.
2.04      Nevertheless, FIDEC stayed in business, adjusted to market demand,
grew, and moderated its aspirations to mold a specific domestic commercial
structure. FIDEC developed because it emphasized the modernization of commerce



- 17 -
in general rather than specific support for producers and small traders. This
is understandable because there are actually few producers that can be turned
into efficient marketers and conditions do not appear to exist yet for the
integration of small traders into the modern system. When it took over in 1985,
FIDEC's new management played an important role in adjusting to market demand--a
demand marked by a relatively higher proportion of working capital, larger
projects (wholesale markets and commercial centers), a greater proportion of
self-service shops, and greater attention to the northern part of the country.
FIDEC also expanded project coverage from perishables to food products in
general, modified the operating rules, and publicized FIDEC's activities. Yet,
while adapting to demand conditions FIDEC did not abandon the idea of supporting
the expansion of basic goods and services and ensured that the benefits of the
loan were not concentrated on high-income consumers.
2.05      More recently, FIDEC's new management that took over in 1989, has
sustained a dynamic disbursement rate, but also began to emphasize FIDEC's
technical side. The concern for greater technical strength is evident in three
areas: (a) greater precision and clarity concerning FIDEC's goals and how to
achieve them, contained in the idea of commercial schemes; (b) clearer and more
flexible operating rules; (c) implementation of more ambitious operational
mechanisms (commercial credit cards, guarantees program, etc.), and (d)
decentralization based on clear institutional rules and mechanisms. The stated
focus of FIDEC's operations is that growth should be more qualitative than
quantitative, but the actual implementation of the measures proposed by the new
management remains to be seen.
3. FIRA and FICART's Performance
2.06      FIRA and FICART disbursed a smaller proportion of the loan than
expected.  FIRA disbursed US$18.9 million while FICART only disbursed US$3.8
million. The original purpose of having FIRA and FICART participate was to make
their experience and financing circuits available to FIDEC. Moreover, they were
involved with farmers and the project was being introduced in areas within their
competence. However, their participation created certain difficulties. Because
FIDEC was specifically empowered to operate at the producer level, functions
tended to overlap when farmers received marketing financing. This is because
FIRA and FICART's area of competence is defined in terms of the credit subject,
i.e., the producer, while FIDEC's field of action is defined in terms of the
function to be supported, i.e., marketing, regardless of who performs it. This
has caused agencies to compete instead of complementing each other. In addition,
the fact that FIDEC was just starting up whereas FIRA and FICART already had a
long experience put FIDEC at a further operational disadvantage.
2.07      The  overlap  created between FIDEC  and  FIRA and  FICART  is not
surprising. Although the latter two funds were included to speed up disbursement
of the loan and provide assistance to FIDEC in view of their greater financial-
market experience, the agreement did not include any incentives for their
collaboration. FIRA and FICART possessed resources they could lend at below the
project interest rates, and gave p iority to the use of these resources rather
than those available under Loan 2262-ME    They actually perceived FIDEC as



- 18 -
encroaching on their market to the detriment of their own loan placement, and
there was no incentive for them to systematically transmit their experience to
FIDEC and enhance its impact. Since all the trust funds were operating in the
context of a contraci lng economy, competition tended to prevail over cooperation.
4. Modernization of Food Marketing Sector
2.08      Mexico's food marketing sector has greatly modernized during the period
of the World Bank Loan.   FIDEC has certainly contributed to that progress,
although the extent of its contribution could not be precisely measured. The
major benefits of modernization, helped by the FIDEC financing, may be summarized
as follows:
(a)       There have been five times more projects of commercial centers and
self-service stores as retail and wholesale markets.   FIDEC has
promoted modernization through action directed at the modern sector
rather than through conversion of the traditional sector. This has
meant promoting more direct marketing and the results in terms of
reduced margins indicate that benefits have accrued to consumers and
producers. However, these benefits have to be weighed in light of the
type of consumers that have benefitted most. Although the supermarket
continues to be the favorite choice of medium- and high-income
consumers, this does not necessarily mean that the benefits have been
captured mainly by the well-off. Use of supermarkets by low-income
consumers has been slowly increasing, with the result that they have
captured some of the benefit of FIDEC financing. FIDEC's continued
policy has been to support establishments where food products
represent a larger proportion of the business. These are not the ones
preferred by the high-income  groups,  since food accounts  for a
relatively small proportion of their expenditure and these groups
prefer shops that offer a wider variety of goods. In fact, those who
have benefitted the most are the medium-income groups who have had a
wider choice of products, more competitive prices, and an easier
access to purchase outlets. No adequate statistics or case-by-case
monitoring records exist, but these results were visible in the
projects that were visited.
(b)       The impact of FIDEC projects on wholesalers and producers is important
because the scope of these operations is regional. Despite the start-
up problems encountered by wholesale markets, these facilities are
beginning to provide more competition in their zone of influence and
are gradually beginning to increase their market penetration. This
impact will soon be enhanced by the important role that SNIM is
playing in making transactions more transparent.
(c)       Since the projects showed a higher than expected average rate of
return, and that interest rates charged were positive, it follows that
FIDEC contributed to the implementation of projects that were
financially successful. From that point of view, good use has been
made of the loan. Although it may not necessarily have produced a



-19 -
different result, appraisal of social benefits should have been
undertaken because it would have taken distributive aspects into
consideration. Also, if the financing had been more decentralized,
its economic impact would have been enhanced.
(d)       During FIDEC's peak disbursement period, real borrowing interest rates
in the financial sector were of the order of 10%.  The investment
projects had to obtain a higher rate than that with funds that were
difficult to obtain because of the macroeconomic constraints.  The
projects examined generated rates of return higher than the reference
rate.   It can therefore be stated that net earnings accrued in a
period when other investments were encountering difficulties.
5. Benefits of the World Bank Loan
2.09      The foregoing arguments provide only limited justification for the
loan. The specific projects undoubtedly benefitted consumers and producers and
the marketing changes testify to greater modernity and efficiency in the
commercial sector. However, changes are not always directly attributable to
FIDEC.  Actually,  the strongest benefit of the loan has been the experience
gained in successful financing of projects with a significant economic and social
impact.
2.10      The loan made it possible to:
(a)       identify  the  possibilities  for  promoting  modernization  of  the
traditional business sector through integration with wholesalers;
(b)       determine the structure of credit demand in the faster-growing and
more modern sectors;
(c)       learn the limitations  in getting producers to market  their own
products;
(d)       form the necessary minimum physical and human resource base to
publicize the financing possibilities and attract, appraise and
process applications with financial success; FIDEC has built up a
sound capital base and its staff have been exposed to a significant
learning process in relation to operational questions;
(e)       develop the necessary basic skills to determine the economic impact of
projects with potential for financial success;
(f)       identify  the most  common  and  important  problems  that  arise  in
implementing marketing projects;
(g)       identify the sector's major technical assistance needs;



- 20 -
(h)       establish a basic network for disseminating financial information and
exchange experience on successful projects with a view to improving
the commercial sector;
(i)       develop the necessary infrastructure and institutional capacity to
program the promotion of future changes in the business sector.
2.11      FIDEC is a unique institution in its category.  The experience it has
accumulated can serve not only as an important tool for improving itb future
performance, but also as an example to guide business development efforts in
other countries. The complexity of the business sector far outstrips the few
efforts that have been made to understand it. To-combine financial skill with
marketing knowledge and integrate it into balanced modernization of the sector
is a major undertaking.   FIDEC has made significant progress toward this
objective, and the problems it has faced are understandable difficulties rather
than insurmountable obstacles. The best results of this project are yet to come.
But without the efforts accomplished so far they would not have been conceivable.
6. Lessons Learned
2.12      The following are some of the lessons that emerge from FIDEC's
experience with the project:
(a)       Even though the ultimate objective is to improve the condition of
producers and medium-and low-income consumers, this should not as a
rule lead to farmers marketing their produce through direct contact
with consumers. Given proper support, the merchant, as a specialized
trading agent, can transmit the improvements in efficiency of
transactions to both groups. Insufficient account was taken of this
factor in the agreement with the World Bank, which shows a bias
against merchants on the part of the Bank and weakness on the part of
FIDEC in defending its own position.
(b)       To have a significant impact on marketing, FIDEC should continue to
finance the modern sector.   However, it must define the relative
importance of this strategy and that of modernizing the traditional
sector.   Because of the limited success  in the development  of
voluntary chains and the lack of clarity as to who are the
beneficiaries in large projects, FIDEC should increase its support to
modern intermediate-sized businesses.   Traditional business with a
better chance for modernization are independent grocery stores and
self-service shops. Perhaps FIDEC could act as loan guarantor. More
importantly, FIDEC should provide technical assistance and publicize
the opportunities that it offers. This would mean: (i) streamlining
the procedures for intermediate-sized establishments, defined in terms
not only of sale area but also of predominance of basic foodstuffs in
their product lines, and (ii) taking greater care in defining markets
and appraising large-scale projects, particularly those that involve,
directly or indirectly,  non-food products.   These measures would
strengthen FIDEC's operations, disseminate the benefits more widely,



- 21 -
stimulate business modernization, and help resolve the problem of
duality in the sector (i.e coexistence of modern and traditional
marketing agents) on the basis of businesses located on the borderline
between the modern and traditional sectors.
(c)       FIDEC's operating rules need to be made more adaptable to macro
economic changes that are difficult to foresee. FIDEC's operations
committee and the first-tier banks need to have wider loan-approval
powers. The regional delegations should expand their loan appraisal
and approval responsibilities in close collaboration with first-tier
banks.    This  would  make  FIDEC's  operations  more  flexible  by
stimulating the first-tier banks to devote more staff to the
commercial sector. Automatic credit lines to first-tier banks should
be expanded.
(d)       FIDEC needs to create incentives to attract personnel trained on the
job and to retain experienced staff who receive additional training.
FIDEC has made an enormous investment in its staff, principally
through on-the-job training and experience. There is, however, the
risk that this investment may be lost because of lack of staff
mobility and incentives. The incentives for FIDEC personnel have been
cut sharply because the Bank of Mexico, as part of its efforts to
improve public sector finances, has pursued severe salary containment
policies. There are few incentives for extra effort as the allowance
system is tied more to length of service than to other factors. Not
only has this aggravated FIDEC's staff recruitment problem, but FIDEC
faces the threat of losing some of its staff skilled in dealing with
the commercial sector.   This danger applies particularly to the
regional delegations and to highly trained staff. There is also the
need to strengthen the technical needs of FIDEC staff.  Individual
abilities and skills that are available do not always match FIDEC's
requirements. To support projects that stress the social impact, the
anticipation of changes in the domestic commercial sector and the
design of policies tailored to them, and provide intensive and large-
scale technical assistance to commercial banks and borrowers, FIDEC
will need a larger effort on the part of its staff. It is therefore
important that incentive policies be reviewed and additional training
provided.
(e)       Given the degree of specialization of its operations, FIDEC will need
to contract consultants from time to time.   However, FIDEC should
better program its support needs.   It should be more careful in
selecting consultants and preparing terms of reference.   This is
especially important given the limited availability of good
consultants as confirmed by FIDEC's experience.
(f)       FIDEC  needs  to  strengthen  its  ability  to  identify  potentially
modernizable markets whose benefits can be widely disseminated. It
should also perform a social appraisal of the corresponding projects.
FIDEC has demonstratei that financing of the business sector can



- 22 -
generate benefits to producers and consumers in general, but has not
been able to pinpoint the types of consumers or producers that benefit
most. It is possible that in a number of cases FIDEC has channeled
resources to businesses that had ready access to other sources and to
consumers who were not those most in need of marketing alternatives.
(g)       FIDEC needs to broaden its support to wholesalers and producers.  For
producers it needs to define a field of action that does not overlap
with the activities of other funds such as FIRA and FICART.  FIDEC
could play a significant role in the financing of storage and
transportation equipment of producers who bring their products to
purchasing   centers,  wholesalers   and   retailers.        Concerning
wholesalers, greater attention should be devoted to market studies and
legal aspects to ensure faster implementation of subprojects.
(h)       In the interest of greater market penetration and for reasons of
equity, financing of the commercial sector should not be restricted to
perishables. Basic food products in general should be eligible for
support. This would broaden the reach of FIDEC's financing and extend
its benefits to more low-income consumers.
(i)       FIDEC is a financially successful organization which has adapted its
objectives to changing market conditions.   Subprojects have been
financially successful, and many of them have also had a significant
social impact. Yet, on balance, there was not enough focus on the
social impact of subprojects.



- 23 -
PART III: STATISTICAL INFORMATION
Table 1: Related Bank Loans/Credits
Loan No.                   Purpose                    Status                   Comments
Project Title
Loan 2454-HE                A continuation of the   Completed                   Loan fully disbursed
Agricultural Credit FIRA  credit program managed  Closing Date 9/88              by 12/85.
VIII                        by FIRA consisting of
short-, medium- and
long-term subloans for
development of crops,
livestock and agro-
industry.
Loan 2610-ME                A credit program for    Completed
Agricultural Credit         low-income farmers to   Closing Date 3/87
FICART                      raise agricultural
productivity with a
view to increasing
food production and
real firm income.
Loan 2837-HE                As above                  Effective 8/87             Includes provision
Agricultural Credit                                   Expected completion:       for agro-industry
FIRA/FICART                                           Summer 1989.               investment by
producers.



- 24 -
Table 2: Proiect Timetable
Date           Date            Date
Item                            Planned          Revised         Actual
Preparation                           -               -            8/81
Appraisal Mission               5/6/82                 -         5/6/82
Loan/Negotiations                11/82                 -           2/83
Board Approval                    4/83                -            4/83
Loan Signature                        -                -        9/25/83
Loan Effectiveness            12/27/86                -         2/14/84
Loan Closing                    6/87          6/88;6/89;12/89     12/89



- 25 -
Table 3a: Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbarsements
(US$ million)
FY                         1984    1985    1986    1987    1988    Oct.89
Appraisal estimate                13.5    51.0    99.0   115.0         -      -
Actual                             7.7    22.9    42.5    58.3    84.0    115
Actual as Z of estimate            57       45       43      51        -      -
Date of final disbursement         3 November 1989



- 26 -
Table 3b: Disbursement by Main Executinz Agencies
(US$ million)
FY        1984    1985    1986    1987    1988    1989          1990      Total
FIDEC            3.2    11.0    17.3    13.1    19.9    12.5    13.4             90.4
FIRA             3.7      2.7      1.6      2.7      5.9      2.3      1.0       19.9
FICART           -         1.4     0.7      -        -        1.7      -          3.8
Front End Fee   0.9       -        -        -        -        -        -          0.9
Total        7.8    15.1    19.6    15.8    25.8    16.8    14.4             115



- 27 -
Table 4: Proiect Costs
(Appraisal Estimate)
Appraisal Estimate                              Local     Foreign      Total
--------- US$ million -
1. Productive Investment
Medium and long-term investment
(a)  Producer level                        56           30         86
(b)  Wholesale and retail level            69           37         106
Short-term subloans                          -           -           _
Subtotal                                   125          67         192
2.    Productive Support
National marketing information system    1.5           1.5         3.0
3.    Institutional SupRort
Planning and programming                   0.2         0.1         0.3
Promotion program                          0.3         0.1         0.4
Training and technical assistance          0.2         0.1         0.3
Subtotal                                  0.7          0.3         1.0
4.    SRecial Studies                            0.5          1.0        1.5
5.    Technical Services                         0.3         0.7         1.0
6.    Investment Cost (baseline)                 128        70.5       198.5
7.    Price Contingencies                       17.8         9.8        27.6
8.    Total Investment Cost                    145.8        80.3       226.1
9.    Front-end Fee                                -         0.9         0.9
10.   Total Financing Reauired                 145.8        81.2       227.0



- 28 -
Table 4: Proiect Costs and Financing (Cont'd)
Appraisal Estimate                                Local      Foreign    Total Lb
- US$ million -----
Actual Costs /a
1. Productive Investment
(a)  Producers (except low-income groups)                            25.4
(b) Wholesalers and retailers
(except for voluntary chains)                               115.4
(c) Groups of low-income producers and lc
voluntary chains                                              7.9
Short-term subloans (working capital) /d                             24.7
Subtotal                                                            173.4
2.    Productive Support   ) /e                                            1.2
3.    Institutional Support)
4.    Special Studies       ) /e                                           0.7
5.    Technical Services   )
6.
7. 
8.    Total Investment Cost                                              175.3
9.    Front-end Fee                                                        0.9
10.   Total Cost                                                         176.2
La    As of December 1990.
Lb    Since over 97 percent of project cost were in the form of subloans it is
not possible to estimate the proportion of local and foreign costs.
le    This category was not considered separately in the appraisal estimate of
project costs although it can be seen from Table 7 that it was originally
envisaged that loans to this group would total US$8.7 million.
/d    This category was introduced during implementation in response to high
demand.
Le    Categories 2, 3, 4 and 5 were treated jointly in project statements of
account.



- 29 -
Table 5: Proiect Financing
Source of Funds                    Planned       2      Revised   Actual La    x
(APR Report)
Government/Banking system             68        30        n.a.      31.6        18
Beneficiaries                         44        19        n.a.      29.6        17
IBERD                                115        51        n.a.    115.0        65
Total                             227       100        n.a.    176.2       100
La    At July 10, 1989.



- 30 -
Table 6: Allocation of Loan Proceeds (Disbursement by Category)
(US$ million)
Original    Revised    Revised    Actual
Allocation    3/85        11/88      10/89
1.  Subloans for Part A
of the Project,
except to groups of
low-income producers
(Producers)                         40         30          20         24.4
2.  Subloans for Part B
of the Project,
except for voluntary chains
(wholesalers and retailers)         50         35          51        68.1
3.  Subloans for groups of
low-income producers and
voluntary chains                   5.2         5.2        5.2          4.8
4.  Short-term subloans for
Parts A and B of the
Project (working capital)            -          25         19         14.8
5.  Equipment and materials for
Parts C,D,F and G of the
Project (National Market
Information System) FIDEC
institutional strengthening
(training and studies)               3           3          3          0.9
6.  Technical services for Parts
C,D,E,F, and G of the Project
(as above)                         2.3        2.3         2.3          1.1
7.  Front-end fee                      0.9         0.9        0.9          0.9
8.  Initial deposit in
special account                     10          10         10         n.a.
9.  Unallocated                        3.6         3.6        3.6         n.a.
10. Total                            115.0       115.0      115.0        115.7



- 31 -
Table 7: Status of Covenants
Guarantee    Agreement                    Description of Condition                Present Status
Financial        BXPA        4.01    BANXICO to present annual audit        In compliance.
Covenant                              report of FIDEC and F'RA.
BRPA        4.02    BANRURAL to present annual audit    In compliance.
report of FICART.
GA         3.05    Special Account to be audited          In compliance.
each fiscal year.
Special          LA /a       Sch 1   Interest rates on marketing            In compliance.
projects to comply with GIRA.
BXPA      2.06(a)   BANXICO at the request of Bank,        Semi-annual reports have
to exchange views with regard to    been sent but have not
progress of project.                  been fully satisfactory.
BRPA                BANRURAL, at the request of Bank,   Semi-annual reports have
to exchan8e views with regard to    been sent, but have not
progress of project.                  been fully satisfactory.
Notes  GA - Guarantee Agreement
LA * Loan Agreement
BXPA - BANXICO Project Agreement
BRPA - BANRURAL Project Agreement
/a     As amended by August 28, 1984 letter signed by Bank and Government.



- 32 -
Table 8: Staff Inputs by Stafte of Proiect Cycle
A. In staffweeks
Stage of                             Planned                   Final
Project Cycle                        HQs/Field                HQs/Field
Through appraisal                        n.a.                   90.3
Appraisal-Board Appraisal                n.a.                    3.7
Board Appraisal-Effectiveness            n.a.                    n.a.
Supervision                              n.a.                   31.0
B. Missions
No. of   Man/days  Specializations  Performance   Type of
Mission     Date    Persons  in Field   Represented /a    Rating    Problems/b
Supervision 10/83      1         10            a                1           -
4/83      1          7            b               2          FM
4/84      1          6            b               2          FM
8/84      1          4            b               2          FM
2/85      1         12            b               3           F
11/85      1          7            b               4           F
3/86      1          7            b               -           -
6/86      1         10            b               3           -
1/87     2         32            b+c              2           -
9/87      2         38           b+a              2           -
2/88      2         12           b+a              -           -
6/88      1          5            b               2           -
6/89      1          7            b               2           -
Total                        155
/a  a - Agriculturalist; b   Credit Expert; c - Financial Analyst
/b F - Financial; M - Management



- 33 -
Table 9: Some Physical Results Achieved by FIDEC's Subpro1ects
Item                         1984      1985     1986      1987    1988    Total
Transport units                   18        62       53       108       68       309
Commercial centers                 7        12       25        15       23        82
Retail markets                     0         2         4        3        2        11
Self-service stores                7         6        11       13       18       55
Shops                            103       513      656       636      438    2,346
Warehouses                         7       268      474       495      682    1,926
Cold stores                       10        13        15       24       21        83
Sales area (m2)               13,000   29,800   82,400   37,900  82,300  245,400
Storage area (m2)              7,500   14,700   68,920   16,702  70,774  178,596
Part-time jobs                   600    1,485    3,280    2,400   1,510    9,275
Full-time jobs                   500    1,350    3,040    3,031   2,306   10,227



- 35 -
APPENDIX I
Page 1 of 2
Studies Undertaken for FIDEC
SCET-AGRI FIDESA, 1982. Proyecto de Desarrollo de la Comercializacion de
Frutas, Hortalizas, Carne y Huevo.
7 tomos y Resumen.
Cook L., Roberto, 1984. The Mexican Dry Grocery Subsector:
Strategies Supporting the Establishment of Voluntary Food Chains
PLAMARTE, S.A. de C.V. Julio, 1986. Analisis Comparativo del Costo Estimado
de las Perdidas en el Transporte de Perecederos Respecto al Costo de
Cambios en la Tecnologia Utilizada en el Transporte. 4 Tomos y Resumen.
Servicios de Consultoria. Octubre, 1986. Identificacion y Analisis de los
Eslabonamientos en la Comercializacion de Productos Perecederos para la
Exportacion. 3 Tomos y Anexos.
COMINSA Julio, 1986. Identificacion y Analisis de Impacto de las Politicas y
Regulacion del Sector Transport que afectan la Comercializacion de
Productos Perecederos para la Exportacion. 3 Tomos y Resumen.
Desarrollo y Tecnologia Consultores, S.C. Agosto, 1986. Estimacion de la
Demanda de Credito de FIDEC 1986-1988. 2 Tomos y Resumen.
IMBT A.C. 1986, 1987. Varios Trabajos:
-     Diagnostico de la Situacion Actual del Abasto (Produccion e
Infraestructura) de Productos Pesqueros en el Pais y por Estados
con Litorales (18 trabajos).
-     Integracion de Anteproyectos para Instalaciones de Centros de
Acopio en Diferentes Municipios: Sn. Vicente Rosamorada. Nay.;
Chahuites, Oax.; Huehuetan, Chis.; San Martin Texmelucan, Pue.;
Apatzingan, Mich.; Nativitas y San Mateo Tepetitla, Tlax.; Lerdo,
Dpo.
Bases Technicas para el Tratamiento, Normalizacion y
Almacenamiento de Productos Pesqueros: Langostino y Camaron;
Sardina; Quijon y Almeja; Atun, Jurel; Mojarra y Tilapia; Caracol;
Pulpo; Abulon; Langosta; Jaiba; Caron; Huachinango; Mero, Rubin y
Robulo; Sierra; Lisa y Bagre; Corvina.



- 36 -
APPENDIX 1
Page 2 of 2
-     Bases Teenicas para el Tratamiento y Normalizacion de rCucas y
Verduras: Mango, Limon, Manzana, Durazno, Pera, Ciruela,
Chabacano, Naranja, Melon, Mandarina, Lima, Toronja, Aguacate,
Ajo, Papa, Cebulla, Tomate, Pepino, Chile, Calabacita, Zanahoria,
Rabano, Rabanito, Esparrago, Espinaca, Acelga, Brocoli, Chicharo,
Ejote, Berenjena, Chayote, Lechuga, Col y Coliflor.
-     Estudios Tecnico-Economicos y Financieros de Centros de Sacrificio
de Productos Pecuarios con Diferentes Capacidades; Ovi-caprino
(50,200 y 500 cabezas); Porcino (30,100 y 500 cabezas); Bovino
(10,000 y 300 cabezas); Aves (9,000 y 36,000 aves).
Diagnostico de la Situacion Actual del Abasto de Productos
Carnicos en el Pais.
De Robina, R. Mayo 1987. Evaluacion de la Efectividad de la Accion del Fondo
en el Programa de Apoyo a la Comercializacion de Alimentos.
Desarrollo Dirigido SOMEX. 1987. Programa de Nuevas Instalaciones para
Acopio y Comercializacion de la Manzana en el Estado de Chihuahua. 3
Tomos.
Trujillo, V. Alberto. Julio 1987. Evaluacion de en torno Demografico, Social
y Comercial en la Centrales de Abasto de Torreon, Villahermosa y
Ecatepec.
Shwedel, Kenneth y Jorge Gonzalez Arce. Noviembre de 1987. Expansion and
Modernization Strategies for Food Marketing Analysis, Evaluation and
Projection.
Trujillo, V. Alberto. Febrero 1988. Un Viaje de Prospeccion a la Region
Central de Veracruz.
Gonzales Arce, J. 1988. El mercadeo de articulos de Consumo en la frontera
norte del pais. Problemas y oportunidades (en proceso).
Colegio en la Frontera Norte, 1988. Analisis socioeconomico y comportamiento
de la actividad comercial en la frontera norte.
Shwedel K. 1985. Comercializacion Agropecuaria, Exportaciones y
Agroindustria.
Gonzalez, Hector. 1988. Comercialization de Productos Pesqueros. (En
proceso).



- 37 -
APPENDIX 2
Table I
COMPLEMENTARY REFRIGERATED STORAGE
FRUITS AND VEGETABLES
Cash Flow Proiections /a
(Mex$ millions)
Before       -------------- with project ----------------
Project       1     2     3-10      11      12-19    20
Cash Inflow
Revenues /                                  0   3,800   4,200   4,200   4,200   4,200
Total Inflow                     0          0   3,800   4,200   4,200   4,200   4,200
Cash Outflow
Operating Costs                             0   3,600   3,600   3,600   3,600   3,600
Investment /h                             776                       211
:et Income Before Financing                -776     200      540      329     540      618
Medium-term loan /C                       621
Owner's contribution /d                   155
Debt service                              279      384      384
Total Outflow                    0      1,055      384      384       0        0       0
Net Income After Financing          0       -589    -184      156     329      540     618
Financial Rate of Return = 53.89
a    In constant prices.
Includes residual value of investment in year-20, prices of 1988 used due to
abnormality.
/c    For nine years including one year grace on principal, at an interest rate of 35
percent.
d     vwenty percent of investment cost.
e    Replacement of equipment included in year-i'.
ource: FIDEC, Programacion y Analisis.



APPLE COLLECTION AND COLD STORAGE CENTER
Cash Flow Proiections /a
(Mex$ millions)
Before       ---------------------------------- with project ------------------------------------
Project       1        2-4       5        6        7-10       11      12-15      16      17-19      20
Cash Inflow
Revenues /b                                                 0    2,300    2,300    2,300    2,300    2,300    2,300    2,300    2,300    2,367
Total Inflow                                  0             0    2,300    2,300    2,300    2,300    2,300    2,300    2,300    2,300    2,3SI
Cash Outflow
Operating Costs                                             0    1,850    1,850    1,850    1,850    1,850    1,850    1,850    1,850    1,850
Investment Je                                            670                           40                160                  40
Net Income Before Financing                                -670      450       450       410      450       290      450       410      450       517
Medium-term  loao /c                                      536
Owner's contribution L                                    234
Debt service                                              193      366
Total Outflow                                 0          963       366         0        0         0         0        0         0        0         n
Net Income After Financing                      0          -561       84       450       410      450       290      450       410      450       517
Financial Rate of Return a 67.15
- a    In constant prices.
Includes residual value of investment in year-20, prices of 1988 used due to abnormality in 1989.
E       For three years including one year grace on principal, at an interest rate of 35 percent.  Interest
capitalized during construction, 80 percent financing assumed.                                                                                   P
d       TVenty percent of investment cost.
Replacement of equipment included in years 6, 11 and 16.                                                                                           3
xC



Cash Flow Proiections /a
(Hex$ millions)
Before       --------------------------- with project ----------------------
Project       1        2         3-6       7-11        12       13-19        20
Cash Inflow
Revenues lb                                         0    62,900    93,180      93,180    93,180       93,180     93,586
Total Inflow                             0          0    62,900    93,180      93,180    93,180       93,180     93,586
Cash Outflow
Operating Costs                                     0    59,800    88,690      88,690    88,690      88,690      88,690    s
Investment le                                  2,700      1,558                              663
Net Income Before Financing                      -2,700     1,542      4,490      4,490      3,827       4,490      4,896
Medium-term loan Lc                            2,160      1,247
Owner's contribution Id                           540       311
Debt service                                      778     2,218      2,218
Total Outflow                            0     3,478      3,776      2,218          0          0           0          0
Net Income After Financing                 0    -1,858        260      2,272      4,490      3,827       4,490      4,896
Financial Rate of Return - 108.15
L     In constant prices.
b    Includes residual value of investment in year-20, prices of 1988 used due to abnormality in 1989.                      a 
c    For five years including one year grace on principal, at an interest rate of 35 percent.  Interest
capitalized during construction, 80 percent financing assumed.
L     Twenty percent of investment cost.                                                                                       x
/e    Replacement of equipment included in year 11.
Source: FIDEC, Programacion y Analisis



RENOVATION OF A 1.000 SQ2 WHOLESALE WAREHOUSE
Cash Flow Proiections /
(MexS millions)
Before        --------------------------------------- with project -----------------------------------------
Project       1       2        3       4        5        6       7-10    11    12-15        16       17-19     20
Cash Inflow
Revenues /b                                   140      140      200      220      250     290      320      320      320      320      320      320     370
Total Inflow                                  140      140      200      220      250     290      320      320      320      320      320      320     370
Cash Outflow
Investment Le                                          550                                          50               150                50
Net Income Before Financing                     140    -410       200      220      250      290     270      320      170      320      270      320      370        o
Medium-tem loan /c                                     480
Owner's contribution d                                  70
Debt service                                           144      144      144      189      189      189     189
Total Outflow                                 140      694      144      189      189      189      189     189        0        0        0        0
Net Income After Financing                        0    -144        56       31       61      101       81      131     170      320      270      320      370
Financial Rate of Return = 56.39
/a       In constant prices.
/b       Includes residual value of investment in year-20, based  n 5 percent of sales.
Lc       For 10 years including two years of grace on repayment of principal, at an interest rate of 35 percent.
/d       Twenty percent of investment cost.
Le       Replacement of equipment included in years 6, 11 and 16.
Source: FIDEC, Programacion y Analisis
43 



CONSTRUCTION OF A 2.000 SnW WHOLESALE WAREHOUSE
Cash Flow Proiections /
(MexS millions)
Before      --------------------------------------- with project ----------------------------------------------------
Project      1      2         3       4         5       6       7-9      10       11     12-15    16       17-19      20
Cash Inflow
Revenues /b                                              440      520      600     670      740      740      740      740      740      740      740     818
Total Inflow                             0        0      440      520      600      670     740      740      740      740      740      740      740     898
Cash Outflow
Investment a                                  1,230                                          80                        180                80
Net Income Before Financing                0  -1,230       440      520      600      670      740     740      740      740      740      740      740      898              4
Medium-term loan Lc                             984
Owner's contribution /d                         236
Debt service                                    354      527      527      527      527     527      527
Total Outflow                            0   1,574       527      527      527     527      527      527        0        0        0        0        0
Net Income After Financing                 0    -836       -87       -7       73      143      133     213      740      560      740      660      740      898
Financial Rate of Return = 45.01
/a       In constant prices.
/b       Includes sale of inventories and residual value of investment in year-20, based on 5 percent of sales.
tc       For eight years including one year grace on principal, at an interest rate of 35 percent, with interest capitalized.
/d       Twenty percent of investment cost.
!e       Replacement of equipment included in years 6, 11 and 16.
Source: FIDEC, Programacion y Analisis
(D Z
in 



CONSTRUCTION OF A 220 S02 SELF-SERVICE STORE
Cash Flow Proiections La
(Mex$ millions)
Before       --------------------------- with project --------------------------
Project      1         2        3         4       5-10       11     12-19      20
Cash Inflow
Revenues lb                                       48        55       58        62       67        67       67       112
Total Inflow                            0         48        55       58        62       67       67        67       112
Cash Outflow
Investment /e                                    160                                             50
Net Income Before Financing                       -112        55       58        62       67        17       67       112
Medium-term loan le                              128
Owner's contribution /d                           32
Debt service                                      48        48       48        48       48
Total Outflow                           0        208        48       48        48       48        0         0         0
Net Income After Financing                0        -64         7       10        14       19        17       67       112
Financial Rate of Return - 53.37
/a~ In constant prices.
Lb    Includes sale of inventories and residual value of investment in year-20, based on 9 percent of sales.
le    For 10 years with no year of grace, at an interest rate of 35 percent.
/d    Twenty percent of investment cost.
Is    Replacement of equipment included in year 11.
Source:  Programacion y Analisis



- 43 -
APPENDIX 3
Page 1 of 2
TRANSLATION
CEC-035-1-90
DEPARTMENT OF MULTILATERAL FINANCE
NAFIN
January 9, 1991
Mr. VAHRAM NERCISSIANTZ
Agriculture Division
World Bank
1818 H. Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C.   20433
U .S.A.
This letter is in reference to the Agricultural Marketing Project, Loan
No.2262-ME.
I would like to inform you that, having reviewed the draft of the
Project Completion Report, we have no further observations to make.
Nevertheless, we want to point out that the opinion expressed in Part II of the
Report are those of the consultant firm that prepared it.
Furthermore, and as you already know, many of those earlier
observations have been accommodated and, as reported by recent supervision
missions, the principal recommendations have been incorporated in execution of
the second project during 1990.
Sincerely,
Lic. Jos6 Garcia Torres
Manager



- 44 -
APPENDIX 3
Page 2 of 2
cc: Dr. Alejandro Villa Issa
Director General FIDEC
Ej6rcito Nacional No.180 - Piso 5
M6xico, D.F.
Lic. Antonio Cervera Sandoval
Director Organismos Financieros Internacionales
S.H.C.P.
Palacio Nacional
Edificio 4, Piso 4
M6xico, D.F.
Lic. Arturo Galgn de la Barreda
International Director - NAFIN
Lic. Jorge Delgado Benitez
Sub-Director Organismos Financieros Internationales
Lic. Timoteo Harris
Representative - NAFIN
Washington, D.C.
Lic. Jorge A. Muioz Cuevas
Project Secretary - NAFIN
JGT/JMC/



MAP SECTION



e~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~UIE STTE OFAERC                                                                                                                                     M E X I C O
:tiA4-trf \)    ->            UNITE  STof'\Es OF oMERICtAGRICULTURAL  MARKETING
"5J/f!''.E; t   t - -   '-*-'                                                                                               ~~~~~~OF  PERISHABLES PROJECT
.,,4.k\:~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~. .   ,    ,  \ 
o~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-   C-  R ..d,  
'   \   ,    l                                           fk                                                              D,v.ded t1ghwors~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ L  A   
\                            l.                           ;           * X ,                                                             Selecird Moin Rrrdt~~~~~~5
.~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~0                                                 71tro                                    BELIZE r 
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0  l05sc  ;2''.    30   /2}4e   L50+ oo}( --IR
3(~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~L~~~~~~~~~~~~M   f deUS                                                                     !    ,
u    [   w-|^ qr~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ aJ A'                                    T E NA4 L YUA1,r 
.                                                                                                                                                              4A ,   X ,   f   /  ->r   *    **>   f<> \,p Poeh; e -s ,>< Compechz N /~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'   C N     (   R A  
& t z | 1, m < ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~o.0- r  



