Document of
The World Bank                           FC
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 4062b-ME
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
MEXICO
AGRICULTURAL MARKETING PROJECT FOR PERISHABL
March 25, 1983
Projects Department
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorizations.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$1               =      Mex$ 100.00
Mex$ 1                    US$0.01
Mex$ 1 million            US$10,000
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 hectare (ha)                =       10,000 m2 = 2.47 acres
1 kilometer (km)              =       0.62 mile
1 square kilometer (km2)       =      0.39 sq mile = 100 ha
1 kilometer (kg)              =       2.2 pounds
1 liter (1)                   =       0.26 gallon
1 metric ton (m ton)          =       1,000 kg = 0.98 long ton
ABBREVIATIONS
BANOBRAS  -   National Bank for Public Works and Services
CONAFRUT  -   National Fruit Growers' Commission
CONASUPO  -   National Marketing Corporation for Basic Foods
CPD       -   Project Development and Coordination Group
FICART    -   Trust Fund for Credit in Irrigated and Rainfed Areas
FIDEC     -   Trust Fund for Marketing Development
FIRA      -   Agricultural Trust Funds of the Bank of Mexico
FONEP     -   Trust Fund for Preinvestment Studies
IM?ECSA   -   Agency for Small Business Promotion
NAFINSA   -   National Finance, Inc.
SUDE      -   Secretary of Urban Development and Ecology
SARH      -   Secretary of Agriculture and Water Resources
SECOFI    -   Secretary of Commerce and Industrial Development
SECOM     -   Secretary of Commerce
SHCP      -   Secretary of Finance and Public Credit
SIDA      -   National Marketing Development Plan
SPP       -   Secretary of Programming and Budgeting
UNPH      -   National Union of Horticultural Producers



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
MEXICO
AGRICULTURAL MARKETING PROJECT FOR PERISHABLES
Table of Contents
Page No.
I.  BACKGROUND .........1.........  I
A. General. 
B. The Economic Setting .1
C. Urbanization and Agricultural Trends - Implications
for Food Marketing.                                                            2
II. THE SUPPLY OF PERISHABLES.                                                               3
A. Supply Trends.                                                                     3
B. Rationalization of Production.                                                     5
III. THE MARKETING OF PERISHABLES..                                                          6
A. Internal Marketing System.                                                         6
B. Demand and Consumption Trends ...............................   10
C. Price Trends and Marketing Margins ..........................   11
D. Marketing Information System ................................   12
E. Institutional Support .......................................   13
IV.    SCOPE FOR IMPROVING THE MARKETING OF PERISHABLES ...............   15
A. Potential for Development ...................................   15
B. Government Policy and Strategy ..............................   18
C. Bank Role ...................................................    19
V.     THE PROJECT ......................................                                   20
A. Introduction ......................................                              20
B. Project Strategy and Objectives .............................   21
C. Brief Description ...........................................   21
D. Detailed Features ...........................................   22
E. Total Investment Program ....................................   26
F. Project Financing ...........................................   27
G. Procurement ...........................................                          28
H. Disbursements ...........................................                        30
I. Accounts and Auditing .......................................   30
VI.    PROJECT ORGANIZATION AND IMPLEMENTATION ........................   31
A. Institutional Participation .................................   32
B. Sublending Policies and Procedures ..........................   33
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission which visited
Mexico in April 1982. The mission consisted of Messrs. N.P. Sharma,
C. Downing and C. Barham (Bank), and H. Riley and K.C. Parsons (Consultants).
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Table of Contents (Continued)
C. Technical Assistance ........................................  36
D. Promotion Program ...........................................  37
E. Planning and Programming and Impact Assessment ..............  37
F. Training Program ............................................  38
G. Monitoring and Evaluation ...................................  39
H. Technical Services ..........................................  39
VII.  PROJECT BENEFITS AND RISKS .....................................   40
A. Illustrative Investment Plans ...............................   40
B. Project Benefits ............................................   40
C. Project Cash Flow ...........................................   41
D. Cost Recovery ...............................................   41
E. Project Risks ...............................................   43
F. Environmental Effects .......................................   43
VIII. SUMMARY OF AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION ...............   43
ANNEXES
1.    Trust Fund Operations ...........     ..............................   45
Table
1 - FIDEC Income Statements
2 - FIDEC Balance Sheets
3 - FICART Income Statements
4 - FICART Balance Sheet
5 - FEFA Income Statements
6 - FEFA Balance Sheet
2.  Illustrative Investment Plans .50
Table
1 - Complementary Refrigerated Storage for Fruits and
Vegetables .62
2 - Apple Collection and Cold Storage Center .63
3 - Regional Vegetable Collection Center .64
4 - Vegetable Collection Center .65
5 - Producers' Distribution Center ...........                     66
6 - Renovation of a 1,000 m2 Wholesale Warehouse Within a
Voluntary Chain .67
7 - Construction of a 2,000 m2 Wholesale Warehouse to be Operated
Independently .68
8 - Construction of a 2,000 m2 Wholesale Warehouse Within a
Voluntary Chain .69
9 - Construction of a 220 m2 Self-Service Store Operated
Independently .70
10 - Construction of a 220 m2 Self-Service Store Operated Within a
Voluntary Chain    ..71
11 - Renovation of an 80 m2 Retail Store Affiliated With a
Voluntary Chain    ..72
3.    Selected Documents and Data Available in Project File .73-75



Table of Contents (Continued)
SUPPORTING TABLES
1.    Production, Export and Consumption Trends .......................  76
2.    Principal Vegetables and Fruits and Major Producing States ......  77
Distribution of Production of Vegetables and Fruits by State  ....   78
4.  Project Financing ..................                                              79
5.    Estimated Schedule of Disbursements .............................  80
6.    Cash Flow Projections for Project Account at FIDEC Level ... .....  81
CHARTS
1.    Seasonal Production of Vegetable and Fruit Crops in 1980 ... .....  82
2.    Marketing Channels for Fruits and Vegetables ....................  83
3.    Structural Breakdown of Consumer Prices for Vegetables and
Fruits in Public Markets of Mexico City .84
4.    Participation of Marketing Agents in the Final Price of
Beef and Eggs in Mexico City ....................................  85
5.    Participating Institutions  ......................................  86
6.    Project Organization ............................................  87
7.    Proposed Organizational Structure  ...............................  88
PHOTOGRAPHS ..... ..................................................  89-92
MAP
IBRD 16508 - Mexico: Agricultural Marketing of Perishables Project






MEXICO
AGRICULTURAL MARKETING PROJECT FOR PERISHABLES
I. BACKGROUND
A. General
1.01      In Mexico, the development process has given rise to a more urban,
industrially based economy, transformed from a rural, agriculturally based
system. As development proceeds, increased labor specialization, the
adoption of more advanced technologies, and the geographic separation of food
production and consumption make it necessary to develop a more appropriate
marketing system.
1.02      As people are migrating from rural areas to the cities, more and
more of the urban consumer's food expenditures go for marketing services,
including transportation, processing, storage, and packaging. Also, with
income levels rising, the demand for marketing services has been increasing
and food preferences shifting from grains and starchy commodities to higher
valued meats, milk, fruits and vegetables. Furthermore, as agricultural
producers are becoming more specialized and commercially oriented, the need
for improved marketing is heightened. These producers are also becoming
increasingly dependent on purchased food, industrially produced farm inputs,
and consumer goods that flow from the larger cities to rural trading centers.
1.03      The food marketing system can become a serious impediment to
economic development as market channels become logistically and institu-
tionally maladjusted to fast changing socio-economic conditions, especially
in middle-income countries such as Mexico.
B. The Economic Setting
Economic Growth and Development
1.04      Mexico has undergone fundamental changes in its economy over the
last 10 years. With a substantial increase in oil reserves and its potential
for agricultural and industrial expansion, Mexico is moving toward an indus-
trial stage of development. As the nation is espousing structural changes
necessitated by this transformation, its development policies and priorities
have been overshadowed by growth and equity considerations. In agriculture,
while growth is emphasized, priority is being placed on attaining self-
sufficiency in food production, particularly grains, and channeling basic
food items to impoverished groups. In the past, burgeoning economic growth
has escalated the urbanization process and change in consumer demand and
preferences for goods and services, thus exerting pressure on commerce and
the traditional marketing system.



-2-
Agriculture in the Economy
1.05      Agriculture remains an important sector in the economy, accounting
for about 40% of the total labor force, slightly over 7% of GDP, and about
17% of total export earnings. Since 1965, total farm production has
increased at an average annual rate of about 2.3%, somewhat lower than the
annual population growth rate of 2.9%. Consequently, food imports have
increased sharply during the 1970s, reducing substantially the favorable net
trade balance in agriculture.
1.06      Of the 30 million ha of potential arable land, more than half is
presently cropped under rainfed and irrigated conditions. To engender devel-
opment and exploit the existing potential in agriculture, the Government has
directed its efforts and resources toward bringing about structural changes
for transforming agriculture into a more buoyant, productive subsector. The
Government's programs have focused on expanding and improving rainfed agri-
culture, irrigation, extension and research, and institutional strengthen-
ing. Measures have also been taken to increase credit funds for agriculture
through the banking systems, as well as improving the delivery system.
Coupled with these actions, the Government is taking steps to modernize the
food systems, by improving marketing functions and institutions. Finally,
some policy measures have been taken to spur investment in agriculture and
provide support to the large preponderance of small-scale producers engaged
in farming.
C. Urbanization and Agricultural Trends - Implications for Food Marketing
1.07      Mexico's current population, estimated at more than 70 million, has
increased at an average annual rate of about 3% over the past three decades.
Recently, the growth rate has declined to about 2.6% per annum. In 1980, the
urban population was about 44 million, or nearly 67% of the total population.
This figure compares to 51% for 1960 and is expected to increase to 75% by
year 2000. Over the last 20 years, there has been a dramatic shift in the
concentration of population toward five or six cities, which together account
for about 30 million people, or almost half of the total Mexican population.
Mexico City, with its 14 million inhabitants, is one of the largest cities in
the world, and, by the turn of the century, if the growth rate is not
reversed, its population would exceed 30 million. By that time, most likely,
another 30 million people will be concentrated in several other cities.
1.08      While population has been increasing sharply in these urban
centers, income levels and consumer demand and preferences for food items
have also been changing rapidly toward higher consumption of perishable food
products. These changes have generated tremendous pressure on food supplies,
marketing services and the traditional distribution systems in urban
centers. Currently, the urban population consumes about 75% of the total
national goods and services. Additionally, the pockets of poverty, which
have proliferated with surging urbanization and the preponderance of low-
income families residing in urban areas have also exerted pressure on the
traditional marketing systems, which are not properly adapted to cater to the
needs of such consumers.



- 3 -
1.09      On the other hand, the Government's current effort to diversify
agriculture and accelerate production is also generating pressures on market-
ing services and traditional distribution networks. Also, production is, to
a considerable extent, based on traditional cropping patterns and is not
adequately adapted or oriented to satisfying consumer demand in the expanding
urban areas. Due to inadequate marketing and pricing information, producers
-- particularly small-scale operators -- do not effectively plan their
production in keeping with consumer demand. There is a pressing need now to
integrate production and consumption by taking into account the dynamic
changes in consumer demand, and preferences for food items.
1.10      To a large extent, traditional marketing systems have developed
through an evolutionary process, with limited planning and organization.
Additionally, developments in transportation, communication, market organiza-
tion, refrigeration, packaging, large-scale purchasing, governmental regula-
tion and price intervention have been very uneven. Consequently, the distri-
bution network, particularly for the internal market, is riddled with
structural deficiencies which impair the efficient flow of goods and services
within the economy.  These problems are prevalent in both the product as well
as the factor markets. Also, traditional policies and resource allocation
have focused substantially on production, without adequate emphasis on
distribution and transfer of goods and services.
1.11      Over the last five years, the Government has gathered an inordinate
amount of data and has carried out numerous studies to develop a comprehen-
sive approach for improving the food supply systems for grain, sugar, vege-
table oils, fruits, vegetables, meat, milk and eggs.  The issues and approach
to marketing differ among commodities or among groups of commodities. In the
past, the Government has focused its efforts on the marketing of grain. With
significant changes in consumer preferences and a trend toward higher
consumption of perishable food products, the Government has now elected, in
the first phase, to redress problems relating to marketing of perishables
(fruits, vegetables, meats, milk and eggs). The urgency to deal with this
group of products has been heightened by shortages occurring during certain
periods, resulting in sharp price fluctuations and affecting more severely
the lower income groups, mainly in urban areas.
II. THE SUPPLY OF PERISHABLES
A. Supply Trends
Fruits and Vegetables
2.01      Since the 1970s, the production of fruits and vegetables has been
increasing rapidly and now accounts for about 25 to 30% of the total value of
crop production. There are over 80 products, with oranges, bananas, tomatoes
and potatoes contributing about 44% of total production. About 90% of the
overall produce is consumed fresh and the remaining 10% is processed.
Tomatoes, potatoes, onions and chilies make up some 66% of total horticul-
tural consumption. Other important products are cucumbers, zuchini,
cantaloupe and watermelon. The bulk of total production is consumed domes-
tically; only 1.5% of fruits and 21% of vegetables are exported (Table 1).



2.02      Horticultural products and fruits account for about 7% of the total
cropped area of about 15 million ha, with irrigation representing 62% of the
vegetable area and 42% of the fruits and root crops area. Production of
fruits and vegetables are scattered throughout the country, but 90% of the
total annual production is produced in seven states (Map and Tables 2
and 3). As shown below, during the 1970s, the production of principal fruits
and vegetables soared at a rate of more than 6% annually.  In this same
period, average yield of vegetables increased 85% and fruits 12%, respec-
tively (Table 1).
2.03      The continued increase in production and yields of fruits and
vegetables were achieved through extension of existing cropped area and
intensification of production, with irrigation having made a greater contrib-
ution to yield increases than any other single input. In the period 1970-78,
while the total cropped area of the principal fruits and vegetables increased
by 12%, the volume of production increased 60%. However, there are severe
cyclical fluctuations in the production of some commodities which result in
periods of over- and under-production (Chart 1).
2.04      Under short-term consideration, through intensification of produc-
tion with available technology and reducing losses, now estimated at as much
as 30%, the supply of vegetables and fruits should keep pace with effective
demand, both domestic and external. Also, the current trend toward more
irrigated cultivation of high-value crops such as fruits and vegetables would
increase productivity and facilitate a more uniform annual supply of
products.
2.05      While domestic demand is expected to increase by 4.5% annually,
there is substantial scope for accelerating exports of fruits and vegetables,
which now account for about 8% of total exports. Mexico has comparative
advantages -- seasonally (November through March) and in labor productivity
and cost -- over the USA and Canada. With product promotion, improved
marketing and Government support, exports of fruits and vegetables could
increase significantly.
Milk, Meat and Eggs
2.06      Milk.  In 1979, the national dairy herd was estimated at about 8.5
million animal units and milk production was about 6.5 million tons. About
70% of the milk is produced by about 2.6 million dairy cows predominately in
the Central Plateau, temperate zone. Although producer prices for milk have
declined in real terms since 1974, milk production has increased from 5.1
million tons in 1972 to 7.0 million tons in 1980, increasing at an average
annual rate of 4%. To meet domestic demand, imports of powdered milk
averaged about 785 million liters per annum from 1978 to 1980. Large commer-
cial herds produce 56% of the milk, while the rest comes from small-scale and
scattered producers with inadequate resources for efficient production and
marketing. Better management of animals, pasture and forage is required to
increase the volume and quality of production, and small-scale producers must
be organized to facilitate handling, preservation and transport.  Milk
collection centers with bulk cooling facilities, refrigerated storage, and
refrigerated transport are also required.



2.07      Beef.  The supply of beef increased from 707,000 tons in 1972 to
1,065,000 tons in 1980, an annual increase of 7%. The increase in beef
supply was due to a higher extraction rate as the ratio of animal units to
inhabitants remained constant at 0.5. During the same period, per capita
consumption of beef increased from 13.1 kg to 15.2 kg. Exports of beef
declined from 12% to 9% and this trend is likely to continue. With improve-
ment in production technology and in the processing and handling infrastruc-
ture, the extraction rate should continue to increase sufficiently to meet
domestic demand. To improve production and marketing, infrastructure, such
as slaughterhouses, refrigerated storage, and transport, needs to be upgraded
throughout the country.
2.08      Pork.  Pork production, which, like poultry, is more adaptable to
modern technology, increased from 572,000 tons in 1972 to 1,250,000 tons in
1980, an annual increase of 10%. Marketing of pork, however, requires addi-
tional investment and improvement in infrastructure for the marketing system.
2.09      Poultry and Eggs.  Poultry production, through vertical integration
and improved technology, increased 86% from 1972 (232,000 tons) to 1980
(429,000 tons), averaging about 8% per annum. In this same period,
production increased from 401,000 tons to 644,000 tons and egg production
reached the point of over-supply in some major markets. Over-production of
poultry and eggs is the result of over concentration of production in large
units (in the four states of Sonora, Sinaloa, Jalisco and Puebla) and
concentration of the distribution network centers in a few cities. For
greater efficiency, the marketing of poultry and eggs needs to be
decentralized, with a network of refrigerated storage and distribution
facilities serving all regions of the country.
B. Rationalization of Production
2.10      The present inadequately planned production on a national basis
results in periods of over-production and under-production which is costly to
both producers and consumers. Mexico has a wide range of ecological and
climatic conditions which would permit rationalization of production to
regulate supply throughout the year, taking into account the needs of the
domestic and foreign markets. With systematic production, some farmers would
be able to specialize in certain commodities so as to efficiently utilize
their resources, and others would modify their crop-mix and rotations to
increase their benefits. In the long run, through improved planning and
promotion and dissemination of production and marketing information, produc-
tion can be geared to meet the needs of the internal and external markets.
2.11      Presently, the Secretary of Agriculture and Water Resources (SARH)
collects data on producer-planned production targets and actual planting data
in irrigation districts only, with primary interest in crops such as
cereals, cotton and feed grains. To improve production planning, it is
imperative that SARH expand its present coverage to include other products as
well as rainfed areas. It is also essential that SARH make recommendations
for changes in plantings by states, taking into account effective market
demand.



- 6 -
III. THE MARKETING OF PERISHABLES
A. Internal Marketing System
3.01      Mexico has a complex internal marketing structure, influenced by
both the free enterprise system as well as the public sector.  The marketing
structure is characterized by a modern subsector, adopting advanced tech-
nology and marketing practices and the traditional marketing subsector,
accounting for the bulk of food marketing and consisting of many small-scale
independent operators.  The modern subsector, which accounts for the bulk of
exports, is well organized in production and marketing, meeting the recog-
nized standards of the external markets. The level of development of the
traditional systems of producing and marketing perishable products within the
internal market varies widely among products and among subsystems within
products.
3.02      Fruits and vegetables are produced by a large number of small-scale
farmers scattered over vast areas of the country. Production technologies
have evolved slowly, with very limited public sector research and extension
support, and credit is not readily available from established banking insti-
tutions for financing these enterprises. Consequently, rural assemblers
(coyotes) and wholesale buyers frequently advance money, at high interest
rates, to producers for products to be harvested and delivered at a later
date. The farmers are also confronted with relatively high risks in produc-
ing vegetables and certain fruits as compared to those associated with basic
grains and livestock. There are risks in growing fruits and vegetables due
to weather, insects and plant diseases, as well as risks of glutted markets
and low prices at the time of harvest.  Consequently, farmers are reluctant
to specialize in fruit and vegetable production. This contributes to
scattered, small-scale production, instability in production, high costs of
product assembly, and slow progress in developing high quality products for
shipment to urban markets. Channels for marketing fruits and vegetables are
shown in Chart 2.
3.03      Farmers feel disadvantaged in bargaining with potential buyers who
are typically few in number and armed with superior market information and
transport facilities. Although selling on a commission basis is a common
practice, farmers often feel that their produce is disposed of at unfairly
depressed prices. Consequently, many prefer to sell for cash at the farm
rather than to consign their products to commission agents since lack of
transportation, owned or hired at the farmgate level, reduces the flexibility
of producers to market their surpluses more directly.  Some producer groups
have been organized, but as yet they are not a potent force in the domestic
markets for fruits and vegetables. Attempts to establish assembly centers
for sorting and packaging products have been limited in number so far.
3.04      Approximately 90% of the domestically consumed fruits and vege-
tables move through the marketing system as fresh produce and only 10% is
converted into processed products. The classification, packaging and
physical handling of fruits and vegetables at the farm and rural assembly
points for the national market is still in an early stage of development as
compared to the handling of products for export.  Several products, such as
oranges, cucumbers, plantain and cabbage, are shipped in bulk truckload lots



without crates or special handling.  Hence, product damage and losses are
often substantial.  Potatoes are usually field sorted and shipped in large
plastic woven bags, while tomatoes, soft fruits and several vegetables are
generally packed and shipped in wooden crates. However, due to deficient
package designs, over-loading of containers and lack of refrigeration, there
is considerable product damage before the product reaches the consumer.
3.05      Transportation is a problem for many producers and rural assem-
blers. For hire trucks are not always available, especially during peak
periods of harvest activity. Hauling charges are high and frequent equipment
breakdowns may delay the delivery of perishable commodities. This problem is
further compounded by some regulations at the federal, state and local
levels.
3.06      In each of the larger Mexican cities, there are established whole-
sale markets where fruits and vegetables arrive by truck from rural producing
areas for distribution to local retailers or for transhipment to other
cities. Typically, these wholesale markets have grown into labyrinths of
warehouses adjoining public buildings originally designed to serve as a
wholesale-retail facility for a much smaller urban population. There is now
a concerted effort by municipal governments to build new, modern wholesaling
centers located on the periphery of the cities with good access to the key
network highway. These heavy investments in new market infrastructure have
been motivated by the desire to reduce traffic congestion, to improve the
aesthetic characteristics of downtown urban areas and to increase the opera-
tional efficiency of the wholesale-retail distribution system.
3.07      New wholesale market facilities (Centrales de Abasto) are in
various stages of construction in Mexico City, Puebla, Culiacan and
Villahermosa. In Mexico City, the Government is now constructing a new
central market which is 90% completed. This integrated wholesale market,
costing about US$385 million, will probably be the largest single wholesale
food market in the world when completed, exceeding the Paris wholesale market
in size and range of products handled. This new complex is designed to meet
the wholesale food marketing needs for the city's 25 million population
projected by year 2000 and is expected to handle almost 40% of the total food
production.  Facilities at the new market are now being sold to private
entrepreneurs and groups of wholesalers and producers. Plans are also now
being prepared for a second wholesale market to be located outside the
Federal District in the State of Mexico and would serve the northern portion
of the Mexico City metropolitan area.
3.08      In Guadalajara, a private sector wholesaling group is planning
further expansion and modernization of wholesaling facilities that operate
alongside an existing municipal market facility built in 1964. The
Guadalajara municipal government and the private wholesaler organization are
beginning to consider the need for a new, larger wholesale market to be built
on a different site and placed into operation some five to 10 years in the
future. Meanwhile, the National Marketing Program prepared by the Project
Development and Coordination group (CPD) in the President's Office, calls for
the integration of 16 existing wholesale markets (centrales de abastos) and
six new markets, now under construction, into a national network. Fifteen
additional wholesale market projects are now in various stages of
preparation.



- 8 -
3.09      In a regularized marketing system the larger city markets have a
major influence in establishing prices to be paid to producers and assemblers
and those paid by retailers. However, this pricing system function is
limited by the lack of an effective system of grading, classification and
packaging, and any workable means of comparing products and prices. The
inadequate system of standards and controls, and the wholesaler's better
day-by-day knowledge of supply and demand gives him an advantage over
producers and retailers.
3.10      The structural and organizational characteristics of large city
wholesaling systems give rise to alleged oligopoly pricing behavior.
Although there is a large number of relatively small wholesaling units in
each market, there are usually a few large-scale operators that handle a
significant volume of specific products, such as bananas, potatoes or
chilies. The degree of monopoly power is not solidly documented but there is
a widely held belief among farmers and others that it exists and is main-
tained through organizational arrangements that either block or impede the
entrance of new, potentially aggressive competitors. Other less contrived
barriers to entry may include the advantages offered by well-established
wholesalers who occupy the best sales locations in existing markets and who
have well-developed information sources, marketing skills, and access to
substantial amounts of working capital. In any case, the lack of warehouse
space in the older public market facilities and the restrictive entry condi-
tions imposed by privately organized wholesaler groups make it difficult for
producer groups to establish their own sales outlets in the large city whole-
sale markets. In some of the large wholesale markets, there are wholesalers
who are also large-scale producers. In many instances, they either buy
products from other producers or perform selling services on a commission
basis. This is particularly true in the Guadalajara market.
3.11      The small-scale fragmented structure of urban food retailing has
created a need for a second level of wholesalers of perishable products to
handle a broader line of products than first-level wholesalers. As cities
continue to grow in size, the time and travel costs for small-scale retailers
to buy perishables from a central wholesale market increases, which creates
economic incentives for group buying and transporting of purchases by public
market retailers or "tiendas" located in the same geographic area. There is
also an incentive for second-level wholesalers to establish sales outlets at
decentralized locations away from the central market and/or to operate as
truck jobbers for fruits and vegetables.
3.12      Supermarkets and hypermarkets are a growing component of the urban
retail distribution system, but they handle less than 10% of the fruits and
vegetables sold to consumers in the five cities included in the SCET/AGRI-
FIDESA study. Furthermore, the supermarket clientele is predominantly middle
and higher income consumers. In several of the larger cities there is a
growing presence of modern, superette-sized, convenience food stores operated
as corporate chains. There is also an emerging interest in the potential
development of voluntary chains and cooperative retailer buying groups.
3.13      Household surveys conducted in 1977 indicate that low- and middle-
income urban families purchase the bulk of their food supplies from small
neighborhood stores, municipal public markets and mobile street markets.  A
high percentage of the perishables are provided by small-scale retail units



- 9 -
within the public markets and by street market vendors. Common criticisms of
these small retail units include the relatively high prices, the poor condi-
tion of many perishable products, and the insanitary handling conditions. In
addition, the street markets are often available only one day per week in any
particular barrio. Hence, there is limited availability of some perishable
foods, which constrains the potential sale of these products to a broad
segment of the consumer market. Over the longer run, municipal authorities
are concerned about traffic problems created by the street markets and the
need for low cost, conveniently located retailing services for rapidly
expanding low- and middle-income urbanization.
3.14      There are two market channels for beef:  one, a traditional channel
that handles nearly 80% of total sales and the other, a modern, integrated
channel that handles about 20% of the volume. In the traditional system,
animals are slaughtered in facilities located in consuming centers operated
by municipalities. Live cattle are purchased from producers by rural
assemblers who usually sell the animals to specialized wholesalers who later
merchandise the dressed beef and the by-products to local retailers. Most of
the retailers are small butchers operating stalls in public markets. In this
system, there is relatively little use of refrigeration. Conditions are not
sanitary and the costs of retailing are adversely affected by the small scale
of retail operations and the relatively strong influence of wholesalers in
controlling the slaughtering and wholesale distribution of the meat.
3.15      There is a Government system of retail price controls on beef which
has been difficult to administer due to lack of well established quality
grades and standards.  The Government has attempted to modernize beef market-
ing by constructing slaughterhouses in producing areas and having refriger-
ated trucks move the carcass beef to the urban centers.  The modern system
has potential transportation cost advantages but lack of support from the
traditional market interests (municipal governments with slaughterhouse
facilities, existing urban wholesalers and organized groups of retailers) has
deterred advancement in this area.
3.16      Given the resistance to Government-sponsored initiatives to moder-
nize the beef slaughtering and distribution system, some additional time,
study and promotional effort will be needed to achieve the desired transfor-
mation. Meanwhile, private sector initiatives are capturing a larger segment
of a vertically integrated system linking producer groups with supermarket
and large institutional buyers. This system will also attract new, larger
scale and more modern, specialized retail meat stores in convenient neighbor-
hood shopping areas. As these changes occur, the traditional public market
meat stalls and the related slaughtering in large urban centers will decline
in relative importance.
3.17      The production of eggs for urban markets has become concentrated
among a relatively few large-scale producers using advanced technologies.
The National Union of Poultry Producers attempts to exercise some control
over aggregate levels of egg production, but there are still significant
seasonal and cyclical fluctuations in prices.
3.18      Wholesale and retail distribution channels for eggs are relatively
well developed, with the bulk of the eggs reaching consumers through tradi-
tional retail outlets. The construction of additional refrigerated



- 10 -
warehouses is seen as a means of achieving greater short-term price and
supply stability. Additionally, the operation of a new egg breaking and
processing plant at Queretaro should ease the price-depressing influence of a
temporary surplus of eggs.
B. Demand and Consumption Trends
3.19      Rapid economic growth and urbanization have brought about marked
changes in food habits and preferences among consumers, increasing per capita
consumption of food and diversifying the food basket for internal household
consumption. These changes, which have had a greater impact on the middle-
and high-income consumers, have brought about a slow rise, or a steady
decline in certain cases, in the per capita consumption of corn, beans and
rice, with consumption rising for meats, fruits and vegetables. While this
trend is expected to continue, changes in food habits would proceed slowly
among the poor -- although they would continue to increase consumption of
certain types of fruits and vegetables which are important items in their
food diet.
3.20      The average urban household spends approximately 40% of its income
for food, while the poorest household expends more than 60% of its income for
the family food supply. The traditional Mexican diet has included substan-
tial quantities of corn but as income levels have increased, other products,
especially perishables, have become a larger proportion of total food
consumption.
3.21      While statistics are compiled by official sources, accurate data on
consumption patterns and trends are not readily available. Official publica-
tions indicate that the annual growth of fruits and vegetables consumption
averaged in excess of 5%, while beef consumption increased by about 6.5% and
egg consumption by 7%.  By contrast, a recent study 1/ shows that per capita
consumption of corn has increased very slowly (less than 1% annually) and
corn has been used more for livestock feed than for human consumption. Addi-
tionally, the reports state, wheat consumption has trended upward at about 2%
per year, while bean has been declining to 2% annually, compared to over 3%
until the mid-1960s. The consumption of perishables has shown significant
increases in urban centers, with the volume of perishables demanded in the
medium and larger cities growing at 6% to 10% per year. The five major
cities of Mexico -- Mexico City, Guadalajara, Puebla, Culiacan and
Villahermosa -- representing about 26% of the population, consume 35 to 40%
of the fruits and vegetables, 40% of the meat, and 50% of the eggs.
3.22      Fruits and vegetables account for over 20% of total consumer food
expenditures, and per capita consumption has been surging upward at about 3%
to 4% per annum.  The actual expenditures per capita for perishable products
by high-income consumers is two to three times larger than by low-income
families. However, both low- and middle-income consumers purchase signifi-
cant quantities of perishables.
1/ P. Lamartine Yates, Mexico's Agricultural Dilemma, The University of
Arizona Press, 1981.



- 11 -
3.23       The income elasticities of demand that have been computed from the
1977 household expenditure surveys are generally consistent with the actual
differential rates of consumption increase among various commodities that are
reported above. The relatively high income elasticities of fruits, vege-
tables, meats and eggs, compared to basic grains, would suggest that consump-
tion of these products would continue to rise as income increases. By
contrast, the low or negative income elasticities of corn and bean would
imply that, over time, the consumption of these commodities would decline as
consumer income increases and consumer preferences change. In the long-run,
the aggregate demand for food for internal consumption will continue to
increase. Population growth rates are expected to slow down somewhat, but
are still likely to be nearly 3% per year during the 1980s.  Per capita
income increases are also being projected at 2 1/2% to 3% per year. With an
income elasticity of demand of 0.5, the annual rate of growth in total food
consumption could be about 4% to 4 1/2% per year.
C. Price Trends and Marketing Margins
3.24       The Government has influenced prices to accelerate production as
well as to support consumers. Intervention measures have been directed
mainly toward basic grains, while, among perishables, price controls have
affected eggs, meat and milk.
3.25       The prices of fruits and vegetables have been free to fluctuate
with changing supply and demand conditions. Seasonal fluctuations are
extremely large for commodities such as tomatoes, oranges and onions,
reflecting wide swings in available supplies. For crops planted annually
such as onions, tomatoes and potatoes, there are also significant year-to-
year price changes that result from farmers shifting their plantings in
response to prices and other factors.
3.26       Egg and meat prices have been subjected to strict control by the
Secretary of Commerce. In the case of milk, the Government establishes
maximum prices at the consumer level and minimum prices at the producer
level. It also influences the imports and distribution of powdered milk.
Although these controls have reduced price fluctuations, there have been
difficulties in setting prices so as to facilitate the smooth adjustments of
supply and demand and in the case of beef it has been nearly impossible to
maintain adequate price differentials among different cuts and qualities of
beef. Hence, there has been inadequate and uncertain price incentives for
expanding output and producing higher quality meat.
3.27       It has been estimated that farm producers receive 25 to 30% of the
consumer price for fruits and vegetables (Chart 3), with the share lowest for
the most perishable products. While this is comparable to more developed
marketing systems, it is out of proportion to the value added (in terms of
grading, packaging and general handling) between the producer and consumer.
The retail margin is the largest cost component (and higher than modern
comparable market systems), accounting for 26 to 40% of the consumer price.
The wholesaler-s share ranges from 10 to 14%, while transportation and
handling accounts for another 5 to 14%.



- 12 -
3.28      Product losses tend to accumulate at the retail level for the more
perishable fruits and vegetables, such as bananas and tomatoes, while losses
in potatoes and oranges are larger at the wholesale level where considerable
sorting and classifying is carried out.  Further, producers receive 80% to
90% of the consumer price of eggs, with the marketing margin divided evenly
between the wholesale and retail stages in the marketing process. In addi-
tion, beef producers receive about 54% of the consumer price of meat moving
through traditional market channels as compared to 63% in those cases where
producers have organized an integrated marketing channel. In both channels,
the retail function accounts for about 25% of the consumer price.
3.29      The marketing margins for fruits and vegetables reflect relatively
high levels of product losses and the relatively high costs of operating
small-scale and logistically inefficient systems of assembling, wholesaling
and retailing these products. Although the percentage margins are less for
beef than for fruits and vegetables, there appear to be opportunities to
reduce beef retailing costs through larger, more competitive retail units and
to improve meat quality through greater use of refrigeration (Chart 4).
3.30      Over the long-term, marketing margins will tend to increase some-
what, as larger proportions of the total national food supply is moved from
specialized farm producing areas to expanding urban centers. Also, rising
incomes increase the demand for marketing services that protect and improve
product quality and present products in more convenient, partially processed
forms. However, the adoption of modern, more efficient methods of marketing
can moderate costs and improve the quality and assortment of products avail-
able to consumers.
D. Marketing Information System
3.31      Very little in the way of accurate and timely market information is
presently available to producers, wholesalers and retailers; except for the
modern export market. Among the key agencies dealing with marketing informa-
tion, the Secretary of Commerce and Industrial Development (SECOFI) /,
collects prices on perishables in the Mexico City wholesale market and uses
the information to establish daily price ceilings that apply to retailers who
are part of the "markets on wheels" program. Some of this information is
transmitted to other market areas by radio. The National Consumer Institute,
a part of SECOFI, collects retail prices for basic consumer goods and the
information is available to consumers (para 5.22). In addition, the Bank of
Mexico collects prices for selected food products on a weekly or monthly
basis in several cities for compiling cost-of-living indices. SARH, through
its Agricultural Economics Division, collects and disseminates farm-level
production estimates for major crops in irrigation districts, but these may
not be available until after actual harvesting. SARH also collects current
price information, primarily for statistical analysis, and such information
is also provided periodically by the National Fruit Growers' Commission
(CONAFRUT), the National Cattlemen's Confederation and the National Poultry
Growers Union.
2/ Effective January 1, 1983, the former Secretary of Commerce (SECOM) became
Secretary of Commerce and Industrial Development (SECOFI) in accordance with
an Executive Order dated 29 December 1982.



- 13 -
3.32      Presently, the most sophisticated market information system for
fruits and vegetables is operated by the National Union of Horticultural
Producers (UNPH), established in 1930. In 1981, the Union included some 248
producer associations, representing about 16,000 producers. Almost 90% of
the members are small-scale producers and ejidatarios. It not only collects
and rapidly disseminates current market information but also provides timely
information on planting intentions, harvested acreage, yields and total
production of selected fruits and vegetables. UNPH's operations are parti-
cularly oriented to exporting tomatoes, melons, strawberries and selected
winter vegetables. It also has indirect effect on the domestic market, where
non-export quality and surplus products have to be sold. Although the UNPH
statistical data are made available to other public and private entities, its
current market information service is available only to producer members.
3.33      Several recent studies have identified serious deficiencies in the
Mexican market information system for agricultural commodities, especially
for perishable products (Annex 3). To make marketing operations more effi-
cient, it is essential that the market information delivery system be
improved. Accurate and timely information on supply and demand conditions
and prices would assist producers, intermediaries and consumers in their
market decisions. With good information, markets would adjust rapidly to
changing conditions, resources would be used efficiently and products would
be distributed to the the highest valued end uses.  For perishable products,
the lack of a good national market information system results in wide market
price fluctuations, unnecessary product losses, high risks to producers and
intermediaries, uneconomic use of productive resources and a lower level of
aggregate production.
E. Institutional Support
3.34      There are several Government agencies directly involved in
marketing (Chart 5). The Secretary of Commerce and Industrial Development
(SECOFI) is responsible for formulating marketing policies and administering
various developmental, regulatory and direct intervention programs. SECOFI
is now also responsible for coordination of the various institutions that
will execute the national marketing plan. The National Marketing Corporation
for Basic Foods (CONASUPO), a SECOFI-sponsored public enterprise, supports
farm-level prices of basic grains through purchase, storage and import-export
operations. In addition, CONASUPO operates an expanding program of retail
food distribution which emphasizes the provision of basic food products to
low-income consumers at subsidized prices.  Recently, in order to modernize
small, private food retailing, CONASUPO established a new sub-enterprise, the
Agency for Small Business Promotion (IMPECSA), for supplying selected food
items to retail stores. The Secretary of Commerce and Industrial
Development also administers a price and margin control program which covers
basic food products, including some perishables, and a broader set of
processed food and other consumer items. As part of its responsibility for
national urban planning, the Secretary of Urban Development and Ecology
(SUDE) provides support in establishing guidelines for the selection of
locations and design of public markets.
3.35      SARH is responsible for promoting agricultural development and
providing research and extension services. A special Division of Agricul-
tural Economics gathers and analyzes production data and is becoming more
involved in farm-level marketing studies and related extension activities.



- 14 -
3.36       Credit for marketing development is provided by the Trust Fund for
Marketing Development (FIDEC), the Agricultural Trust Funds (FIRA), and the
Trust Fund for Credit in Irrigated and Rainfed Areas (FICART). Institutional
credit outstanding in agriculture, according to the Bank of Mexico, increased
from Mex$ 42 billion in 1976 to Mex$ 163 billion in 1980. Although detailed
figures on the breakdown of the overall lending to agriculture by principal
activities are not available, a high proportion of the lending was directed
toward production, on-farm investments and agroindustries, with marketing
accounting for a small share of the total program. In 1981, institutional
credit for marketing investment was estimated at about Mex$ 3.0 billion; it
is expected that this would increase to over Mex$ 6.0 billion in 1982. While
the total volume of lending for marketing purposes is relatively low, consid-
ering the overall needs, measures are now being taken to increase credit
funds for marketing and for strengthening the credit and technical assistance
delivery system. Detailed financial data on the above trust funds are given
in Annex 1.
3.37      Marketing facilities in urban areas are generally financed by the
National Bank for Public Works and Services (BANOBRAS) after projects are
developed, appraised and guaranteed by municipal and state governments. An
increasing amount of BANOBRAS loans are being approved for the construction
of new municipal wholesale markets in the larger cities with a continuing
flow of loans for municipal retail markets and slaughterhouses.
3.38       CPD was responsible for coordinating an integrated National
Marketing Development Program (SIDA) for improving the food marketing system
in the country. CPD accomplished a great deal in a short period of time with
a small but highly qualified staff. Studies were carried out and guidelines
prepared and published on the design of market facilities (assembly centers,
wholesale markets). Information and grading systems for agricultural
commodities were planned and action taken to implement new programs.
Additionally, CPD was responsible for coordinating the Government's national
marketing program and institutional participation. As the result of an
executive order of 29 December 1982 (and effective 1 January 1983), the CPD
group under the Presidencia became the Direccion General de Fomento y
Modernizacion de Abastos in the reorganized SECOM, now SECOFI. Thus this new
Directorate, under SECOFI, would continue to be responsible for the former
functions of CPD, including coordination of the National Marketing
Development Program.
3.39       To spur investment in marketing, the Government, in March 1980,
established FIDEC as a trust fund in the Bank of Mexico, inter alia, as a
repository of expertise on food marketing and a channel for increased volumes
of finance to modernize the food distribution system. In brief, FIDEC is
slated to do for agricultural marketing what FIRA has done for agricultural
production thus far.
3.40       In order to carry out its mandate, FIDEC is empowered to (a) issue
guarantees to private banks on behalf of eligible sub-borrowers; (b) redis-
count funds on concessionary terms through the commercial banks; (c) carry
out studies relating to marketing; and (d) provide technical assistance and
training to credit beneficiaries and staff of participating banking entities
in order to increase the capacity of the commercial sector to productively
utilize credit for marketing improvement.



- 15 -
3.41      Since its inception, FIDEC has focused on organizational aspects,
hiring of key personnel, operations procedures and regulations, and promotion
of its program. Based on the experiences of other trust funds under the
auspices of the Bank of Mexico, FIDEC has adopted a simple organizational
set-up. The highest decision-making body is its Technical Committee composed
of senior representatives from key ministries. Day-to-day administration is
the responsibility of the General Director, who is assisted by two
Sub-Directors responsible for technical and administrative matters, respec-
tively. FIDEC now operates only out of its headquarters in Mexico City, but
regional offices will be established, before end-1982, in Mexicali,
Monterrey, Guadalajara and Merida.
3.42      FIDEC is emerging as an important vehicle to spur development in
the marketing subsector and in the recent months has outlined a broad-based
marketing development strategy.  Concurrently, firm measures have been taken
to increase the level of qualified staff and improve subproject analysis and
technical assistance. While these steps are in the right direction, as
FIDEC's role and lending program are burgeoning, there is a pressing need to
place high priority on institution building. Consequently, at the FIDEC
level, the project would focus on (a) training and technical assistance; (b)
planning and programming; and (c) promotion (paras 5.24 through 5.28). The
project would also strengthen FIDEC's capabilities for gathering pertinent
data and information on food supply and demand; performing subsector analyses
and identifying subprojects; preparing sound investment programs; and
carrying out subproject technical and financial analyses. A detailed
description of FIDEC's financial structure and results, operating policies
and procedures, and lending operations are given in Annex 1.
IV. SCOPE FOR IMPROVING THE MARKETING OF PERISHABLES
A. Potential for Development
4.01      The opportunities for improving the marketing of perishables in
Mexico should be assessed in the context of rapidly expanding urban-based
demands and a slowly evolving traditional system of production, processing
and distribution. Until recently, public sector intervention in the food
system has given primary emphasis to grains and basic non-perishable food
products. Attempts are now being made to introduce more modern systems of
producing and marketing perishables and to assist existing firms in improving
their operations through new investments in facilities and equipment and the
adoption of better business management practices. Some of the problems and
potential areas for public sector efforts to strengthen the private sector
and improve the perishable products supply system are discussed in the
following paragraphs.
Production Rationalization in Relation to Effective Market Demand
4.02      Through improved information and planning and the further develop-
ment of production technologies and appropriate institutional arrangements
for product marketing, there could be a significant expansion of production,
a better synchronization of output to reduce seasonal supply fluctuations,
and an improvement in the quality and condition of products introduced into



- 16 -
the market channel. Through credit and technical assistance programs, the
public sector could also influence the concentration of production toward
geographic areas that have comparative advantages in terms of ecological
conditions and location in relation to major urban markets. The formation of
additional producer organizations could be an important element in facili-
tating these patterns of change.
Reduction of Product Losses
4.03      Market system losses of fruits and vegetables are high, with
product damage and deterioration occurring at every level in the market
channel. Better packaging and handling methods can contribute to loss
reduction, but, given the nature of the products, there is no economical way
to avoid some product deterioration as the products move through market
channels. Without a doubt, this is a major problem area that deserves
serious consideration in designing containers and equipment for product
handling and in facilitating the classification and packing of products at
the point of origin, whether it be on the farm or in rural assembly
facilities (centros de acopio). The National Marketing Program stresses the
need for a long-term pattern of investments in refrigerated storage and
transport to reduce product deterioration, especially of meats, poultry,
fish, dairy products and selected fruits and vegetables.
The Development of Appropriately Designed Rural Assembly Centers for Fruits
and Vegetables
4.04      The classification, packaging and physical handling of fruits and
vegetables at the farm and rural assembly points for the national market is
still in an early stage of development.  This is in sharp contrast to the
sorting, packing and shipping practices that have developed in Northwestern
Mexico (Sinaloa and Baja California areas) for exporting to the United States
and other foreign markets. The conditions are now favorable for the syste-
matic development of a series of rural fruit and vegetable assembly centers
to serve a rapidly expanding and increasingly discriminating domestic
market (paras 5.06 through 5.11). Feasibility studies are now being made by
SARH and SECOFI to provide guidance in locating and designing of appropriate
facilities that will effectively link producer organizations with an
expanding network of urban wholesale markets.
Modernization, Expansion and Relocation of Central Wholesale Markets
4.05      The heavy investments now being made and additional planned invest-
ments in new wholesale markets (centrales de abastos) are major elements in
the modernization of the perishable marketing systems serving Mexico's large
urban centers. Logistical efficiencies in transportation and physical
handling, and a greater degree of market transparency can be achieved as
these new markets become fully operational. However, the potential gains
from the facility investments may fall short of expectations unless there are
concerted efforts to provide the "software" that will complement the new
physical structures. The software should include a well developed national
information network, training and technical assistance programs in wholesale
market operations, and institutional arrangements that permit new entrants
into the markets and increased number of individual wholesale units.   It is
especially important that producer groups be provided access to suitable
warehouse and selling areas in the new central market facilities.



- 17 -
Increased Scale and Coordination in Urban Food Retailing Systems
4.06      The public sector has fostered a small-scale structure of food
retailing through the physical design and the subsidized operation of public
market facilities (mercados publicos).  The same basic reasoning has condoned
the operation of mobile street markets. Although these traditional retailing
systems are likely to persist for some time to come, more efficient and some-
what larger scale retail units can be encouraged through credit, training and
technical assistance programs in support of voluntary chains and retailer
buying groups. Medium and large, full-product line food stores and special-
ized stores handling perishable products can be provided for in the planning
of shopping facilities serving medium- and low-income areas. At present, the
development of private sector retailing is hampered by the promotion of
Government subsidized stores, the administration of retail price controls on
selected basic food items and a system of licensing which impedes the estab-
lishment of new supermarket-type stores.
Development of a National Market Information System
4.07      Considerable public resources are now devoted to the collection of
agricultural statistics and market information. However, accurate and timely
information on prices and market conditions regarding the domestic markets
are generally not available to all market participants. Market intermed-
iaries, especially larger wholesalers, have a considerable information advan-
tage over producers, rural assemblers, and retailers, but there is need for
improvement. There is also a serious lack of timely information on planned
production, but the National Marketing Program has assigned a high priority
to the establishment of a National Market Information Service to provide
reliable, timely and relevant information that will support commercial trans-
actions and public decisions on policies and programs that will better coor-
dinate the food system.
Transportation Sevices
4.08      The rapid growth of demand for transportation services and the
increases in the cost of petroleum-based fuels is forcing a more critical
assessment of transportation policies.  Truck services are not always avail-
able when needed to transport perishable products to wholesale markets, and
costs are relatively high. Existing Government regulations contribute to
underutilization of the agricultural trucking fleet by limiting access to
back-hauls, by prescribing specific routes for commercial carriers, and by
establishing a rigid structure of rates, all of which sometimes encourage
producers and marketing firms to "over-invest" in trucks in order to have
transportation available when needed. Some consideration of a more flexible
regulatory system could contribute to lower cost transportation for perish-
able products.  In large cities, the organization of efficient systems for
delivering products to retail outlets should also be given priority atten-
tion. Transportation coordinating offices in the new urban wholesale markets
could assist truckers in obtaining cargo for return trips to rural trading
centers.
Credit, Technical Assistance and Training
4.09      The Mexican Government has provided substantial support for agri-
cultural production activities through special lines of credit, guaranteed
support prices for basic grains, agricultural technology research, extension,



- 18 -
and professional training.  However, most of this support has been directed
to basic crops and livestock production, with horticultural crops and fruits
receiving relatively little research and extension support.  Also, relatively
little has yet been done to provide services directed toward the development
of an efficient, effective, and progressive marketing system. New lines of
credit are essential to facilitate the smooth flow of agricultural commod-
ities through the marketing process and to stimulate new investments in
facilities and equipment. Well designed programs of training and technical
assistance will also be needed to overcome a serious shortage of middle-level
professionals with specialized skills in market organization and management.
Development of Institutional Capabilities and Insuring Improved
Coordination
4.10      An expanded institutional capability will be critically essential
for developing and administering new marketing programs and related support
activities.  Increased emphasis would have to be directed toward training and
technical assistance, promotion, subproject appraisal and planning and
programming for the preparation of sound investment programs.
B. Government Policy and Strategy
4.11      The Mexican Government has traditionally relied heavily upon
regulations and direct interventions as a means of achieving lower distri-
bution costs on basic foods and aiding low-income consumers. Private sector
intermediaries have often been the targets for political attacks and discri-
minatory actions. There is, however, a growing awareness for the need to
modernize food marketing by providing greater public support for the
development of an efficient and progressive private sector. Early
indications are that the new Government will continue to support this shift
in policy toward private sector, market-oriented development.
4.12      For a number of years, the Government has intervened directly in
the pricing and marketing of basic grains. Price controls have been imposed
to keep food prices low for consumers and support prices have been estab-
lished to accelerate production. Subsidized food distribution operations
have been promoted as a means of combating private sector "speculation" and
"excessive intermediation."  Publicly supported food system research and
education have been directed toward production at the farm level, but rela-
tively little research and extension have been oriented toward problems of
market organization, pricing policies and the operation of private marketing
firms.  Commodity research has also given greater emphasis to basic grains
and livestock, with relatively less attention to fruits and vegetables.  This
emphasis is reflected in the National Food Program (SAM) which establishes a
high priority for achieving self-sufficiency in the production of basic food
crops, mainly grains.
4.13      Recently, the Government has taken steps to develop a more compre-
hensive approach to food system modernization, and FAO and UNDP have provided
technical assistance in assessing marketing problems and in formulating
possible solutions. The Bank of Mexico has undertaken additional studies to
support the development of a newly authorized trust fund, FIDEC, that will



- 19 -
have the capability of providing a broader line of credit for the moderniza-
tion of food marketing through private sector investments. Substantial
public sector investments are being made in an extensive network of wholesale
markets located in the major urban centers.  Private sector wholesalers will
have opportunities to buy or lease warehouse space in these new facilities.
A Presidential Commission (CPD) was created in 1979 to prepare a long-term
(20-year) SIDA Program that provides a framework for coordinated efforts by
both the public and private sectors. In pursuit of this objective, a
Government Decree was issued on September 21, 1981, outlining a broad
framework for engendering improvements in the food distribution system. The
objectives of the program, according to the decree, are to: (a) improve the
nutritional level among impoverished groups; (b) guarantee stable prices to
producers and consumers; (c) increase the food supplies on a more steady and
regular basis; (d) improve the quality of food supplies; (e) increase the
efficiency of entities involved in marketing functions; and (f) strengthen
coordination among private and public sector marketing entities. The Decree
identified several programs to improve marketing infrastructure, transport,
marketing information, finance for marketing investments, marketing
institutions, training and technical assistance.
4.14      The creation of FIDEC and SIDA marked a significant shift in
Government policy toward private sector support and a more comprehensive and
coordinated approach to food system development. The public sector will
continue to have a major role in the promotion and creation of marketing
infrastructure for use by private firms and entrepreneurs in establishing
support services in the areas of market information and standardization and
in the promotion of new private sector initiatives through credit and tech-
nical assistance.
C. Bank Role
4.15      Agriculture remains the predominant sector in the Bank-s lending
program to Mexico and, together with rural development, it accounts for some
46% of total Bank lending.  In dealing with agriculture, the Bank has four
objectives: (a) to increase agricultural productivity; (b) to improve condi-
tions of small-scale producers; (c) to focus on infrastructure, such as
irrigation, as well as extension, marketing and credit; and (d) to promote
employment creation activities in rural areas.  In the past 10 years,
FY73-82, the Bank has approved 18 rural development and agricultural loans
amounting to US$2,265 million. Altogether the agricultural credit projects
have absorbed US$925 million of Bank funds, making the program one of the
largest in the Bank-s agricultural portfolio. The Bank has completed audit
reports on the first six credit projects. These audits point out that while
lending to low income producers increased substantially, significant progress
was made in strengthening the training and technical assistance and
evaluation system. The audits also show that the differential between the
sublending rates and inflation levels accelerated the demand for credit and
deteriorated FIRA's sound financial position. Moreover, the audit shows
certain weaknesses in FIRA's capabilities for sectoral analysis, planning and
programming, and internal control system. However, appropriate measures have
been introduced under the Seventh Credit Project (Loan 1891-ME) to link
sublending rates to the cost of funds and to strengthen FIRA-s institutional
capabilities.



- 20 -
4.16      To date, Bank support for improving marketing has been fragmented
and somewhat limited. Through several agricultural credit and urban
projects, funds have been earmarked for financing public market centers,
wholesale centers, assembly and packing facilities, storage, slaughterhouses
and a network of road systems. While these investments have had some
positive effects, the Bank has not approached marketing in a systematic
manner, providing support to the entire food distribution system.
4.17      The rapidly changing scene in Mexico, calls for better integration
of production, distribution and consumption, and harmonization of marketing
policies and strategy. By underwriting marketing projects and through
regular dialogue, the Bank can be instrumental in assisting the Government to
attain this objective.
4.18      The Government's 20-year national marketing development program is
designed to bring about an orderly development of the subsector. The
proposed project would be the first integrated program to address the entire
food system and would be developed within the framework of the established
national program. Since a comprehensive program, extended over a 15- to
20-year period, would be required for the modernization of the food system,
results under this initial project would be modest; however, the project
would be an important first step in the Government's long-range plan for
marketing development.
V. THE PROJECT
A.  IntrocQGtion
5.01      In pursuit of its objective for modernizing the food distribution
systems throughout the country, the Government has requested Bank assistance
in financing the proposed Agricultural Marketing Project for Perishables.
While the project would support the Government's long-run objectives,
outlined in SIDA, to expand and modernize the food marketing system, the
primary focus would be on a development-oriented investment program,
institutional strengthening, technical assistance and training, and a market
information system. The experience under this first project would provide
the basis for an expanded investment program later.
5.02      Through a series of discussions between the Bank and the
Government, the scope of the study was defined in January 1980. The Bank
assisted in the preparation of a detailed terms of reference for the proposed
study, which was carried out by SCET/AGRI, a French consulting firm, in
collaboration with FIDESA, a local firm. The feasibility study was under-
taken in two phases: The first phase -- outlining a broad strategy for
improving marketing channels and support systems -- was completed in October
1981. The second phase, which outlined a five-year investment program and
provided the basis for appraisal, was completed in March 1982.  The project
was appraised in April 1982. Studies and working papers relating to the
project are listed in Annex 3.



- 21 -
B. Project Strategy and Objectives
5.03      The project would support the following long-term objectives:
(a) expansion and modernization of marketing systems at the
producer, wholesale and retail levels;
(b) reduction of production losses and marketing costs;
(c) development of low-cost food distribution systems for low-
income groups;
(d) adoption of modern technology and improved marketing
practices;
(e) rationalization of production and improvement of product
quality; and
(f) improvement of support services and institutional
capabilities.
5.04      During implementation, the project would also focus on improving
'software" items:  institutional strengthening, technical assistance and
training, and the market information system. In addition, the project would
provide consultant services support to SARH's Agricultural Economic Division
to carry out pertinent marketing studies for planning purposes. The invest-
ment program under the project would be diversified and development-oriented,
covering a wide array of investment possibilities in the food distribution
system for perishables. FIDEC would be the executing agenoy.
C. Brief Description
5.05      The proposed project would be implemented over a two-and-a-half
year period. The productive investment program, accounting for about 96% of
the total project cost, would support development-oriented subprojects by
improving marketing linkages and the level of integration and coordination
within the food system. Investments would allow adoption of modern technol-
ogies of handling, packaging and delivering perishable products that would
reduce product losses and costs, as well as improve the quality of products
delivered to consumers. FIDEC would rediscount funds through the participa-
ting banks; however, at the producer level, FIRA and FICART would also
channel funds through the banking system. Subloans to individual entre-
preneurs, cooperatives, associations and other entities involved in marketing
would be based on technically and financially sound development plans for a
wide array of marketing activities. Selection of sub-borrowers would focus
on modernization of traditional marketing facilities and the construction of
new facilities, with emphasis on development potential and the acceptance and
application of improved and more efficient technology. Traditional markets
that do not accept adequate improved technology would not be supported under
the investment program. The investment mix would also include equipment and
trucks. This would be in keeping with FIDEC's current practices and lending
policy.



- 22 -
D. Detailed Features
Producer-Level Investment
5.06      There are various opportunities and levels of investment that would
assist producers, cooperatives, and producer groups to become more directly
involved in marketing. Increased penetration of producer groups in marketing
functions would reduce the number of marketing transactions and risks and
would ensure a higher level of competition, especially at the wholesale
level, thus improving marketing operations, services and producer income. A
credit line would be established to make funds available for improving and
modernizing existing assembling facilities -- collection centers, packing
plants, and such. Additionally, funds would be available for setting up new
collection and packing facilities, providing storage and refrigeration, and
purchasing machinery, equipment and trucks.
5.07      Producer Distribution Center.  This would be a strategically
located center with access to major metropolitan markets. Typically, a
complex would include a warehouse with ambient and refrigerated storage and
handling facilities. Investments could range from US$2.0 to US$5.0 million,
and the distribution center would be owned and operated by two or more
producer groups that already have full service collection centers with
refrigerated storage and transport.  Fruits and/or vegetables, already graded
and packaged, would be collected at the center and trans-shipped to wholesale
or retail markets in the major cities. The distribution center, which would
operate as a bulking and transit point, would permit participating producers
to bypass local buyers and transit point wholesalers, such as those operating
in Guadalajara and Mexico City, to deal directly with the final wholesale and
retail outlets in the urban centers.
5.08      Markets of Origin.  Markets of origin would be established in major
producing zones. At the market of origin, fruits and vegetables would be
purchased directly from producer and producer groups for delivery to whole-
salers and retailers. The complex, costing between US$1.0 to US$3.0 million,
would include a warehouse and handling facility, with ambient and refriger-
ated storage, and working areas. The facilities could be owned by producer
groups, other private investors and municipalities, or the investment could
be a joint private/public sector venture. Wholesalers and retailers could
also rent space and equipment to clean, grade and package produce for ship-
ment to other consumption points. The facility would allow producers to sell
their goods without having to deal with farmgate buyers and intermediaries.
Likewise, wholesalers and retailers could purchase in large quantities,
bypassing the intermediaries.
5.09      Collection Centers.  While collection centers are widely estab-
lished for the export market, there is presently a need to establish collec-
tion centers catering to the domestic market. The national marketing
program, prepared by CPD and continuing under SECOFI, calls for the
implementation of 17 regional collection centers and 10 specialized centers
as part of a first-phase program. In collaboration with SARIH and SECOFI, CPD
initiated studies in three states -- Puebla, Jalisco and Michoacan -- to
identify investment possibilities, with the participation of producer
groups. This exercise would provide the underpinning for the overall
investment program at the producer level.



- 23 -
5.10      Collection centers financed under the project would specialize in
one to two product lines, while others would include multi-products and
provide technical services to the participants.  The collection centers would
be producer-owned facilities for bulking, cleaning, grading, conditioning,
packaging, ambient and cold storage, and transport of products. Investments
could range from about US$250,000 to US$3.0 million.
5.11      Improvement of Existing Collection Centers.  There is presently a
high demand for investment funds for modernizing and expanding existing
facilities to strengthen marketing operations. Existing centers can be
improved by expansion of structures, addition of refrigerated storage,
installation of new equipment, and transport, including refrigerated trucks.
Emphasis would be placed on refrigerated storage, since it is a key element
in reducing losses through spoilage and shrinkage and providing bargaining
power to the producers by allowing them to hold produce for a longer period.
Investments would vary considerably, ranging from US$250,000 to US$1.0
million.
Transport and Equipment
5.12      Producers and producer groups require transport in order to exer-
cise more control over marketing of their produce and in reducing losses.
Standard and refrigerated trucks would be required, with investments ranging
from US$35,000 for smaller trucks to US$100,000 for large tractor-trailer
refrigerated systems. Equipment for handling produce are needed at collec-
tion centers. Funds would be available to finance equipment at the collec-
tion centers to ameliorate operations. The project would also finance simple
on-farm storage for the less perishable products, such as potatoes and
onions, and on-farm clearing and grading equipment to improve the quality of
produce and allow producers to receive better prices.
Wholesale- and Retail-Level Investment
5.13      At the wholesale level, there is a recognized need to develop new
wholesale facilities to replace outmoded and relatively inefficient markets
that have evolved in heavily congested central city locations. At the same
time, at the retail level, there is a need to shift from the traditional
market facilities toward more modern marketing systems, adopting improved
technology and entrepreneural innovations, with an increased level of
vertical coordination.
5.14      Under the project, funds would be available to support the modern-
ization of wholesale facilities and for the purchase of equipment that would
improve the handling of perishables. In addition, funds would be provided to
wholesalers for investments in warehouses, equipment, storage and refrigera-
tion facilities and trucks. At the retail level, funds would be provided for
the modernization of existing "tiendas" and "centros de comercio" at conven-
ient locations, as well as for modernization and improvement of the func-
tional and operational aspects of well located public markets. Funds would
also be provided for establishing new "centros de comercio" at strategic
locations in new urbanizations. The project would, in addition, have a line
of credit to support the expansion of voluntary chains and retailer group
buying. While there is a wide range of investment possibilities, the
project would, by and large, focus on the marketing types discussed in the
following paragraphs.



- 24 -
5.15      Voluntary Chains and Retailer Group Buying.  On the wholesale and
retail scene, there is rising interest in voluntary chains, including
retailer group buying. A voluntary chain is a commercial organization
consisting of one or more wholesalers and a group of retailers that carry out
joint activities with the objective of reducing the costs of purchasing and
distributing the products handled. Currently, the voluntary chain system is
seen as a dynamic element in a competitive food system composed of corporate
chains, independent wholesalers and retailers, and publicly assisted retail-
wholesale operations.  It has the potential of providing opportunities to
enterprising retailers and wholesalers to achieve many of the cost and profit
advantages of large-scale corporate firms, while maintaining the advantages
of individual ownership and management of retail and wholesale business
units. Some of the same organizational advantages of voluntary chains can be
achieved through retailer initiatives to organize cooperative wholesaling
units.
5.16      With credit, promotion and technical assistance, these types of
wholesaling-retailing systems can be accelerated. The project would provide
funds for renovation and modernization of existing wholesale warehouse facil-
ities, construction of new warehouses, equipment for handling products,
construction of retail facilities, and trucks. Total investments would vary
sharply, ranging from US$250,000 to US$2.5 million.
5.17      Wholesalers Moving into New Wholesalers Markets.  New central
wholesale markets are currently being constructed in Mexico City, Puebla,
Culiacan and Villahermosa. Plans are also going forward for 16 additional
wholesale market facilities in other large and medium-sized cities.
Presently, there is need for investment funds by individual wholesalers to
purchase warehouse space, equipment for product handling, sorting and
packaging, refrigeration, and transport. There is also a need for invest-
ments to adapt the new warehouse space to the particular needs for office
space and sanitary facilities. Investments could vary up to US$0.5 million,
but priority would be given to wholesalers who plan to introduce new handling
and management practices that would reduce product losses and lower oper-
ational costs.
5.18      Retail Units.  The investment program would support retail units
for perishables located in neighborhood shopping areas. There is increasing
evidence that such stores, usually much larger than the typical public market
stall operation, are being established in neighborhoods and have the
potential to adapt improved handling and merchandising methods and operate at
lower per unit costs. Funds would be required for facilities, equipment and
trucks, with total investments as high as US$250,000.
5.19      Retail Units in Low-Income Neighborhoods.  Public municipal markets
have been the traditional way of retailing perishables in urban centers.
These markets are expensive to construct, and the small-scale, rather rigid
organizational layouts have limited the opportunities for achieving larger
volume, lower cost retailing operations. Land is now given to groups of
retailers, such as in Mexico City, to establish retail facilities with the
inherent advantages in economies of scale and site location.  Some municipal-
ities are also now considering lower cost facilities with more flexible space
allocations and a financing arrangement which requires retailers to purchase
and adapt their own retail area in conformance with a general set of
guidelines administered by municipal authorities.  This project would finance
such facilities, with investment costs ranging up to US$2.0 million.



- 25 -
5.20      Wholesale-Retail Market Facilities in Medium-Sized Cities.  A
preliminary program of investments in market facilities in several medium-
sized cities has been prepared by the SIDA group.  This program would be
implemented over the next two to three years, with each facility estimated to
cost about US$2.5 million.  Some of these facilities could be financed under
the project, with FIDEC rediscounting funds through the public banking
system.
National Market Information System
5.21      SIDA Program has assigned a high priority to the establishment of
an effective national marketing information service. The project would
support the Government's National Marketing Information System operated by
SECOFI with support from SARH. The system would provide reliable, complete,
timely and relevant information to support transaction decisions by private
sector firms and entrepreneurs involved in marketing. The information and
data generated by such a system would aid public decisions on policies and
the planning of food supplies in coordination with other sectors of the
economy.
5.22      The information system would include a central information process-
ing and distributing unit to be located in Mexico City. The central unit
would be linked initially to eight central wholesale markets (Mexico City,
Monterrey, Guadalajara, Leon, Puebla, Culiacan, Villahermosa and Merida) and
five assembly centers. The program would include all major agricultural
products, including all perishables. Modern communication equipment would be
used to link the central unit with the various wholesale markets and rural
collection centers. Price and supply information would be assembled and
disseminated each day. Mass communication media (radio, newspaper, TV) would
be used to rapidly diffuse this information to potential users. Daily
bulletins and weekly and monthly summaries would also be prepared for the
private and public sectors. The investment items would include computers,
building facilities, and equipment. A training program for the information
system staff would be supported by specialists with expertise in communica-
tion equipment and systems design and in the market information system.
Planning and Programming
5.23      To enhance FIDEC's capabilities for preparing sound investment
programs and carrying out proper impact analysis for more efficient alloca-
tion of resources, the project would strengthen FIDEC's planning and program-
ming set-up. The Planning and Programming Unit would allow FIDEC to finance
sound subprojects and to carry out studies, including marketing and credit,
to improve operations and penetration in marketing. Provision would be made
for additional personnel and technical services (paras 5.28 and 6.29).
Promotion Program
5.24      A special promotional program would be established to allow FIDEC
to expose potential beneficiaries to the various types of investment programs
supported by FIDEC. The Promotion Unit, which would have specialized staff,
would direct its efforts toward entities in the private and public sectors,
with special attention directed at the commercial banking systems (para
6.22). Project funds would be provided for the acquisition of equipment,
material and incremental staff costs.



- 26 -
training and Technical Assistance
5.25      The training program under the project would focus on short- and
long-term training needs. Overseas training to strengthen FIDEC's technical
department would be provided to suitable candidates who would specialize in
food marketing and management, and in-service training of three to six months
would be offered to technical staff from FIDEC, FIRA, FICART, SARH, SECOM,
the participating banks, and the like, in aspects of rural and urban market-
ing systems, including technological and organizational requirements and
organization of entrepreneurs. Other short-term training, with support from
specialists, would include courses in voluntary chains and retailer group
buying, a national marketing information system, promotion methods, and
identification and evaluation of marketing subprojects (paras 6.25 to 6.27).
5.26      Through its training program and by hiring additional staff, FIDEC
would revamp its technical assistance program to assist potential benefi-
ciaries and provide back-up support to participating banks which would
eventually be responsible for providing technical services to beneficiaries
(para 6.21). Funds under the project would cover incremental staff cost,
equipment, vehicles and overseas training.
Special Studies
5.27      The SIDA Program identified several large urban centers, such as
Guadalajara, Monterrey and Tampico, for central wholesale market construc-
tion, and the national marketing plan also calls for the establishment of a
wholesale meat marketing facility in Mexico. On the basis of CPD-s designa-
tion of priorities, feasibility studies to be included in the second-phase
marketing project would be carried out for at least two central wholesale
facilities.  Additionally, two special studies would be carried out:  First,
an assessment of the transportation industry relating to perishables,
including regulations, with recommendations for improvements, and, second,
an investigation of storage, packaging, and public auction-problems and
recommendations for improvements for the marketing of perishables. For this
exercise, about 90 man-months of technical services would be required.
Technical Services
5.28      Funds would be provided under the project for technical services to
support FIDEC and other participating institutions. Support would focus on
training and technical assistance, FIDEC's planning and programming, and the
national marketing information system. Additionally, support would be
provided to the Agricultural Economic Division of SARH to conduct marketing
studies. About 100 man-months of technical services have been provided under
the project for this purpose.
E. Total Investment Program
5.29      The project would support a total investment program of US$227
million, including contingencies and the Bank front-end fee, of which about
US$81 million, or 36%, is the foreign exchange cost. About 96% of the total
investment program is earmarked for direct investments at the producer,
wholesale and retail levels. The proposed investment program is based on the



- 27 -
participating lending agencies past experience, national and regional
priorities, marketing development strategy, credit delivery capabilities, and
credit absorptive capacity at the various marketing levels.
5.30       Project costs include no allowances for import duties, since the
Government's policy exempts agricultural equipment and materials from import
duties. However, about 3%, or US$5.8 million, of project costs would
represent sales taxes levied on items included in project investments. Base
costs are estimated at end-December 1982. Price contingencies have been
applied to project costs expressed in terms of US dollars on the assumption
that exchange rate adjustments will maintain purchasing power parity between
the US and Mexican currencies. The price inflation, which is estimated at
8.0%, 7.5%, and 7.0% per annum for 1983, 1984, and 1985, respectively, has
been based on Bank estimates of international price increases.
5.31       Costs for 190 man-months of technical services would amount to
US$1.9 million (excluding contingencies), with direct costs (salaries,
allowances, travel and overhead) estimated at US$10,000 per man-month.
Project costs are summarized on page 29.
F. Project Financing
5.32       The proposed Bank loan of US$115 million equivalent, amounting to
about 50% of the project cost, would cover the entire foreign exchange cost
and 23% of the local cost. Financing from the trust funds, other Government
agencies, participating banks, and beneficiaries would amount to 20%, 1%,
10%, and 19%, respectively (Table 4).
5.33       The proposed loan would be made to the Government, through the
National Finance, Inc. (NAFINSA), a Government agency designated to borrow
from the Bank, and the Government would assume the foreign exchange risk.
Funds received by FIDEC from NAFINSA would be in the form of a grant. As
under the Seventh Agricultural Credit Project (Ln. 1891-ME), NAFINSA would
transfer the proceeds of the loan, for the investment program at the producer
level, to FIRA and FICART on the same terms and conditions as those governing
the Bank loan to NAFINSA. About US$6.5 million (excluding contingencies) of
the total program is earmarked for the productive support, institutional
support, special studies and technical services components of the project.
Local counterpart funds (US$3.0 million, excluding contingencies) for these
components would be provided by the Government through regular budgetary
allocations. Since June 1982, the Government has purchased equipment for the
national information system (para 5.21) in accordance with local procedures
normally acceptable to the Bank and has also made development investments in
marketing facilities (para 5.06 to 5.20) that would be eligible for finance
under the project.  Since these investments were envisaged to be financed out
of the proceeds of the loan, subject to Bank review, US$3.0 million has been
provided for retroactive finance. As it is the Government's intention to
capitalize FIDEC with the proceeds of the Bank loan, repayments of FIRA and
FICART to the project account would be transferred to FIDEC.  The Government
would repay the principal amount of the Bank loan, together with interest and
other charges. The closing date for disbursements would be June 30, 1987.



- 28 -
G. Procurement
5.34      Bulk purchasing under ICB would not be feasible, since sublending
activities would be widely distributed geographically, cover a variety of
investment activities, and involve a large number of sub-borrowers. An
adequate selection of machinery and equipment is available to sub-borrowers
through local and international suppliers. The trust funds would require
sub-borrowers to obtain quotations from several sources of supply, whenever
practicable, for goods and civil works to be financed under subloans.
Equipment and vehicles for the productive support (marketing information
system) and the institutional support (promotion, training, and technical
services) components (US$2.0 million excluding contingencies) would be
procured through the borrower's ordinary procedures, which insure competition
and are acceptable to the Bank. The services of specialists to be financed
under the technical services and special studies components would be procured
in accordance with Bank guidelines.
5.35      For public marketing facilities, each contract for civil works in
excess of US$1,000,000 would be procured through international competitive
bidding.  Contracts for civil works below this threshold would be procurred
on the basis of local competitive bidding procedures, which are satisfactory
to the Bank. Under the productive investment component, civil works for
marketing facilities would be procured by sub-borrowers using local
contractors, as is the standard procedure in Mexico. Similarly, machinery
and equipment of various types would be purchased by private entrepreneurs.
However, the trust funds would make available to prospective sub-borrowers a
list of suppliers of agroindustrial, materials-handling, transportation and
refrigeration equipment, including in it those from Bank member countries and
Switzerland, as well as their agents or representatives in Mexico. The trust
funds would apply suitable procedures, either directly or through the finan-
cial intermediaries, to ensure that goods and services procured using project
financing are competitive in quality and price, and are appropriate for the
needs to be addressed. After the proposed loan is signed, FIDEC would adver-
tise locally and notify all embassies in Mexico of Bank member countries that
manufacture equipment of the type likely to be procured under the project,
and Switzerland, of the details of the project, giving broad particulars of
the types of machinery and equipment likely to be required. Assurances on
the points outlined in this and the preceding paragraph were obtained during
negotiations.



MEXICO
AGRICULTURAL MARKETING PROJECT FOR PERISHABLES
Total Investment Program
Local         Foreign       Total          Local        Foreign       Total       F.E.%
---------Mex$ millio ----------            ---------US$ million--------
I. Productive Investment
Medium- and Long-term Investment
Producer Level                                5,600.0        3,000.0       8,600.0         56.0         30.0         86.0        35
Wholesale and Retail Level                    6,900.0        3,700.0      10,600.0         69.0         37.0        106.0         35
Subtotal                                   12,500.0       6,700.0       19,200.0       125.0          67.0        192.0        35
II. Productive Support
National Marketing Information System              150.0         150.0          300.0         1.5          1.5           3.0        50
III. Institutional Support
Planning and Programming                            20.0          10.0           30.0         0.2          0.1           0.3        33
Promotion Program                                   30.0          10.0           40.0         0.3          0.1           0.4        25         x
Training and Technical Assistance                   20.0          10.0           30.0         0.2          0.1           0.3        33
Subtotal                                       70.0           30.0         100.0          0.7          0.3          1.0        30
IV.  Special Studies                                        50.0         100.0         150.0          0.5          1.0          1.5        67
V.  Technical Services                                    30.0           70.0         100.0          0.3          0.7          1.0        70
VI.  Investment Cost (Baseline)                        12,800.0       7,050.0       19,850.0        128.0         70.5        198.5        36
VII.  Price Contingencies                                1,780.0          980.0       2,760.0         17.8          9.8         27.6         36
VIII.  Total Investment Cost                             14,580.0        8,030.0      22,610.0        145.8         80.3        226.1         36
IX.  Front-end Fee on Bank Loan                                           90.0          90.0         -             0.9          0.9       100
X.  Total Financing Required                          14,580.0       8,120.0       22,700.0       145.8          81.2        227.0        36
March 9, 1983



- 30 -
H. Disbursements
5.36       All project funds are expected to be committed over two and
one-half years, and proceeds of the Bank loan are expected to be disbursed
over approximately four years. Disbursements would be made against the
following categories:
(a) 60% of the value of rediscounts extended for medium-and
long-term investments at the producer level, for a total of
US$44.5 million;
(b) 60% of the value of rediscounts extended for medium- and
long-term investments at the wholesale and retail levels, for
a total of US$55.0 million;
(c) 60% of the value of rediscounts extended for voluntary chains
and low income producers for a total amount of US$5.7 million;
(d) 100% of the foreign exchange or 50% of the eligible
expenditures under the productive and institutional support
components of the project, for a total amount of US$3.0
million;
(e) 75% of the cost of eligible expenditures under the special
studies and technical services components of the project, for
a total amount of US$2.3 million;
(f) 100% of expenditures related to the front-end-fee on the Bank
loan, for a total amount of US$0.9 million; and
(g) an allocated amount of US$3.6 million.
5.37        Disbursements under the project would be made against correspond-
ing statements of expenditure submitted through FIDEC and NAFINSA and summary
supporting documentation as required by the Bank. All additional relevant
documentation would be retained by the respective implementing agency and
made available for inspection by the Bank during the course of project super-
vision. Disbursements against statements of expenditure under Bank loans
with FIRA and FICART have been generally satisfactory. A revolving fund of
US$10 million (equivalent to 60 days expenditures) would be established to
accelerate project implementation and facilitate disbursements. The
estimated schedule of disbursements by the Bank (Table 5) assumes that the
date of effectiveness of the proposed loan would be August 1983. This
schedule of disbursements has been forecast, based upon Bank experience in
lending for agricultural credit in Mexico under Loans 1217-ME, 1569-ME and
1891-ME.
I. Accounts and Auditing
5.38       FIDEC would maintain separate project accounts consistently,
applying sound accounting practices and a system of internal control adequate
to reflect the financial situation of the project.  The project accounts



- 31 -
would also include all project transactions originated through FIRA and
FICART.  An audit, satisfactory to the Bank, would be made of the accounts,
project accounts and financial statements of FIDEC for each fiscal year in
accordance with sound auditing principles consistently applied by independent
and qualified auditors appointed by the Secretary of Finance and Public
Credit (SHCP) and the Bank of Mexico. The accounting systems of FIRA and
FICART are currently considered satisfactory. Their accounts and financial
statements have been audited by reputable and qualified Mexican auditing
firms and all audit reports on FIRA and FICART have been unqualified to
date. In addition, the Bank of Mexico's internal audit department
periodically reviews FIRA-s financial activities and accounts and this review
would be extended to FIDEC.
5.39      Certified copies of the audited financial statements inclusive of
the project accounts of FIDEC, FIRA and FICART, together with the report of
the auditors, would be submitted to the Bank no later than six months after
the close of each fiscal year. Adequate accounts and records would also be
maintained within all the participating banks, so as to identify all transac-
tions pertaining to FIDEC, FIRA and FICART rediscounted subloans. Bank
supervision missions would have access to such accounts and other documents
pertaining to lending operations within the project.  Assurances on these
points were obtained during negotiations.
VI. PROJECT ORGANIZATION AND IMPLEMENTATION
6.01      The proposed project would be carried out by FIDEC (Annex 1), with
support from other public agencies, such as SECOM, SARH and SCHP. FIRA and
FICART, which have established good reputations, would participate directly
in the investment program at the producer level (Annex 1). SECOFI would be
responsible for the coordination of the national marketing program, and would
continue to take appropriate measures to harmonize the efforts of public
agencies involved in marketing. Assurances were obtained at negotiations
that SECOFI would continue to be responsible for coordination among
participating entities (Charts 5 and 6y.
6.02      While FIDEC is emerging as an important institution to promote
development in marketing, there is need for some institutional improvements.
The project would assist FIDEC in (a) training and technical assistance;
(b) planning and programming; and (c) a promotional program. Further, the
project would also strengthen FIDEC's capabilities for gathering data on food
supply and demand, performing subsector analyses, and identifying sub-
projects, preparing sound investment programs, and carrying out subproject
technical and financial analyses.
6.03      FIDEC has now prepared a plan to streamline institutional changes,
focusing on organizational structure and technical staffing requirements
(Chart 6). Considering FIDEC's expanded role in marketing development, its
overall plan for institution building and hiring additional professional
staff is sound and reasonable. However, in the interim period, while FIDEC
would be expanding its institutional capabilities, the project would make
provision for consultant services to provide logistical support to FIDEC and
to train its staff (para 6.29).



- 32 -
6.04      Under its plan, FIDEC would continue to have two line departments
below the Director: the Technical Department and the Administrative
Department (Chart 6). However, the Technical Department would be upgraded by
creating four divisions -- Planning and Programming, Subproject Analysis,
Promotion, and Technical Assistance and Training (Chart 7). Additionally, an
Office of Legal Advisor would be established to assist the Director on legal
matters pertaining to FIDEC's operations. In the administrative area, FIDEC,
with support from the Bank of Mexico, would establish a data base management
system and improve its monitoring capabilities. The data base system would
ensure timely availability of data to various user groups within FIDEC and
ensure FIDEC's internal control of its lending operations.
6.05      To support these institutional changes, FIDEC would hire additional
technical staff: one specialist and four analysts for planning and program-
ming; one specialist and two analysts for data base system; four specialists
for training and technical services; and one specialist and two analysts for
promotion. The specialists would be senior-level staff with broad-based
experience. Assurances were obtained during negotiations that FIDEC would
carry out a plan of action to introduce appropriate organizational changes
and hire additional staff.
A. Institutional Participation
6.06      The investment program at the producer level would be carried out
jointly by FIDEC, FIRA and FICART. FIDEC would maintain necessary liaison
with key agencies -- consisting of representatives from SHCP, the Secretary
of Programming and Budgeting (SPP), SARH, NAFINSA, SECOFI, FIRA and FICART --
to review and coordinate the overall strategy for lending at the producer
level.  Assurances were obtained on the above at negotiations.  The
coordination among the participating institutions would provide direction and
guidelines on policy matters and on the Government's national and sectoral
priorities. The coordination group would also approve the lending program
and review the operations and results of each of the three trust funds'
designated programs.  To monitor the flow of funds under this component,
FIDEC would maintain separate project accounts and a system of internal
control to adequately reflect the financial situation of the program at the
producer level (para 5.38).
6.07      SECOFI, in collaboration with FIDEC and SARH, would be responsible
for the implementation of the marketing information component of this program
(paras 5.21 and 5.22). Assurances to this effect were obtained at
negotiations. The operational arrangements, which would contain the
blueprints for the marketing information program, would include detailed
features of the component, a complete breakdown of the investment and
recurrent costs, budgetary requirements and implementation schedule. Prior
to receiving annual budgetary allocations from SHCP, SECOFI would obtain
FIDEC's approval on its annual work program and budgetary requirements.
6.08      To improve the quality of technical services for marketing at the
producer level, FIDEC and SARH would cooperate to ensure appropriate
marketing training for field-level extension workers. SARH would engage
appropriate subject matter specialists to support the field staff of SARH and
other agencies, such as FIRA and FICART. Technical services would be



- 33 -
provided under the project to assist with the planning and preparation of the
training program and to support the Economic Division within SARH to carry
out marketing studies. Assurances on the above were obtained during
negotiations. In addition, FIDEC would obtain a commitment from SARH that
its Economic Unit would undertake appropriate studies to support the
rationalization of production of perishable products. Studies would be
carried out at the local, regional and national levels, focusing on consumer
preferences and demand, and production patterns and trends. Areas of
comparative advantages would be identified for various products and this
information would be used in developing a proposed pattern of seasonal
production and marketing.
6.09      FIDEC, in collaboration with SECOFI, would identify priority cities
for modernizing wholesale marketing centers for perishables under the special
studies component (para 5.27). The studies of the wholesale markets would
include feasibility reports, which would ascertain the technical, financial
and economic viability of the proposed investment and include final designs
to assist in these studies.  The project would provide for about 90 man-
months of technical services for studies, including wholesale marketing
centers; special studies relating to the transportation services for
perishables; and other factors related to marketing of perishables, including
storage, packaging and public auctions. Assurances were obtained during
negotiations that FIDEC, by December 1, 1983, would submit to the Bank,
for review and approval, a detailed program for the studies, the terms of
reference of each study, the budgetary requirements and a timetable for
carrying out the studies. Guidelines for the studies were prepared during
negotiations and are contained in the project file.
B. Sublending Policies and Procedures
Beneficiaries
6.10      Project beneficiaries would comprise the normal clientele of FIDEC,
FIRA and FICART, including individual entrepreneurs, producer associations,
cooperatives, voluntary chains, groups of wholesalers and retailers, and
municipalities. Investments would be development-oriented and would focus on
those subprojects which incorporate improved technology and management, inno-
vations, economies of scale and vertical coordination and integration, and
improved marketing operations. To ensure that investments would be based on
sound subprojects, guidelines would be established.  The Government has
completed preparation of standards and norms for most of the specific kinds
of investments in facilities for marketing at the production, wholesale and
retail levels of the food system.
6.11      The standards published by SUDE, CPD, FIRA and FIDEC (which are
satisfactory to the Bank) provide guidelines for private and public entities
on the feasibility, size, location and design of facilities contemplated for
investments. These standards and norms are development-oriented, promoting
the use of improved technology and modern packaging, grading and product
handling methods. With further experience and as the investment program for
improving marketing is advanced, FIDEC and SECOFI intend to modify the guide-
lines on a continuous basis.



- 34 -
Lending Terms and Conditions
6.12       Sublcans would be made by the participating banks on the basis of
sound development plans appraised by bank technicians. Participating banks
would meet a set of eligibility criteria, established by the individual trust
funds, in order to participate in the project. The eligibility criteria have
been reviewed under ongoing projects, such as Loans 1891-ME and 1945-ME, and
are satisfactory. These criteria were reviewed again during negotiations.
The discount rates to the participating banks would take into consideration
the cost of borrowing by the trust funds, the rate of inflation, and the
commercial interest rates.  The rates would also provide sufficient
incentives for the participating banks to engage in the proposed lending
program.
6.13      Based on past experience, the ability of the trust funds to control
the quality of subloan appraisal is adequate, and, through the training pro-
gram (paras 6.25 to 6.27) to be initiated under the project, this aspect of
the trust fund operations is expected to be refined and improved. The oper-
ations and procedures manuals presently used by FIRA and FICART and those to
be prepared by FIDEC under the project (para 6.20) would serve as useful
guides to bank technicians for subloan appraisal.
6.14      Once subloans have been approved, supervision would formally be the
responsibility of the participating banks. However, the trust funds would
provide back-up technical assistance to project beneficiaries if the need
should arise. Moreover, staffs of the trust funds would routinely visit a
sample of subprojects to ensure that project funds are used as intended.
6.15      Subloans would be extended in accordance with the lending criteria
of the various trust funds, as spelled out in their respective operations and
procedures manuals. Financing requirements and grace and repayment periods
would be determined on a case-by-case basis. Subloans would bear a floating
interest rate and the level of interest rates charged would be linked to an
index of the cost of funds (ACF) within the banking system in the country.
Interest rates would be adjusted at least every three months, with rates
established on January 1, April 1, July 1 and October 1 each year, taking
into account the movements in the ACF and the administrative costs. The
sublending terms and conditions would be as follows:



- 35 -
Summary of Key ParameL_rs Prop sed for Sublending Operations
Maximum          Minimum
Spreae' on      Interest
Redis ount       Rates on
Minimum Bene-                       to 7artir-pa-  Sub_ ans
ficiary Contri-   Subloan           ting Banks       (expressed
bution (as per-   Rediscount    (expressed as  as an
Type of Sub-         centage of          (as percen-   an annual          annual int.
loan and           Investment          tage of Sub-  interest rate  rate per-
Beneficiary          Project Cost)       loan amount)  percentage)    centage)l/
Part A of the                20                 70              3          ACF
Project
(producers,
except low
income groups)
Part B of the
Project (except
voluntary chains)
a) Wholesalers             20                 70              3          ACF + 2
b) Retailers               20                 70              3          ACF + 1
Voluntary
chains and
low-income
producer groups 2/           20                 70              4         ACF - 5
1/ ACF of the last month preceding the quarter.
2/ Voluntary chain means an association of one or more wholesale and/or a
group oi retailers.  Low-income producer means k group of low-income
producers, of which at least two-thirds of its members have an individual
annual net income not exeeding the sum of 1,000 times the respective regional
minimum wage. Bank financing for these categories of beneficiaries would not
exceed 5% of the total loan amount (US$5.7 million).
6.16       The ACF, which reflects the average cost of funds is a weighted
average of the interest rates paid by banks and other financing institutions
on bonds and certificates of deposits, excluding checking and saving
accounts, averaged about 46.5% during the period August through October 1982,
and was 45.5% in November 1982. Since inflation has increased significantly
in recent months, averaging between 80 and 100%, the ACF indices have been
lagging considerably. Generally, as the change in inflation moderates, the
ACF and inflation rates equalize over time. Past trends show that, although
there is a lag, the ACF generally follows the level of inflation. In 1981,
for example, ACF and the rate of inflation averaged about 29% each. With the
Government's stabilization program, as agreed with the International Monetary
Fund, it is expected that inflation will decline sharply over time, for
example, from 100% in 1982 to about 55% in 1983. The Government intends to
maintain interest rates at levels to ensure efficient mobilization and
allocation of resources. However, in the event that the adjustment program
is carried out more slowly than expected, the Bank would review the situation
with the Government by February 1, 1984.



- 36 -
6.17      For investment amounts in excess of US$1.5 million equivalent, the
trust funds would obtain approval from the 3ank prior to making subloan
commitments. Assurances on this, as well as on other sublending policies and
procedures discussed above, were obtained at negotiations.
Financial and Economic Criteria
6.18      For each subloan, the participating banks would prepare an invest-
ment and financing plan as well as a pro forma income and operating expense
statement, a cash flow projection and a computation of the financial rate of
return on the investment to be made.
6.19      Since the proposed project is viewed as sector lending, the trust
funds would have the responsibility of ensuring the economic soundness of
subloans. As calculation of the economic rate of return for every sub-
project is impractical, each trust fund would carry out postproject impact
assessments of representative subprojects financed under the project, with a
view to assuring that generic types of project investments yield economic
rates of return at least equal to the opportunity cost of capital in Mexico.
The analysis would be in keeping with the framework adopted by FIRA under
loan 1891-ME. The results of the various postproject impact assessments
would be made available to the Bank and reviewed periodically by supervision
missions. Assurances on the above were obtained at negotiations.
Operations and Procedures Manuals
6.20      To support 4-ts investment program and to provide direction and
guidelines to FIDEC field offices, FIRA, FICART and participating banks,
FIDEC would compile operations and procedures manuals. The manuals would
describe various lending programs eligible for FIDEC rediscounts, with a
definition of the lending terms and conditions under each program (lending
policies and procedures, definition of beneficiaries, subloan eligibility
criteria, subborrower contribution, interest and rediscount rates and lending
terms and conditions). Further, the manuals would provide guidelines for
investment criteria, preparation of investment plans, methodology for subloan
appraisal, subloan approval authority, and accounting and reporting
requirements. During negotiations, an assurance was obtained that FIDEC
would prepare operations and procedures manuals by August 31,
1983, reflecting its investment program and policies, and update these
manuals periodically to account for changes in its operations.
C. Technical Assistance
6.21      Technical assistance would be provided to beneficiaries by the
technicians employed by the participating banks, with back-up support from
technicians of the trust funds. At the producer level, technical support
would be provided to organize producers into groups, associations or coopera-
tives to assume marketing functions. SARH, as part of the SIDA program (para
5.09) and with the assistance of consultants from the Interamerican Institute
for Agricultural Sciences (IICA), has initiated a program to identify and
organize farmer groups and provide marketing technical support. Other areas
of support would include: assistance to producer organizations to become
familiar with modern technology and improved marketing operations; support to
producer organizations to manage and operate efficiently assembling centers



- 37 -
and other marketing facilities; assistance to producers to plan production
timing relative to seasonality in demand and prices; and assistance to
producers to improve product quality to better benefit from grading and
packaging innovations. Likewise, at the wholesale and retail level, tech-
nical services would be directed toward improving the marketing operations of
those adopting entrepreneurial innovations and modern technology. Assistance
would also be provided to beneficiaries for product handling, grading,
packaging and storage technologies. Additionally, support would be provided
to retailers and wholesalers to form voluntary chains and retailer groups for
improving operating efficiencies. FIRA and FICART each have an established
cadre of technical staff which would be available principally to assist bene-
ficiaries at the producer level. In the case of FIDEC, which is expected to
lend principally at the wholesale and retail levels, but increasingly at the
producer level as well, specialist staff for technical assistance would be
increased under the project through the establishment of a Technical
Assistance and Training Division (para 6.04). In addition, through the
technical services component of the project (para 5.28), participating
institutions would have access to consultant services in areas such as
operations of voluntary chains, handling products and extension services for
marketing development, and improving marketing operations. Technical
services would enable the participating institutions to strengthen their own
capacity to deliver technical assistance to credit beneficiaries.
D. Promotion Program
6.22      An important element of institution building under the project
would be development of a Promotion Unit within FIDEC (para 5.24). This
unit, which would have its own small but specialized staff, would oversee the
development of promotional materials and media presentations designed to
inform a variety of audiences -- such as the lending institutions, producers,
wholesaler and retailer associations, state and local Governments, and
individual entrepreneurs -- about FIDEC's policies and programs. Activities
under the promotion program are expected to generate demand for FIDEC's
funds, which is especially important for FIDEC's growth since it is the
newest and least established of the three trust funds participating in the
project.
E. Planning and Programming and Impact Assessment
6.23      Since FIDEC's lending program is likely to grow rapidly over the
years, there is need to strengthen its planning and programming capabilities
in order to enable FIDEC to prepare sound short- and medium-term investment
programs, which take into account Government policies and programs in the
commercial sector. Moreover, since FIDEC does not as yet have the capability
to undertake post-project impact assessment or direct special studies which
could influence lending policies, it is important that such capacity be
developed in the institution.
6.24      Under the project, these institutional aspects would be strength-
ened through the establishment within FIDEC of a Division of Planning and
Programming, which would be staffed with at least five professionals. This
unit would conduct or direct studies related to FIDEC's activities, carry out
credit demand analysis and impact studies for selected subprojects, and



- 38 -
prepare short- and medium-term strategic and budgetary plans for FIDEC.  In
carrying out its work, the group would liase closely with other public and
private agencies active in marketing development, such as the SECOFI, SARH,
SHCP, SPP, FIRA, BANOBRAS, the commercial banks, and relevant private sector
organizations. Among the outputs expected from the planning group would be
proposals for projects suitable for financing by multi-lateral banks. While
the proposed group would be operating on a small scale, experience would be
drawn from FIRA-s Division of Programming and Planning, which has been
operating quite successfully under the ongoing Bank project (Loan 1891-ME).
F. Training Program
6.25      The study of food systems organization and management -- which
embraces agricultural marketing -- is new in Mexico, and very few persons
within the public and/or private sectors appear to have had much systematic
exposure to the subject.  Few educational institutions offer courses in the
applied aspects of food marketing; however, a small number of institutions
such as FIRA and the Trust Fund for the Preinvestment Studies (FONEP) already
teach applied project analysis, although with little emphasis on the analysis
of marketing projects.  There is therefore a variety of unmet training needs
at various levels of the production and distribution system and considerable
scope to develop and institutionalize a range of curricula in various aspects
of food systems management in Mexico. It will, however, no doubt take much
effort and many years to develop and implement programs to meet overall
requirements for training in the area of marketing. Development of an effec-
tive training program would require a major effort, assisted by consultants
over a long period of time, in order to meet the overall training require-
ments.
6.26      Within the proposed project, which is expected to be implemented
over about two and one-half years, the main training objective would be to
identify and satisfy priority in-service training needs for middle-level
technical staff of the banks participating in the project and, through
technical assistance, begin to assist credit beneficiaries as well. A
further objective would be to have prepared a more comprehensive and detailed
training program to be implemented in future years, possibly in the context
of future marketing projects.  Objectives under the training program, while
important, have been deliberately kept modest on account of the embryonic
state of institutional development in FIDEC and the short project
implementation period.
6.27      In keeping with the above objectives, FIDEC would establish a
division of technical assistance and training (para 6.04) internally, to be
staffed by a training specialist and three specialists with expertise in
various aspects of food systems management.  3/ It is expected that these
staff, under the direction of the training specialist, would quickly identify
key training needs within FIDEC and other institutions participating in the
project and develop a program of in-service training for selected staff,
3/ Such as design of marketing facilities, organization and operation of
voluntary chains, operation of facilities handling perishable and non-
perishable products, and operation of collection centers.



- 39 -
using the facilities, where possible, of established training institutes such
as FONEP or FIRA in Mexico, or selected institutes overseas for study tours.
To support the activities mentioned above, the training and technical
services portion of the institutional support component of the project would
provide funds for incremental staff within FIDEC, as well as for several
study tours and in-service courses. In addition, the technical assistance
component of the project would provide funds which could be used by FIDEC to
hire short-term consultants to provide complementary expertise to develop
and/or implement training activities, including preparation of a longer term
training program to suport marketing development.
G. Monitoring and Evaluation
6.28      Quarterly progress reports summarizing project performance, subloan
disbursements by categories (beneficiaries, principal activities, and subloan
size) and rediscounts by each of the participating trust funds would be
submitted to the Bank by FIDEC no later than 60 days after the end of each
quarter. More detailed reports -- which would include subproject costs and
subloan commitments and disbursements by categories, lending by activities
and regions, type and number of beneficiaries, extent of participating bank
financing in subloans financed, and a breakdown of investments and
rediscounts by activities financed for each participating trust fund -- would
be prepared semi-annually and submitted by FIDEC to the Bank no later than
three months after the end of each six-month period.  FIDEC would also send
the Bank annually (a) a summary of reports submitted to each of the trust
funds by participating banks, showing overdue payments on outstanding
subloans financed under the project; (b) a summary statement of changes in
its own staffing on an overall and regional basis; (c) a statement on the
activities carried out and planned under its training and technical
assistance programs and an assessment of their effectiveness; and (d) the
status of technical staffing in participating banks. Within 12 months of
the closing date of the Bank loan, FIDEC would submit a Project Completion
Report, prepared in accordance with Bank guidelines. Assurances on the above
points were obtained at negotiations.
H. Technical Services
6.29      The technical services component of the project provides funds for
100 man-months of technical services for institutional support, the national
marketing information system and training. These funds would be administered
by FIDEC and used for purposes related to implementation of the project. An
indicative list of the types of specialists that might be hired would be
experts in communication systems, marketing data and training for work with
SECOFI related to the marketing information system (14 man-months); experts
in marketing extension training for work with SARH to improve training of
agricultural extensionists in the area of marketing (14 man-months); experts
in the organization and operation of voluntary chains and design and
operation of various types of produce-handling facilities to strengthen
FIDEC's technical assistance capabilities (36 man-months); and project
analysis and market sector analysis to assist FIDEC in up-grading its
planning and programming capabilities and improving its investment program
(36 man-months).



- 40 -
VII. PROJECT BENEFITS AND RISKS
A. Illustrative Investment Plans
7.01      Subloans would be made to producers, wholesalers and retailers of
perishable products, whether acting alone or in groups, for a wide range of
investments related to technical and organizational improvement of marketing
facilities. Typical investments might include, but will not be limited to,
cold storage facilities, fruit and vegetable collection centers, refrigerated
trucks, warehouses incorporating improved materials-handling technologies,
and food retailing facilities with improved layouts, display facilities and
operating methods. Subloan amounts would therefore vary considerably by the
type and scale of activity financed. Subloans would be based on sound finan-
cial and economic development plans, including rate of return analysis,
following the criteria established by FIDEC, FIRA and FICART. Based on the
experience of FIDEC, FIRA and FICART and the activities of the CPD group, 11
investment plans have been selected to demonstrate a range of investment
mixes, development concepts and financial and economic results.  The table on
page 42 summarizes the financial and economic results of each investment
plan; details are in Annex 2. The various investment plans yield attractive
financial and economic returns and provide substantial increases in benefi-
ciaries income. These factors should provide ample incentives for benefi-
ciary participation in the project.
B. Project Benefits
7.02      Within the context of Mexico's marketing sector and the potential
for investments, the project would be a relatively modest first step toward
implementing an integrated marketing plan (viewed within the framework of a
15- to 20-year period) to modernize the food distribution system. The
project is a first step in the process, and with continued and expanded
development efforts, benefits would accrue (overtime) in terms of efficiency
and increased productivity.
7.03      The project would increase public support for the development of an
efficient private sector by creating favorable investment conditions. Post-
harvest losses and marketing costs would be reduced and the quality and
distribution of produce improved, thereby benefiting producers and con-
sumers. The producers would benefit from the development of a modern market-
ing system with improved channels to the wholesale level, including direct
penetration of producer groups in wholesale and retail operations, thus
enhancing competition and benefiting the consumer. The development of
grading standards would encourage producers to improve quality. Better
marketing information would permit producers to modulate flow of products
from the farm, reducing the risks of over-supply and produce losses.
7.04      Wholesalers and retailers would also improve marketing operations
through the use of modern technology and better management practices. More
reliable and improved supplies and better product quality through improved
storage and refrigeration would benefit merchants and consumers. Improved
sanitary conditions and reduction of congestion and pollution in urban market
areas would reduce health risks and release urban lands for other social and
productive uses.



- 41 -
7.05      As shown in the table on page 42, at the beneficiary level, invest-
ment subprojects are expected to yield financial and economic rates of return
ranging from 14% to 48% and result in substantial increases in the real
incomes of beneficiaries. The wide range of rates of return observed
reflects the spectrum of levels in organization and the types of investments
likely to be undertaken.
7.06      The project would have substantial impact on institution building.
At the national level, apart from assisting implementation of the programs
defined by CPD, the marketing information system would improve marketing
efficiency by making marketing transactions more "transparent," resulting in
benefits to producers and consumers alike. Through the project, FIDEC-s
capabilities should improve greatly.  Experienced staff are expected to be
hired to provide technical assistance in various aspects of food marketing
facility design and operations and to develop a sound and varied training
program to meet the priority needs of FIDEC's own staff; staff from other
public sector institutions such as FIRA, FICART and BANOBRAS; participating
banks; and project beneficiaries. Development of a planning and programming
group within FIDEC would enable FIDEC to prepare short- and medium-term
investment programs in accordance with national priorities and economic needs
and to carry out impact assessments of its investment programs. Operating
regulations and procedures manuals would allow FIDEC to provide better
direction and guidelines to its staff and to staff of participating banks.
Moreover, introduction of a data-based management system within FIDEC would
facilitate managerial decisions and the internal control of FIDEC's
operations.
7.07      Finally, adoption of a uniform structure of lending terms within
FIDEC, FIRA and FICART for lending at the producer, wholesale and retail
levels would promote institutional efficiency through competition and
efficiency in the allocation of resources in the agricultural sector.
C. Project Cash Flow
7.08      Cash flow projections (Table 6) for the project account, to be
maintained in FIDEC, indicate that a substantial surplus would be generated
for distribution to the trust funds over the life of the project, since the
Government would repay the Bank loan directly. However, because of the
normal time lag between subloan disbursements by the trust funds and Bank
disbursements to the project account, it is expected that a deficit of about
US$20 million would be sustained by the project account during the first year
of project implementation. This deficit would have to be financed by the
trust funds through lines of credit to the banking system or from their
liquid reserves.
D. Cost Recovery
7.09      Investments amounting to 96% of total project costs would be
recovered through the credit component of the project. Other costs totalling
about US$8.3 million for the national marketing information system, institu-
tional support, special studies and technical services components, together
with related price contingencies and the front-end fee on the Bank loan,
would ultimately be met from public funds.



MEXICO
Agricultura' Marketing Project for Perishables
Investnent Plans_- Summary of Results
----Investment Cost -----                   --------Net Cash Flow 1/---------
(US$000 eqL valent)                              (US$000 equivalent)
Financial      Economic
Without                     With                Rate of         Rate of
Subloan        :.;rrower's                  Investment               Investmcent             Return 2/       Return 3/
Amount       Co tribution       Total         Loan                    _ Loan __                  7 I          _ _    _
(Full Development Year)
A-:  Complementary Refrigerated Storage for Fruits and
Vegetables                                                   302              72             374 4/       -                  74          (12)              18             19
A.2  Apple Collection and Cold Storage Center                        269              65             335 4/       -                 141           (5)              44            48
A.3  Regional Vegetable Collection Center                          2,250             535          2,785 4/        -                 717          (12)              22            24
A.4  Vegetable Collection Center                                     352              85            437 4/        -                 191           (9)              36            39
A.5  Producers  Distribution Center                                1,510             367          1,878           -                 559           (7)              32            32
B.1  Renovation of a 1,000 m2 Wholesale Warehouse
Within a Voluntary Chain                                     243              61             304         104                206          (12)              15             15
B.2  Construction of a 2,000 m2 Wholesale Warehouse
Operated Independently                                       987             939           1,926 4/       -                 398          (10)              18             18
B.3  Construction of a 2,000 m2 Wholesale Warehouse
Within a Voluntary Chain                                   1,089           1,037           2,126 4/       -                 534          (10)              20             20
C.1  Construction of a 220 m2 Self-Service Store
Operated Independentl                                        129              32             163 5/       -                  40          (12)              31             31
C.2  Construction of a 220 m2 Self-Service Store
Operated Within a Voluntary Chain                            117              29             148 5/       -                  51           (6)              43             43
C.3  Renovation of a 80 m2 Retail Store Affiliated
With a Voluntary Chain                                         10              3              14 5/       2                    5         (16)              14             14
1/ Before taxes.
2/ On all financial resouirces invested.
3/ Economic rates of return have been computed using the following assumptions:   (a) since there is little difference between financial and economic values of the
commodities processed and the individual projects are likely to induce spillover benefits as well, ftnancial benefits are taken to represent the lower bound of
economic benefits; and (b) financial costs have been adjusted (when data permit) by deducting sales taxes and shadow pricing unskilled labor at 80% of Its market
wage.
4/ Including capitalized interest during construction.
5/ A portion of the investment cost is financed by beverage distrtbuttors.
May 27, 1982



- 43 -
E. Project Risks
7.10      The project does not present any special risk in terms of the
technical and financial soundness of various investment programs that would
be financed under the project. However, a potential risk is in the area of
institutional support and coordination. FIDEC is a relatively new institu-
tion, although it has incorporated positive elements of similar Bank of
Mexico trust funds that performed well.
7.11      To minimize risk, the project would strengthen FIDEC-s (a) planning
and programming and impact analysis capabilities; and (b) technical services
and training. Also, provision of consultant services under the project would
minimize risks during the implementation period by providing back-stopping to
FIDEC in the execution of the overall program and by training staff in
technical marketing areas. To avoid duplication of efforts and misallocation
of resources, SECOFI would ensure coordination among institutions dealing
with marketing.
F. Environmental Effects
7.12      The project would not have any adverse effects on the environment.
The Government s program to modernize wholesale and public markets would
facilitate traffic flow and improve pollution by reducing congestion.
Through better construction of facilities, sanitary conditions should
improve, thus reducing health risks.
VIII. SUMMARY OF AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
8.01      During negotiations assurances were obtained that the Government
would:
(a) cause FIDEC to follow the procurement procedures outlined in
paragraphs 5.34 and 5.35;
(b) cause FIDEC, FIRA and FICART to carry out auditing as
described in paragraphs 5.38 and 5.39;
(c) cause SECOFI to maintain coordination of the National
Marketing Program among participating agencies (para 6.01);
(d) cause FIDEC to submit an operational plan, introduce
appropriate organizational changes and hire additional staff
as described in paragraphs 6.04 and 6.05;
(e) cause FIDEC to coordinate the lending program at the producer
level among the participating agencies (para 6.06);
(f) cause SECOFI, in collaboration with FIDEC and SARH to be
responsible for implementation of the Marketing Information
System (para 6.07);



- 44 -
(g) cause FIDEC and SARH to cooperate to provide the technical
services and training as described in paragraph 6.08;
(h) cause FIDEC to submit a detailed program for the studies
described in paragraph 6.09 and as outlined in the project
file by December 1, 1983;
(i) cause FIDEC, FIRA and FICART to make subloans in accordance
with lending procedures, terms and conditions outlined in
paragraphs 6.12 through 6.17;
(j) cause FIDEC, FIRA and FICART to carry out economic impact
analysis of representative subprojects (para 6.19);
(k) cause FIDEC to prepare an operations and procedures manual by
31 August 1983 (para 6.20); and
(1) cause FIDEC to follow reporting procedures as outlined in
paragraph 6.28.
8.02      With the above assurances, the proposed project would be suitable
for a Bank loan of US$115 million on standard terms for Mexico.
March 11, 1983



Annex 1
- 45 -
Page 1 of 5
MEXICO
AGRICULTURAL MARKETING PROJECT FOR PERISHABLES
Trust Fund Operations
A. FIDEC Operation
Financial Structure and Results
1.        The Trust Fund for Marketing Development (FIDEC) is authorized to
raise funds from the Federal and State Governments by recuperations and
earnings on its investments, from guarantee fees, and from resources raised
by the Bank of Mexico, either nationally or internationally. FIDEC's equity,
authorized at Mex$ 50 million in 1980, had increased to Mex$ 1,641 million by
the end of 1981, and originated entirely from Government contributions.
FIDEC began its lending operations in January 1981, and by the end of that
year it had committed Mex$ 3,082 million for 41 private sector subprojects
throughout the country for infrastructure, equipment and working capital. In
1981, FIDEC had positive financial results, revenues amounted to Mex$ 19
million. FIDEC bears little credit risk in its lending operations, since all
intermediaries are responsible for repayments due. Based on its funding from
the Government, FIDEC expects to commit in excess of Mex$ 4,000 million in
1982 (Tables 1 and 3).
Operation Policies and Procedures
2.        The policies and procedures which govern FIDEC's operations are set
forth in its General Rules of Operation, which are modified from time to time
by the Technical Committee. FIDEC is authorized to channel funds for its
specified ends either by rediscounts to private, mixed, or public banks, or
by issuing guarantees to them on behalf of their sub-borrowers. FIDEC's
primary criteria for participating in subprojects are that they are develop-
ment oriented and include improved marketing technology, or that they serve
regional development priorities.
3.        FIDEC participates in a variety of investment possibilities,
ranging from short-term working capital to long-term mortgage financing for
marketing infrastructure. An innovative aspect of FIDEC's operations is the
intended introduction of a credit card system to provide smaller merchants
with lines of credit for working capital, using only personal guarantees.
4.        In the case of rediscounts, FIDEC provides up to 70% of the cost of
investments financed. Since under FIDEC's rules, sub-borrowers contribute at
least 20% of project costs, FIDEC's maximum rediscount is equivalent to 87.5%
of the financing provided.
5.        FIDEC's interest rate policy, similar to other trust funds of the
Bank of Mexico, provides for rates linked to an index of the cost of funds
(AFC) within the banking system in the country. The ACF index, published
monthly by the Bank of Mexico, is a weighted average of interest rates paid
by banks and other financing institutions on bonds, rates and certificates of
deposits, excluding checking and savings accounts. The ACF averaged about



- 46 -
Annex 1
Page 2 of 5
46.5% in the period August through October, 1982, and was estimated at 45.5%
in November 1982.
6.         Intermediary banks are currently allowed a 3% interest spread on
funds from FIDEC, plus a special 1% fee for technical assistance on loans
provided to voluntary retail chains. At subloan approval, a base rate of
interest is established, depending on the end-user and end-use of funds, with
provision for adjustments every three months, taking into account the move-
ments in ACF. As of December 1982, interest rates on medium- and long-term
funds rediscounted by FIDEC to the participating banks ranged between 35% and
50%. While the rates are variable, the level of subsidy is high in certain
cases, for example, with retailers in voluntary chains, ACF-10. The current
interest rate charged by FIRA and FICART for agroindustries investments,
including marketing investments at the producer level, averaged about 43%
(ACF-2). These interest rates, which are negative since inflation is now
over 60%, are below the level charged by the commercial banks, which is
presently equivalent to about 60% for two-year money, with a floating rate.
Lending Operations
7.        FIDEC began lending operations in January 1981, and, by the end of
that year, it had committed the equivalent of about US$67 million for 41
private sector subprojects throughout the country. Commitments for invest-
ments and working capital accounted for 69% and 31%, respectively, of total
lending. In April 1982, subloan terms and size limits ranged from three
months to five years, with maximum individual subloans ranging up to Mex$ 125
million for distribution centers. In terms of the types of beneficiaries
financed, commitments for individual merchants, groups of merchants and
producers and developers of commercial infrastructure accounted, respec-
tively, for 1%, 55%, and 44% of the total amount committed.
B. FICART and FIRA Operations
Operating Procedures of FICART
8.        The Trust Fund for Credit in Irrigated and Rainfed Areas (FICART)
is a Government fund administered by the National Rural Credit Bank
(BANRURAL), the main agricultural credit agency, lending predominantly to
lower income producers.



- 47 -
Annex 1
Page 3 of 5
9.        Trust funds are widely used in Mexico for funding specific
programs, having the advantages of separate accounting and specialized
lending.  Since its inception in May 1981, FICART has participated in the
credit components of Bank loans for the PIDER and PLANAT programs, totalling
US$130.5 million.
10.       FICART rediscounts up to 100% of subloans made by BANRURAL under
specific projects. In 1981 the volume of rediscounts made by FICART was Mex$
5,787 million (US$231 million). Audited figures as of December 31, 1981
indicated that outstanding advances against medium- and long-term subloans
were Mex$ 12,003 million out of total assets of Mex$ 12,160 million.
11.       FICART has its own administration, which is responsible to the
BANRURAL Subdirector General of Trust Funds and to a Technical Committee,
which is in effect FICART's Board of Directors. The Technical Committee is
composed of representatives of the Treasury (as Chairman), National Finance,
Inc. (NAFINSA), Secretary of Agriculture and Water Resources (SARH), Agrarian
Reform and BANRURAL.   BANRURAL's representative is the Operations Manager
for trusts.
12.       FICART has a staff of about 500, distributed between Mexico City
and the offices of BANRURAL's 12 regional subsidiaries. Field staff are
organized into 12 residencies, and several of these are assisted by sub-
residencies. The field staff, inter alia, develops lending budgets and
operating plans for FICART's activities with the 12 regional subsidiaries of
BANRURAL, las.? --n aal-ases of BANRURAL staff.
13.       Each regional bank proposes a lending plan which is modified, when
necessary, by FICART staff, and incorporated into a line of credit agreement
between the regional bank and FICART. Funds are advanced under each line of
credit as banks generate subloans which qualify for rediscounting. Each
subloan proposal generated by BANRURAL is analyzed by FICART, and the
approval process for subloans within FICART is quite independent from that
within BANRURAL. BANRURAL subloans that are approved for rediscounting are
summarized every 10 days or so for submission to FICART. Advances are then
made by FICART through transfers to BANRURAL accounts with the Bank of
Mexico. Maturity schedules for rediscounts are the same as for the under-
lying loans to producers, and the regional banks remit payments to FICART on
maturity dates, irrespective of the collections performance of the regional
banks. For this reason, FICART's arrears are nil.
14.       FICART's assets consist almost entirely of advances made against
BANRURAL subloans to farmers and others in the agricultural sector. Its
primary source of funding is capital subscriptions by the Federal Government
by way of own fund contributions and with loans from the IDB and the Bank.
FICART's operations, therefore, reflect a capital-to-assets ratio of 96% at
end 1981.



- 48 -                    Annex I
Page 4 of 5
15.       FICART's accounts are audited internally by the Auditing Department
for the Trust Operations of BANRURAL and by independent external auditors.
The auditor's report for 1981 was unqualified. Comparative income statements
and balance sheets for FICART for the years 1979-81 are shown, respec-
tively, in Tables 3 and 4.
Operating Procedures of FIRA
16.       FIRA is the common name for a group of three trust funds:  (a) the
Trust Fund for Crop, Livestock and Poultry Credit (FONDO); (b) the Special
Agricultural Credit Fund (FEFA); and (c) the Technical Assistance and Loan
Guarantee Trust Fund (FEGA). FEFA is the trust fund that would participate
in the FIDEC lending program, and comparative income statements and balance
sheets for FEFA for the years 1979-81 are shown in Tables 5 and 6, respec-
tively.
17.       FEFA was established in 1965 to channel foreign loans, such as
those from the Bank, with corresponding counterpart funds in local currency
from the Bank of Mexico, for medium- and long-term lending to finance invest-
ments in agriculture, livestock, and agroindustries. The Bank played an
important role in the growth of FEFA. It has so far been the executing
agency of six Bank credit projects, the ongoing Seventh Credit Project and
credit components in other Bank-financed projects, totalling US$664 million.
In addition to Bank loans, IDB loans, which are now fully disbursed to FEFA,
amount to US$164 million. Moreover, FEFA has obtained loans of US$50 million
from Chase Manhattan Bank and the Bank of Montreal for agroindustries and
US$300 million from NAFINSA.
18.       FEFA rediscounts up to 90% of subloans for agricultural, livestock
and agroindustries development to both the public and private banks. Total
rediscounts during 1981 amounted to Mex$ 46,239 million (US$1,005 million,
equivalent). Audited figures as at December 31, 1981 showed an outstanding
advance of Mex$ 49,346, or US$1,073 million. As the recuperation of subloans
is based on maturity schedules which are collected through the Bank of Mexico
from the participating banks, FEFA has no arrears.
19.       The Bank of Mexico is the trustee of the Government for the three
trust funds (FIRA). Two technical committees, one for FONDO-FEFA and the
other for FEFA, are the governing bodies of the funds. These are composed of
10 members and each is headed by a senior official of the Ministry of
Finance. Other members are the Secretary of SARH, representatives of the
Bank of Mexico, Banco Nacional de Credito Exterior, the National Crop and
Livestock Insurance Agency (ANAGSA), BANRURAL, the Mexican Bankers'
Association, and two members appointed by farmer organizations. FIRA is
managed by a Director, who is the Fiduciary Delegate, and is assisted by a
Deputy Director and five Sub-Directors (technical services, training and
demonstrations centers, planning and credit, finance, and administrative).
20.       Since its inception, FIRA has expanded its organization and has
decentralized. It now has a central office in Mexico City, nine regional
offices, 37 state offices and 90 agency offices. Of FIRA's total staff of
1,630, 1,061 are directly involved in the evaluation of subloans and in the
provision of technical assistance. As FIRA's lendings have grown immensely,



- 49 -                   Annex 1
Page 5 of 5
it has evolved into a large and relatively autonomous agency for agricultural
development. In recognition of this, FIRA has set up a Division of
Programming, which is responsible for (a) FIRA's annual programming;
(b) preparation of proposals for borrowing from international agencies; and
(c) FIRA's analysis and diagnosis of the agricultural sector.
21.       FEFA's assets consist almost entirely of advances made against
participating banks' subloans to farmers and others in the agricultural
sector. As of December 31, 1981, FEFA's assets were financed 72% by capital
and reserves and loans from the Bank of Mexico.
22.       The accounting system of FIRA trust funds is satisfactory and FIRA
would maintain separate project records. FIRA accounts, including ongoing
project accounts, have been audited during recent years by reputable Mexican
auditing firms, and all audit reports on FIRA's accounts have been
unqualified. In addition, the Bank of Mexico's internal audit department
periodically reviews FIRA's financial activities and accounts.
December 7, 1982



Annex 1
- 50 -                    Table I
MEXICO
AGRICULTURAL MARKETING PROJECT FOR PERISHABLES
FIDEC Income Statements
Year Ending December 31
1980             1981
Audited 1/        Audited
---- (Mex$ million) ----
Interest Earned                                                       65
Interest Expense
Net Financial Income                                 -                 65
Personnel Expenses                                   7                 19
Commissions and Honorariums                          1                23 2/
Other Administrative Expenses                        1                  3
Depreciation and Amortization                        1                  1
Operating Expenses                             10                46
Net Profit (Deficit)                               (10)                19
1/ Relate to first period of operation (8-1/2 months)
2/ Mainly for consulting services to define the marketing project for
perishable products



Annex 1
Table 2
- 51 -
MEXICO
AGRICULTURAL MARKETING PROJECT FOR PERISHABLES
FIDEC Balance Sheet
Year Ending December 31
1980             1981
Audited          Audited
--- (Mex$ million) ----
Assets
Deposits                                                             1,484
Loans rediscounted                                                     108
Other receivables                                                       47
Fixed assets net of depreciation                      1                  2
Other assets                                          1
2              1,641
Representing
Payables and other Liabilities                            12                   2
Equity 1/                                                (10)             1,639
2              1,641
1/ 1980 was the first year of operation. The equity was paid in 1981.



Annex  1
- 52-                           Table  3
MEXICO
AGRICULTURAL MARKETING PROJECT FOR PERISHABLES
FICART Income Statements
Year Ending December 31
1979               1980              1981
Audited            Audited           Audited
------------ (Mex$ million) -------------
Interest Earned                        292                 466               965
Other Financial Income                   1                   1                 2
Gross Financial Income                 293                 467               967
Interest Expense
Net Financial Income             293                 467               967
Personnel Expenses                     104                 128               178
Comissions and Honorariums              74                 119               251
Other Administrative Expenses           19                  20                20
Depreciation and Amortization           10                   4                 7
Other Expenses                          10                  16                23
Non-financial Expenses                 217                 287               479
Net Profit                              76                 180               488
June 24, 1982



- 53 -                              Annex 1
Table 4
MEXICO
AGRICULTURAL MARKETING PROJECT FOR PERISHABLES
FICART Balance Sheet
Year Ending December 31
1979             1980             1981
Audited          Audited          Audited
----------- (Mex$ million) ------------
Assets
Cash and Bank                              29               50              112
Medium-term loans rediscounted          5,108            8,114           12,003
Other receivables                         212               33              -
Fixed assets net of depreciation           14               13                21
Other assets                              110              735               24
Total Assets                      5,473            8,945            12,160
Representing
Payables and other Liabilities             15               25               50
Equity                                  5,458            8,920           12,110
Total Liability & Equity                5,473            8,945           12,160
June 24, 1982



Annex 1
54 -                                  Table 5
MEXICO
AGRICULTURAL MARKETING PROJECT FOR PERISHABLES
FEFA Income Satements 1/
Year Ending December 31
1979             1980            1981
Audited          Audited         Audited
----------- (Mex$ million) -----------
Interest and Commissions Earned         2,280             3,601           5,878
Less Interest and Commissions
Payable                                1,203             2,322           4,535
Net Financial Income               1,077            1,279           1,343
Personnel Expenses                        344               429             712
Other Administrative Expenses               90              113             169
Other Operating Expenses                    21               32             120
Total Operating Expenses             455              574           1,001
Operating Profit                     622              705             342
Exchange Differences                      -                  54              98
622              651             244
Other Earnings and Recuperations           17                20             197
Net Profit                           639              671             441



Annexl
55~~~~~ ~Table C
- 55 -                           Y   -
MEXICO
AGRICULTURAL MARKETING PROJECT FOR PERISHABLES
FEFA Balance Sheet 1/
Year Ending December 31
1979              1980              1981
Audited           Audited           Audited
- - -          (Mex$ million) - - - - - -
Assets
Cash and Bank                         194            1,305              1,873
Loans rediscounted                 26,500           36,209             49,346
Other receivables                     543             1,038             1,859
Other assets                          222               280             1,103
Total Assets                       27,459           38,832             54,181
Representing
Liabilities
Loans                              12,990           20,353             32,630
Other liabilities                   1,620            2,552              4,509
Reserves for future
liabilities                         676              799                942
Total Liabilities                  15,286           23,704             38,081
Equity                                12,173            15,128            16,100
Total Liabilities & Equity         27,459           38,832             54,181
1/ FEFA is the trust fund within FIRA that executes the lending program.
June 24, 1982



- 56 -             ~~~Annex 2
- 56 -                      Page I of 6
MEXICO
AGRICULTURAL MARKETING PROJECT FOR PERISHABLES
Illustrative Investment Plans
A. Introduction
1.         In the whole spectrum of the food system, there are numerous
investment possibilities at the producer, wholesale and retail levels to
improve marketing operations. While there is a high demand for investment
funds, subprojects would focus on those investments that incorporate improved
technology and management, entrepreneural innovations, economies of scale and
vertical coordination, and improved marketing operations. Several investment
prototypes, discussed below, have been prepared on the basis of current
experience in Mexico. These prototypes illustrate the technical and economic
viability of investments at different levels within the marketing system.
The prototypes also indicate that various investments would yield substantial
benefits to provide incentives to those directly involved in marketing for
further investments (Tables 1 through 11).
B. Investment Plans - Producer Prototypes
Investment Prototypes No. A.1: Complementary Refrigerated Storage for Fruits
and Vegetables
2.         Collection centers serving the national market (except for some
fruits) do not have cold storage facilities; thus, produce coming in from the
farm must be processed and shipped within a matter of hours. Ambient-
temperature holding and transport result in shrinkage and loss of quality,
and produce which cannot be marketed within 24 to 38 hours can be totally
lost. Refrigerated storage would reduce losses, and, mDre importantly, it
would give producers bargaining power in negotiating prices and sales.
3.         The investment for a 160-ton/day capacity unit would be about
US$358,000 as an addition to an existing facility. Operating 220 days per
year, it would have a 35,000-ton annual capacity. With an average holding of
two days, the annual throughput would be 17,500 tons. Assuming that the
average producer member would store 100 tons per year, the facility would
serve 175 producers. The basic structure would include 750 m2 area and
2,000 m3 of storage. As an addition to an existing facility, no permanent
additional staff would be required, and forklift, pallets and cartons would
be the major equipment and supplies required. Refrigeration equipment is
included in construction costs.
4.         Following the period of debt service, pre-tax cash flow in constant
terms would amount to about US$74,000 annually. The financial rate of return
is estimated at 18% and the economic rate of return at 19%.



Annex 2
- 57 -                    Page 2 of 6
Investment Prototype No. A.2: Apple Collection and Cold Storage Center
5.        This would be a small-scale 750-ton (six-month season) capacity
full-service center providing for collection, grading, conditioning,
packaging, cold storage and transport. Apples could be stored up to six
months with little deterioration in quality. Moreover, fruit could be moved
out after conditioning to increase the throughput if required. The facility
could accommodate 25 or more growers as members, depending on the average
scale of the producers and expected average yields. It is estimated that
fruit would be purchased at about US$9.0 per 20-kg carton and sold out at
about US$17.0 per carton. Apples would be sold whenever the members consid-
ered the price to be appropriate.
6.        The investment in 545 m2 of structures and 2,000 m3 of refrigerated
space, together with processing equipment, handling equipment and materials
plus refrigerated transport (30-ton tractor trailer unit) would cost about
US$300,000. The facility would employ a manager and a maintenance man for
about seven months of the year, plus 42 man-months of labor.
7.        Following the period of debt service, pre-tax cash flow in constant
terms would amount to about US$141,000 annually. The financial rate of
return is estimated at 44% and the economic rate of return at 48%.
Investment Prototype No. A.3: Regional Vegetable Collection Center
8.        This is a large (4,702 m2 basic structure) and sophisticated full-
service collection center patterned after the model being proposed by SIDA
with a capacity of 160 tons per day, and 40,000 tons per year, operating 250
days. It is designed with processing lines to clean, grade, condition
and package five different commodities. In addition, the facility has 3,000
m3 of refrigerated storage and a 500 m3 refrigerated conditioning chamber (a
cold storage capacity of 400 tons/day). The facility would also provide
office space for information, technical, and other production and marketing
supporting services. Total investment in civil works, equipment and
materials would be about US$2.7 million. The facility could accommodate 200
or more small- and medium-scale producers (average about 10 ha each).
Participants would normally contribute 20% of the investment cost.
9.        At full development, the center would employ 11 administrative
staff, seven maintenance staff and 80 laborers on a year-round basis.
10.       While this type of full service center is considered the ideal
model, it is not expected that there would be many producer groups with
sufficient production or resources to utilize such a facility. Nevertheless,
it is a real possibility, and, in comparison with Prototype No. A.4, these
two prototypes are indicative of the wide range in size and sophistication of
collection centers that could be considered for investment. Prototype A.3 is
more representative of facilities now used for export, while Prototype No.
A.4 is representative of centers now used to service the national market.
The objective of the national marketing program and the project is to improve
the national market system to the level of the export market.



- 58 -                         Annex 2
Page 3 of 6
11.       Following the period of debt service, pre-tax cash flow in constant
terms would amount to about US$717,000 annually. The financial rate of
return is estimated at 22% and the economic rate of return at 24%.
Investment Prototype No. A.4 - Vegetable Collection Center
12.       This is a facility with a 900 m2 structure, designed to handle
7,000 tons of three commodities (onions, chilies and tomatoes) during an
eight-month operating season. Assuming the average producer would have 4 ha
producing 60 tons (15 m tons/ha), the center would service about 110 to 120
members.
13.       This facility would collect, clean, grade and bulk ship most of the
produce passing through the center, except for tomatoes which would be hand-
packed in crates. Because the facility has no cold storage, most produce
would be shipped as fast as truckload lots are available. Produce would
normally remain the property of the individual members until sold at its
destination. Total investment in civil works, plant, equipment, and trans-
port would be about US$420,000. Producer members would normally contribute
about 20% of the investment cost.
14.       The center would employ full-time administration and management
staff, one maintenance man, and three truck drivers. About 200 man-months of
labor would be required during the eight-month operation cycle.
15.       Following the period of debt service, pre-tax cash flow in constant
terms would amount to about US$191,000 annually. The financial rate of
return is estimated at 36% and the economic rate of return at 39%.
Investment Prototype No. A.5 - Producers' Distribution Center
16.       Although this type of facility is used for the export market, it is
a new concept for the national marketing system. It is recommended as a
means of facilitating more direct marketing on the part of the producer with
wholesalers and retailers in major population centers on a national basis.
The concept would by-pass the local buyers and the transit wholesalers
(particularly in Guadalajara and Mexico City) who purchase and redistribute
40 to 60% of their produce to other population-center markets.
17.       The Dis-ribution Center prototype would have a basic structure of
3,150 m2 and 3,600 m3 of refrigerated storage. It has an effective refriger-
ated storage capacity of 290 tons per day and a minimum of 105,000 tons per
year. In addition, the facility can handle about 400 tons per day and
100,000 tons per year of ambient transit storage and handling. Produce
coming in on several separate trucks would be reloaded directly, bulked by
commodity onto other trucks, and shipped out again within hours.
18.       The investors would be several owners of collection centers that
already have cleaning, grading, packaging, cold storage and transport
facilities. Their interest in a distribution center would be to by-pass
intermediaries, and they would achieve this by collecting daily volumes to a
minimum of 30-ton refrigerated truckload lots of a single commodity. By
grouping farmers with similar commodities, but varying production seasons,



59                     Annex 2
Page 4 of 6
they could obtain a continuous supply of commodities as well, thereby utiliz-
ing the distribution facility on a year-round basis. Total investment would
vary from case to case, but would be about US$1.8 million for this proto-
type. Producer group members would normally contribute about 20% of the
investment cost.
19.       The center would employ five full-time administrative staff, two
equipment operators, two watchmen and 60 man-months of labor.
20.       Following the period of debt service, pre-tax cash flow in constant
terms would amount to about US$560,000 annually. Both the financial and
economic rates of return are estimated at 32%.
C. Investment Plans - Wholesale Prototypes
Investment Prototype No. B.1: Renovation of an Existing Wholesale Warehouse
21.       This prototype portrays the renovation and modernization of exist-
ing warehouses that in the future would adopt the voluntary chain system
serving a large number of retail outlets. These warehouses would vary in
area and volume; however, a 1,000 m2 facility has been selected for the
purposes of a typical investment prototype. The base cost of renovation of
the structure would be about US$109,000, equipment would cost about
US$112,000, and inventory would cost about US$55,000. Total investment,
including physical contingencies, would be about US$304,000. Participants
would normally contribute about 20% of the investment. With moderniza-
tion, the mix and number of staff would change, but overall salaries and
wages would remain about the same after renovation as before.
22.       Pre-tax cash flow in constant terms would grow from about
US$104,000 annually before development, to about US$206,000 annually after
debt service is completed. Both the financial and economic rates of return
are estimated at 15%.
Investment Prototype No. B.2: Construction of a New Independent Wholesale
Warehouse
23.       This prototype is based on a hypothetical case of a wholesaler who
is forced to move from his existing facility in the La Merced market area
when the new Mexico City Market is completed and La Merced is closed. This
model would also be representative of similar situations nationwide wherever
new central market facilities are built. For the purposes of this prototype,
a 2,000 m2 facility has been selected; however, in practice, a large range of
sizes would be constructed to suit the resource and market requirements of
the individual. In conjunction with the move, the wholesaler would adopt new
and improved technology that would make his operation more efficient. The
base cost of land and the structure would be approximately US$1.4 million;
equipment, US$54,000; and incremental inventory, about US$300,000. Total
investment cost, including physical contingencies, would be about US$1.9
million. Participants would normally contribute about 50% of the investment,



Annex 2
- 60 -                     Page 5 of 6
since it assumed that they would have cash from sale of their old facil-
ities.  Salaries and wages would remain about the same as for the old facil-
ity, but the numbers and mix would be adjusted for the modern, more efficient
operation.
24.       Following the period of debt service, pre-tax cash flow in constant
terms would amount to about US$398,000 annually. Both the financial and
economic rates of return are estimated at 18%.
Investment Prototype No. B.3: Construction of a Wholesale Warehouse within a
Voluntary Chain
25.       A group of retailers already affiliated with a wholesale outlet
would invest in the construction of their own wholesale facility. The size
of the facility would have to be designed to meet the volume requirements of
the voluntary chain group and thus could easily vary from 1,000 m2 to 5,000
m2. However, it is estimated that a typical warehouse, at this stage of
development of voluntary chains, would be of the order of 2,000 m2. The base
cost of land and buildings is estimated to be about US$1.4 million; equip-
ment, about US$203,000; and inventory, about US$330,000. Total investment,
including physical contingencies, would be about US$2.1 million.
26.       Following the period of debt service, pre-tax cash flow in constant
terms would amount to about US$534,000 annually. Both the financial and
economic rates of return are estimated at about 20%.
D. Investment Plans - Retail Prototypes
Retail Investment Prototype C.1 - Independently Owned and Operated
Self-Service Store
27.       This retail outlet would be within an established and growing
neighborhood. The store would stock a range of food and household items,
including perishables, beverages, and general fast-moving household items.
These units would be relatively small to suit the resources of the investor
and the demand of the neighborhood. Two hundred and twenty square meters in
the investment plan is considered a typical size unit. The base cost of land
and buildings would be about US$88,000; equipment, US$17,000; and inventory
and operating permits, about US$43,000. The total investment cost, including
physical contingencies, would be about US$163,000. The owner would normally
contribute about 20% of the investment.
28.       Following the period of debt service, pre-tax cash flow in constant
terms would amount to about US$40,000 annually. Both the financial and
economic rates of return are estimated at 31%.
Investment Prototype C.2 - A Self-Service Retail Outlet Operated Within a
Voluntary Chain Wholesale Supply System
29.       This prototype is basically the same as C.1 in terms of the size
(220 m2) of the facility, volume of sales and cost of salaries and wages.
The essential and important difference is that the supply of goods through



- 61 -
Annex 2
Page 6 of 6
the voluntary chain permits the retailer to operate with a smaller inventory;
also the cost of goods would be lower than from the traditional wholesale
markets. The total investment cost, including physical contingencies, would
be about US$148,000. The owner would contribute about 20% of the investment
cost.
30.       Following the period of debt service, pre-tax cash flow in constant
terms would amount to about US$51,000 annually. Both the financial and
economic rates of return are estimated at 43%.
Investment Prototype C.3 - Renovation of an 80 m2 Retail Store Affiliated
with a Voluntary Chain
31.       This type of store would be located in medium- and low-income
neighborhoods. Renovation would include the installation of modern, effi-
cient and sanitary equipment and facilities. The base cost of renovation of
the building would be about US$5,225; equipment and permits would cost about
US$8,775; and incremental inventory would cost about US$1,000. Total invest-
ment cost, including physical contingencies, would cost about US$14,225. The
owner would contribute slightly less than 20% of the initial investment
costs, since beverage distributors would normally finance some storage and
display equipment.
32.       Pre-tax cash flow in constant terms would grow from about US$2,000
annually before development, to about US$5,000 annually after debt service is
completed. Both the financial and economic rates of return are estimated at
14%.
December 7, 1982



MEXICO
AGRICULTURAL MARKETING PROJECT FOR PERISHABLES
A.1--Complementary Refrigerated Storage for Fruits and Vegetables
Cash Flow Projections 1/
(Mex$ million)
Before      --------------With Project------------------
Project        1      2       3-10     11    12-19       20
CASH INFLOW
Revenues 2/                           -           -      6.0     8.8      8.8      8.8     9.2
Medium-term loan 3/                   -         13.9      -       -        -        -       -
Owner's contribution 4/               -          3.3      -       -        -       _        _
Total Inflow                        -         17.2    6.0      8.8      8.8     8.8      9.2
CASH OUTFLOW
Operating costs                       -           -      4.5     5.4      5.4      5.4     5.4
Investment costs 5/                   -         16.5      -       -       1.4      -        -
Debt service                          -          0.7    1.4      2.6       -        -       -
Total Outflow                       -         17.2    5.9      8.0      6.8     5.4      5.4
Annual pre-tax Cash Balance           -           -      0.1     0.8      2.0      3.4     3.8
Financial Rate of Return - 18%
1/ In constant prices.
2/ Includes sale of land in year 20.
3/ For nine years including one year grace on principal, at a real interest rate of 10%.
Interest capitalized during construction; 80% financing assumed,
4/ 20% of investment cost.                                                                                          a
5/ Replacement of equipment included in year 11.
Source: Mission
May 25, 1982



MEXICO
AGRICULTURAL MARKETING PROJECT FOR PERISHABLES
A.2--Apple Collection and Cold Storage Center
Cash Flow Projections 1/
(Mex$ million)
Before      --------------------------------With Project-------------------------------
Project       1     2 - 4      5        6      7 - 10   11      12-15    16      17-19    20
CASH INFLOW
Revenues 2/                            -         -      28.5    28.5    28.5    28.5    28.5    28.5    28.5    28.5    29.3
Medium-term loans 3/                   -       12.4       -        -        -       -        -        -        -       -
Owner's contribution 4/                -        3.0                -        -                                  -       -        -
Total Inflow                        -        15.4    28.5    28.5    28.5    28.5    28.5    28.5    28.5    28.5    29.3
CASH OUTFLOW
Operating costs                                  -      22.0    22.0    22.0    22.0    22.0    22.0    22.0    22.0    22.0
Investment costs 5/                            14.8       -        -      3.0       -       6.5       -       3.0      -        -
Debt service                                      .6     5.0       -        -           -        -    -      -                 -
Total Outflow                       -        15.4    27.0    22.0    25.0    22.0    28.5    22.0    25.0    22.0    22.0
Annual pre-tax Cash Balance            -          -      1.5      6.5      3.5     6.5       -       6.5      3.5     6.5      7.3
Financial Rate of Return = 44%
1/ In constant prices.
2/ Includes sale of land in year 20.
3/ For three years at a real rate of interest of 10%. Interest capitalized during construction Period: 80% financing
assumed.
4/ 20% of investment cost.
5/ Replacement of equipment included in years 6, 11, and 16.                                                                          H
(D R
Source:  FIRA
May 25, 1982



MEXICO
AGRICULTURAL MARKETING PROJECT FOR PERISHABLES
A.3--Regional Vegetable Collection Center
Cash Flow Projections 1/
(Mex$ million)
Before       ---------------------      With Project--------------------------
Project        1          2         3      4-10         11       12-19        20
CASH INFLOW
Revenues 2/                             -           -        60.0     90.0      120.0      120.0      120.0      127.5
Medium-term loans 3/                    -         103.5        -         -        -          -          -          -
Owner's contribution 4/                 -          24.6        -        -         -          -          -          -
Total Inflow                          -        128.1      60.0      90.0      120.0      120.0      120.0      127.5    $
CASH OUTFLOW
Operating costs                         -           -        45.6     69.9       87.0       87.0       87.0       87.0
Investment cost 5/                      -         123.2        -        -          -        14.8        -          -
Debt service                            -           4.9      10.4     19.4       19.4        -          -           _
Total Outflow                         -        128.1      56.0      89.3      106.4      101.8       87.0       87.0
Annual Pre-tax Cash Balance             -           -         4.0       0.7      13.6       18.2       33.0       40.5
Financial Rate of Return   22%
1/ In constant prices.
2/ Includes sale of land in year 20.
3/ For nine years, including one year of grace on repayment of principal at a real rate of interest of 10%.
Interest capitalized during construction period; 80% financing assumed.
4/ 20% of investment cost.
5/ Replacement of equipment included in year 11.                                                                         DXx
Source: SIDA
May 25, 1982



MEXICO
AGRICULTURAL MARKETING PROJECT FOR PERISHABLES
A.4--Vegetable Collection Center
Cash Flow Projections 1/
(Mex$ millions)
With--------ro---ect------____--------------------With Project------------ - ------------------
Before
Project       1         2         3        4         5       6 - 7       8       9-10      11        12       13       14     13-16    17       18-19    20
CASH INFLOW
Revenues 2/                            -          _       7.4      10.5      14.7      15.9     14.7      15.9      14.7      15.9      14.7    14.7    15.9    14.7    15.9    14.7    15.1
Medium-term loans 3/                   -        16.2       -         -                   -         -
Owner's contribution 4/               _          3.9       -         _         _
Total Inflow                         -       20.1       7.4      10.5      14.7      15.9     14.7      15.9      14.7      15.9      14.7    14.7    15.9    14.7    15.9    14.7    15.1
CASH OUTFLOW
Operating costs                        -          _       3.7       5.7       5.9       5.9       5.9      5.9       5.9       5.9       5.9      5.9      5.9     5.9      5.9      5.9      5.9
Investment cost 5/                     -       19.3        -         -         -        2.4        -       2.4        -        2.4       2.8       -      2.4       -       2.4       -
Debt service                           -        0.8       3.3       3.3       3.3       3.3       3.3      3.3        -         -         -        -       -
Total Outflow                        -       20.1       7.0       9.0       9.2      11.6      9.2      11.6       5.9       8.3       8.7      5.9     8.3      5.9      8.3      5.9      5.9
Annual pre-tax Cash Balance            -         -        0.4       1.5       5.5       4.3       5.5      4.3       8.8       7.6       6.0      8.8      7.6     8.8      7.6      8.8      9.2
Financial Rate of Return = 36%
1/ In constant prices.
2/ Includes periodic sale of used trucks as well as sale of land in year 20.
3/ For seven yearsat a real rate of interest of 10%. Interest capitalized during the construction period; 80% financing assumed.
4/ 20% of investment cost.
5/ Includes periodic replacement of trucks and equipment.                                                                                                                                             en
aox
Source:  Mission 
May 25, 1982



MFXICO
AGRICULTURAL MARKETING PROJECT FOR PERISHABLES
A.5--Producers' Distribution Center
Cash Flow Projections I/
(Mex$ million)
Before       -------------------------With Project-------------------------
Project        1       2       3 - 6      7 - 11      12       13 - 19       20
CASH INFLOW
Revenues 2/                           -           -     30.0      41.3        41.3       41.3      41.3        53.3
Medium-term loan 3/                   -         34.1    35.4        -           -          -          -          -
Owner's contribution 4/               _          8.1     8.8        -          _          _          -
Total Inflow                        -         42.2    74.2      41.3        41.3      41.3       41.3        53.3  a
CASH OUTFLOW
Operating costs                       -           -     11.3      15.6        15.6       15.6      15.6        15.6
Investment costs 5/                   -         40.6    44.2        -           -         0.8        -           _
Debt service                          -          1.6    18.3      18.3          -          -          --
Total Outflow                       -         42.2    73.8      33.9        15.6      16.4       15.6        15.6
Annual pre-tax Cash Balance           -           -      0.4       7.4        25.7       24.9      25.7        37.7
Financial Rate of Return = 32%
1/ In constant prices.
2/ Includes sale of land in year 20.
3/ For five years at a real rate of interest of 10%; 80% financing assumed, with interest
capitalized during year one of construction period.
4/ 20% of investment cost.
5/ Includes periodic replacement of equipment.
tn m
Source:  FIDEC/Mission                                                                                               U't'i
May 25, 1982



MEXICO
AGRICULTURAL MARKETING PROJECT FOR PERISHABLES
B.1 -- Renovation of a 1,000 m2 Wholesale Warehouse Within a Voluntary Chain
Cash Flow Projections 1/
(Mex$ million)
Before      ----------------------------With Project---------------------------------
Project       1       2      3       4       5       6     7-10    11   12-15    16   17-19    20
CASH INFLOW
Net revenue 2/                        4.8        4.8    5.3    6.6    7.9    9.5    9.5    9.5    9.5    9.5    9.5    9.5    19.4 5/
Medium-term loan 3/                    -        11.2      -       -      -       -       -       -      -       -       -       -        -
Owner's contribution                   -         2.8      -       -         -       -    -       -      -       -       -       -        -
Total Inflow                        4.8       18.8    5.3    6.6    7.9    9.5    9.5    9.5    9.5    9.5    9.5    9.5    19.4
CASH OUTFLOW
Investment cost 4/                     -        14.0      -      -       -       -      1.7     -      4.3      -      1.7      -        -
Debt service                           -         0.6    1.1    2.1    2.1    2.1    2.1    2.1          -       -       -       -        -
Total Outflow                        -        14.6    1.1    2.1    2.1    2.1    3.8    2.1    4.3           -      1.7      -        -
Annual pre-tax Cash Balance             4.8        4.2    4.2    4.5    5.8    7.4    5.7    7.4    5.2    9.5    7.8    9.5    19.4
Financial Rate of Return 6/  =  15%
1/ In constant prices.
2/ Based on 5% of sales.
31 For 10 years, including two years grace on repayment of principal at a real interest of 10%; 80% financing assumed.
4/ Replacement costs in years 6, 11, and 16.                                                                                                        X 
5/ Includes sale of inventories in year 20.                                                                                                         a 
6/ Taking into account periodic replacement of equipment  and sale of inventory in year 20.
May 25, 1982



MEXICO
AGRICULTURAL MARKETING PROJECT FOR PERISHABLES
2
B.2   Construction of a 2,000 m  Wholesale Warehouse to be Operated Independently
Cash Flow Projections 1/
(Mexj million)
Before        --------------------------------------------------------With Project--------------------------------------------
Project         1        2         3         4         5         6       7 - 9      10        11       12-15      16       17-19      20
CASH INFLOW
Net Revenue 2/                                -            -       9.0      10.8      13.5      15.9      18.3      18.3      18.3      18.3      18.3      18.3      18.3      68.1
Medium-term loan 3/                           -          45.4       -         -         -         -         -         -         -         -         -         -         -         -
Owner's contribution                          -          43.2       -                   -                   -         -         -         -         -         -         -         -
Total Inflow                                -          88.6      9.0      10.8      13.5      15.9      18.3      18.3      18.3      18.3      18.3      18.3      18.3      68.1     t
a,
CASH OUTFLOW
Investment Cost 4/                            -          86.4       -         -         -         -        1.7        -         -        2.5        -        1.7        -         -
Debt Service                                  _           2.2      4.5       9.3       9.3       9.3       9.3       9.3       _          -         -         -         -         -
Total Outflow                               -          88.6      4.5       9.3       9.3       9.3      11.0        -         -        2.5        -        1.7        -         -
Annual pre-tax Cash Balance 5/                  -            -       4.5       1.5       4.2       6.6       7.3       9.0      18.3      15.8      18.3      16.6      18.3      68.1
Financial Rate of Return 5/ = 18%
1/ In constant prices.
2/ Based on 5% of sales, Includes sale of land and inventories in year 20.
3/ For eight years including one year's grace on principal, at a real rate of interest of 10%; 50% financing assumed, with interest capitalized
during the construction period.
4/ Replacement costs in years 6, 11, and 16.
5/ After allowances for periodic replacement of equipment and trucks, and liquidation of inventory and land in year 20.
I x
May 25, 1982



MEXICO
AGRICULTURAL MARKETING PROJECT FOR PERISHABLES
B.3 --Construction of a 2,000 m2 Wholesale Warehouse within a Voluntary Chain
Cash Flow Projections 1/
(MexS million)
Before         __________________________-------With Project--------------------------------------
Project      1      2      3       4       5      6    7 - 9   10        11    12-15   16    17-19   20
CASH INFLOW
Net Revenue 2/                       -         -    9.0   10.8   15.1   19.7   24.6   24.6   24.6   24.6   24.6   24.6   24.6   39.5
Medium-term loan 3/                  -       50.1        -           -       -       -      -               -       -      -           -          a'
Owner's contribution                 -       47.7    -       -       -       -      -       -       -       -       -      -       -              '.0
Total Inflow                       -       97.8   9.0   10.8   15.1   19.7   24.6   24.6   24.6   24.6   24.6   24.6   24.6   39.5
CASH OUTFLOW
Investment Cost 4/                   -       95.4    -       -       -       -     3.5      -       -      7.9     -      3.5      -       -
Debt Service                         -        2.4   5.0   10.3   10.3   10.3   10.3   10.3          -       -       -      -       -       -
Total Outflow                      -       97.8   5.0   10.3   10.3   10.3   13.8   10.3          -      7.9     -      3.5      -       -
Annual pre-tax Cash Balance          -         -    4.0    0.5    4.8    9.4   10.8   14.3   24.6   16.7   24.6   21.1   24.6   39.5
Financial Rate of Return 5/  = 20%
1/ In constant prices.
2/ Based on 5% of sales. Sale of inventories and land included in year 20.
3/ For eight years, including one year   grace on principal, at a real rate of interest of 10%; 50% financing assumed with interest
capitalized during the construction period.
4/ Replacement costs in years 6, 11, and 16.
5/ After allowances for periodic replacement of equipment and trucks, and liquidation of inventory and land in year 20.                          X
May 25, 1982



MEXICO
AGRICULTURAL MARKETING PROJECT FOR PERISHABLES
C.1-- Construction of a 220 m2 Self-Service Store Operated Independently
Cash Flow Projections 1/
(Mex$ '000)
Before      -------------------------------With Project---------------------------------
Project       1          2         3          4       5 - 10       11      12-19        20
CASH INFLOW
Net Revenues 2/                    -          1,296     1,490      1,639     1,771      1,859     1,859      1,859     5,095
Medium-term loan  3/                -         5,915       -          -         -          -         -          -         -
Owner's contribution                -         1,479       -          -         -          -         -          -         -
Beverage Distributors                                                                                                               4
Contribution                      -            98       -          -         -          -         -          -         -
Total Cash Inflow                 -         8,788     1,490      1,639     1,771      1,859     1,859      1,859     5,095
CASH OUTFLOW
Investment Costs 4/                 -         7,492       -          -         -          -         777        -         -
Debt Service                        -           296       591      1,106     1,106      1,106       -
Total Cash Outflow                -         7,788       591      1,106     1,106      1,106       777        -         -
Annual pre-tax Cash Balance       -         1,000       899        533       665        753     1,082      1,859     5,095
Financial Rate of Return 5/ =  31%
1/ In constant prices.
2/ Based on 3% of sales.  Sale of land and inventory included in year 20.
3/ For 10 years, including two year grace on principal, at a real rate of interest of 10%; 80% financing assumed.
4/ Replacement costs in year 11.
5/ Taking into account periodic replacement of equipment, and liquidation of land and inventory in year 20.
May 25, 1982



MEXICO
AGRICULTURAL MARKETING PROJECT FOR PERISHABLES
C.2--Construction of a 220 m2 Self-Service Store Operated Within a Voluntary Chain
Cash Flow Projections 1/
(Mex$ '000)
Before      --------------------------------With Project--------------------------------
Project       1         2         3         4         5      6-10        11      12-19       20
CASH INFLOW
Net Revenues 2/                        -        1,440    1,728    1,987    2,186    2,361    2,361    2,361    2,361    4,982              1
Medium-term loan 3/                    -        5,374       -         -         -         -         -         -        -         -         <
Owner's contribution                   -        1,344       -         -         -         -         -        -         -         -
Beverage Distributors
Contribution                         -           98       -        -          -        _         _         _         _         -
Total Cash Inflow                    -        8,256    1,728    1,987    2,186    2,361    2,361    2,361    2,361    4,982
CASH OUTFLOW
Investment Costs 4/                    -        6,816       -         -         -         -        -         777-                -
Debt Service                           -          269    1,693    1,693    1,693    1,693           -         -         -
Total Cash Outflow                   -        7,085    1,693    1,693    1,693    1,693          -         777       -         -
Annual pre-tax Cash Balance            -        1,171        35       294       493       668    2,361    1,584    2,361    4,982
Financial Rate of Return 5/  = 43%
1/ In constant prices.
2/ Based on 3% of sales. Sale of land and inventory included in year 20.
3/ For five years, including one year grace on principal, at a real rate of interest of 10%; 80% financing assumed.
4/ Replacement costs in year 11.                                                                                                            P
5/ Taking into account periodic replacement of equipment and liquidation of land and inventory in year 20.                                a M
0
May 25, 1982



MEXICO
AGRICULTURAL MARKETING PROJECT FOR PERISHABLES
C.3--Renovation of 80 m2 Retail Store Affiliated with a Voluntary Chain
Cash Flow Projections 1/
(Mex$ '000)
Before     ------------------------------- - ---------------------With Project---                              -*-------
Project       1             2          3          4        5 - 10       11         12         13         14         15        16-19       20
CASH INFLOW
Net Revenue 2/                       93.6       144.0          172.8      198.7      218.6      236.0      236.0      236.0      236.0      236.0      236.0      236.0      371.0
Medium-term loan                       -        478.8 3/         -          -          -          -        135.0 4/    -           -          -          -           -          -
Owner's contribution                   -        119.7            -          -          -          -         50.0        -          -          -          -          -           -
Beverage distributors
contribution                         -         44.0           -          -          -           -         44.0             -          -          -           -               -
Total Inflow                       93.6       786.5         172.8      198.7    218.6         236.0      465.0      236.0      236.0      236.0      236.0      236.0      371.0
CASH OUTFLOW
Investment Cost 5/                     -        642.5            -          -        -            -        295.0        -          -          -          -          -           -
Debt Service                           -         24.0           48.0       89.5      89.5        89.5       14.0       42.5       42.5       42.5       42.5         -          -
Total Outflow                        -        666.5          48.0       89.5      89.5         89.5      309.0       42.5       42.5       42.5       42.5        -          -
Annual pre-tax Cash Balance          93.6       120.0         124.8       109.2    129.1        146.5      156.0      193.5      193.5      193.5      193.5      236.0       371.0
Financial Rate of Return 6/  = 14%
1/ In constant prices.
2/ Based on 3% of sales.                                                                                                                                                                E
3/ For 10 years, including two years  grace on principal, at a real rate of interest of 10%; 80% financing assumed.                                                                     H 
4/ For five years, including one year   grace on principal, at a real rate of interest of 10%.
5/ Replacement costs in year 11.
6/ Taking into account periodic replacement of equipment.
May 25, 1982



- 73 -
Annex 3
MEXICO
AGRICULTURAL MARKETING PROJECT FOR PERISHABLES
Selected Documents and Data Available in Project File
Economy and Agriculture
Al. Mexico: Development Strategy, Prospects and Problems, Bank Economic
Report, August 31, 1981.
A2.  Informacion Economica, Banco de Mexico.
A3.  Recent Development in Food and Agriculture Policies, Bank Draft Paper,
March 1982.
A4.  FIDEC:   Informe de Actividades en 1981 y Programa Financiero para 1982,
Banco de Mexico, 1982.
A5.  The Commerce Sector in Mexico, by Leopoldo Solis in 1982.
A6.  Econotecnica Agricola: Situation de la Agricultura Nacional en 1980 y
Algunas Consideraciones Sobre el Mercado Internacional, SARH, January
1981.
A7.  Mexico:  Tercer Congreso Nacional de Estadisticas Agropecuarias y
Forestales, November 1980.
A8.  Estadistica Pecuaria Nacional, SARH, 1972-1981.
Marketing
Bl. Mexico: Sistemas de Comercializacion de Productos Alimenticios,
Resutlados y Recomendaciones del Proyecto, UNDP, 1981.
B2.  Agricultural Marketing Project Feasibility Studies, Vols. 1-12,
prepared by SCET/AGRI and FIDESA, September 1982.
B3.  Proyecto Educativo de Apoyo a los Servicios Integrados de Abasto,
Secretaria de Educacion Publica y SIDA, 1982.
B4.  Diseno de Lineas de Normalizacion para Frutas y Hortalizas, SIDA,
January 1982.
B5.  Normas Oficiales de Calidad para la Comercializacion de Productos
Frescos, SIDA, February 1982.
B6.  Elaboracion de Cursos y Programas de Capacitacion, Secretaria de
Educacion Publica y SIDA, 1982.



- 74 -
Appraisal Mission Working Papers
Cl. Production and Marketing at Producer Level.
C2. Marketing Information System.
C3. Guidelines for Investments in Marketing.
C4. Internal Marketing System.
C5. Institutional Analysis of FIDEC.
Guidelines for Studies to be Conducted Under the Project
D.1 Lineamientos Generales: Estudios Sobre Mercados al Mayoreo en Centros
Urbanos.
Componentes basicos que deberan contener:
1. Diagnostico
1.1 Marco de Referencia
1.1.1  Localizacion y situacion del area de influencia
1.1.2 Caracteristicas geoclimaticas
1.1.3 Caracteristicas de la viabilidad
1.1.4 Caracteristicas de la poblacion
1.1.5 Infraestructura social y economica
1.2 Comercializacion, sistema actual
1.2.1  Estructura de la oferta
1.2.2  Estructura de la demanda
1.2.3  Canales de distribucion
1.2.4  Metodos de compraventa
1.2.5  Estacionalidad de precios
1.2.6  Servicios
1.3 Conclusiones
2.  Projecto
2.1 Objetivo,
2.2 Definicion
2.3 Area de Influencia
2.4 Ubicacion, viabilidad, servicios y diseno preliminar
2.5 Marco legal y nivel de organizacion
2.6 Puesta en marcha y funcionamiento
3.  Estudio Financiero
3.1 Necesidades de recursos del proyecto
3.2 Analisis y Proyeccion
3.3 Inversiones
3.4 Capital de trabajo
3.5 Resultados financieros



- 75 -
3.6 Plan de ejecucion
3.7 Justificacion social y economica
3.7.1 Evaluacion social
3.7.2 Evaluacion economica
3.7.3 Beneficios y Beneficiarios
4. Conclusiones y Recomendaciones
D2. Lineamientos Generales para un Estudio Sobre el Servicio de Transporte
de Productos Perecederos.
1. Situacion Actual
1.1 Caracteristica e infraestructura del servicio de transporte
1.2 Carascteristca e infraestructura del servicio de transporte de
productos perecederos
1.3 Parque existente de vehiculos y productos perecederos (c)(d)
1.4 Marco legal e institucional (a)
2. Analisis Origen-Destino
2.1 Estructura de la oferta
2.2 Estructura de la demanda
2.3 Principales productos
2.4 Empaque y manejo
3. Conclusiones y Recomendaciones
D3. Estudios Generales Sobre Comercializacion de Perecederos en Mexico
Los posibles estudios que se realizarian bajo este rubro seran
principalmente los relacionados con:
-   Almacenes nacionales de depositos y operaciones de credito
prendario
-   Lonjas y subastas
-   Empaque y embalaje para productos especificos v.gr. pescados y
mariscos.
Adicionalmente se realizaran estudios que se acuerden entre FIDEC y el
Banco, relacionados con la modernizacion de la comercializacion de productos
perecederos.
March 11, 1983



MEXICO
AGRICULTURAL MARKETING PROJECT FOR PERISHABLES
Production, Export and Consumption Trends
1970 - 1980                                                                                        (000 m tons)
1970                1980             Area           Yield           1970       1980                  1970     1980        Annual       1970 Net         1980 Net           Annual
Crop-In Order        Area ('000 ha)    Area ('000 ha)                        I Increase (%)      Production             %          Exports             %          National          National             I
of Value 1980            Harvested          Harvested          Increase        Per ha           ('000 m tons)       Increase    ('000 m tons)       Increase      Consumption       Consumption      Increase
Vegetables
Tomatoes                  63.7                 75.9               19            32              923.0      1458.0       58        367.3     312.4    (1.5)          j55.7          1,145.6                8
Potatoes                  48.2                 71.4               48            38              508.1      1041.5    105            -          1.6      -           508.1           1039.9                8
Watermelon                i9.6                 20.5                5           130              203.6       493.1    142           50.3      99.0       7           [53.3            394.0               10
Chiles (dry)              18.8                 23.2               23            50                20.8       35.3       55          2.6        1.4    (6)            18.2             33.9                6
(green)           36.3                42.0                15            62              190.8       357.1      87          39.6      79.7       7           151.2            205.9 3/             6
Onions                    16.7                 26.5               59            68              139.0       372.0    156           23.6      58.3       9           115.4            313.7               11
Cantaloupe                16.6                 23.8               43            46               163.1      342.0    109           79.0      98.0       2            84.1            244.0               11
Cucumbers                  N.A.4/              11.6 4/           N.A.         N.A.               N.A. 4/  200.8 4/   -              -       127.1    18               N.A.            73.7               17
Peas 1/                   13.9                 12.3              (11)          225                30.7       88.4 -  188            4.0        5.0      2            Z6.7             83.4               12
Strawberries               7.9                  5.9              (25)            0              126.9        94.1    (34)          91.3      57.2    (5)             35.b             3b.9                1       1
Zuchini/Squash 1/          N.A.4/              11.5 4/           N.A.          N.A.                N.A.4/   66.3 4/   -             N.A.    43.1       17             N.A.            23.2               17       -
Garlic                     6.6                  8.8               33            21                29.0       46.7 -   61            5.0       12.0      9            24.0             34.7                4
Green Beans 1/             7.6                  6.6              (13)          225                13.0       36.7    182            6.6       13.1      7             6.4             23.6               14
Eggplant 1/                1.0                  0.9              (10)           22                17.1       19.5       14         13.8       19.0      3             3.0              0.5              (32)
All Other                  -                    -                                                 39.0       73.0       87           -         -        0            39.0             73.0                6
Total              256.9                317.8                24            85           2,404.0    4,457.4        85        683.1 5/ 925.5        3         1,720.7          3,726.0                8
Frui t Crops
Oranges 2/               154.2                161.4                4            33             1255.0    1770.9         55         28.8       59.0      7          1226.2           1711.9                3
Bananas 2/                74.4                 61.0              (18)           83              965.2      1356.2      55           1.6        3.6      8           963.6           1352.6                3
Mango 2/                  16.6                 53.0              219           (32)              307.6      770.8       89          1.7       12.8    22            305.9            758.0               10
Lemons Z/                 22.7                 49./              119            25              210.7       5/l.A        6         65.7        0.2    42            145.0            511.1               15
Grapes 2/                 19.7                 37.3               89            32               178.5      441.1    147            5.0        7.8      5           173.5            433.3               10
Avocado 2/                19.1                 55.0              187           (61)             226.0       400.7    103            -          0.1      -           226.0            400.6                6
Apples 2/                 15.7                 40.5              158           (53)             145.6       245.7        -          -          0.2      -           145.6            245.5                5
Total              322.4                457.9               42            12            3,228.6    5,562.7        69        102.8       83.7    (2)         3,185.8          J,479.0                6
1/ Source: All other - SARH, DGEA and UNPH 1970 and 1979/1980.
2/ Source: SARH unpublished data from AG Sector Report (for those crops included in the report).
3/ Includes fresh (green) chilies.                                                                                                                                                                              t
4/ Not included in totals.
5/ If it is assumed that zuchini and cucumber exports in 1970 were 20% of those in 1980 thieni 1970 exports would have been about 708,000 tons total
N.A. - Not available.
June 2, 1982



MEXICO
AGRICULTURAL MARKETING PROJECT FOR PERISHABLES
Principal Vegetables and Fruits and Major Producing States (1/)
Zuchini /
States                    Tomatoes  Potatoes  Green Chile Onions  Melons  Cucuubers  Peas  Carrots  Strawberries  Squash   Garlic  Green Beans  Oranges  Bananas  Mangoes  Lemons  Grapes  Avocados  Apples
Sinaloa                      50         13          19   _          __ 10         67            __        __    ____          47                   38-_______________________-
Morelos          __   9 _                                        9                                           ___                  ____    36 _
Guanajuato                       17  _____ 17                                             ___        36         22                      36 __________ _ _-
B.California                 11          5                       8      10               _-______                              __        8    _______           _______             18 _-   ___ 8
S.L. Potosi    -___    8                                                                                             -._  _  _____  __          ____            16 _     -     -      
Vera Cruz      __                       12            9                                                                        -_ _________                     37         8 18     18       9                ____
Puebla                                  19         __            9   __                          -    9           __              _     11         14 ____            __________                                 8        18-
Chihuahua      _.                                   14       . 12                                                                                          ---__  _    _____  __  ___ _____-  _              ______       35 -
Jalisco                                                  9___        _                       9 _____  _ 9 _____                                     6  _______.7                     7       _7 _7                     _-
Tamaulipas                                                  -  16        5                   -            -                    _-- _            _ --            11
Michoacan                                                        9      18        14  _              10         68                                                ___ _  5         __         18      _         35
Nayarit                                             13  _-     _          5 .                                                                                                       7_ __     -  7 7
Nuevo Leon  _--_ _______                                                                          _  .                      __    _                    __   23    ___-
Chiapas                                                                                                                   __           _                  _               22    11                       _   9
Colima         ------                          --      _     _-                                                                                                           19   _   41   _
Oaxaca                                                                   6           _                                                   _      _                                   22     _ 10                 9          8-
Tobasco               --                                                                          - - --__   __                   ____                   _____            16  ___-
E. de Mexico             _              23                       7 ___                      80       27                                            _     _     _                     _                         10
Zacatecas                           -_              16              _              _                                           ____                 _____-__________                                   10              _  _
Durango    _             _ --                                           11 -_                                    ___                                      __          __                                                   _
Coahuila            -             --_             ____ _     6                             ____   __                                _________                      _           .__          _           6 ____              -
Guerrero              __                                                 8           -                                    _                              __-                     _           5                  -
Distrito
Federal                                                              _                    5                   _____                                      _                  _                                     _      _
Queretaro          ___           _-         -_______________________  __  9                                              ______5   -                                                                             _
Yacatan                                                                                                __                     43                                  -        -__      _______
Sonora                 -_                                                   __           _____                                           5                                _   .   ___  36
Aguas-
calientes        -           _              __________                                                                               19           __                         ____                   27        ____--
% of Total Production        78         /2          78         87       88        81        85       91         99           90        /9          94          87        87        83        83       92        78        81
I/ Only those states producing more than 5% of total national production, expressed it  %.



MEX ICO
AGRICULTURAL MARKETING PROJECT FOR PERISHABLES
Distribution of Production of Vegetables and Fruits by State
1980
(1)         (2)        (3)        (4)        (5)        (6)         (7)        (8)         (9)        (10)       (11)       (12)    (13)        (14)       (15)          (16)    (17)         (18)         (19)
Green                 Canta-                                       Straw-                            String
Tomato      Potato    Pepper    Onions       loupe    Cucumber       Peas      arrots    berries  Zuchioi   Saolic          beans   Oranges   Banas    Mango             Le.on     Grapes    Avocado        APple
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------  Tons  ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
B. California         120,437     52,802      7,591    2/,440    28,290          637         194        849          -        108      3,758        658      2,125           -   137,582       2,032    33,432           19
B. Californi.           3,689      3,201    15,227         912      1,402         88           9          -          -        280        244          -      3,850           -      2,950           -     6,653       1,800          -
Sonar.                  7,032    34,558       1,977      8,840      4,004      2,734      3,495           -          -          -      2,352        178          -           -        117           -   159,978         413      2,912
Sinaloa               643,995   138,045    89,318        3,994    27,383   136,280        2,908           -          -    30,948           -    13,768            -          -          -           -          -          -        699
Nayarit                28,197      7,829    61,426            5    15,086      1,439         310          -          -        502          3        302        501     56,750     52,362       6,5/0           -      8,104          -
Chihuah-n               2,245    33,249    67,524    42,332         2,328           -          -          -          -          -        504          -           -          -          -           -      2,174          -   135,978
Durango                33,257      4,657      7,916      4,809    30,590           10          7        438          -         74        428          -      1,100           -        760          75    12,018         455      5,254
Coahuila                5,908    28,960       5,841        420    16,930            -          -        330          -          -        418           -          -          -          -           -    26,608          60         54
Noeno Leon                935    51,880         317          6        489           -          -      3,268          -          -         36          -   407,554            -          -           -          -      5,123      4,213
Tamaulipas             15,633          -    11,960    54,518    15,019            665        247          -          -         32          -        340   185,552          500      8,152      8,322           -      8,142          -
Zacatecas               3,121        497    75,420       2,621          -           -          8          _                     -      1,548          -         126          -        538          14    46,113         416      4,494
Aguascalientes          1,005      1,918      2,726      1,663           -         30         25          -          _          -      8,926           2          -          -          -           -   120,838       1,270         10
San Lais Potosi        89,084          -      9,882      4,117        989      1,104           -      1,807          -          7      1,528          -   284,561            -    19,429      12,645         560      1,1883        /9
Jalisco                34,056    11,010       3,069      9,842    25,235       9,088           -          -      6,739         72         60      2,059      9,534    88,155       52,308     11,762       2,038    28,377       1,044
Colima                  2,896          -      1,111          -        337      4,138           -          -          -          -          -          -        128   252,941        9,623    235,497           -        792          -
Michoacen              36,683    38,177       9,454    31,918    51,669    27,876            448      /,188    48,574       2,628        130        270      1,310     71,194      12,097    101,721           -   141,221       3,623
Est.do de Mexico        2,079   234,458          14    23,980           -      3,326     70,512     19,373         144          -        243          -      1,257      3,504       2,678    16,876          144    39,950       9,354
Queretaro               2,517        486      3,031      2,184          -           -        858      6,749         49         85      2,218        144           -          -        900         236    24,167       4,133      2,076  :
Guanajuato             49,738    26,516    30,875    56,526           829        429      3,070    26,298    15,379           368    17,048          89        241           -        113         260      6,192     10,320        918
Hidalgo                     -          -          -           -          -          -          -          -          -          -           -          -          -          -      2,750       1,500        187          -          -
Puebla                 20,248   198,033       8,384    30,285       3,520      1,476        683      6,341           -        228      5,106      5,263     31,080     12,576         401      8,378           5    31,091      43,745
Tlaxcala                    -    40,179          68        332           -          -         20        299          -          -      1,011           -          -          -           -          -          -        127        477
Morelos                91,109      1,765      1,704    32,324       9,334      8,761           -          -          -          -          -    13,073       2,000       1,908      5,968      6,012           -      8,579      1,920
Veracruz               22,282   128,696    42,227          580      2,376      3,507         957          -        106        147         27           -   653,665   245,783    137,582       49,690           -    14,867       8,018
D.F.                        -        444          -          -          -           -     4,563           -          -          -          -          -           -          -          -           -          -          -          -
Guerreo                1/,462        355      2,920      1,042    22,106       2,256           -          -          -      1,855        610        432      4,855    36,879       36,110     30,984           -    11,895           -
Oaxaca                 22,134         26      9,317        200    16,620            -        142          -          -        440        552         87    45,035      64,932   169,466       60,397           -    36,978    18,750
Chiapas                 4,504      3,818      1,394        300      7,830         126          -         14          -          -          -           -    30,657   291,699    84,366         5,918           -    36,686       1,685
Tabasco                   150          -         72          -         80           -    -                -          -         16          -           -     8,925   220,000        7,610      8,100           -        930          -
Q. Roo                    23/          -        144          -          16          -          -          -          -         --          -           -       462           -          6           -          -        675          -
Yucatdn                 9,991          -        791         28      1,304         104          -          -          -    28,568           -          -    79,660       8,618       4,509      9,093           -      5,473          -
Campeche                  664          -         69           -         20          -                                -          -      _                     5,381         762     12,394      1,240           -      2,112          -
Total
Production        1,271,306 1,041,529   471,769   341,218   283,786   204,074    88,456    72,954    70,991               66,358    46,750      36,666 1,759,559 1,356,201    760,771    577,322   441,107   401,196   245,303
Reasons I
Enportation          312,415      1,568    79,756    58,301    97,690   127,072          4,974       2,878    57,174    43,068    12,015        13,080    59,034       3,627      12,802         200      7,849        136        222
Available for
National
Consumption         958,890 1,039,961   392,012   282,917   186,096    77,002    83,481            70,076      13,817    23,290    34,735    23,586 1,708,625 1,352,574    747,969    577,122   433,258   401,060   245,101b
Source: SARH/DGEA, UNPH  Note: Data extracted from state and individual commnodity statistics and should be viewed as indicative of distribution of production.  Totals may vary from preliminary 1980 SARH
published figures.
Sums have been rounded.



MEXICO
AGRICULTURAL MARKETING PROJECT FOR PERISHABLES
Project Financing
(USS million)
Other
Total Lending    Participating                             Government                              Total
Sub-Rorrowers        Program 1/           Banks           Trust Funds         Agencies                IBRD         Project Costs
Amount      X      Amount      S      AmoAmoun           Am  nt              Amount      7      Amount      F      Amount       t
I.  Productive Investment
Producer Level                        17.2      20       68.8      80        8.6      10       17.2       20       -         -        43.0      50       86.n    100
W4holesale and Retail Level           21.2      20       84.8      80       10.6      10       21.1       20       -         -        53.1       50     106.0    100
Subtotal                            38.4      20      153.6      80       19.2      10       38.3       20       -         -        96.1      50      192.0    100
10
II.  Productive Support
National Marketing
Information System                 -         -          3.0               ---                          -          1.0      33        2.0      67        3.0    100
III.  Institutional Support                    -         -         1.0      -        -                   0.7       70       -         -         0.3      30         1.0    100
IV.  Special Studies                          -         -         1.5      -        -         _         0.5       30       -         -         1.0      70         1.5    100
V.  Technical Services                       -         -         1.0      -        -         -         0.3      30        -         -         0.7      70        1.0    100
VI.  Investment Cost (Baseline)               38.4      19      160.1      81       19.2      10       39.8       20        1.0       1      100.1       50     198.5    10O
VII.  Price Contingencies                       5.4      14       22.2      81        2.7      10         5.4      20        0.1       1       14.0       50       27.6     100
VIII.  Total Investment Cost                    43.8      19      182.3      81       21.9       10       45.2      20        1.1       1      114.1       50      226.1     100
IX.  Front-end Fee on Bank Loan               -         -        -         -        -         -                                                0.9    100         .la    100
X.  Total Financing Required                 43.8      19      182.3      80       21.9      10       45.2       20        1.1       1      115.0      50      227.0    1O0
1/ Including support services.
March 14, 1983



- 80 -
Table 5
MEXICO
AGRICULTURAL MARKETING PROJECT FOR PERISHABLES
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
Cumulative
Fiscal Year           Disbursed During          Disbursements
Year          and Quarter               Quarter 1/          at End of Quarter 1/
---------------US$ million---------------
1983      June 30, 1983
1984      September 30, 1983               1.5                       1.5
December 31, 1983               1.5                       3.0
March 31, 1984                  4.0                       7.0
June 30, 1984                   6.5                      13.5
1985      September 30, 1984               7.5                      21.0
December 31, 1984               9.0                      30.0
March 31, 1985                 10.0                      40.0
June 30, 1985                  11.0                      51.0
1986      September 30, 1985              12.0                      63.0
December 31, 1985              12.0                      75.0
March 31, 1986                 12.0                      87.0
June 30, 1986                  12.0                      99.0
1987      September 30, 1986               7.5                     106.5
December 31, 1986               4.5                     111.0
March 31, 1987                  3.0                     114.0
June 30, 1987                   1.0                     115.0
1/ Based on disbursement performance of Loans 1217-ME, 1569-ME and 1891-ME,
adjusted to reflect payment of the capitalized front-end-fee in the first
quarter. Assumes the loan would become effective on or before August 1,
1983.
March 11, 1983



MEXICO
AGRICULTUR.Al, MARKETING PROJECT FOR PERISHIARLES
Cash Flow Projections for Project Account
(!JS$ million)
Project Years
1         2         3         4      *              6          7          8
CASH INFLOW
Disbursements from Bank Loan                                       13.5       37.5      48.0      16.0
Counterpart fund for credit program by:
FIRA and FICART                                                   9.4        9.0       1.6        -
FIDEC                                                            11.1       10.6       2.3        -
Repayments of discounts by participating hanks to:
FIRA and FICART 2/                                                 -         6.0      12.n      18.0       18.0       18.0       12.0        6.0
FIDEC 2/                                                           -         7.4      14.8      22.2      22.2       22.2        14.8        7.4
Counterpart funding for National Marketing
Information System (SECOFI)                                       n.5        n.5        -         -        -           -          -           -
Counterpart funding for Institutional Support,
Special Studies and Technical Assistance                          0.2        0.8       0.5        -        -                                  -
Total Cash Inflow                                                34.7       71.8      79.2      56.2      40.2       40.2        26.R       13.4
CASH OUTFLOW
Discounts extended by:
FIRA and FICART                                                  22.8       21.0      19.1       9.0
FIDEC                                                            28.1       26.2      23.2      11.0
National Marketing Information System (SECOFI)                      1.7        1.7        -         -
Institutional Support (FIDEC)                                       0.5        0.6        -         -
Special Studies (FIDEC)                                             0.5        1.2        -         -
Technical Assistance (FIDEC, SECOFI, SARH)                          0.5        0.6        -         -
Front-end Fee on Bank Loan                                          0.n         -         -         -
Total Casb Outflow                                               55.0       51.3      42.3      20.0         -        -           -           -
Annual Cash Balance                                                 (20.3)      20.5      36.9      36.2       40.2       40.2       26.8       13.4
Cumulating Cash Balance available for distrihution
to the Trust Funds                                                (20.3)       0.2      37.1      73.3      113.5     153.7       180.5      193.9         3
1/ Including price contingencies.
2/ Assuming average repayment period of five years at a real rate of interest of lOY.
March 16, 1983



- 82 -
Chart 1
MEXICO
AGRICULTURAL MARKETING PROJECT FOR PERISHABLES
Seasonal Production of Vegetable and Fruit Crops in 1980
(in tons)
Product     January   February    March      April     May       June       July      August  September  October | November  December     potl
42,293    42,293     42,293     42,293    19,963      3,839               32,800    97,928     3Z800                            366,790
Green Chile
42,373    42,373     38,587     19,895    25,001     17,291    17.291     17,291     17,291    6.708    16,878    38,332         299,323
Onions
3,962     25,149    34,276     65,917    45,632    30.229      30.368     22.720                                                258,262
Melon
29,048    29,048     13,919     3,436      2,063                          25,612    25,612               28,358   2a.048        161,053
Cucumbers
37,538    37.538                                                                                 75,075
Peas                                                                       _
6.202     6,202      6,202      6,202      6,202     5,549      4,895     4,895      4,895     4,895     4,895    4,895         ff,949
Carrots
8,047     8,047       8,047      7,6,4     4,126     2,063                3,174      3,174     3,548     8,047    8,047         63,999
Zucchini/Squash
7,524     7,524       7,524      7.524     7,524     7,524                                     3,762     7,524    7,524         63,963
Strawberries,
6,100      7,375      9,804    16,162                                                                                39,408
Garlic
4,944     4,944       4,944      3,692     1,926      619       619        1,617    1,307      1,307     3,810    4.429         34,164
Green Beans
177,121    130,733    173.028                                                       201,873   350,149   148,276   350,149      1,531,332
Oranges            _                                               .
115,157    115,157    80,045    80.045    108,150    92,436    92,436    92,436    92,436      73,038   137,369   91,064      1,169,772
Bananas                                           .
39,858    39,858     39,858     39,858    39,858    39,858     39,858    39,858    39.858     39,858    39,858   39,858         478,289
Lemons
76,761    76,761    109,200    109,200    32,439    32,439    32,439                           469,241
Mangoes
82,228    82,228    82,228    82,228     82,228                            411,138
Grapes
Z3,234    32,Z       _3.,32       ,179     3,057     3,057     32,234    32,234    32,234     32,234    32.234   32,234        314,303
Avocados
20,832    20.832    20,832    67,989     67,989                            198.473
Apples
1/ Figures represent products that passed through official marketing channels and are therefore only indicative. They do not constitute total production.
-l    Above average production
Below average production
Less than SS of total production
Source: Economia Agricola, UNPH
World Bank-23994



- 83 -
Chart 2
MEXICO
AGRICULTURAL MARKETING PROJECT FOR PERISHABLES
Marketing Channels for Fruits and Vegetables
Legend-
Channel of Major Importance           _         ..
Channel used Frequently
Channel of Minor Importance  _  _
SMALL SCALE PRODUCERS                                                        LARGE SCALE PRODUCERS
>                                                                                                                                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~m
FarmerAssembler                                                                                Producers'                             Commnission                   r-
Buyer                                                                                        Association                              Merchant
I                                    !        Transporter
I~                                                                           I
_  _ . _  _  _       Comm  sion Merchant
I
0
_               I                                                             rm
n~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I
Retail Grocers
Second-level Wholesalers
Public                     Grocery                       Mob,le                       Markets                   Restaurants and
Retail                      Stores                        Strts                      on Wheels                    Institutions                Supermarkets
Makes                                                     Markets 
|  C 0 N S U M  E R S                                                                   B
World Bank-24010



-84 -                                                   Chart 3
MEXICO
AGRICULTURAL MARKETING PROJECT FOR PERISHABLES
Structural Breakdown of Consumer Prices for Vegetables and Fruits
in Public Markets of Mexico City
17.0
RETAILER MARGIN                 27.0                                          26.0                                           32.0                    34.0
4.0                                          40.0
PRODUCT LOSSES AT RETAIL   :.            t 1.0           /      13.0                    5.0
0.0.    11.0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.
/    00000   ~~~~~~~~~~~  ~14.0///
WHOLESALER MARGIN   '/////   12.0                         13.0        /////                                         t,,  ,    i3.0           0:0        2.
04000            5.0         ///// /000
;ODUCT LOSSES AT WHOLESALE         0000    2.5                      4.0                                / //        95         * 0      05 9.5
0000007777
7.5                  10.0                    10.0        *o00 *oo0  0.
ANSPORTATION AND HANDLING                    7                                                             0  0   5.0         000000                             11.0
PACKAG ING                7.5                    7.0                    8.0                     3.0                   14.0                     4.0
HARVESTING                3.5          2     0                           2.0    iAA
6.0                   14.0
PRODUCER
ER : >~~9.0                       30.0          %         30.0E  2.00
25.0                   20.0
15.0
Tomatoes                Potatoes               Onions                  Chiles                 Oranges                Bananas
V E G E T A B L E S                                                     F R U I T S
World Bank--24012



- 85-                                               Chart 4
MEXICO
AGRICULTURAL MARKETING PROJECT FOR PERISHABLES
Participation of Marketing Agents in the Final Price of Beef and
Eggs in Mexico City
(%)
6.0                 VISCERA                     5.5                    RETAILERS                6.2
.0R*L ERS                                                       WHOLESALERS   /            5.8                   8.5
*   24.0                                                                  95
25.0    e             MEAT
RETAILERS         *-0C-
8.0               WHOLESALERS                  7.0
7.0
PRODUCERS                  90.0                82.0
63.5
LIVESTOCK
54.0                PRODUCER
Traditional                    Integrated
Channel                        Channel                                       {Official Prices)
BEEF                                                                        EGGS
World Bank-24011
Source: SECOM, 1979



- 86 -                                          Chart 5
MEXICO
AGRICULTURAL MARKETING PROJECT FOR PERISHABLES
Participating Institutions
SUBPROGRAMS                       /  /
SECTORS
FEDERAL GOVERNMENT                                      e t<' -                             q(X
Secretaria de Comercio y Formento Industrial           _  *  *  *  3  *        *      **
-CONASUPO                                             --rn-wa _ _ _
- ANDSA                                               _         _  _      .
-BORUCONSA                                            _ __-:1                  -----
-IMPECSA                                                            - _
Secretaria de Agricultura y Recursos Hidraulicos       *  *  *  -  5  a  a  _  _  S          3
-CONAFRUT                                             _1- -           4_-----
Secretaria de la Reforma Agraria                       -  5  U   - _  _  _  _  -  5  5
Secretaria de Comunicaciones y Transportes                              _      _ -
- Ferrocarriles Nacionales de Mexico                _    _  _  _  _       _  _  _  _ -
-EMT Multimodal                                       -------_                   --       -
Secretaria de Asentamientos Humanos y Obras Pulblicas   _     3 41- _1 _ _  _                1 1
Secretaria de Patrimonio y Fomento Industrial          _  _  _  _  _        - _   _   _   _
-LANFI
Secretaria de Hacienda y Credito P6blico _             -  *  u                 _  +  _ rn  -
- Banco de Mexico                                   _    _  _  _  _  _        - _   _
- Comisi6n Nacional Bancaria                                              _
-BANRURAL _                                                                          - _
-BANOBRAS                        _ _                                   - _
- BANPESCA __________ _
-FIRA                                                 -
-FOSOC                                                  _-_r_-            _-     _      _- _
- FIDEC-
-IMIT                                                 _            *      - _  _
Secretaria del Trabajo y Previsi6n Social                                            _  _  _
Secretaria de Educaci6n Puiblica                       _   _     _      - _    _   _   _
Secretaria de Programaci6n Presupuesto
Secretaria de Salubridad y Asistencia __________________-.   _
Secretaria de Gobernaci6n                              __
Secretatia de Pesca                                                    41-* 5 3----S
-PROPESMEX                                                             -5------
-RETESA                                                  - _       r         - _    - _
Departamento del Distrito Federal                      _   _   _    -             _
STATE GOVERNMENTS                                          5                     j _                  Participant
MUNICIPAL GOVERNMENTS                                   _  U  _U    *    _  _  EU  *  _   *  Responsible
PUBLIC SECTOR                                           *  j__**j*_ *  *
PRIVATE SECTOR                                          _  _U__                    O 
Source: CPD
World Bank-24013



Chart 6
- 87 -
MEXICO
AGRICULTURAL MARKETING PROJECT FOR PERISHABLES
ORGANIZATIONAL CHART
[MARKETING PROJECT
COORDINATES    j                      .II
NAT'L MRKT.
PLAN AND INSTITUTION          FIDEC
PARTICIPATION
PRODUCTIVE           MARKETG. INFO.        tNSTITUTIONAL
INVESTMENT              SYSTEM.               SUPPORT
RETAIL AND  I                           PLANNING AND
WHOLESALE                               P SECOFI  PROGRAMMING
PRODUC|ER                               PROMOTION
LEVEL                  I
ECH. ASSIST.
AND TRAINING
FIA       IAR                            Ei: \
TECHNICAL SERVICES
World Bank-23993



MEXICO
AGRICULTURAL MARKETING PROJECT FOR PERISHABLES
FIDEC
Proposed Organizational Structure
Director       l
| Avisrs  -------------------------------------- ---------------------------------|  ayr 
Technical                                                                               Administrative
Department                                                                                Department
Planning         Project        Technical                            Operation and                         Administrative        Data Base
and            Analysis       Assistance       Promotion            Supervision         Accounting            Services          System
Programming                     and Training                           (financial)
Regional Offices
0



MEXICO
AGRICULTURAL MARKETING PROJECT FOR PERISHABLES
Traditional Market Handling System
Photo No. 1  Inefficient Congested Street;    Photo No. 2  Typical packaging for the national
Marketing; Open truck bulk handling of           market.  Overfilled rough wooden crates result in
produce.                                         excess produce damage and losses.






MEXICO
AGRICULTURAL MARKETING PROJECT FOR PERISHABLES
Modern Market Handling System
ywo              t>-                - ~SPANIA 
flaaoott                                                     - 
IL~~~~~~
~~~~~~~~,*-- O5N L-I s
Photo No. 3                                                     Photo No. 4
Cold Storage                                                    Protective, Attractive
Warehouse and Refrigerated                                      Packaging
Transport






- 91 -
MEXICO
AGRICULTURAL MARKETING PROJECT FOR PERISHABLES
Wholesale Marketing
Photo No. 5 Typical wholesale market stall where retailers can
purchase fruits.
OuIoser'vIcio mOyors
'1i,.. ,  ig iE1~~~ft'
I-twF ,{      fi    !    jf 
Photo No. 6 Modern facility being developed for retailers one-stop
self-service shopping, similar to self-service retail supermarkets.






IBRA 16508
hf /U 1l'39> 0son                                                                                                              ITo                                                                           JuO                                 TP9  00
\(Mes 7E M E X Co 
'i TOES                                                                       UNITED  STATES OF AMERICA
I P0T~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~iTS0 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AGRICULTURAL  MARKETING
Kja  I$Etdo&7 <0'-t  t-                              7._.<                                                                                                            OF  PERISHABLES PROJECT
8s BAJA   S    )    J    N   .-   '-~   /  /  \<' t ~A
,1M  NC   T;                   a t   r   |   {   4   \    <           !                                                                                                                               / > -                 -                 3DV
A                                                I-tC  U- \  A ,  U
I FORT     <        '               1/-    /bOe7_JN
S  r  XA   N  7  ;: G   ,/XofC    
,,-OT0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ I                        H. U5AE9/SAN UISA                                                                                                  '-.',z / --'       < :
: ~ ~ ~    ~     ~     ~     ~    ~ ~ O                                                                                                                                                                     5   9>       0 $X k 3 0eede;0 :  g  
A-, -  I'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A~,,,gF-Ci
g a C                       /    f  /c    O   c      a   f7      r   2i#_-/ \ ('-<t NA I  'N. CH3/tl
it ~ooo  15,10            059                                / :   OTCO                66                                            2,
02          IO      25-                                                         00/OP/ 300  50  N1/0PEES                                                                                         Mo1o\A O AD S<s   ) r    Crops           !oi~
0AI'                                                                                 C 0 A00 U0 MI LE                                                         >=  A5- --,                       _1C1D /GUT.MlA -ki
Bhe mAJA . m b M m s  oes 1 z e t mli v # e w -                                  /                                                                                                 *     N o oo o   C ooN /
CALIFORNIA ~~~~~~~~~.5  Nv~~~~~~~ K            60400                                    r                                         N  0-  Bisi~~~~~~~~~~~~Ddad IHigOoys
K su R 4k~                                                                        ~()--                                                                                           SlO-Red Mai Roods
2:                 0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                      '~~~~~~~<N  [FiGCN
,i T<9_OP                        K                             M-   -ey                                                                         Stoe Bidra
wund~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~'OO                                                                                           I                                                        orrotoo  Boordorosz 2tdT@sl2wedj38dn 3    011UA
JIRd@MA, ~ ~       T                         copy /m                                              IIr  >   'th> Iw7 slwI VmMto w   nmew
B,L~~~~~~C  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ >K   ~~~~~~ TAMAIJS/FAS ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ONTO MAOOT COOPS PRODL 0(D itN LOCH STATE
5-P  Docang4      /    ~~~~ZACATE CAS//        Ij   Cooo                                   (iqf          o           d    /~
m    RAPES \  /eSAN LUIS FOTO(, I
NY'AR[i                              ;     o
Ago,-sco(-orr 
0S HIf     2PE[                         MI As
i574AL OSE(Q                            i 4C       s                                                                                  VIJC_AN,,,
OPEPO  Ai0   aEsOP/S  A    ,,-              0~~~~~ ~~~~~AA5~                                                               J VTNA       -
C o//or>'  --  ps/~~~eiio    ~0                                                                                       Q UINTA N
5774 WPEOP/ET   / JHEE    ~~  A    RACR                                                CA%MFECHE             h-
$                                                                                         /4/~~~~~~~~
0  ic'o  200  30.0 .',ES~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
Ni-    Mt/DOS  N4o~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.   Ad  /  -5T@ASCQ              r~~~~~~~,   L RA 



