Document of
The World Bank                              F  F
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-3504-ME
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPME--
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$115 MILLION
TO
NACIONAL FINANCIERA, S.A.
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF
UNITED MEXICAN STATES
FOR THE
AGRICULTURAL MARKETING PROJECT FOR PERISHABLES
March 31, 1983
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Currency Unit - Peso.:(Mex $)
Since December 20, 1982, Mexico has the following exchange rates:  (i) a
sliding controlled rate for priority imports, most exports and service
payments on foreign debt; this was set at 95.0 pesos per dollar on December
20 and was about 104.0 on March 15, 1983; and (ii) a free exchange rate for
all other transactions; in recent weeks the free peso has been trading around
150 per dollar.
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 hectare (ha)             =  10,000 m2 = 2.47 acres
1 kilometer (km)           =  0.62 mile
1 square kilometer (km2)  =  0.39 sq mile = 100 ha
1 kilogram (kg)            =  2.2 pounds
1 liter (1)                =  0.26 gallons
1 metric ton (m ton)       =  1,000 kg = 0.98 long ton
ABBREVIATIONS
ACF         -    Index of Average Cost of Funds to Multipurpose Banks
BANOBRAS    -    National Bank for Public Works and Services
BANPESCA    -    National Bank for Fisheries and Ports
BANRURAL    -    National Rural Credit Bank
CECADE      -    Development Training Center
CPD         -    Project Development and Coordination Group
EDI         -    Economic Development Institute
FAO         -    Food and Agriculture Organization
FEFA        -    Special Fund for Agricultural Finance
FERTIMEX    -    Mexican Fertilizer Corporation
FICART      -    Trust Fund for Credit in Rainfed Areas
FIDEC       -    Trust Fund for Marketing Development
FIDESA      -    Promotion and Assistance for Development (Consultants)
FIRA        -    Agricultural Trust Funds in the Bank of Mexico
FONEI       -    Industrial Equipment Fund
ICB         -    International Competitive Bidding
IDB         -    Interamerican Development Bank
IFAD        -    International Fund for Agricultural Development
IMF         -    International Monetary Fund
NAFINSA     -    National Development Bank
PIDER       -    Integrated Program for Rural Development
PLANAT      -    National Program for Assistance to Rainfed Agriculture
SAM         -    Mexican Food System
SARH        -    Secretariat of Agriculture and Water Resources
SECOFI      -    Secretariat of Commerce and Industrial Development
SHCP        -    Secretariat of Finance and Public Credit
SIDA        -    National Marketing Development Program
SPP         -    Secretariat of Programming and Budgeting
UNPH        -    National Union of Horticultural Producers



F'OR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
MEXICO
AGRICULTURAL MARKETING PROJECT FOR PERISHABLES
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:      Nacional Financiera, S.A. (NAFINSA)
Guarantor:     United Mexican States
Beneficiaries: Trust Fund for Marketing Development (FIDEC);
Agricultural Trust Funds of the Bank of Mexico (FIRA);
Trust Fund for Credit in Irrigated and Rainfed Areas
(FICART).
Amount:        US$115 million equivalent, including capitalized front-end fee.
Terms:         Fifteen years, including 3 years of grace, at the standard variable
interest rate.
Onlending
Terms:       Funds provided to FIDEC would be in the form of a grant.  Funds to
FIRA and FICART (for the investment program at the producer level)
would be on the same terms and conditions as the Bank Loan to
NAFINSA.
Project
Description:  The proposed project is a credit program to promote greater
private sector participation in modernization of the food distri-
bution system. The project would support development-oriented
subprojects for improving marketing facilities at the producer,
wholesaler and retailer levels. It would also help integration and
coordination of various marketing activities. Investments would
allow adoption of modern technologies of handling, packaging and
delivering perishable products that would reduce product losses and
costs, as well as improve the quality of products delivered to
consumers. The proposed project would be implemented over a
two-and-a-half year period.
Project Risks: The project does not present any special risk in terms of the
technical and financial soundness of various investment programs
that would be financed under the project. However, a potential
risk is in the area of institutional support and coordination.
FIDEC is a relatively new institution, although it has incorporated
positive elements of similar Bank of Mexico trust funds that have
performed well. To minimize this risk, the project would
strengthen FIDEC's (a) planning, programming, and impact analysis
capabilities; and (b) technical services and training. Also,
provision of technical services under the project would minimize
risks during the implementation period by providing back-stopping
to FIDEC in the execution of the overall program and by training
staff in technical marketing areas.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii1 -
Estimated Cost:                                 Local      Foreign  Total
--------US$ Million-
I. Productive Investment
Medium and Long-term Investment
Producer Level                  56.0        30.0     86.0
Wholesale and Retail Level        69.0        37.0    106.0
Subtotal                    125.0       67.0    192.0
II. Productive Support
National Marketing Informative
System                           1.5         1.5      3.0
III. Institutional Support
Planning and Programming           0.2         0.1      0.3
Promotion Program                  0.3         0.1      0.4
Training and Extension             0.2         0.1      0.3
Subtotal                      0.7        0.3       1.0
IV.  Special Studies                       0.5        1.0       1.5
V.  Technical Services                    0.3        0.7       1.0
VI.  Investment Cost (Baseline)          128.0       70.5    198.5
VII.  Price Contingencies                  17.8         9.8     27.6
VIII.  Total Investment Cost               145.8        80.3    226.1
IX.  Front-End Fee on Bank Loan             -         0.9       0.9
Total                   145.8        81.2    227.0
Financial Plan:                                Local        Foreign    Total
-------US$ Million----------
Government/Banking System   68.2           -         83.0
Beneficiaries                 43.8         -         44.0
Bank                          33.8        81.2      115.0
TOTAL                        145.8        81.2      227.0



- iii -
Estimated
Disbursements:  Bank FY               1984        1985        1986      1987
…US $ Millions------------
Annual               13.5       37.5        48.0       16.0
Cumulative           13.5       51.0        99.0      115.0
Rate of
Return:          Investments subprojects are expected to yield economic rates
of return ranging from 14% to 48%.
Staff Appraisal
Report:          Report No. 4062-ME, dated March 25, 1983.






INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO NACIONAL FINANCIERA, S.A.
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF UNITED MEXICAN STATES
FOR THE AGRICULTURAL MARKETING PROJECT FOR PERISHABLES
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to Nacional Financiera, S.A. with the Guarantee of United Mexican States for
the equivalent of US$115 million to help finance the Agricultural Marketing
Project for Perishables. The loan, which includes a capitalized front-end
fee of 0.75 percent on the Bank loan, would be repaid over 15 years, includ-
ing 3 years of grace, at the standard variable interest rate. Final benefi-
ciaries would pay interest rates floating with the ACF index (average cost of
funds to multipurpose banks). The majority would be charged in the range of
ACF and ACF plus two percentage points. Loans to low-income producers and
voluntary chains, accounting for five percent of the total loan amount, would
be at ACF less five percentage points. The margin for implementing agencies
would range between three to four percentage points.
PART I: THE ECONOMY
2.        The Bank's last economic report on Mexico, "Mexico:  Development
Strategy - Prospects and Problems" (3605-ME), was distributed to the Execu-
tive Directors on August 31, 1981. Since then the Mexican economy has faced
severe economic and financial strains. An economic mission to undertake an
in-depth analysis of the macro-economic developments and prospects for the
Mexican economy visited Mexico in February 1983. Country data sheets are
attached as Annex I.
Background
3.        Mexico's GDP grew at an average rate of 6 percent a year in real
terms between 1950 and 1980, yielding an increase of 3 percent a year in
output per capita. This rate of expansion was somewhat better than the
experience of other middle income LDCs. The GDP growth was composed of a
satisfactory balance between agriculture (which grew at 3.5 percent a year)
and industry (which grew at an average rate of 7.5 percent). The sustained
and rapid industrialization resulted in the rise of the share of the indus-
trial sector in GDP from 26 percent in 1950 to 37 percent in 1980. A similar
change took place in the structure of foreign trade, with manufactured
products accounting for an increasing share of total exports until 1975.
Finally, the last thirty years witnessed the passage of Mexico from a rural
to a largely urban society. In 1980, the fraction of total population living
in urban areas was estimated at two-thirds, while it was less than 30 percent
in 1950.
4.        The dynamic private sector was the main engine of growth in the
Mexican economy even though the public sector continued to account for well
over one-third of domestic capital formation until the mid-1970s, i.e. before



- 2 -
the rise of the oil sector that greatly enhanced the resources available to
the government.  The public sector's role in Mexico was see; si 133L  c set the
pace and pattern of economic growth and to help correct the effects of an
uneven distribution of resources on the relative position of the poorer
segments of the population and of the less favored regions of the country.
The government's success in this regard, however, was only partial. While
the living standards of many Mexicans experienced considerable improvement,
the income of the poor farmers and marginal urban dwellers lagged behind.
Consequently, contrasts within the Mexican economy remain conspicuous.
5.        In the early seventies, the Government sought to build up infra-
structure, expand basic industries, stimulate agricultural output and imple-
ment massive social programs. The difficulties it encountered in mobilizing
resources to attain all these aims simultaneously led to excessive public
sector deficits, while domestic supply rigidities caused a large part of the
aggregate demand to spill over into imports. Efforts to redress financial
imbalances by strengthening public revenues fell short of their goal and, in
September 1976, the Government abandoned the fixed parity of the peso and
imposed a strict stabilization program on the economy in the context of the
Extended Facility arrangements with the IMF.
Economic Performance, 1976-1981
6.        The last administration, which took office in December 1976, saw
the control of inflation and the improvement of the current account balance
as its most urgent tasks. It succeeded in reducing the rate of increase of
domestic prices by half between 1977 and 1978 while, at the same time, the
current account deficit decreased by over 40 percent.  In 1978, the economy
resumed its path of rapid growth. One of the major constraints on economic
growth--the availability of foreign exchange--had been greatly relaxed by the
successful exploitation of Mexico's oil reserves, which at the end of 1981
stood at 72 billion barrels.  Oil not only contributed directly to foreign
exchange earnings and Government revenue, but it also enabled the country to
carry a much larger external debt. The additional resources enabled the
purchase of raw materials and capital goods needed to sustain a high GDP
growth, and allowed the Government to embark on an ambitious expenditure
program.
7.        The public expenditure grew in real terms 20 percent a year between
1979 and 1981. Revenues grew more slowly, thus causing the public sector
deficit to rise rapidly. As a proportion of GDP, the deficit rose to 15
percent in 1981, compared to a ratio of around 7 percent in the preceding
several years. Despite a high rate of mobilization of private savings into
the financial system, the Government had to resort increasingly to foreign
borrowing. Although public sector foreign indebtedness, as a percentage of
GDP, had fallen from 31 percent in 1977 to 20 percent in 1980, it rebounded
again to more than 30 percent in 1981.  By 1980, the rapid rise in aggregate
demand was beginning to exert pressure on prices, and domestic inflation
reached 26 percent. Since the nominal exchange rate had remained practically
stable since 1977, the higher Mexican inflation resulted in an appreciation
of the peso in real terms. By 1980 the competitive edge gained after the
1976 devaluation had been lost. This made non-oil exports progressively less
attractive, while imports rose rapidly at 30 percent a year.



- 3 -
8.        On the positive side, the economic growth rate accelerated to over
7 percent during 1978-81, and resulted in an improvement of the labor
market.  Conditions were created not only to absorb the new entrants into the
labor force, but also to lower open unemployment, which is estimated to have
fallen to 4-5 percent of the labor force in the modern sector. The
Administration also strengthened its support to agriculture, reversing the
trend towards a worsening trade balance on basic foods, containing to some
extent rural migration, and providing small farmers with access to more effi-
cient production methods. Finally, a combination of fiscal incentives and
administrative regulations had a positive effect on spatial decentralization,
one of the major policy objectives of the Administration.
Recent Developments
9.        The state of the Mexican economy witnessed a progressive deteriora-
tion since about the middle of 1981, and the Government's actions could be
seen as responses to, instead of guiding, the events. By 1981, the need to
bring domestic inflation under control and to help restore the competitive-
ness of the non-oil exports had become apparent. The Administration chose to
follow a policy of gradual adjustment, and expected the deceleration in the
growth of demand, to be brought about through slowing the rise in public
expenditures, would reduce inflation. With a favorable outlook for oil
exports, no major problems were expected on the external sector, and a path
of gradual adjustment to a rate of growth of 6-7 percent appeared sustainable
in the long run and was considered to be less costly in terms of inflation
and unemployment than more drastic stabilization measures. Thus, the Admin-
istration decreed a 4 percent cut in its expenditures, reintroduced import
licenses on 80 percent of imports, tightened public procurement procedures,
and allowed a more rapid depreciation of the peso.
10.       Unfavorable external circumstances as well as the ineffectiveness
of the policies adopted were at the root of the deteriorating economic condi-
tions in 1981-82. On the one hand, the prospects for the world oil market
worsened in the second half of 1981, and the actual oil revenues, at US$14
billion, turned out to be 25 percent below what had been estimated in the
budget. There was also the tightening of the international financial market,
with a steep rise in the interest rates, which greatly increased the debt
servicing burden, since the bulk of Mexico's external borrowing had been
contracted at variable interest rates. By the end of 1981, the current
account deficit reached $11.3 billion, or 4.5 percent of GD?. But the
Government also failed to control public expenditures, which continued to
rise faster than revenues right through 1982, resulting in an unprecedented
high public sector budget deficit, estimated at 16.5 percent of GDP. In
1981, half of the financing gap could be met through external funds. Net new
borrowing in that year amounted to US$18 billion (53 percent higher than the
previous year) of which half consisted of short-term debt. During 1982, the
foreign commercial lenders became progressively wary of extending new loans
or rolling over the past ones as the country's financial and economic
condition worsened.



- 4 -
11.       Although the budget approved for 1982 was a moderate one, showing
virtually no real increase in expenditures, the belief that the oil market
would remain slack and doubts about financial discipline in the public sector
fueled the expectation that the Government would not succeed in reducing the
deficit and bringing down the rate of inflation. In fact, the general
expectation was that inflation would worsen. Raising the minimum wage rate
by 34 percent in December 1981 and the award of a 24 percent wage increase
to public employees did little to improve the confidence in the management of
the economy. The exchange markets continued to react unfavorably, despite
the authorities allowing the peso to depreciate in February 1982 by some 70
percent, from Mex$28 to Mex$47 to the US dollar.
12.       The Administration also announced an adjustment program following
the devaluation. On April 19, 1982, a 17-point stabilization program was
decreed, with further cuts in public expenditures, increases in public goods
and service prices, and a ceiling on domestic deficit financing. The
announcement of these measures failed to assuage the fears of the interna-
tional financing community, and capital outflows persisted. On August 5, the
shortage of foreign exchange forced the Bank of Mexico to withdraw once again
from the exchange market. Following this a series of policy and institu-
tional changes were introduced, most salient of which included a rigorous
control of foreign exchange transactions, a dual exchange rate system (of
Mex$50 and Mex$70 to the US dollar), nationalization of the domestic commer-
cIial banks, and the elimination of the US dollar accounts held in Mexico (the
so-called Mex-dollar accounts) as they matured. The Government also
requested the commercial banks to roll over principal repayments on public
debt falling due during 90 days from August 23, 1982 (amounting to US$12
billion). Shortly thereafter, the Government approached the IMF for the
granting of an Extended Facility, which was finally approved in the amount of
SDR 3.6 billion on December 23, 1982.
13.       As part of the agreement with the Fund as well as on the initiative
of the new Administration of President Miguel de la Madrid (installed on
December 1), several reforms have been instituted. The new Government has
committed itself to a drastic reduction in the public sector deficit, to 8.5
percent of GDP in 1983, with further reductions intended for the following
two years. The public sector prices, especially for petroleum products, have
been raised drastically. The regulations governing foreign exchange have
been modified. There continue to be two basic exchange rates (a controlled
crawling rate of about Mex$ 104 for the US dollar for specified transactions
and a floating rate for all other transactions). In addition, an accounting
rate of Mex$70 for the US dollar is used primarily for servicing public debt.
As regards the external debt, the Government is close to an agreement with
the foreign commercial banks on the restructuring of US$9 billion of the
short-term public debt and $10.6 billion of medium and long-term debt due for
repayment up to the end of 1984.
Prospects
14.       It is particularly difficult at this stage to predict the course
the Mexican economy will follow in the next few years. It is, however, clear
that the period ahead will be one of forced austerity and sacrifices on the
part of the Mexican population. The factor which helped to postpone diffi-
cult policy decisions in the past - the abundant foreign exchange - cannot be



-  -
expected to provide a cushion in the future. Although the Mexican economy
can count on substantial natural resources, an educated and skilled labor
force, and well-developed institutions, the prospects of growth in the short
and medium-term will depend basically on: (i) the deflationary effects of
the proposed sharp reduction in the budget deficit; (ii) the constraint on
resource availability imposed by the need to service the large external debt;
and (iii) the specific measures the government adopts to stimulate production
of agricultural and manufacturing products.
15.       The recent budget deficits, a substantial part of which was
financed by external sources, cannot be sustained in the future. In the
absence of a quick recovery of the oil market - the chances for which are
slim - the Government will have drastically to reduce expenditures and to
raise revenue through increases in taxes and prices of public goods and
services. But such deflationary measures will also likely affect
production. Under generally favorable conditions, a reduction of the budget
deficit to 8.5 percent of GDP - the target under the IMF agreement - could
mean no growth at all in the national output in 1983, with a fair chance that
it might actually decline. This should, however, considerably lessen the
inflationary pressures in the economy. Once a reasonable budget balance has
been established, and it may take some time, the economic health of the
economy would be restored, and conditions favorable to steady growth would
have been created.
16.       The constraint on economic growth imposed by the external debt is
likely to be longer lasting. Total external public debt amounted to $53
billion ($11 billion in short-term) at the end of 1981 and over $57 billion
($9 billion in short-term) by August 22, 1982. The private debt is estimated
at $22 billion. The public debt service is estimated at $14.4 billion in
1982, and the interest payments alone could amount to $12 billion in 1983.
For 1982, the debt service ratio is estimated at almost 50 percent, and the
ratio of the external debt to GDP of about 45 percent. Mexico is estimated
to require over $8 billion in foreign borrowing for 1983 to meet its foreign
exchange needs and obligations. The IMF facility is expected to provide $1.3
billion, official sources $2 billion and a $5 billion commitment has already
been signed with commercial banks.
17.       To avoid another financial crisis in a few years, there is need to
ensure that the Country's debt servicing capacity improves quickly. A
critical element in this is the growth of the non-oil economy, specifically
agriculture and industry, which are the principal earners and savers of
foreign exchange. Although, a reduction in the budget deficit is likely to
impose limits on the overall growth of the economy, appropriate incentive
policies are needed to stimulate the growth of agriculture and manufacturing,
which are largely private sector activities.
18.       The Country would continue to face structural problems in the years
to come, related mainly to unemployment, poverty and unequal interpersonal
and inter-regional distribution of income. Efforts were made in the past to
improve the living conditions of the poorer segments of the population. A
family planning program started in 1972 assisted in bringing the growth rate
of the population to an estimated annual average of 2.6 percent, down from
3.5 percent in the 1970s. To tackle the problems of malnutrition and



- 6 --
increasing dependence on foreign food, the previous Administration launched
the SAM (Mexican Food System) Program, aimed at increasing self-sufficiency
in basic foods, providing for minimum nutritional needs of the poor and
increasing rural employment. It also placed greater emphasis on the
promotion of small scale irrigation, rehabilitation of underutilized existing
irrigation works and provision of credit and technical assistance for the
development of rainfed agriculture. The efficiency and effectiveness of
these measures need careful review.
19.       The main urban-regional problems are:  growing congestion,
pollution, high cost of services (especially water) and other management
problems that stem from the continued growth of Mexico City (already the
third most populous metropolitan area in the world and moving rapidly to
become the first) and Monterrey and Guadalajara, located in the dry, densely
populated central plateau; and retarded development, poverty and great
difficulty in providing better jobs or adequate public services to the two
fifths of all Mexicans who live in small, scattered rural centers. Several
steps have been taken in the past to confront these problems, including an
administrative reorganization and the elaboration of a comprehensive National
Urban Plan in 1978 and of a National Industrial Development Plan in 1979.
20.       Restoration of a high and sustained rate of growth will provide the
strongest weapon to tackle the long-term problems mentioned above. At
present, Mexico is going through a period of adjustment, which dictates lower
real growth and employment generation in the next few years. However, this
will afford an opportunity to reappraise many of the past years' goals and
policy instruments, and provide a sounder basis for Mexico's development.
The new Administration has shown already its ability to take difficult and
politically unpopular decisions.
21.       The external debt problems have been described in para 16.  The
current debt service ratio is below the peak of 69 percent reached in 1979,
but still very high. With the restructing of the external debt, the debt
service ratio is expected to remain around 45 percent until 1987, when the
first repayments of the restructured loans would start.  Thereafter, the debt
service ratio would start rising unless steps are taken to foster a rapid
growth of export earnings. Debt service on Bank loans amounted to about 3
percent of public debt service in 1981; this ratio is projected to remain
about the same during the mid-1980s. The Bank currently holds about 6
percent of Mexico's total medium and long-term public debt, and this ratio is
not likely to change significantly over the next few years. Because of the
medium and long term potential of the economy and provided that the new
Administration continues to address forcefully the challenges outlined
before, Mexico is considered creditworthy for borrowing on conventional
terms. In view of the Country's estimated foreign exchange needs over the
next few years, financing of ongoing and new projects should include some
local costs.



- 7 -
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN MEXICO
Bank Operations
22.       As of September 30, 1982, Mexico had received 77 loans from the
Bank amounting to US$5,749 million net of cancellations and terminations; of
these, 48 loans totalling US$2,577.6 million were fully disbursed. The Bank
held US$4,874.3 million, of which US$2,259.6 million had not yet been
disbursed. Some 46 percent of Bank lending has been for agriculture and
rural development, 17 percent for industry, 12 percent for power, and 14 per-
cent for transportation; the remaining 11 percent has been for water supply,
tourism, urban development, vocational training and pollution control
projects. Annex II contains a summary statement of Bank loans as of
September 30, 1982 and notes on the execution of ongoing projects.
23.       Of the US$5.7 billion total lending, about US$2.6 billion was for
establishing or strengthening institutions for channelling credit to areas
where credit supply was deficient or non-existent, and setting up in the
commercial banking system the ability to carry out project-related appraisal
of investments in agriculture, industry and tourism. These credit programs
have facilitated lending to low-income farmers and small- and medium-scale
industrial enterprises based on productive investment plans rather than
collateralized credit.
24.       Implementation of most Bank-financed projects was delayed during
the period of economic difficulties in the mid-1970s and during the period of
stabilization that followed the September 1976 devaluation of the peso;
similar problems, i.e. counterpart funding constraints have started to affect
implementation again and proposals are under preparation to ease such
constraints, and accelerate disbursements.
25.       The Government arranged adequate budget financing in the years 1978
to 1981 which significantly improved project implementation. Government and
Bank officials met periodically to review project implementation, and greater
attention was focused in Mexico on project monitoring. As a result of these
measures, most of the Bank-assisted projects were being implemented
satisfactorily until mid-1982 and disbursements rose from US$91 million in
FY78 to US$448 million in FY82.
IFC Operations
26.       As of September 30, 1982, IFC had made investment commitments in
23 companies in Mexico, for a total of US$551.2 million, of which US$406.2
million had been sold, repaid or cancelled. A summary statement of IFC
investments is presented in Annex II.
Bank Strategy
27.       The main objectives of Bank lending in Mexico in the past six years
have been to: (a) support policies and programs leading to a wider distribu-
tion of the benefits of economic growth; (b) help finance projects that make,
directly or indirectly, significant contributions to output and employment;



- 8 -
(c) help reduce Mexico's urban-regional imbalances; and (d) help break
bottlenecks preventing rapid growth. Under the present circumstances, the
Bank also intends to support the Government's stabilization program through
quick disbursing operations and assistance to increase non-oil export earn-
ings, and to participate in an intensive macro and sector policy dialogue to
support design and implementation of appropriate development policies.
28.       Because of the difficult structural problems of agriculture and the
sector's crucial importance for the one-third of the national population
living in the rural areas, the Bank has made agriculture the leading sector
for its lending. The Bank's agricultural lending program in Mexico has four
goals: first, to increase productivity of presently cultivated lands;
second, to improve the productivity of small farmers; third, to complement
infrastructure investments with support services, such as extension, market-
ing programs and credit; and fourth, to promote employment generating invest-
ments in rural areas. The Bank has made 13 loans in FYs77-82 totalling
US$1,834.4 million for irrigation, rural development and agricultural, agro-
industrial and livestock credit programs. A US$175 million loan for a rural
development project and a US$180 million loan for an irrigation rehabili-
tation project were approved by the Executive Directors in FY82, and a
US$138.4 million loan for San Fernando rainfed agricultural development was
approved in early FY83. Several projects for rainfed agriculture, regional
development and rural credit are in preparation.
29.       Bank lending for industry has aimed at:  (a) reduction of the
balance of payments deficit; (b) decentralizing industrial activities away
from the major and increasingly congested urban areas; and (c) promoting
greater employment. A steel project which the Bank helped structure and
finance is now operating in a previously underdeveloped area on the west
coast of Mexico, and the city in which it is located, Lazaro Cardenas, is
developing into a new growth pole. Four loans for industrial projects to
promote the development of small- and medium-scale industrial enterprises, to
finance expansion of small- and medium-scale mining, and to support an indus-
trial equipment fund (FONEI) were approved by the Executive Directors in
FYs78-80. A loan for a vocational training project was approved by the
Executive Directors in July 1981; it is assisting a program to increase the
supply of skilled workers and technicians. A US$152.3 million loan for
development of a capital goods industries project and a US$60 million loan
for pollution control were approved by the Executive Directors in FY82. The
capital goods project is now being revised to set up a pilot export develop-
ment fund to help alleviate the current foreign exchange shortage confronting
Mexican exporters. In addition, a follow-up small- and medium-scale indus-
tries project and an export development operation to help Mexico promote its
exports have been appraised and are expected to be presented to the Executive
Directors in the coming months.
30.       Bank lending for physical infrastructure has been focused on
regional development and strengthening of institutions and sector policies.
A highway sector project (FY79) and the fourth railway project (FY81) support
these goals. The first and second medium size cities water supply and
sewerage projects (FY76 and 81) reinforce the planning, management and



- 9 -
finance of specialized water supply and sewerage institutions at the federal
and municipal levels, and contribute to the establishment of tariffs more
closely related to costs; a third project has been appraised and is expected
to be presented to the Executive Directors in the coming months.
31.       The Government has adopted a National Urban Development Plan that
spells out its regional development priorities in operational terms. A
project to assist in the development of the Lazaro Cardenas conurbation area
was approved by the Executive Directors in FY78, and a second urban project
for oil-producing southeastern Mexico was approved by the Executive Directors
in FY81. A loan for the preparation of a deconcentration program for the
Mexico City Region was approved by the Executive Directors in August 1982.
32.       The Economic Development Institute (EDI) is assisting CECADE (a
similar institute under the Ministry of Programming and Budget) in training
government staff in project preparation, monitoring and evaluation. EDI
assistance is directed at courses on urban and regional development, agricul-
ture, rural development and agro-industries. The Bank has also assisted the
Mexican authorities in training personnel for managing water supply and
industrial credit projects.
33.       The Inter-American Development Bank (IDB) is the second largest
source of multilateral aid to Mexico. The IDB has made loans to Mexico
totalling US$2,677.1 million as of September 30, 1982. Over 57 percent of
the total has gone for agricultural and rural development projects, and the
balance for transportation, industry, water supply, tourism infrastructure
and municipal development. The IDB and the Bank have coordinated their
assistance on several projects. Each has made loans for the national
integrated rural development program (PIDER), agricultural and livestock
credit, small- and medium-scale industries development, and hotel development
projects. The International Fund for Agricultural Development (IFAD) has
approved a loan of US$22 million for a rural development project in the state
of Oaxaca which was appraised by the Bank's staff and for which the Bank is
acting as cooperating institution for administering the loan.
34.       Bank-supported power, steel, fertilizer and tourism projects in
Mexico have been co-financed by several bilateral export credit agencies and
commercial banks. The recently approved capital goods credit project was
co-financed with commercial banks and export credit agencies. In January
1982, Mexico borrowed US$500 million from commercial banks to provide
complementary financing for Bank-assisted projects where project specific
co-financing would be difficult.
PART III - AGRICULTURE AND MARKETING
Agriculture in the Economy
35.       Agriculture remains an important sector in the economy, accounting
for about 40% of the total labor force, slightly over 7% of GDP, and about
17% of the total export earnings. Since 1965, total farm production has in-
creased at an average annual rate of about 2.3%, somewhat lower than the
annual population growth rate of 2.9%. Besides a growing population, the



- 10 -
high growth of the economy until 1982, growing urbanization and changing food
habits, particularly greater consumption of meat, have greatly increased
demand for agricultural products. Consequently, food imports increased
sharply during the 1970s, eliminating the favorable net trade balance in
agriculture. While agriculture is an important source of livelihood for a
large number of people in the country, family income in the sector is
relatively low and highly skewed. About two-thirds of the agricultural labor
force have earnings below the minimum wage. Consequently, improving
productivity and production, especially among small-scale producers, is the
key strategy for alleviating poverty. The Government has directed its
efforts and resources toward bringing about structural changes for
transforming agriculture into a more buoyant, productive subsector. Among
various measures, the Government is taking steps to modernize the food
systems, by improving marketing functions and institutions.
Urbanization and Production Trends - Implication for Food Marketing
36.       Mexico's population, estimated at more than 70 million in 1981, has
increased at an average annual rate of about 3% over the past three decades.
Recently, the growth rate has declined to about 2.6% per annum. In 1980, the
urban population was about 44 million, or nearly two-thirds of the total
population. This figure compares with 51% for 1960 and is expected to
increase to 75% by year 2000. Over the last 20 years, there has been a shift
in the concentration of population toward five or six cities, which account
for almost half of the total Mexican population. Mexico City, with its 14
million inhabitants, is one of the largest cities in the world, and, by the
turn of the century, if the growth rate is not reversed, the city's popula-
tion would exceed 30 million. Efficient marketing arrangements to feed such
a growing urban population are very challenging indeed.
37.       While population has been increasing in urban centers, income
levels and consumer demand and preferences for food items have changed toward
higher consumption of perishable foods. These changes have generated pres-
sure on food supplies, marketing services and the traditional distribution
systems in urban centers. Currently, the urban population consumes about 75%
of the total national goods and services.  The pockets of poverty, which have
proliferated with urbanization, and the preponderance of low-income families
residing in urban areas have also exerted pressure on the traditional market-
ing systems. The Government's current effort to diversify agriculture and
accelerate production is also imposing new demands on the marketing services
and distribution networks. Production, based essentially on traditional
production patterns has not adapted to satisfy consumer demand in the expand-
ing urban areas. Due to inadequate marketing and pricing information,
producers -- particularly small-scale operators -- do not effectively plan
their production in keeping with consumer needs.
38.       To a large extent, traditional marketing systems have developed
through an evolutionary procesS, with limited planning and organization.
Developments in transportation, communication, market organization, refri-
geration, packaging, regulation and price intervention have also been
uneven.  Consequently, the distribution network, particularly for the
internal market, is riddled with structural deficiencies which impair the



- 11 -
flow of goods and services. These problems are prevalent in both the product
as well as the factor markets. Also traditional policies and resource allo-
cation have focused on production, without adequate emphasis on distribution
of goods and services.
39.       However, over the last five years, the Government has gathered data
and has carried out studies to develop a comprehensive approach for improving
the food supply systems for grain, sugar, vegetable oils, fruits, vegetables,
meat, milk and eggs. The issues and approach to marketing differ among com-
modities or among groups of commodities.  In the past, the Government has fo-
cused its efforts- on the marketing of grain. With significant food products,
the Government has now elected to assist entrepreneurs and local institutions
to redress problems of marketing of perishables. The urgency to deal with
this group of products has been heightened by seasonal shortages, resulting
in sharp price fluctuations primarily affecting the lower income groups.
The Marketing of Perishables
40.       On the supply side, the present inadequately planned production
results in periods of over-production, as well as of under-production which
is costly to both producers and consumers. Mexico has a wide range of
ecological and climatic conditions which would permit rationalization of
production to regulate supply throughout the year. Demand for agricultural
products continues to be strong while rapid economic growth and urbanization
have brought about changes in food habits and preferences among consumers,
increasing per capita consumption of food, especially perishables. In recent
years, annual growth of fruit and vegetable consumption averaged in excess of
5%, while beef consumption increased by about 6.5% and egg consumption by
7%. The relatively high income elasticities of fruits, vegetables, meats and
eggs, compared to basic grains, would suggest that consumption of these
products would continue to rise as income increases.
41.       Mexico has a complex internal marketing structure, influenced by
both the free enterprise system as well as the public sector. The marketing
structure is characterized by a modern subsector, adopting advanced
technology and marketing practices and the traditional marketing subsector,
accounting for the bulk of food marketing and consisting of many small-scale
independent operators. The modern subsector, which accounts for the bulk of
exports, is well organized in production and marketing, meeting the
recognized standards of the external markets. The level of development of
the traditional systems of producing and marketing perishable products within
the internal market varies widely among products and among subsystems within
products.
42.       Fruits and vegetables are produced by a large number of small-scale
farmers scattered over vast areas of the country. Production technologies
have evolved slowly, with very limited public sector research and extension
support, and credit is not readily available from established banking
institutions for financing these enterprises. Consequently, rural assemblers
and wholesale buyers frequently advance money, at high interest rates, to
producers for products to be harvested and delivered at a later date. The
farmers are also confronted with relatively high risks in producing
vegetables and certain fruits as compared to those associated with basic



- 12 -
grains and livestock.  There are risks in growing fruits and vegetables due
to weather, insects and plant diseases, as well as risks of glutted markets
and low prices at the time of harvest. Consequently, farmers are reluctant
to specialize in fruit and vegetable production. This contributes to
scattered, small-scale production, instability in production, high costs of
product assembly, and slow progress in developing high quality products for
shipment to urban markets.
43.       Farmers feel disadvantaged in bargaining with potential buyers who
are typically few in number and armed with superior market information and
transport facilities. Although selling on a commission basis is a common
practice, farmers often feel that their produce is disposed of at unfairly
depressed prices. Consequently, many prefer to sell for cash at the farm
rather than to consign their products to commission agents since lack of
:ransportation, owned or hired at the farmgate level, reduces the flexibility
of producers to market their surpluses more directly. Some producer groups
have been organized, but as yet they are not a potent force in the domestic
markets for fruits and vegetables. Attempts to establish assembly centers
-or sorting and packaging products have been limited in number so far.
44.       Approximately 90% of the domestically consumed fruits and veget-
ables move through the marketing system as fresh produce and only 10% is
converted into processed products. The classification, packaging and
physical handling of fruits and vegetables at the farm and rural assembly
points for the national market is still in an early stage of development as
compared to the handling of products for export. Also, due to deficient
package designs, over-loading of containers and lack of refrigeration, there
is considerable product damage before the product reaches the consumer.
45.       Transportation is a problem for many producers and rural
assemblers. Truck services are not always available when needed to transport
perishable products to wholesale markets, and costs are relatively high.
Existing Government regulations contribute to underutilization of the agri-
cultural trucking fleet by limiting access to back-hauls, by prescribing
specific routes for commercial carriers, and by establishing a rigid struc-
ture of rates, all of which sometimes encourage producers and marketing firms
to "over-invest" in trucks in order to have transportation available when
needed. Some consideration of a more flexible regulatory system could
contribute to lower cost transportation for perishable products. In large
cities, the organization of efficient systems for delivering products to
retail outlets should also be given priority attention. Transportation
coordinating offices in the new urban wholesale markets could assist truckers
in obtaining cargo for return trips to rural trading centers.
Government Pblicy and Strategy for Improving Marketing Arrangements
46.       The Mexican Government has traditionally relied heavily upon regu-
lations and direct interventions as a means of achieving lower distribution
costs on basic foods and aiding low-income consumers. There is, however,
growing awareness for the need to modernize food marketing by providing
greater public support for the development of an efficient private sector.
Early indications are that the new Government will continue to support this
shift in policy toward private sector, market-oriented development.



- 13 -
47.       Recently, the Government has taken steps to develop a more compre-
hensive approach to food system modernization, and FAO and UNDP have provided
technical assistance in assessing marketing problems and in formulating
possible solutions. The Bank of Mexico has undertaken additional studies to
support the development of the Trust Fund for Marketing Development (FIDEC),
that will provide a broad line of credit for the modernization of food
marketing through private sector investments. Substantial public sector
investments are being made in an extensive network of wholesale markets
located in the major urban centers. Private sector wholesalers will have
opportunities to buy or lease warehouse space in these new facilities. A
Presidential Commission was created in 1979 -- The Project Development and
Coordination Group (CPD) -- to prepare a long-term (20 year) market develop-
ment plan that provides a framework for coordinated efforts by both the
public and private sectors.
48.       The creation of FIDEC and CPD marked a significant shift in Govern-
ment policy toward private sector support and a more comprehensive and coor-
dinated approach to food system development. The public sector will continue
to have a major role in the promotion and creation of marketing infrastruc-
ture for use by private firms and entrepreneurs in establishing support
services in the areas of market information and standardization, and in the
promotion of new private sector initiative through credit and technical
assistance. In accordance with an Executive order dated December 29, 1982
the functions and responsibilities of CPD, including institutional coordina-
tion of the National Marketing Program, were assumed by Secretariat of
Commerce and Industrial Development (SECOFI).
49.       In order to carry out its mandate, FIDEC is empowered to:   (a)
issue guarantees to private banks on behalf of eligible sub-borrowers;
(b) rediscount funds on concessionary terms through the commercial banks;
(c) carry out studies relating to marketing; and (d) provide technical
assistance and training to credit beneficiaries and staff of the participa-
ting banking entities in order to increase the capacity of the commercial
sector to productively utilize credit for marketing improvement.
Experience in Previous Projects
50.       In the past decade, the Bank has approved 19 rural development and
agricultural loans amounting to about US$2.4 billion. As noted in Annex II,
by and large, the ongoing projects are progressing satisfactorily. Implemen-
tation of the Panuco, Sinaloa and Bajo Bravo/Bajo San Juan I projects was
initially delayed mainly because of budgetary constraints. A joint Govern-
ment/Bank review led to reformulation of the Bajo Rio Bravo/Bajo Rio San Juan
project with cancellation of US$100 million from the original loan of US$150
million. A US$25 million supplementary loan for the Panuco Irrigation
Project was approved by the Executive Directors on July 11, 1978. The
Sinaloa Irrigation project was redesigned, and the Bank made a new loan in
FY79 for additional works in Sinaloa and the adjoining Rio Fuerte irrigation
districts. Following these actions, implementation of these projects has
.improved. The Papaloapan integrated Rural Development Project was completed
in December 1982. Although the project was modified somewhat during imple-
mentation, it showed substantial results within rainfed agricultural program.



- 14 -
51.       PIDER I, II and III are multi-sectoral projects designed to improve
living conditions and productivity in depressed rural regions. After some
difficulties inherent in the nature of such projects and decentralization of
the decision-making process, overall progress has been satisfactory. PIDER I
has been fully disbursed and an audit report is under preparation. Prelimi-
nary indications are that by and large the pt;ject has achieved its objec-
tives; however, certain weaknesses were identified in the area of productive
investments and technical assistance to the beneficiary groups. Corrective
measures were introduced subsequently in implementation of PIDER II and the
design of PIDER III projects. Overall, the PIDER projects have been instru-
mental in bringing about social and economic improvements in depressed rural
areas. The PIDER projects are also developing appropriate technological
packages to assist small rural producers that can be replicated in other
parts of the country.
52.       The disbursement pace of the Fifth and Sixth Agricultural Credit
Projects, which have been fully disbursed now, was faster than projected.
A Seventh Credit project was approved by the Board on July 8, 1980 and became
effective November 17, 1980. This project would be fully disbursed by the
end of 1983 as expected at the time of appraisal. These projects, through
the private and public banking systems, have provided credit funds and tech-
nical assistance for agricultural diversification and increased production.
The proposed project would be the first integrated agricultural marketing
project.
53.       The Bank has completed audit reports on three irrigation projects,
and six agricultural credit projects. Audits of agricultural credit projects
point out that while lending to low income producers increased substantially,
significant progress was made in strengthening the training and technical
assistance and evaluation system. The audits also show that the differential
between the sublending rates and inflation levels accelerated the demand for
credit and deteriorated FIRA's sound financial position. Moreover, the audit
shows certain weaknesses in FIRA's capabilities for sectoral analysis, plan-
ning and programing, and internal control system. However, appropriate
measures have been introduced under the Seventh Credit Project (Loan 1981-ME)
to link sublending rates to the cost of funds and to strengthen FIRA's insti-
tutional capabilities.
54.       The audit report prepared on the Third Irrigation Project (Loan
450-ME) showed that performance of the borrower was generally satisfactory
and that no technical, organizational or managerial difficulties were expe-
rienced. The audit cited, however, that the borrower had not fully complied
with two loan conditions: controlling groundwater extraction and recovering
operation and maintenance costs in part of the project area, and recovering
additional investment charges in the whole project area. These points have
been addressed in subsequent projects, and the Bank has been engaged in pro-
tracted dialogue with the Government to increase cost recovery under irri-
gation projects. In generaL, recognized difficulties have been overcome in
that technical services and on-farm investments, which are essential in meet-
ing project objectives, are now included in project costs, and sensitivity
analyses are made on construction delays and on the effects of price changes
and benefits. Also, the Bank has become more involved in project preparation
and in the determination of the readiness of projects for preparation and
implementation than it has been previously. These points have been kept in
view in preparing subsequent projects.



- 15 -
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Background
55.       A Staff Appraisal Report (No. 4062-ME dated March 25, 1983) is
being circulated separately to the Executive Directors. The proposed project
was prepared by SCET/AGRI, a French consulting firm, in collaboration with
FIDESA, a local firm of consultants under supervision of the Bank of Mexico.
The Bank staff assisted in the preparation of the detailed terms of reference
for the feasibility study and subsequently appraised the project in April/May
1982. Negotiations took place in Washington, D.C., in February/March, 1983.
The Mexican negotiations team was headed by Lic. Luis Nava Hernandez of
NAFINSA, and included representatives from Secretariats of Finance and
Commerce, FIDEC, FIRA and FICART.
56.       A brief description of the project may be found in the Loan and
Project Summary, at the beginning of this report. Please see the attached
map for location of the more important works. Supplementary data on the
project are provided in Annex III.
Project Objectives
57.       The project would support the Government's overall strategy for
marketing development and long-term objectives, including: (a) expansion
and modernization of marketing systems at the producer, wholesale and retail
levels, including adoption of modern technology and improved marketing prac-
tices; (b) reduction of production losses and marketing costs; (c) develop-
ment of low-cost food distribution systems for low income groups; (d) ration-
alization of production and improvement of product quality; and (e) improve-
ment of support services and institutional capabilities.
Project Description
58.       The proposed project is a credit program to promote greater private
sector participation in modernization of the food distribution system in
Mexico. The project would over a two-and-a-half year period support develop-
ment oriented subprojects for improving marketing facilities at the producer,
wholesaler and retailer levels. The investment-mix under the project would
include new facilities, some expansion and modernization of existing facili-
ties, refrigeration facilities, other equipment and trucks. The specifics
are outlined below.
59.       Producer-Level Investment.  There are various opportunities and
levels of investments that would assist producers, cooperatives, and producer
groups to become more directly involved in marketing. Increased penetration
of producer groups in marketing functions would reduce the number of market-
ing transactions and risks and would ensure a higher level of competition,
especially at the wholesale level, thus improving marketing operations,
services and producer income. A credit line would be established to make
funds available for improving and modernizing existing assembling facilities
-- collection centers, packing plants and such. Credit would also be avail-
able for setting up new collection and packing facilities, providing storage
and refrigeration, and purchasing machinery, equipment and trucks.



- 16 -
60.       Wholesale and Retail-Level Investment.  At the wholesale level,
there is a recognized need to develop new wholesale facilities to replace
outmoded and relatively inefficient markets that have evolved in heavily
congested central city locations. At the same time, at the retail level,
there is a need to shift from the traditional market facilities toward more
modern marketing systems, adopting improved technology and introducing
entrepreneural innovations.
61.       Under the project, funds would be available to support the moderni-
zation of wholesale facilities and for the purchase of equipment that would
improve the handling of perishables. Funds would also be provided to whole-
salers for investments in warehouses, equipment, storage and refrigeration
facilities and trucks. At the retail level, funds would be lent for the
modernization of existing tiendas (small stores) and centros de comercio
(retail centers) at convenient locations and in low income neighborhoods as
well as to modernize and improve the functional and operational aspects of
well located public markets. Funds would also be provided for establishing
new centros de comercio at strategic locations in new urbanizations. More-
over, the project would have a line of credit to support the expansion of
voluntary chains and retailer groups buying.
62.       National Market Information System.  The National Marketing
Program has assigned a high priority to the establishment of an effective
national market information service. Such a system would be established
under the project and operated by SECOFI with support from Agriculture
Ministry (SARH). The system would provide reliable and timely information to
support decisions by private sector firms and entrepreneurs involved in
marketing. The information and data generated by such a system would aid
public decisions on policies and the planning of food supplies in coordi-
nation with other sectors of the economy.  The system would include a central
information processing and distributing unit to be located in Mexico City.
The central unit would be linked initially to eight central wholesale markets
(Mexico City, Monterrey, Guadalajara, Leon, Puebla, Culiacan, Villahermosa
and Merida) and five assembly centers. The program would include all major
agricultural products, including all perishables. Modern communication
equipment would be used to link the central unit with the various wholesale
markets and rural collection centers.
63.       Training and Extension.  The training program under the project
would focus on short- and long-term training needs to revamp its extension
program and provide back-up support to participating banks. Overseas
training would be provided to suitable candidates who would specialize in
food marketing and management.  In-service training of three to six months
would be offered to technical staff from FIDEC, FIRA, FICART, SARH, SECOFI,
and the participating banks in aspects of rural and urban marketing systems
and organization. Other short-term training, with support from specialists,
would include courses in voluntary chains and retailer group buying, a
national marketing information system, promotion methods, and identification
and evaluation of subprojects.
64.        Special Studies.  CPD identified several large urban centers, such
as Guadalajara, Monterrey and Tampico, for central wholesale market construc-
tion, and the national marketing plan also calls for the establishment of a
wholesale meat marketing facility in Mexico. On the basis of CPD's designa-



- 17 -
tion of priorities, feasibility studies to be included in the second-phase
marketing project would be carried out for central wholesale facilities in
the urban centers.  Moreover, two other studies would be carried out:  first,
an assessment of the transportation services for perishable products, includ-
ing regulations, with recommendations for improvements; and second, an
investigation of the marketing of perishable commodities including storage,
packaging and public auctions. By December 1, 1983, FIDEC would submit to
the Bank, for review and approval, a detailed program outlining description
of the studies to be carried out under the project, the terms of reference of
each study, the budgetary requirements and timetable for carrying out the
studies (Section 2.01(d) of the draft First Project Agreement).
65.       Technical Services.   Funds would be provided under the project for
technical services to support FIDEC and other participating institutions.
Support would focus on training and technical assistance, FIDEC's planning
and programming, and the national marketing information system. Support
would also be provided to the Agricultural Economic Division of SARH to
conduct marketing studies. About 100 man-months of technical services for
specialists have been provided under the project for this purpose.
Project Organization and Implementation
66.       The proposed project would be carried out by FIDEC with support
from other public agencies, such as SECOFI, SARH and SCHP. FIRA (through its
Special Fund for Agricultural Finance i.e., FEFA) and FICART would partici-
pate directly in the investment program at the producer level. SECOFI would
continue to be responsible for coordinating the Government's national market-
ing program and institutional participation and to harmonize the efforts of
public agencies involved in marketing (Section 3.03 of the draft Guarantee
Agreement).
67.       While FIDEC is emerging as an important institution to promote
development in marketing, there is need for some institutional improvements.
The project would assist FIDEC in (a) training and technical assistance; (b)
planning and programming; and (c) a promotional program. Further, the
project would also strengthen FIDEC's capabilities for gathering data on food
supply and demand, performing subsector analyses, and identifying sub-
projects, preparing sound investment programs, and carrying out subproject
technical and financial analyses. In the interim period, while FIDEC would
be expanding its institutional capabilities, the project would make provision
for technical services to provide logistical support to FIDEC and to train
its staff.
68.       Institutional Participation.  The investment program at the
producer level would be carried out jointly by FIDEC and FIRA (Bank of
Mexico) and FICART (BANRURAL) under separate Project Agreements. FIDEC would
maintain liaison with representatives of SHCP, the Secretariat of Programming
and Budget (SPP), SARH, NAFINSA, SECOFI, FIDEC, FIRA and FICART -- to review
and coordinate the overall strategy for lending at the producer level. The
participating institutions would provide direction and guidelines on policy
matters and the Government's national and sectoral priorities. They also
would approve the lending program and review the results of each of the three
trust funds' designated programs. To monitor the flow of funds under this



- 18 -
component, FIDEC would maintain separate project accounts and a system of
internal control to adequately reflect the financial situation of the program
at the producer level.
69.       SECOFI, in collaboration with FIDEC and SARH, would be responsible
for the implementation of the marketing information component of this
program. The operational agreement, which would contain the blueprints for
the marketing information program, would include detailed features of the
marketing information component, a complete breakdown of the investment and
recurrent costs, budgetary requirements and implementation schedule. Prior
to receiving annual budgetary allocation from SHCP, SECOFI would obtain
FIDEC's approval on its annual work program and budgetary requirements.
70.       To improve the quality of technical services for marketing at the
producer level, FIDEC and SARH would cooperate to ensure appropriate market-
ing training for field-level extension workers. SARH would engage appro-
priate marketing subject matter specialists to support the field staff of
SARH and other agencies, such as FIRA and FICART. Technical services would
be provided under the project to assist with the planning and preparation of
the training program and to support the Economic Division within SARH to
carry out marketing studies.
Project Cost and Finance
71.       The total project costs are estimated at US$227 million, including
contingencies and the Bank front-end fee, of which about US$81 million or
36%, is the foreign exchange cost. Base costs are estimated as of end
December 1982, and price contingencies are based on Bank guidelines and
calculated at 8.0%, 8.0% and 7.5% per annum for 1982, 1983 and 1984, respec-
tively. The proposed Bank loan of US$115 million, equivalent to about 51% of
the project cost (or 52% net of taxes), would cover the entire foreign
exchange cost and 23% of the local cost. Financing from the trust funds,
other Government agencies, participating banks and beneficiaries would amount
to 20%, 1%, 10%, and 19% respectively.
72.       The proposed loan would be made to the Government, through the
Nacional Financiera (NAFINSA), a Government agency designated to borrow from
the Bank, and the Government would assume the foreign exchange risk. Funds
received by FIDEC from NAFINSA would be in the form of a grant. As it is the
Government's intention to capitalize FIDEC with the proceeds of the Bank
loan, repayments of FIRA and FICART to the Project Account would be trans-
ferred to FIDEC as equity. As under the Seventh Agricultural Credit Project,
NAFINSA would transfer the proceeds of the loan, for the investment program
at the producer level, to FIRA and FICART on the same terms and conditions as
those governing the Bank loan to NAFINSA.
Subloan Lending Terms and Conditions
73.       Sublending beneficiaries would comprise the normal clientele of
FIDEC, FIRA and FICART, including individual entrepreneurs, producer associa-
tions, cooperatives, voluntary chains, groups of wholesalers and retailers,
and municipalities. Investments would be development-oriented and would
focus on those subprojects which incorporate improved technology and
management, innovations, economies of scale and vertical coordination and
integration, and improved marketing operations.



- 19 -
74.       Based on past experience, the ability of trust funds to control the
quality of subloan appraisals is adequate. In order to further improve the
quality of the investment portfolio, each trust fund would carry out
post-project impact assessments (Sections 2.07 and 2.06 of the draft First
and Second Project Agreements, respectively), using the framework adopted by
FIRA under loan 1891-ME as approved by the Bank, of a representative sample
of subprojects. Result of these assessments will be reviewed periodically
during project supervision. For investment amounts in excess of US$1.5
million equivalent, the trust funds would obtain approval from the Bank prior
to making subloan commitments (Section 2.02(d) of the draft First and Second
Project Agreements).
75.       Subloans would be extended in accordance with the lending criteria
of the various trust funds as spelled out in their respective lending
policies and operating manuals. Financial rates of return will be computed
for all subloans. Only subloans with rates of return in excess of the
opportunity cost of capital will be eligible for financing. Financing
requirements and grace and repayment periods would be determined on a
case-by-case basis. Subloans would bear floating interest rates and the
level of interest rates charged would be linked to an index of the cost of
funds (ACF) within the banking system in the country. Interest rates would
be adjusted at least every three months, with rates established by January 1,
April 1, July 1 and October 1, of each year, taking into account the
movements in the ACF. Thus interest paid in each quarter would be tied to
the ACF of the latest month preceding the quarter. (Schedule 1 to draft
First and Second Project Agreements). The sublending terms and conditions
would be as follows:
Maximum         Minimum
Spread on        Interest
Rediscounts       Rates on
Minimum Bene-      Subloan       to Partici-        Subloans
ficiary Contri-   Rediscount    pating Banks         (as an
Type of Sub-       bution (as %    (as percent-   (as an annual    annual
loan and         of Investment    age of Sub-    interest            interest
Beneficiary        Project Cost)    loan amount)   rate %)             rate %)
Part A of the            20               70               3              ACF
Project
(producers, except
low income groups)
Part B of the
Project (except
voluntary chains)
a)  Wholesalers       20                70               3              ACF + 2
b)  Retailers         20                70               3              ACF + 1
Voluntary
chains and
low-income
producer groups         20                70               4              A'; - 5



- 20 -
76.        The ACF, which reflects the average cost of funds, is a weighted
average of the interest rates paid by banks and other financing institutions
on bonds and certificates of deposits, excluding checking and saving
accounts, averaged about 46.5% during the period August through October 1982
and was 45.5% in November 1982. Inflation rate increased to around 90%-100%
during 1982, and the ACF indices have been lagging. Since inflation is
expected to moderate, 1/ the ACF and inflation rates should converge.  Past
trends show that, although there is a lag, the ACF generally follows the
level of inflation. In 1981, for example, ACF and the rate of inflation
averaged about 29% each. With the Governments stabilization program as
agreed with the IMF, it is expected that inflation would decline sharply over
time, e.g. from 100% in 1982 to around 55% in 1983 and to progressively lower
levels in the succeeding years. The Government intends to maintain interest
rates at levels to ensure efficient mobilization and allocation of
resources. However, in the event that the adjustment program is carried out
more slowly than expected, the Bank would review the situation with the
Government by February 1, 1984 to determine the extent to which ACF is an
adequate index for the interest rates charged for subloans under the
project.  If the ACF would not constitute an adequate index, Mexico and the
Bank will agree on alternative measures in line with the prevailing economic
conditions in Mexico and in order to accomplish the purposes of the loan
(Section 3.04 of draft Guarantee Agreement).
Procurement
77.        Bulk purchasing under ICB would not be feasible, since sublending
activities would be widely distributed geographically, cover a variety of
investment activities, and involve a large number of sub-borrowers. An
adequate selection of machinery and equipment is available to sub-borrowers
through local and international suppliers. The trust funds would require
sub-borrowers to obtain quotations from several sources of supply, whenever
practicable, for goods and civil works to be financed under subloans. Equip-
ment and vehicles for the productive support (marketing information system)
and the institutional support (promotion, training, and technical services)
components (US$2.0 million excluding contingencies) would be procured through
the borrower's ordinary procedures, which ensure competition are acceptable
to the Bank. The technical services and special studies to be financed by
proceeds of the loan would be procured in accordance with Bank guidelines
(part. 'C' of Schedule 2 of the draft First Project Agreement).
78.        For public marketing facilities, each contract for civil works in
excess of US$1.0 million would be procured through international competitive
bidding (ICB). Contracts below this threshhold would be procured on the
basis of local competitive procedures, which are satisfactory to the Bank.
UJnder the productive investment component, civil works and equipment for
mnarketing facilities would be procured by sub-borrowers using local contrac-
"-ors and suppliers, as is the standard procedure in Mexico. The trust funds
would make available to prospective sub-borrowers a list of suppliers of
agro-industrial, materials-handling, transportation and refrigeration equip-
ment, including in it those from Bank member countries and Switzerland, as
well as their agents or representatives in Mexico. The trust funds would
apply suitable procedures, either directly or through the financial inter-
mediaries, to ensure that goods and services procured under the project are
competitive in quality and price, and are appropriate for the needs to be
addressed.
1/ Monthly inflation rates were 10.6% in January 1983 and 5.5% in February
1983.



- 21 -
Disbursements
79.       All project funds are expected to be committed over two and one-
half years, and proceeds of the Bank loan are expected to be disbursed over
approximately four years. Disbursements would be made against the following
categories: (a) 60% of the value of rediscounts extended for medium- and
long-term investments at producer level, for a total of US$44.5 million; (b)
60% of the value of rediscounts extended for medium- and long-term invest-
ments at the wholesale and retail levels, for a total of US$55.0 million; (c)
60% of the value of rediscounts extended for voluntary chains and low income
producers for a total amount of US$5.7 million; (d) 100% of the foreign
exchange or 50% of the eligible expenditures under the productive and insti-
tutional support components of the project, for a total amount of US$3.0 mil-
lion; (e) 75% of the cost of eligible expenditures under the special studies
and technical services components of the project, for a total amount of
US$2.3 million; (f) 100% of expenditures related to the front-end fee on the
Bank loan, for a total amount of US$0.9 million; and (g) an unallocated
amount of US$3.6 million. Retroactive financing of up to US$3 million for
purchase of equipment for the National Information System and for development
investment in marketing facilities already initiated by the Government since
June 1, 1982, would be available.
80.       Disbursements under the project would be made against corresponding
statements of expenditure submitted through FIDEC and NAFINSA and summary
supporting documentation as required by the Bank. All additional relevant
documentation would be retained by the respective implementing agency and
made available for inspection by the Bank during the course of project super-
vision. Disbursements against statements of expenditure under the Bank loans
with FIRA and FICART have been generally satisfactory. A revolving fund of
US$10 million (equivalent to 60 days expenditures) would be established to
accelerate project implementation and facilitate disbursements. A schedule
of estimated disbursements is provided in the Loan and Project Summary.
Accounts and Auditing
81.       FIDEC would maintain separate project accounts, apply sound
accounting practices and system of internal control. An audit satisfactory
to the Bank would be made each fiscal year in accordance with sound auditing
principles consistently applied by independent and qualified auditors
appointed by SHCP and the Bank of Mexico. Certified copies of financial
statements and audit reports of FIDEC, FIRA and FICART would be submitted to
the Bank not later than six months after the end of the fiscal year
(Section 4.02(b) of the draft First and Second Project Agreements). FIDEC
would also monitor project implementation and submit quarterly progress
reports. Within twelve months of the closing date of the Bank loan, FIDEC
would submit a Project Completion Report, prepared in accordance with Bank
guidelines (Section 2.05(c) of the draft First Project Agreement).
Cost Recovery
82.       Investments amounting to 96% of total project costs would be
recovered through the credit component of the project. Other costs totalling
about US$8.3 million for the national marketing information system, institu-



- 22 -
tional support, special studies and technical services components, together
with related price contingencies and the front-end fee on the Bank loan,
would ultimately be met from public funds.
Project Benefits
83.       Within the context of Mexico's marketing sector and the potential
for investments, the project would be a relatively modest first step towards
implementing an integrated marketing plan (viewed within the framework of a
15- to 20-year period) to modernize the food distribution system.
84.       The project would increase public support for the development of an
efficient private sector by creating favorable investment conditions. Post-
harvest losses and marketing costs would be reduced and the quality and
distribution of produce improved, thereby benefiting producers and
consumers. The producers would benefit from the development of a modern
marketing system with improved channels to the wholesale level, including
direct penetration of producer groups in wholesale and retail operations;
thus enhancing competition and benefiting the consumer. The development of
grading standards would encourage producers to improve quality. Better
marketing information would permit producers to modulate flow of products
from the farm, reducing the risks of over-supply and produce losses.
85.       Wholesalers and retailers would also improve marketing operations
through the use of modern technology and better management practices. More
reliable and improved supplies and better product quality through improved
storage and refrigeration would benefit merchants and consumers. Improved
sanitary conditions and reduction of congestion and pollution in urban market
areas would reduce health risks and release urban lands for other social and
productive uses.
86.       Investment subprojects are expected to yield economic rates of
return ranging from 14% to 48% and result in substantial increases in the
real incomes. The wide range of rates of return observed reflects the
spectrum of levels in organization and types of investments likely to be
undertaken.
87.       The project would have substantial impact on institution building.
At the national level, apart from assisting implementation of the SIDA
program, the marketing information system would improve marketing efficiency
by making marketing transactions more "transparent," resulting in benefits to
producers and consumers alike. Through the project, FIDEC's capabilities
should improve greatly. Experienced staff are to be hired to provide tech-
nical assistance in various aspects of food marketing facility design and
operations, and to develop a sound and varied training program to meet the
priority needs of FIDEC's own staff; staff from other public sector institu-
tions such as FIRA, FICART and BANOBRAS, participating banks and project
beneficiaries. Development of a planning and programming group within FIDEC
would enable FIDEC to prepare short- and medium-term investment programs in
accordance with national priorities and economic needs and to carry out
impact assessments of its own investment programs. Compilation of an
Operating Regulations and Procedures Manual by FIDEC would provide better
direction and guidelines to its staff and to staff of participating banks.



- 23 -
Moreover, introduction of a data-based management system within FIDEC would
facilitate managerial decisions and the internal control of FIDEC's opera-
tions. Finally, adoption of a uniform structure of lending terms within
FIDEC, FIRA and FICART for lending at the producer, wholesale and retail
levels would promote institutional efficiency through competition and effi-
ciency in the allocation of resources in the agricultural sector.
Environmental Effects
88.       The project would not generate any adverse effects on the environ-
ment. The Government's program to modernize the marketing system would
reduce waste of products and urban market area congestion. Through better
construction of facilities, sanitary conditions should improve, thus reducing
health risks.
Project Risks
89.       The project does not present any special risk in terms of the tech-
nical and financial soundness of various investment programs that would be
financed under the project. However, a potential risk is in the area of
institutional support and coordination. FIDEC is a relatively new institu-
tion, but it has incorporated positive elements of similar trust funds, which
have good experience and performance, under the Bank of Mexico. To minimize
this risk, the project would strengthen FIDEC's (a) planning and programming
and impact analysis capabilities; and (b) technical services and training.
Also, provision of technical services under the project would minimize risks
during the implementation period by providing back-stopping to FIDEC in the
execution of the overall program and by training staff in technical marketing
areas. To avoid duplication of efforts and misallocation of resources,
SECOFI would ensure coordination among institutions dealing with marketing.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
90.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Bank and Nacional Financiera,
S.A., the draft Guarantee Agreement between United Mexican States and the
Bank, the draft First Project Agreement between Bank of Mexico and the Bank
and Second Project Agreement between National Rural Credit Bank and the Bank,
and the Report of the Committee provided for in Article III, Section 4 (iii)
of the Articles of Agreement are being distributed to the Executive Directors
separately.
91.       Special conditions of the project have been described in Part IV of
this report and are listed in Section III of Annex III.
92.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank.



- 24 -
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
93.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
A.W. Clausen
President
Attachments
March 31, 1983



25 _
ANNEX 1
TABLE 3A                                                Page 1 of 5
MEXICO - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
MEXICO                         REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVE  GES
AREA (THOUSAND SQ. KM.)                                                                   - MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)-
TOTAL            1972.5                                    HOST RECENT              MIDDLE INCOME             MIDDLE INCOME
AGRICULTURAL      977.2                1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b    LATIN AMERICA & CARIBBEAN                EUROPE
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                    470.0        860.0    2090.0                  1902.0                      2323.9
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)        712.7       1066.5    1534.6                  1259.9                     2107.4
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, MID-YEAR (THOUSANDS) 36881.0         51187.0   69752.0
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 50.8            59.0       66.7                   65.7                        47.9
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                          115.0
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                            202.6
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                      2075
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. EM.                          18.7         25.9       34.3                   35.2                       83.3
PER SQ. EM. AGRICULTURAL LAND        36.9         52.4       69.3                   92.5                      155.4
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                            45.6         46.5       45.1                   39.7                       31.1
15-64 YRS.                            51.0         50.0       51.4                   56.1                       61.2
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                      3.4          3.5        3.4                    4.2                         7.7
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                 3.2          3.3        3.1                    2.4                         1.6
URBAN                                 4.9          4.8        4.3                    3.8                        3.5
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)        45.2         42.9       37.0                   31.4                        23.6
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)        11.7          9.4        7.4                    8.4                         9.2
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                 3.3          3.1        2.5                    2.1                         1.6
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)          ..         25.1      842.0/c
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)    ,.              ..       40.0
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)             97.0        100.0      103.0                   10.0                      116.0
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                    117.7         110.5      112.9/c                108.4                      125.1
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)             69.1         64.7       65.2/c                 66.0                       92.7
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE          28.8         26.7       27.i7N                 34.0                       35.9
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE        10.3          6.5        3.7                    5.6                         9.2
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)    57.7            61.7       65.4                   64.2                       67.6
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                              91.1         73.6       56.0                   64.2                        65.1
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                                23.5         54.0       62.0/d                 65.6
URBAN                                  ..         71.0       70.0o7                 78.9
RURAL                                  ..         29.0       49.07T                 43.9
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                  ..           ..         ..                   59.3
URBAN                                  ..           ..         ..                   75.3
RURAL                                  ..         13.0       14.0/d                 30,0
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN             1823.4       1506.3    1255.7/e                1617.3                     1105.4
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON        3634.1       1640.2    1423.6T.                1063.5                      634.4
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                               585.7        844.8      866.3/e                477.4                      286.8
URBAN                                  ..       1012.1    108.07                 679.8                      192.0
RURAL                                  ..       1294.3    1121.17_                1903.4
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED              ..           ..         ..                   27.3                        20.0
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                                 5.4          5.7
URBAN                                 5.7          5.7
RURAL                                 5.2          5.8
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                                 2.9          2.5
URBAN                                 2.6          2.2         .
RURAL                                 3.4          3.2         ..
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                                  ..         58.9         ..
URBAN                                  ..         80.7         ..
RURAL                                  ..         27.8         ..



_26_                                             ANNEX 1
TABLE 3A                                            Page  2  of  5
MEXICO - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
MEXICO                        REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVERAgES
- MOST RECENT ESTIMATE) a
MOST RECENT              MIDDLE INCOME            MIDDLE INCOME
1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b    LATIN AMERICA & CARIBBEAN             EUROPE
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                  80.0        104.0     124.0                  104.3                     102.4
MALE                  82.0        107.0      127.0                 106.4                      107.1
FEMALE                77.0        102.0      122.0                 103.3                       99.0
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                  11.0         22.0      45.0                   41.3                       60.2
MALE                  14.0         27.0       49.0                  40.4                       66.4
FEMALE                 8.0         17.0       41.0                  41.8                       54.0
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (X OF SECONDARY)-S.6             26.7        8.9                  33.7                       31.6
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                             44.0         45.9      40.7                   29.9                       25.8
SECONDARY                           13.1         14.5       17.0                  16.7                       22.2
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)         65.4         74.2       81.0                  79.1                       75.9
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          12.9         24.1      42.0/c                 42.8                       51.0
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          89.5        273.6     295.2                  270.5                      157.2
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          17.6         58.5     110.7                  107.7                      123.7
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                   73.7           ..       64.5/f                63.7                      112.3
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA 10.0            5.0        4.1                   2.7                        4.0
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)    11132.7        14724.8   20187.7
FEMALE (PERCENT)                    15.2         17.4       19.5                  24.4                       36.6
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)               55.1         45.2       35.6                  31.3                       38.7
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                  19.5         22.9      25.8                   23.9                       25.9
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                 30.2         28.8       28.9                  33.6                       44.5
MALE                                  51.1         47.4       46.4                  50.4                       56.3
FEMALE                                 9.2         10.1       11.4                  16.8                       32.8
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                1.6          1.7        1.7                   1.3                        0.9
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY      -
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS       ..
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS  61.1/g         60.7      57.7/c
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    3.4/g          3.3        2.97..
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    9.8/g          9.9        9.9/c
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 ..
RURAL                                 ..           ..         ..                 184.1
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 ..           ..     471.0                  518.0
RURAL                                 ..           ..     471.0                  371.1                      406.6
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                 ..           ..
RURAL                                 ..           ..
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a   The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means.  Coverage of countries
am.ng the indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b   Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1978 and 1980.
/c   1977;  /d 1975;  /e 1974;  /f 1976;  /g 1963.
May, 1982



- 27 -                                                                             ANNEX I
palm S of  AL. LHIMMZ~                                                                 Page  3  of5
-i-Ioaly .o~sie   eo.  of the iotk of  -4-4aolaad  "U? etI.m  aM   -ne . ace  by dliffacct tooita  to                                         Lb.cto tedo.   TV. dab L.  ....-
-....efal to d ..crib. onto, of aftd.              ordlest. trae.td oheot.ttviu.*ot.La  -olor dit.!  rteot  hatbaatoet.
The rae.o    ro . ar 1I) tb. on   -over  sro."  of the ethlct cot.lt  Wa  (21 a ceeoy troop .1tk .mOAnt  0hg  I.O .vvt .                          .0D   that th. totatr  tr..p
ofile   ecot  ooay(ao...It fot   '6160b Eato        0il toero."gra  theta 'ftI.d It- r.1StI  Adrlro ad fiddle St.te t. the.    balee   of "t-ngt
et  gciaa    ffleltle).  1a  hb.           Coopt.tv9  dot. the evorega  -r  Pep.1i-totaf   g til d  -rlrt-ic    -   for et-k  tA...Alaora -A          onl -1
taoly of the   ogtL.. 1.   .op h-e data if  that iodiot-o.  Stim. th. -ovrag  of teatria. onS rho indktttols depead.o  then  mlltbility of data
a.t ft rot atfor. "0011. scrheatrte M               io rlatfag   -.P.ea  of o-   dindteae  to a-he-.  Tht.-                               .-r(. aeo~rotfL  -w-ugt It. eale  of
000 io4ioatr at A tin  .Ma th loan.t,y oed referent.ro ..
AAI th- sno       .9.1.)                                                                          PaUlatettto   a      oa,,be                             oa       aclto    tt
T.ta  - T-1a atrfct. a-t  -owoltog  lan.          .  adtl.1d e.te. I;1979 dA.--                      orn    a  roi   tiddb   h.trt-teaoe  of hot.pOt blha.
_otoco L -ItLett   of  a-olorlae   -.4 toePo..tarly or peaaaelybolai  in pebilt ta  prIvat   Pnrale  ad tp"WIll.d  hoepitW  ad  e
for Crap., paette,          s  tad IttItto  terdo   00 to its f.llO.; 1979 dt.httt areoe.eetleaeatab                                                     t   Pe.aaeety tleffte
hy at It..?Ot  pyfan. lteallabmat  P-oLdift  PeItiop.ly  Iot-
Ge?  11 14tt C      ITcUss) .- GNP P., ctpit. torclt.  *t  -10C..  trkt p t. Ga-                       dial ra, are eat taLoa.4         t ..aI hapitalo., hotv. iteled   health
_olatd by tan  "Ornttt              d a. W-L10  moei  Aria. (197h4-0 baei.l, 1260.                   ad   adeotI tm.r  ea.. t p..-tly  tealfed4 by a pyt bl.,(o  hy
1970G. sd 190 dat..                                                                                  Dodloo  aoatatae. aareo  eadeft. ett.) -h.to  offat te-potfot ate--
dattot and Proolda *unted  -3 aw           _1- ef Oft  f ltlt.a.  lot  Ctratt-
tIfEfrY CONdfoPTrlOo PER CAPITA - honoL  -ootptLo  ofItoriltaf   Ca                                    ltt_i faP..    t  rho   ePiotatdee                plrfl/ttl  tttl
004IlaICo  peot,eon  -oor1 gee  -d4 hrYdr-.  -to  -.  ad to-em-I tir1-Torlheial.lclo  rura    toi.tet ad  adcl eed at.rer
tricty  to tllOgaea _     ofo-1 tq.1L-ae   p., -apita; 1960, 1970. oet  1979rte.   SWocl1lled Iceepittlt tro  I.atl4e  -oly 00d.1 tota.
into -                                                                    adodaaloov~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~""   ret  Motto  let - To...I -rar  at adlet.    t   r   ltht
fra. h.apltale diVidod by the 00th.? ofha.
PIPII~I.TON ANtD VITAE. STATISTICS
10t.1 P.Pialo.Lt    hid-Yo.t :thtortodtL.  - A. of JaLip  1; 1960, 1970. ad  l96*               NO 
do?..                                                                                           Alata St.. tleo  Seteche4 (.aeea                 -hhrohldl -    total I.  .... 0    otl
LCtot PotoL.tSrbre?   o   otl  - tetlo  of arba to tota  poPaletion;                                 A ltoeahl   re=tt   fa r                   L itd _,.ol            I bae   IrLe  I.otrte.
Ltfon  tfttinao   co.oten    ofat-t  te.ait of "alCto  thei  tat  -aLe                                                      ore   rlde   a   rC              th   oldd
Mat    sotII. ; 1000  1970. and 1960 det.                                                      the ho-aa.Id fa   otltolporpoa.-
Poeao  to  Ve.? 2l0t - Corral popoLtle proJbttaov ore bood   -199A-bar of * oefna  p.r-eo  -n -l IrO.adroi  cato    a                                                  on
tott  popottiot by cet ad  eat ad their eatlity  od* fertlItUy rt. C-oe,raaoi.                                                Oeei.ge  elo.  as-ert.              tretftare  te
Ptle_I         - arner   or  ta 1ti"y   :a.       tL . of thoan latti  ae_ aacPiadpet
lot lift  oprrr  atbrhIoota    ith  ot'  pet rPit. latom." Ocea   to    tMulfct  Icroto   wliti-t"                                                      l   ehn   a   at
lt-el  cod fenel  life top -eeey    ebitttea  77.5 po..t.  The rr-                              Cao-ato.lo-   drailL.ge  t.th eL-trrt tU           iteOaCtt0  fret
let ot_fo  PrttltVroe  i.  bar  trt  lo-tl  ae-ae9 d..liae  le                              of totl, urbe. avd  mrura  dllaoge r-epacally.
fel  Lty  at-odiet t  100.lol dpet fe"tly  placlg   ofros                     a
toohcooetty i. that .eagap.on  of tAste i  .at ctitatian   of  -wtylt                       EOWUoTEOp
-d fecility I..oade forp.l,          ie -J arpoeet.-                                          Adj.tattllttto
S-etlory oooaltttoo - ito..-t..ory  pep,oo etati_'t,  to  o gowt  tt..                            POoyabo      oo.el   0   ea.-Gaa101    tttd IEale
t-e birr rate i.  q9mL to the dtart  ta.  . U   at  the ag   taOotC-                               1aroline?  of ailote t the p,Lfpy leela-              frcaoeof ...eptotl.o
- i..ore...at.  Thi. Ia 01..Ki- an a.Vft.,  = .tiiY  rat.e dec1le11.I toPri-,y arel-ege popL-.l.tl ; tool-Ily  lc e  ohildten  agd 6-11
th, repoomo   tonI of oat? rt  apttd-Il-o rate,  h-t .aoh pteetilar                              yfeat bat adlstd Eot diff-trot 1-9gcb  of po~ity ed-1ooal; for
of ro_n  replat .    te..   oao.       11,t- 0  -ttio~tty papolationct  ecIc                             ti.. with toL-erL e4tlactt.-IIoleO   tap  _xood 100 parort
ealat    oori  he.l at CI  plolartad ooatt'al of thI               oeoto                      i      o    prpilitaeh. Ml      1   ba.. the orffoi1 .00*0   Pt.
to Oh. yea  2000, cd the rInt of d.olla of fertilIty  reta to rtploo-                           Soroed           IIdIel-  oa.tlcadftl  - C.--"ta   at abrt   erodr
-.prtoor  ool-riot   I.e eahed - The  ttoa  .tt- ttryPoPalatio                              Pro, ldat getera. ucmlnl  o   eChrtrott oX                    uri       for fopilt
,L..t 01  10 Ie-hod.                                                                              aealy of 12 t   T  etof aga; rrapPdoe-orI,atgaocLp
?. to   q.  Mn -Od-y.t. pop.IL...o par oq-o  kilott-    (100 h.Cctaas  of                      fW.ctlora~0l aola.   (P..oe o t.?aar       oalallOlat
to-lar1      1090. 1970 eO  1079 dat.t.o.ttaeo.ldate.atahrrort Mwhihotetlep-
P.r,o   a    .rol o I      Ice L  - Cuot.4 A. above let osrcaterel- Lord                          eaLy oratdpartnt  of  -atadao   L-tltoti-a.
otly  204. 100 re  tOymOci.                                                             Pt-Oah lie-oIn?,. and !E-""ay   - T-te  ..tcatt eareltO 
Popolattn Mo 1?ootrra   eteecl -Child- at01-19 y.ae.   eIlagae   (iS-                     flinty  ao  taoa.o  tootl  dlid    by  -ob-l  of toahe.. L. th
hAy.e.,tdrtrd(6   cr   n   vr                     p. Pet     .a oF aif-yec. Ppop                 -trapeedln  level
latloo   1990. 1970. aad 19*0 data,                                                             adult it-rato roeC.        r.?    Llrere?  a4a1to  (b*to  ro read and et.)
"ooIEOO,~  Itoeth toO. crartot- toa                   I doltgrothrlt  of totl eLd-                         W -8floatg   of tote1 adat popelatLee ate  19 Ytae ad o-I.
fel  )doltlo  lo  150-0.  90-70, ad  1970.90.
,-,ata bth  W.t  (eotat) -  rht- bao   atovb roa   f athan Popo-                         CO9iSWTICN
CatIo-  I" o    50-60. 1960-70, .ed 1970-60.                                                     aaarCrtertbaadoalie   -Pentclt otiat
Crodo Otroh Oa. (pOath .... d0*   - bout.1 lIn   bi,the pOC tharotod of aId-faa?                     Ia'el-titg  Cat tht tight Popton;  -ctotdo... alet,bte .A.
ropolti-n: 1960. 1970. and 19*0 data.                                                             aatrar   _eh i::_
Cl,d  D-*h Oatt (rot tho.e..d. .- Anoa  dc-he p.t tho.aadA  of  1Al-y...                          301  tcre    Irtbot.   oeolo                        alltp.a of rtt tfor radio
-rotrtc  19610.1070. ad 1900 data.                                                             todttr    etc to ~~      PabIc trthae  of palacoo;  -L-.eeat
Clot lepodaclot ote - Aerg   .tn.  of daogbtl.ra  te   vilE  best it                          It-"e.   r           iove .t rOotla  0   nyst    0roltat  of -dtdi
o1Ltrt,         -II, llln-yoo.uotaa-e    eadloo La 1960. 1970. and 1950.                        ntcortao lthdIltI  elog
of htrthrortrot  o'rtree  od er tefloat o  rettooo  Itatlyploca.o  prorta         g.att publi. Pathcto oolto;tolae0.11000.  TV Iaolet
?alP inoltlOO....      tee  of srriod so Fe          - totnte   of et .                       -e-ocrl.ae   It L. al  ehn C aftof a  TV et  et0effot.
atrof crild-hb-log set blS-AApa.   h   a  biltb-re-Otoi  device, to                          NowecP., Clrolat".t         leer thoaa.    uoalo     Srtteaeact
.11 __"d                                                                   M~~~~~~~~~~~~~~pOlctw.   daoo flr Io"atudlo  deward on.I "leclde.e1
FrW Ago elUTI1T.                                                                                       10to " doilllt if it appoar  a Leat  foo   atef   A to.k
10*00of tod ProlItlo aerC""t  11697-10 LO          Lada  o f parca I-Pta  -a-tI           COo.-dai A?t,rdao            -  Cofl -t  r  teat - o-a*  ot the  toe  of
prodoriow  Ifalfr.         1odi Iat.    fodot1oa  -arade   ewd cad feed 'n                         toat. ..ld dalo  the.aa   L-r,-di.godtsleto d'ire-it cion.
it 00 r4oador yesO  6.01..  Cotbdit     re-t fri-ry  tooad. (0.... tot...tctad  fbl.l oatte.
totteod of eaar   hI.h era adObla  Ad  ronat  ocrl              (o... -ef- I a  0
Ica era eetrl4d4d     Agefetat  pred-tlle  of eath  oAhtry  It beand 00.*1 .I
_ottioa  a_ps  prodloce  prltc  atlghb; 1961-5. 1970, tad  1960 d.to.Tto  a rfre (thoottadal- toaoelt-L-1Y artre  Pe--r--  baldlog
Par _cait.a eattlo of cllt  Iete   f cattm                     - C.".."tt  f- r= r     fort-  tnt rato.Yd tot e-lodet.  hoasioa.  eocla   t.
_tor, elva-l-  of ttfIr eoPpiae1 aviblt  In rottl  P.,  .afit.                                    coeing POpeltlOe of atE ag..  Oaf intiot to V-iot ..                  ol.  coo
per day   trolibto  .oPllo   cohpin  donotLc  plodctw.e. Leprt  lee.                        h?ooep-a...al.; 1960. 1070 ad 198D data.
oo.te   ndc ,av   it ;t-co.  Net -,,pLIu  -coalde anna  ftd. toede,?-. Poat   f.t-tc  - Peale Ibor fore..                                er-tg   of total labor fort..
Lonltc   te  Ia fd ptooteLe. a.d I..e   t jdlttIb-tLoe.  ttle                              niotO I'llatl    Ebo  terr  l  f-rltt. for-.tY. b-olog ad
matwr  itadby  Al aad& ophy.tLog1 oe I..           d  f.  -- tot lori-                    ffiebt    -  p.tctace  of total leve  force  1990. 1970 .ed 19*0   ta
tY         "hod health  coe od-4o t trtl itepatItofe boy           -eih .  g                    ladoar    vaa)-LhtteO1  01                         oe.f -t1too,         ttf...tio
ad-ad       ltlh oZodoaltc.  r    lhee  i   otttfr  a?  a                                            a  aUrict.ate   ndaaaSptc"aoofttl  oe   frt
(t_otecad lo.l; 1*1-6 1. 1907   0ea  1977   at.16090  170 cad tve0 dato
Per -apttt eoooy ofoEca (-atmr             p .r o) - PtrIeio .orItlt  of P.r -otfrt               P.ttoaintoo   (P-ra               - lca. ale, andfen. -Pctipa    o
-e  earply of   Ir ptNY.          Ia oefppy o  ftoedoIt Oafid a. 06ev.  a.-                        -.crttyrtleetporofucedto4 total  tal.  ao  foala    o  fE.ct.o
qlrettftr all craatrtoa eotsbil.h.d by USD& p-oion lfot alatat                              p-rtatlge   of total  tal          f_.l. P.9poiao   of  LI1 tgc   tr.trtv
.LI vroro  of '1.0 alan  of lor1 protein p.r day oed 20 ttam  of ati  an                          1960. 1970. att IS*0dta   Th.-e -r  bte.d onli-          Pw.rttpte           ae
poe    rtt. of rhtch IO Stro    ehoad hecas)  Ftaro..  Th.s  otad-                         rfetgae-ta               t -orr  of tho  -A-at-a  ad Ios tIl-  tred.  A
at IIo. bent that thoee of 75 iro   of total Pro tei  cad 20 art- of                            t   tcinle  ala ft.. oaiOel  rttn
tain pt .r...t or At .v-1g. fot the verld. pteroe.d hy PAD  to the Thild                        tootol Oc        .-aar tarta    M art  of poftaation  -der Oh  -od 61  -rd ovr
W,",4 toad hoey: 196 1-65, 1970 ,0* 1977 data,                                                    torh loa  laborface
Percoita Ocrtlo   -I,ot     Ir     i aana. 0*pd o  P   rot_tl...    tp..ply of rood de-
rlt-a ic.       -I.cl  cad poL-ita  to  ran   Pat lay; 1961-65. 1970 ad  1977 dar.-
CIdoer1-lb toth for. (re-foael-Ant Itth   ro  obathe 10 L.ctaolrtaeEro boh1   0    and 0001       beahe   yrtbe
age atoa  1-        ..ee     to chlld...1 tIhi,  age  roP. faa at?dP--o oo-                       0yttw    loer2   eca, porct7   crmc   0  P.-t.S  i0 P--OO
rctae dero dat-"  fry  Itfo  t-tl-t  1960. 10,70 M0  19800  a                                     of h..-ttod.
91,&r9                                                                                            tOOUflY TARCtI GotOP
LIfe(cot ttlyet   Wct   (Y.re    A-Iaerga hoor of foot  of lIfe   tllaIt   olrr -oltatec 'c  ottyaprlt   eooo f po.rr- Itrot
trfa-t H-o itylb  trt-  rot thod....d)   A..o-,r deerLe ot iof-rt  ao-M a,           er           ftDtdOolaePory100   at.(19   t   lIa    OhOelto
01 oePcIftod 11,. hch,;19104.~1070 a,nd 19*0 dtt.Ooit   recyrbn ee   ethtlcr   ee   ab    0c      lta
oteto hole. Asto   o        troo    offtalob-tota. oOa. ar  r-r     - Nt.-                       -ttlltt-alY odqa-t  d.Ia         I .lo   .... ti.1t ro-foo.d cot         LAne1  n-
-ct-r .-a   rho t    Itronorrn        b-.00..0 . .ptiea. tad aatitay 0.110) .e                    Ioa   eoityory100    on1   -0-thtrd  of aeaeptcfi
yerc-ccate  of thetrretpe:It1Lv  Iopoltlb,, 1000orawotOaoI                                        potir   it-t  of the  --elY.  Irbec Icrol r-  -croe   I. tIc loc1
fo..otatooortopo-  1o.atd ro   eata   1   aeeto                 ot a -hoaaLbay be                 letli tOdotc  for hith-r  -ot of liohrg  to  lbca..O-..
_1a,oroAl   Iratcoalythatb rho  trevfeo    tir of ro                            .behld            000 total  P-      ..rlr  of rpl        ohtord roel  to  r  -otalta
do 001 1000 ro aratddl.cvreo op-rr of rho  a   to1 i.f_bli.rh
flote  of pepo tol   la,ddrrl    .00b   er ta  tpo9 ..                          e 
oet- bo  y.tthtaeoea0  Iraat  of pit p101.. 000 00--
q_t qoliflta  fron a adcl cr1 ,01. aL orLoertiy le-e.                                                                          totat   alyec tao'  Po-Je-ot at  lep-rt-
yrarolmttO tot Ne1otl   PotIt-.  Pt:tLttlO  010100  hyptenet of ptri gMay 1962
tlaSfatlIrdotrro.tatte    oes.poOoa   oo    6
narrd                                                         L_rllate4



- 28 -
A-ne I
Page 4 of S
MEXICO - ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT DATA SHEET
A  c  t   a                                  Estimatesa             Proje   t i o a                          Gr..th Ratec                     As X  f GDY
1970          1975          1979          1980           1981          1982          1983           1984          1985       1970-75  1975-80  1980-85        1975       1980        1982
NationaL A-counts                               Constant 1980 Prices, US5  MilLions
G0P                             98,317.7     135,122.1      172,012.9     186,330.9     202,260.5     206,305.7      206,305.7     212,494.9      225,244.6       6.7       5.3      1.7        102.6      100.0      100.5
Gains in trren of crane         -1,771.9       3,690.4        4,911.0           3.8       1,642.2         -959.9      -1,990.9      -2,836.9      -3,597.0        -         -        -            2.9        8.8        8.5
GsY                             96,345.8    131,431.7       167,L01.9     186,330.9     203,902.7      205,345.6     204,310.0     209.65830      221,647.1       6.2       5.8      0.8        128.8      10.3       102.2
IDoras (1vyL. NFS)               8,984.3      13,302.2       19,X64.0      25,784.6      29,841.7      22,466.0       22,170.5      22,772.3      23,199.3       11.0       8.9    -2.1          10.1       13.8       10.0
....rns                         10 518.0      13,188.9       22,059.9      23,697.3      27,532.4       29,588.0      32,080.4      33,890.1      35,758.3        3.8      13.6      2.9         10.0       12.7       14.4
Resource Gap                     1,533.7        -113.3      -2,975.9       -2,087.3      -2,309.3       7,122.0        9.939.9      11,117.8      12,599.0       29.7       1.1      -           0.1         1.1        4.4
uotsjtplion                     72,480.2     101,546.3     122,817.6      136,012.8     143,770.9     150,495.6      149,534.4     146.766.0     150,067.7       6.1        4.8    -2.7         77.3        77.2       72.4
Inoescoent              2~~~~~~4,383.8  33,6899.1   48,319.4       02,605.4      60,798.9      89,808.1      46,831.4       04,611.1      62,617.9       9.4        7.5     -0.8        05.6        28.1       23.7
Grass,n D.  S-ayi               24,06596      29,88564      44,284.3       50,318.1      60,131.98     54,858.2       54,780.6      62,890.0      71,579.4        6.9      18.4      3.6        22.7        27.3       27.7
Grass Nat. saings               22,731.9      27,855.4       41,0X6.0      46,077.7      54,842.3       41,997.5      42,709.9      51,370.8      60,272.9        6.2      10.0      1.8         21.2       24.7       20.1
S-ct...  oct,ot                                                                                                                                                                                        As % of Total
Prielar                         11,110.6      13,646.4       17,201.9      15,650.7      16,182.2       16,084.4      16,719.7         ...            ...         1.7       3.4      ..          11.5        8.4        7.6
Secondcary                      33,131.3      47,026.1      67,676.6       69,312.5      74,026.9      72,305.4      78,792.3          ...            ...        7.1        7.4     ..          34.3        37.2       34.3
Terciary                        54,075.8      74,449.6      90,134.5      101,367.7     112,051.4     117,835.9      110,793.7         ...            ...         5.8       4.8     ..          56.0        54.4       55.8
T-ade in Goons and N86-Factor Ser-ices              Current  Prices, US$ Mit hots
Ispors, TonaL (c.i.f.)           3,434.5       8,470.4      16.747.0       25,784.6      33,261.4      21,50D.0       22,500.0      25.300.0      27,705.0       03.5      25.4    -6.0        100.0       105.8      102.0
Consrer Goosd                      234.3         493.7       1,012.9        2,418.4       3,119.7          ...            ..           ...            ...         2.3       9.8     ...          5.7         9.4
Ontenediary Goods                1,461.4       4,130.8       7,841.9       11,790.5      15,209.4          ...                         ...            ...         5.8       5.9     ...         48.8        45.7       51.9
CapitaL Goods                      766.9       1,919.3       3,737.6        5,348.8       6,899.8          ...                                        ...         4.1       5.4      ...        22.7        20.7       18.7
Services                           971.9       1,926.6       4,154.6        6,226.9       8,032.5       4,700.0        5,300.0       6,500.0       7,400.0        2.6       4.8     ...         22.8        24.2       23.6
E.oGS, Tot.L {f.o.b.)            2,7j0         6.068.6       15,050.4      23,697.3      28,668.6      21,400.0       30.60a.0      34,500.0      38.4a0.0       19.8      25.4     3.6        100.0       100.0      102.0
AgSen rLt-                         263.5         29L.6          786.5         701.9         849.1          ...           ...           ...            ...       -2.1        3.2                  4.8         2.9
Ptert-/Min-rals                    196.9         746.2        4,206.3      10,508.3      10,850.7       15,205.0      16,105.0      17,900.0      19.01).0        4.3       7.7    ...          12.6        44.3       55.5
Manafaccurns              ~~~~~~829.4  1,882.1       3,797.6       4,106.6       4,994.7          ...           ...           ...            ...         2.3       4.8    c..          29.7        17.4
Services                         1,464.2       3,208.7       6,253.0        8,361.5       6,974.1       6,500.0        6,900.0       8,OLO.O       9,120.0        3.2       4.2    ...          52.9        35.3       23.7
ion Indomes (1980 = 100)
Eanort Price Indec                  14.3          25.1          67.8          100.0         104.2          92.6           95.6         101.8         107.4
Incort Price Endec                  20.8          34.7          87.2          100.0          95.2          95.7          101.9         111.1         119.4
Terns of Trade                      67.3          72.3          77.8          120.0         109.5          96.8           93.8          91.6          89.9
GDP2D  Rfslt                        19.7          355            77.7         102.0         1296. 5       259.5          378.6         573.2         759.6
Esonara  Ratc                       12.49         10.49         22.81          22.95         04.5          54.0            -
Consolidated PtbLio S,cttr Financcst( G0P)
Carrcrit Rcipta                    18.77         22.08         26.31          27.76         27.80         27.80
Ccrrers Eapenoityres                14.66         19.78         23.35          25.33         30.90         33.90
Carrent SurpLus                      4.11          3.10           2.96          2.43         -3.10         -6.10
CapitoL I-rest-ent                   6.20         10.69         10.04           9.94         11.80         10.40
Deficit (let)                       -2.10         -7.58         -7.06          -7.51        -14.90        -16.50
ALLocotiar of Gross PobLic                                                                                                                                             As X of TctaL
Sectsr E              r        mii   Mes$                                                                                                                                   1980
Enargy                             1i      106,383.0    375 266.0    702,636.0        204,78402i/                                                                           34 8
Transport aoo Cte-nications         .       35,355.0       81,965.0     122,573.0      22,438.0                                                                              6.1
Social E,ndit-ures                 .        85,241.0     249,417.0    339,152.0        86,760.0                                                                             16.8
Itnkstry                           .        33,111.0      80,672.0      142,892.0      31,469.0                                                                              7.1
Aari-.ed ERa..L Deo.oLau,t         .        0,918.8       86,104.0    151,395.0        18,651.0                                                                              7.5
Gen. Adeinist. aDd Defense                  66,441.0     316,624.0      441,9660.     837,775.0                                                                             21.9
Co-merce                           .        30,925.0      73,377.0    113,106.0        33,761.0                                                                              5.6
Tcarit-                            .         1,276.0       3,253.0        4,418.0         961.0                                                                              0.2
TctaL                              .       400,650.0   1.266.878.0  2.017,934.0       636,599.0                                                                            100.0
SeLected Idicators
SCOR                               2.62          3.60          1.94           1.61          1.87
I99onI Etostilty                 23.60          0.60          3.02           3.84          2.17
La8br Ftrce                           Is MiLlic-s                               As 1 of Total                    Avere ArnaL G th Rft VaLat Added pr    kr                                                 of TetaL
-      -________                                                                                                                       Rate 19801                                                    1970       1980
AgriccLt-r                         0.4           4.9                         34.9          2.6.1                           0.3                                2,007.0    3,194.3                    32. 4      129.7
Ind.calLtncy                       2.1           4.4                         20 9          20 5                            1.9                               15,776.8   16,24.3                    171.7      156.4
Seroi,es                           3.2           9.5                         44.2          50.4                            2.1                               16,898.7   11,794.9                   183.9      109.6
TotaL                             10.7          18.8                        100.0         10D.0                            1.5                                9,188.6   10,758.5                   10.o       100.0
TiF  and B.n est.iates
a   rgtebn Rates arc ca LeaLated  ith the Least squ-are  ethed.
nt avaiLabLe
-rct a-aiLabLe separateLy but incLoded in thn totaL.
1/ 19I70 figures are not avaiLabLe ina  -onistet series aith the foLLoaing year.
2/ 1981 figares are onLy aoailabLe up tn the first quarter.
Febr-ary 1, 1983



- 29 -
Annex 1
Page 5 of S
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS EXTERNAL ASSISTANCE AND DEBT
(USS Million, Current Prices)
Prelim.
A   C  T   U  A L                               Estimates               P r o j ejct i o n a/
Sumr,ary BaLance of Payments           1970          1975          1979           1980           1981          t21983                        1984           1985
Exports (including NFS)              2,754.0       6,068.6      15,050.4       23,697.3       28,668.6       27,400.0      30,600.0       34,500.0       38,400.0
Inrports (incLuding NFS)             3,434.5       8,470.4      16,747.0       25,784.6       33,261.4      21,500.0       22,500.0       25,300.0       27,700.0
Resource BaLance                      -680.5      -2,401.8     -1,696.6       -2,087.3       -4,592.8         5,900.0        8,100.0       9,200.0       10,700.0
Net Factor Income                     -332.8        -844.4      -3,012.7      -4,485.0       -7,093.9      -12,600.0      -12,600.0      -13,100.0      -13,800.0
Net Transfers                           55.4         140.0         223.8          244.6          304.1          300.0         300.0          300.0          300.0
Current Account BaLance               -957.9      -3,106.2     -4,485.5       -6,327.7      -11,382.6       -6,400.0       -4,200.0       -3,600.0       -2,800.0
Direct Investment                      332.8         748.8         971.9        1,313.0        1,142.1          ...
PubLic Med. & Long Term Loans, net     258.6       3,565.8       3,129.1        6,013.3       10,867.1        5,000.0        5,000.O       4,000.0        3,000.0
(Disbursements)                     821.3       4,418.6      10,415.0       10,061.2       16,578.4      12,200.0          ...            ...            ...
(Repayments)                       -562.7        -852.8     -7,285.9       -4,047.9       -5,711.3       -7,200.0
Net IMF                                -              -             70.0           73.5           69.6          220.0        1,300.0       1,300.0        1,300.O
Other CapitaL                          488.6      -1,043.3         733.4           78.1          489.3      -4.320.0         -100.0          300.0          500.0
Change in Reserves t- = increase)     -102.1       -165.1        -418.9       -1,150.2       -1,185.5         5,500.0      -2,000.0       -2,000.0       -2,000.0
Grant and Loan Commitments
Public Med. S Long Term Loans
IBRD                                  53.7         116.2         220.4          255.0         283.2          341.9*
IDA                                    -             -            -              -              -              -              -
Other MuLtilateraL                    17.5          49.2         112.9          123.3          136.6          156.5*
Goverrnments                          79.9          90.3         386.1          223.4          288.1         467.5*
SuppLiers                            122.5         200.1         171.2          153.4          146.2         168.7*
Barks and Financial Institutions     370.4       1,050.5       8,586.7        6,778.4        7,258.7       10,255.2*
Debt and Debt Service                                                                                                                  ExternaL Debt
PubLic Debt Dutstanding and          3,423.5      10,512.4      30,970.0       36,398.3       38,921.8       47,592.9*                      Outstanding & Disbursed
Disbursed (end of period)                                                                                                                     on Dec. 31, 1981
Interest on PubLic Debt                216.4         831.8       2,854.6        3,841.9        4,699.8        5,853.9*
Repayment on PubLic Debt               475.6         761.1       7,111.7        4,026.4        3,782.1       6,618.9*             PubLic M & LT   SMiLlions       X
PubLic Debt Service                    692.0       1,592.9       9,966.4        7,868.3        8,481.9       12,472.8*                Loans
Burden on Export Earnings (X)                                                                                                     IBRD               2,416.9     5.7
a. Public Debt Service                25.1          26.3         66.2           33.2           29.6           47.2*             Other Off.         5,353.3   12.5
b. Public Debt Service &              35.2          37.9          84.8           51.1           53.3          89.5*              Sources
Direct Investment Income                                                                                                   Other Private    34,944.1   81.8
Sources
Average Terms of Public Debt
a. Interest as X of prior year's       7.4          10.4          11.1           13.4           14.0          13.7*             TotaL             42,714.3  100.0
D.O. and D.
b. Amortization as X of prior         16.3           9.2          27.8           13.8           11.3          15.5*
year's D.O. and D.
IBRD Exposure
a. IBRD D.O. S D. as X of             19.1          15.0          8.3             8.3           9.1           10.0
PubLic D.O. and D.
b. IBRD Debt Service as X of           7.8           7.3           2.2            3.2            3.3           2.7*
PubLic Debt Service
*  Debt and Debt Service figures for 1982 are estimated on the basis of January-September data.
a/ Estimates are from IMF
... Not availabLe separately but included in the total.
February 1, 1983



- 30 -
ANNEX II
Page 1 of 8
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN MEXICO
A.   Statement of Bank Loans (as of September 30, 1982)
Loan                                                         Amount less      Undis-
No.       Year   Borrower                   Purpose         Cancellations    bursed
48 loans fully disbursed                   2,577.6
1053-5    1974  NAFINSA                  Integrated Rural
Development            29.0         4.7
1111-5    1975  NAFINSA                  Irrigation                50.0        18.0
1186      1975  BANOBRAS                 Water Supply              40.0        11.0
1462-5    1977  NAFINSA                  Integrated Rural
Development           120.0         6.9
1552-5    1978  NAFINSA                  Industry                  47.0         0.3
1553-5    1978  NAFINSA                  Agriculture               56.0        33.5
1554      1978  BANOBRAS                 Urban Development         16.5         2.1
1560-5    1978  NAFINSA                  Industry                 100.0         0.4
1643-5    1979  NAFINSA                  Small-scale Agri.         60.0        42.7
1671      1979  BANOBRAS                 Highways                 120.0        68.3
1686-5    1979  FERTIMEX and NAFINSA   Industry                    80.0        24.0
1706-5    1979  NAFINSA                  Irrigation                92.0        77.3
1712-5    1979  NAFINSA                  Industry                 175.0        76.5
1820-5    1980  NAFINSA                   Small and Medium
Scale Mining           40.0        35.2
1858-5    1980  NAFINSA                  Irrigation               160.0       157.2
1881      1980  NAFINSA                   Small and Medium
Scale Industry        100.0        50.2
1891-5    1980  NAFINSA                  Agricultural Credit    325.0         217.0
1908      1981  NAFINSA                  Irrigation                23.0        17.0
1913      1981  BANOBRAS                 Water Supply             125.0       108.0
1929      1981  BANOBRAS                 Railways                 150.0       101.1
1945      1981  NAFINSA                  Rainfed Agri.            280.0       244.8
1964      1981  BANPESCA                 Port Development          14.0        13.6
1990      1981  BANOBRAS                 Urban Development II   164.0         161.5
2042      1982  NAFINSA                  Technical Training        90.0        82.0
2043      1982  NAFINSA                   Integrated Rural
Development           175.0       166.4
2100      1982  NAFINSA                   Irrig. Rehab. II 2/    180.0        180.0
2142      1982  NAFINSA                   Capital Goods
Industry 2/           152.3       152.3
2154      1982  NAFINSA                  Pollution Control 2/    60.0          60.0
2191      1983  NAFINSA                   San Fernando Agri. 2/  138.4        138.4
2194      1983  BANOBRAS                 Urban Engineering  2/    9.2           9.2
TOTAL                                            5,749.0 1/
Of w:Aich has been repaid to the Bank              874.7
Total now outstanding                            4,874.3
Amount sold                     92.3
of which has been repaid        92.3                 0.0
Total now held by Bank 1/                        4,874.3
Total undisbursed                                            2,259.6
1/   Prior to exchange adjustments.
2/   Not effective as of September 30, 1982 (all these loans have since
become effective).



_ 31 _
ANNEX II
Page 2 cf 8
B.   STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS (as of September 30, 1982)
Fiscal                                                               US$ Million
Year           Obligor                    Type of Business      Loan   Equity  Total
1958/59  Industrias Perfect
Circle, S.A. 1/               Industrial Equipment    0.8       --      0.8
1958     Bristol de Mexico, S.A. 1/    A.C. Engine Overhaul    0.5          --     0.5
1961     Acero Solar, S.A. 1/            Twist Drills              0.3      --     0.3
1962/65/ Compania Fundidora
66/68    Fierro y Acero de
Monterrey, S.A.               Steel                     2.3    21.4   23.7
1963     Tubos de Acero de
Mexico, S.A. 1/               Steel                     0.9     0.1    1.0
1963     Quimica del Rey, S.A. 1/        Sodium Sulphate           0.7      --     0.7
1964/66  Industria del Hierro, S.A.1/  Construction Equipment  --           2.0    2.0
1970     Minera del Norte, S.A, 1/       Iron Ore Mining           1.5      --     1.5
1971     Celanese Mexicana, S.A.         Textiles                 12.0      --    12.0
1972     Promotora de Papel
Periodico, S.A. de C.V.1/   Pulp and Paper               2/      2/      2/
1973/79  Cemento Veracruz, S.A.          Cement                   15.9      --    15.9
1974/81  Cancun Aristos Hotel            Tourism                   1.0      0.3    1.3
1975/78  Mexinox, S.A.                   Steel                    12.0      3.2   15.2
1978/81  Papeles Ponderosa, S.A.         Pulp and Paper            9.0      3.5   12.5
1978     Tereftalatos Mexicanos, S.A.  Petrochemicals             19.0      --    19.0
1979     Cementos Tolteca, S.A. 3/       Cement                  100.0      --   100.0
1979/81  Hotel Camino Real
Ixtapa, S.A.                  Tourism                  --       3.1    3.1
1979     Conductores Monterrey,          Electrical Wire
S.A. 3/                         and Cable           18.0      --    18.0
1980     Industrias Resistol, S.A. 3/  Particleboard              25.0      --    25.0
1980     Vidrio Plano de Mexico S.A.3/ Flat Glass                114.9      --   114.9
1980     Minera Real de Angeles,
S.A. de C.V. 3/               Mining                 110.0      --   110.0
1981     Celulosicos Centauro S.A. 3/  Pulp and Paper             59.5      --    59.5
1981     Corporacion Agroindustrial,
S.A.                         Agri-Business            11.3      3.0   14.3
Total Gross Commitments                                 514.6    36.6  551.2
Less Cancellations, Terminations, Repayment
384.1    22.1  406.2
Total Commitments Now Held by IFC                       130.5    14.5  145.0
Total undisbursed (including participants)               34.1     1.5   35.6
1/   Investments which have been fully cancelled, terminated, written off,
sold, redeemed or repaid.
2/   US$25,000.
3/   Gross commitment including amounts sold to participants.



- 32 -
ANNEX II
Page 3 of 8
C. STATUS OF PROJECTS IN EXECUTION (as of September 30, 1982) 1/
Ln. No. 1053   Papaloapan Integrated Rural Development Project:  US$50 Million
Loan of November 15, 1974; Subsequently reduced to US$29
Million; Effectiveness Date: January 27, 1975. Closing Date:
December 30, 1982.
Project implementation experienced delays mostly due to manage-
ment difficulties and inadequate budget support. At the bor-
rower's request US$12 million of the loan were cancelled on
March 5, 1981. A reprogramming of the project and extension of
the closing date to December 30, 1982 were approved by the
Executive Directors on January 4, 1982 to allow completion of
the modified project. An additional amount of US$9 million was
cancelled in August 1982 at the Borrower's request, further
reducing the loan amount to US$29 million. The undisbursed
amount will be cancelled as soon as applications in transit are
processed.
Ln. No. 1111   Seventh Irrigation Project - Bajo Rio Bravo and Bajo Rio San
Juan: US$150 Million Loan of May 8, 1975; Subsequently reduced
to US$50 Million; Effectiveness Date: July 30, 1975; Closing
Date: September 30, 1983-
Following initial delays in implementation, the project was
redesigned in 1977. In August 1978, the Executive Directors
approved the modified program which is now close to comple-
tion. Disbursements, although lagging behind, are now proceed-
ing at an improved pace and the loan is expected to be com-
pletely disbursed by the closing date, which has been recently
extended.
Ln. No. 1186   Medium-Size Cities Water Supply and Sewerage Project:  US$40
Million Loan of January 13, 1976; Effectiveness Date: April
26, 1976. Closing Date: January 14, 1984.
Subloan agreements have been signed with all seven cities
included in the project, fully committing the loan. Five out
of the seven subprojects have been completed, but project
completion has been delayed in 1982 as a result of the
budgetary constraints of Mexico this year. Steps have been
taken to allow full disbursement by the closing date.
1/ These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution and, in particular, to report any
problems which are being encountered and the action being taken to remedy
them. They should be read in that sense, and with the understanding that
they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths and
weaknesses in project execution.



- 33 -
ANNEX II
Page 4 of 8
Ln. No. 1462   Integrated Rural Development Project - PIDER II:  US$120
Million Loan of July 5, 1977; Effectiveness Date:  October 28,
1977; Closing Date: January 31, 1983.
The project is proceeding satisfactorily; major efforts to
decentralize project planning and execution have been made.
The result is increased beneficiary participation and better
coordination between executing agencies at the field level.
However, decentralization, reprogramming of micro-region
investment plans, and several changes in management have caused
some delay in project execution. The undisbursed balance will
be cancelled as soon as applications in transit are processed.
Ln. No. 1552 1/Small- and Medium-Scale Industrial Development Project; US$47
Million Loan of May 4, 1978; Effectiveness Date: January 12,
1979; Closing Date: September 30, 1982.
The loan has been fully disbursed.
Ln. No. 1553   Tropical Agricultural Development Project:  US$56 Million Loan
of September 27, 1978; Effectiveness Date: January 12, 1979;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983.
The six pilot projects have been approved by the Bank. Project
authorities are making good progress in the agricultural
development program of each pilot project. The applied
research programs are proceeding on schedule. The project area
under the credit component of the project has recently been
expanded. Disbursements are improving.
Ln. No. 1554   Lazaro Cardenas Conurbation Development Project:  US$16.5
Million Loan of September 27, 1978; Effectiveness Date:
February 14, 1979; Closing Date: June 30, 1983.
The loan funds were reallocated to increase the amount
allocated to the shelter-related components. Disbursements
have accelerated in recent months almost fully disbursing the
loan.
Ln. No. 1560 1/FONEI III: US$100 Million Loan of September 27, 1978;
Effectiveness Date: January 12, 1979; Closing Date: June 30,
1982.
The loan has been fully disbursed.
Ln. No. 1643   Small Scale Agricultural Infrastructure Project:  US$60 Million
Loan of February 6, 1979; Effectiveness Date: April 13, 1979;
Closing Date: June 30, 1983.
Most livestock and irrigation subprojects for financing under
the Project have been approved by the Bank, and the Government
is accelerating preparation of withdrawal applications.
1/ Will be omitted in next issue.



-34 -
ANNEX II
Page 5 of 8
Ln. No. 1671   Highway Sector Project:  US$120 Million Loan of August 23,
1979; Effectiveness Date: October 12, 1979; Closing Date:
June 30, 1984.
Commitments are on target, but preparation of withdrawal
requests is still delayed; the loan will likely be fully
disbursed by the end of FY 1983.
Ln. No. 1686   Second Fertilizer Project - Lazaro Cardenas:  US$80 Million
Loan of May 18, 1979; Effectiveness Date: September 21, 1979;
Closing Date: April 30, 1983.
The loan is now fully committed to finance contracts with
foreign suppliers of equipment, but disbursements are not
expected to be completed before the end of the year. Based on
the findings of a recent supervision mission, however, it was
agreed to extend the closing date temporarily through April 30,
1983 to allow the Borrower and the project implementing agency
to provide additional information to the Bank and improve
project execution arrangements.
Ln. No. 1706   Rio Fuerte/Rio Sinaloa Irrigation Project:  US$92 Million Loan
of July 30, 1979; Effectiveness Date: October 5, 1979; Closing
Date:  July 31, 1986.
Project implementation is likely to experience delays of one to
two years due to budgetary constraints. However, this will
allow the completion of the leaching program of the Fuerte
Component which is now lagging.
Ln. No. 1712   FONEI IV:  US$175 Million Loan of July 30, 1979; Effectiveness
Date: October 5, 1979; Closing Date: June 30, 1984.
Demand for industrial project financing has softened as some
sub-projects of this previously fully committed loan have been
cancelled. Close monitoring indicates, however, that net new
commitments have outpaced cancellations over the last months,
so that the full loan amount is expected to be committed by
early 1983.
Ln. No. 1820   Small and Medium Scale Mining Development Project:  US$40
Million Loan of August 18, 1980; Effectiveness Date:
December 4, 1980; Closing Date: June 30, 1984.
Project execution has been initiated, and agreement on revised
interest rates is expected. Demand for credit has been less
than originally anticipated due to softening of mineral prices.



- 35 -
ANNEX II
Page 6 of 8
Ln. No. 1858   Apatzingan Irrigation Project:  US$160 Million Loan of
September 29, 1980; Effectiveness Date: December 19, 1980;
Closing Date: June 30, 1987.
Detailed plans for the Chilatan dam are being completed and are
expected to be ready by the end of CY 1982. Bidding
invitations will be issued in early CY83. Service roads and
tunnel construction works have been initiated and
rehabilitation of main canals has also begun. Technical
assistance activities have improved and the land clearing and
derocking program is already underway.
Ln. No. 1881   Second Small and Medium-Scale Industry Development Project:
US$100 Million Loan of September 29, 1980; Effectiveness Date:
December 22, 1980; Closing Date: December 31, 1984.
About two thirds of the loan have been committed and over one
half of it has been disbursed. The program is making
satisfactory progress, and the loan is expected to be disbursed
before the closing date.
Ln. No. 1891   Seventh Agricultural Credit Project:  US$325 Million Loan of
August 15, 1980; Effectiveness Date: November 17, 1980;
Closing Date: March 31, 1984.
No major problems in implementation are foreseen. Sublending
rates to be revised shortly by the Mexican authorities.
Ln. No. 1908   Ocoroni Irrigation Project:  US$23 Million Loan of March 2,
1981; Effectiveness Date: July 1, 1981; Closing Date:
June 30, 1986.
Project implementation is ahead of schedule with a fair chance
of its completion two years before schedule. Disbursement is
also catching up with the fast progress; however, some cost
overruns can be expected.
Ln. No. 1913   Second Medium-Size Cities Water Supply and Sewerage Project:
US$125 Million Loan of January 23, 1981; Effectiveness Date:
June 23, 1981; Closing Date: December 31, 1984.
Subloan agreements have been signed between BANOBRAS and all
beneficiary cities, fully committing the loan. Overall, the
project is one and a half years behind schedule due to delays
in completion of final designs and to the budgetary constraints
of the government in 1982.



- 36 -
ANNEX II
Page 7 of 8
Ln. No. 1929   Fourth Railway Project:  US$150 Million Loan of February 12,
1981; Effectiveness Date: June 9, 1981; Closing Date:
June 30, 1984.
Project execution is proceeding on schedule.
Ln. No. 1945   Rainfed Agricultural Development Project:  US$280 Million Loan
of March 2, 1981; Effectiveness Date: July 1, 1981; Closing
Date: June 30, 1986.
Civil works are proceeding on schedule with exception of the
drainage component and a portion of the local development
centers. District operational committees are now functioning
to review credit programs in the eleven PLANAT districts.
Disbursements are behind appraisal estimates.
Ln. No. 1964   Ports Development Preparation Project:  US$14.0 Million Loan of
May 7, 1981; Effectiveness Date: August 24, 1981; Closing
Date: December 31, 1984.
Project implementation is somewhat delayed by changes in ports
program administration; about 40 percent of the loan has been
committed. Three consulting firms are in the field, under
effective contracts, all on advisory and support services
(training, technical, planning and economic and financial
support).
Ln. No. 1990   Second Urban and Regional Development Project:  US$164 Million
Loan of August 13, 1981; Effectiveness Date: January 12, 1982;
Closing Date: December 31, 1986.
Project implementation suffering delays due to managerial
problems and to the lack of counterpart funds in 1982.
Ln. No. 2042   Technical Training Project:  US$90 Million Loan of July 31,
1981; Effectiveness Date: November 25, 1981; Closing Date:
June 30, 1984.
Project implementation is proceeding rapidly.
Ln. No. 2043   Integrated Rural Development (PIDER III):  US$175 Million Loan
of November 6, 1981; Effectiveness Date: May 5, 1982; Closing
Date: September 30, 1985.
Micro-regional offices have been established and staffed. The
Government has prepared the monitoring and evaluation plans for
all micro-regions under the project and these are satisfactory
to the Bank. Preparation of the training programs is now
substantially completed.



- 37 -
ANNEX II
Page 8 of 8
Ln. No. 2100   Bajo Rio Bravo/Bajo Rio San Juan Irrigation Rehabilitation
Project II: US$180 Million Loan of September 5, 1982;
Effectiveness Date: March 4, 1983; Closing Date:
December 31, 1988.
Project implementation underway.
Ln. No. 2142   Capital Goods Industries Development Project:  US$152.3 Million
Loan of September 5, 1982; Effectiveness Date:  March 7, 1983;
Closing Date: December 31, 1986.
The creation of a $100 million export development fund under
the project is being proposed to the Executive Directors. Loan
financing for the original project component would be reduced
to $50 million.
Ln. No. 2154   Pollution Control Project:  US$60 Million Loan of July 16,
1982; Effectiveness Date: February 11, 1983;
Closing Date: December 31, 1988.
Project executing agencies are now preparing the first
implementation phase.
Ln. No. 2191   San Fernando Rainfed Agricultural Development Project:
US$138.4 Million Loan of September 5, 1982; Effectiveness Date:
March 4, 1983; Closing Date: June 30, 1989.
Project implementation underway.
Ln. No. 2194   Deconcentration Program for the Mexico City Region:  US$9.2
Miillion Loan of August 9, 1982; Effectiveness Date:
October 15, 1982; Closing Date: December 31, 1985.
Several studies have been contracted and the project is
progressing satisfactorily.



- 38 -
ANNEX III
MEXICO
AGRICULTURAL MARKETING PROJECT FOR PERISHABLES
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I - Timetable of Key Events
(a)   Time taken by country to prepare project:          15 months
(b)   Project prepared by:                               Bank of Mexico
(c)   First Bank mission:                                March 1981
(d)   Departure of appraisal mission:                    April 1982
(e)   Negotiations completed in:                         March 1983
(f)   Planned date of effectiveness:                     August 1983
Section II - Special Bank Implementation Actions
None
Section III - Special Conditions
(a) By December 1, 1983, FIDEC would submit to the Bank, for review and
approval, a detailed program outlining description of the studies
to be carried out under the project, the terms of reference of each
study, the budgetary requirements and timetable for carrying out
the studies (para. 64).
(b) SECOFI will continue to be responsible for coordinating the
Government's national marketing program and institutional
participation and to harmonize the efforts of public agencies
involved in marketing (para. 66).
(c) Subloans would bear floating interest rates and the level of
interest rates charged would be linked to an index of the cost of
funds (ACF) within the banking system in the country. Interest
rates would be adjusted every three months, with rates established
by January 1, April 1, July 1 and October 1, of each year, taking
into account the movements in the ACF (para. 75).
(d) By February 1, 1984, the Bank would review the sublending rates
with the Government to determine the extent to which ACF is an
adequate index for the interest rates charged for subloans under
the project. If the ACF would not constitute an adequate index,
Mexico and the Bank would agree on alternative measures in line
with the prevailing economic conditions in Mexico and in order to
accomplish the purposes of the loan (para. 76).



>                                                                                                                  _                                                                                                               5RI. 16 ir>9~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2 6'
R    99  5  \   '              0                                                                                                                                                     S~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~iA    E   i.I C    C: 
60904>7/9<                                                                                                                                                                                                             ME              CS- T D   T4TE   O   A ERCl
?                                                                                jr;  -   .  .; JUU TED STATEz OF AMER CA                                                                                 AGRICULTURAL MARKETING
792-                                000].                               i-.- ;,  - !      --   - _,OF  PERISHABLES  PROJECI
7iQPRTE-
: C ^ L F xFh A l / -   7        H \             A H
'__      .                              _                                                                                                           \f'  ' 1@-  9'  --   ;  V  i,     r,v                                                      Moeoo  ,ops
Y(L    677                                            7C o                                                                                                                                                                 Doo   H9  9, 'ooy 9   _    \FE   e\ 
Lo 6p                                                                                                                                                                                          Sol  ed  Mo,ong  .Ro:lt.cos  dP  Y-^,
-9.~ ~ ~ ~     ~ \9                                               --     ,[,-5                         
-~ ~ ~    ~    ~ '                                             :_, 2-                                                      A aLooneF* ; {> ,tLS <~'~~r
39      2cau u                                 9 9Ood  Aso ,
L000                                                                                 o0o 3    L
_.ceoSmses/, hbo   § mrfymraarFvdoremm /-                                                                                                                                                                                                           }   H: I I ro 50'' 
- ',I I RIT                                   5- L, P.,."
T,                                       J~~~~oLoos,0
~~g 0oo07on9os~~~~~~
c:~~~~~~~~~~~260                                                                                           
.7   .:7 ~       ~    ~    ~    ~    ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~-.h
A.                                                                                Coop~~~~~~~~~~~~~'ohTo. 1- r
C~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~9                                                     9              ..                                 09
;z'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~776
7  O4770~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ S~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



