00C  NT     LOAN NUMBER 2262 ME
DCIRAFNT9
Loan Agreement
(Agricultural Marketing Project for Perishables)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
NACIONAL FINANCIERA S.A.
Dated                       c   5    , 1983


﻿LOAN NUMBER 2262 ME
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated )        444     .d.   ..6    , 1983, between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FORARECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (herein-
after called the Bank) and NACIONAL FINANCIERA S.A. (hereinafter
called the Borrower).
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Gua-
rantee Agreements of the Bank, dated October 27, 1980, with the
same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein
(said General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agree-
ments of the Bank being hereinafter called the General Condi-
tions).
Section 1.03. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the Gen-
eral Conditions hive the respective meanings therein set forth
and the following a-ditional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "Banxico" means Banco de M6xico;
(b) "Banrural" means Banco Nacional de Credito Rural, S.A.;
(c)  "Project Agreements" means the agreement between the
Bank and Banxico (hereinafter called the First Project Agreement)
and the agreement between the Bank and Banrural (hereinafter
called the Second Project Agreement), both of even date herewith,
as such agreements may be amended from time to time; and the
terms "First Project Agreement" and "Second Project Agreement"
include all schedules and agreements supplemental thereto;
(d) "FEFA Trust Agreement" means the Contrato de Fidei-
comiso dated August 26, 1965, between the Guarantor and Banxico
whereby the Fondo Especial para Financiamentos Agropecuarios was
entrusted to Banxico as Trustee; and "FEFA" means the Fondo
Especial para Financiamientos Agropecuarios established by the
FEFA   Trust   Agreement    and   includes   the   technical    and
administrative organization, resources, staff and facilities used
or to be used by Banxico to operate FEFA;


﻿-2-
(e)  "FICART Trust Agreement" means the Contrato de Fidei-
comiso dated September 26, 1975, between the Guarantor and
Banrural, as amended by the Convenio Modificatorio dated June 4,
1981, whereby the Fideicomiso para Credito en Areas de Riego y de
Temporal was entrusted to Banrural as Trustee; and "FICART" means
the Fideicomiso para Credito en Areas de Riego y de Temporal and
includes   the   technical   and   administrative   organization,
resources, staff and facilities used or to be used by Banrural to
operate FICART;
(f)  "FIDEC Trust Agreement" means the Contrato de Fidei-
comiso dated May 7, 1980, between the Guarantor and Banxico
whereby Fondo para el Desarrollo Comercial was entrusted to
Banxico as Trustee; and "FIDEC" means Fondo para el Desarrollo
Comercial and includes the technical and administrative organiza-
tion, resources, staff and facilities used or to be used by
Banxico to operate FIDEC;
(g) "Sub-loan" means a medium- or long-term loan made or
proposed to be made by Participating Banks out of the proceeds of
the Loan for purposes of an Investment Project;
(h) "Investment Project" means a specific marketing devel-
opment project consisting in one or more of the activities
described in Parts A or B of the Project to be carried out by a
Beneficiary utilizing the proceeds of a Sub-loan;
(i)  "Beneficiary" means a person or a group of persons or
an entity having juridical capacity under the laws of the Guaran-
tor having as its main activity the production or wholesale or
retail marketing of perishable products to which one of the
Participating Banks proposes to mal-e or has made a Sub-loan;
(j) "Participating Bank" means any credit institution
approved by Banxico or Banrural to participate in the carrying
out of Parts A and B of the Project by making Sub-loans to Bene-
ficiaries;
(k)  "Group of Low-income Producers" means a group of pro-
ducers of which two-thirds of its members have an individual
annual income not exceeding 1,000 times the respective regional
minimum wage and to whom a Participating Bank has made or pro-
poses to make a Sub-loan under Part A of the Project;


﻿-3-
(1) "Prevailing Interest Rate" or "ACF" means an annual
rate of interest which reflects the average cost of borrowed
funds to financial departments of multipurpose banks operating in
Mexico as calculated and published by Banxico on a monthly basis;
(m) "Peso" means the currency unit of the Guarantor;
(n) "FIDEC Lending Policies and Operating Manual" means the
manual on lending policies and procedures to be furnished to the
Bank pursuant to Section 3.03 of the First Project Agreement;
(o) "FICART Lending Policies and Operating Manual" means
the Manual de Operacion of FICART as approved by its Comit4
T4cnico as of the date of this Agreement;
(p) "FEFA Lending Policies and Operating Manual" means the
Manual de Operacion of FEFA as approved by its Comit6 T4cnico as
of the date of this Agreement;
(q) "Sistema Nacional para el Abasto" means the Guarantor's
marketing program as set forth in the Decree issued by the Gua-
rantor on September 17, 1981, and published in the Diario Oficial
de la Federacion on September 21, 1981, as amended as of the date
of this Agreement;
(r) "voluntary chains" means cadenas voluntarias, a com-
mercial association of one or more wholesalers and/or a group of
low and medium-income retailers as defined in FIDEC Lending Poli-
cies and Operating Manual;
(s)   "Special Account" means the account to be established
pursuant to paragraph (a) of Section 2.03 of this Agreement; and
(t) "Central Bank" means Banco de Mexico.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on
the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in this Loan
Agreement, an amount in various currencies equivalent to c.e
hundred fifteen million dollars ($115,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1
to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from time to
time by agreement between the Borrower and the Bank, for


﻿-4-
expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
Section 2.03. (a) The Borrower shall cause to be opened and
thereafter maintained a Special Account in the Central Bank on
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank. Payments out of
the Special Account shall be made exclusively to pay the
reasonable cost of goods and services required to carry out the
Project and to be financed by the Bank under this Agreement in
accordance with the provisions of Section 2.02 and Schedule I
hereto.
(b) The Bank may, after the Effective Date and at the
request of the Borrower, withdraw on behalf of the Borrower from
the Loan Account and deposit in the Special Account an amount in
dollars of up to $10,000,000. In the event the amount of such
initial deposit into the Special Account is less than $10,000,000,
the Borrower may from time to time request the Bank to withdraw
from the Loan Account and make one or more additional initial
deposits into the Special Account, but in no event shall the
amount of such initial deposits exceed in the aggregate
$10,000,000. At the request of the Borrower, the Bank shall
further withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit in the Special
Account such amounts as shall be required to replenish the
Special Account with amounts equal to payments made out of the
Special Account for expenditures for the Project eligible for
financing under this Agreement. Except as the Bank shall other-
wise agree, each such deposit after the initial deposits shall be
withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan Account under the same
categories set forth in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement, and in the same respective amounts, as have been
justified by the documentation for the request for such deposit
furnished pursuant to paragraph (d) of this Section.
(c) Prior to or at the time of each request for a
withdrawal by the Borrower from the Special Account, the Borro-wer
shall furnish to the Central Bank an application for withdrawal
from the Special Account on the basis of statements of expendi-
tures showing that the payment was made on account of the reason-
able cost of goods or services required for the Project and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with para-
graph (a) above.   The Central Bank shall authorize withdrawals
from the Special Account an amount in pesos determined on the


﻿-5-
basis of such statements of expenditures, and shall debit the
Special Account with the dollar equivalent of such amount in
pesos determined on the basis of the rate of exchange between the
dollar and the peso in effect at the time each payment was made.
(d) Prior to or at the time of each request for a deposit
by the Bank into the Special Account, the Borrower shall furnish
to the Bank in respect of each withdrawal from the Special
Account an application for withdrawal from the Loan Account on
the basis of the statements of expenditures referred to in para-
graph (c) of this Section together with a statement from the
Central Bank indicating the amounts disbursed from the Special
Account in connection with each such application.
(e) If the Bank shall have determined that any payment out
of the Special Account (A) was made for any expenditure or in any
amount not eligible for financing by withdrawal from the Loan
Accoun-'., or (B) was not justified O- the statements of expendi-
ture furnished pursuant to paragraph (d) above, the Bank shall
notify the Borrower of such circumstances, and if after a period
of 30 days from the issuance of such notice an amount equal to
the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible
or justified has not been deposited by the Borrower into the
Special Account, the Bank may refrain from making further
deposits into such Account.
(f)  Notwithstanding the provision of paragraph (a) of this
Agreement, when the withdrawals from the Loan Account deposited
into the Special Account plus the amount of any agreement to
reimburse made by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the Gen-
eral Conditions shall have reached the equivalent of $95,000,000,
the Bank shall be entitled, after consultations with the Bor-
rower, to reduce the percentage of disbursements for expenditures
under the Project or take any other action which will ensure the
Bank that by the time the total amount of the Loan has been dis-
bursed all deposits (including the amount corresponding to the
initial deposit) made by the Bank into the Special Account were
made on account of the reasonable cost of goods or services elig-
ible for financing out of the proceeds of the Loan in accordance
with paragraph (e) above.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1987, or
such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall
promptly, notify the Borrower and the Guarantor of such later
date.


﻿-6-
Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a fee
equivalent to eight hundred fifty-six thousand seventy-nine
dollars ($856,079).
(b) On or promptly after the Effective Date, the Bank
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account
and pay to itself the amount of the said fee in such currency or
currencies as the Bank shall determine.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commit-
ment charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn
from time to time.
Section 2.07. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time
to time at a rate per annum for each Interest Period equal to one
half of one percent per annum above the Cost of Qualified Borrow-
ings for the last Semester ending prior to the commencement of
such Interest Period.
(b) For purposes of this Section:
(i) "Interest Period" means the six-month period com-
mencing on each date specified in Section 2.08 of
this Agreement, including the Interest Period in
which this Agreement is signed.
(ii)  "Cost" of Qualified Borrowings means the cost,
expressed as a percentage per annum, as reasonably
determined by the Bank, provided that the amount
of $8,520.5 million referred to in (iii) (B)
hereunder shall be reckoned at a cost of 10.93%
per annum.
(iii)  "Qualified Borrowings" means (A) outstanding bor-
rowings of the Bank drawn down after June 30,
1982; and (B) until July 1, 1985, the amount of
$8,520.5 million (representing borrowings of the
Bank between July 1, 1981 and June 30, 1982) less
any part thereof repaid earlier than July 1, 1985.
(iv)  "Semester" means the first six months or the
second six months of a calendar year.


﻿- 7 -
(c) As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester,
the Bank shall notify the Borrower and the Guarantor of the Cost
of Qualified Borrowings for such Semester.
Section 2.08. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on February 1 and August 1 in each year.
Section 2.09. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set
forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Transfer of Loan Proceeds
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower shall enter into contractual
arrangements with Banxico, acting as trustee for FIDEC, in terms
and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, providing for, inter
alia: (i) the transfer to FIDEC, on a grant basis, of the pro-
ceeds of the Loan required by FIDEC for the carrying out of the
Parts of the Projects assigned to it pursuant to the First Proj-
ect Agreement; and (ii) the Borrower's obligation to transfer to
FIDEC, on a grant basis, the amounts of the proceeds of the Loan
repaid by FEFA and FICART to the Borrower pursuant to the lending
arrangements referred to in paragraph (b) below.
(b) The Borrower shall enter into contractual arrangements
with Banxico, acting as trustee for FEFA, and with Banrural,
acting as trustee for FICART, in terms and conditions satisfac-
tory to the Bank, providing for, inter alia, the lending to FEFA
and FICART of the proceeds of the Loan required by them for the
carrying out of the Parts of the Project assigned to each of them
pursuant to the First Project Agreement and the Second Project
Agreement, respectively.
(c) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall not amend or fail to enforce any provision of the arrange-
ments referred to in paragraphs (a) and (b) aDove.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower represents that at the date
of this Agreement no lien exists on any of its assets as security
for any external debt.


﻿-8-
(b) The Borrower undertakes that, except as the Bank shall
otherwise agree, if any lien shall be created on any assets of
the Borrower as security for any external debt, such lien will
ipso facto equally and ratably secure the payment of the princi-
pal of, and interest and other charges on, the Loan, and in the
creation of any such lien express provisions will be made to that
effect, at no cost to the Bank; provided, however, that the fore-
going provisions of this paragraph shall not apply to: (A) any
lien created on property, at the time of purchase thereof, solely
as security for the payment of the purchase price of such
property or as security for the payment of debt incurred for the
purpose of financing the purchase of such property; or (B) any
lien arising in the ordinary course of banking transactions and
securing a debt maturing not more than one year after the date on
which it is originally incurred.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the Gen-
eral Conditions, the following additional events are specified
pursuant to paragraph (k) thereof:
(a) a change shall have been made in the FEFA Trust Agree-
ment, the FICART Trust Agreement or the FIDEC Trust Agreement
which may materially and adversely affect the carrying out of the
Project or the financial position or organization of FEFA, FICART
or FIDEC, respectively;
(b) Banxico, as trustee for FIDEC or FEFA, shall have
failed to perform any of its obligations under the First Project
Agreement or Banrural, as trustee for FICART, shall have failed
to perform any of its obligations under the Second Project Agree-
ment;
(c) a resolution shall have been passed for the dissolution
or liquidation of FIDEC, FEFA or FICART;
(d) the Guarantor and the Bank shall have failed to reach
the agreement referred to in Section 3.04 of the Guarantee Agree-
ment; and
(e) a change shall have been made in the FIDEC Lending
Policies and Operating Manual or the FICART Lending Policies and


﻿-9-
Operating Manual or FEFA Lending Policy and Operating Manual
which may materially and adversely affect the execution of the
Project.
Section 5.02. For the purposeo of Section 7.01 of the Gen-
eral Conditions, the following additional events are specified
pursuant to paragraph (h) thereof:
(a) the event specified in paragraph (b) of Section 5.01 of
this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of
sixty days after notice thereof shall have been given by the Bank
to the Borrower; and
(b)  any event specified in paragraph (a) or paragraph (c)
of Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following event is specified as an addi-
tional condition to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement
within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Condi-
tions, namely, that the contractual arrangements referred to in
Section 3.01 of this Agreement have been executed.
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional
matters, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be fur-
nished to the Bank:
(a) that the First Project Agreement and the Second Project
Agreement have been duly authorized or ratified by, and executed
and delivered on behalf of, Banxico and Banrural, respectively,
and are legally binding upon Banxico and Banrural in accordance
with their terms;
(b) that the arrangements referred to in Section 3.01 of
this Agreement and Section 3.03 of the Guarantee Agreement have
been executed and delivered on behalf of the parties thereto and
are legally binding on them; and
(c) that all necessary acts, consents and approvals to be
performed or given by the Guarantor, its political subdivisions
or agencies or by any agency of any political subdivision or by


﻿- 10 -
Banxico or by Banrural or pursuant to the FIDEC Trust Agreement,
or the FEFA Trust Agreement, or the FICART Trust Agreement, or
otherwise to be performed or given in order to authorize the
carrying out of the Project and to enable the Borrower, Banxico
and Banrural to perform all of the respective covenants, agree-
ments and obligations of the Borrower, Banxico and Banrural in
the Loan Agreement, the First Project Agreement and the Second
Project Agreement contained, together with all necessary powers
and rights in connection therewith, have been duly and validly
performed or given and no other such acts, consents and approvals
are required to be performed or given for said purpose.
Section 6.03. The date   &'tt   is1L4. 27   / IM  , is hereby
specified for the purpose of Section 12.04 of the General Condi-
tions.
ARTICLE VII
Addresses
Section 7.01. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                      Telex:
INTBAFRAD                         440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                  248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
For the Borrower:
Nacional Financiera S.A.
Isabel La Catolica 51
06008 Mexico, D.F.
Mexico


﻿- 11 -
Cable address:                      Telex:
NAFIN                             NAFIME 383-1772538
Mexico City                       Mexico City
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By    /       w         2       -
Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean
NACIONAL FINANCIERA S.A.
By
Authorized Representative


﻿- 12
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated            % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category           Dollar Equivalent)   to be Financed
(1) Sub-loans for           40,000,000       60% of amounts
Part A of the                           disbursed by
Project (except                         Participating
for Sub-loans                           Banks for Sub-
to Groups of                            loans
Low-income
producers)
(2) Sub-loans for          50,000,000        60% of amounts
Part B of the                           disbursed by
Project (except                         Participating
for voluntary                           Banks for Sub-
chains)                                 loans
(3) Sub-loans for           5,200,000        60% of amounts
Parts A and B                           disbursed by
of the Project for                      Participating
Groups of Low-                          Banks for Sub-
income Producers                        loans
and voluntary
chains
(4) Equipment and           3,000,000        100% of foreign
materials for                           expenditures or
Parts C, D, F                           50% of local
and G                                   expenditures
(5) Technical               2,300,000        75%
services for
Parts C, D, E,
F and G of the
Project


﻿- 13 -
Amount of the
Loan Allocated           % of
(Expressed in       Expenditures
Category          Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed
(6) Fee                       856,079        Amounts due under
Section 2.05 of
this Agreement
(7) Initial deposit        10,000,000       Amounts due pur-
in Special Account                      suant to Section
2.03 (b) of this
Agreement
(8) Unallocated             3,643,921
TOTAL       115,000,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)  the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than the Guarantor and for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country
other than the Guarantor; and
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Guarantor or for goods or services supplied from
the territory of the Guarantor.
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in com-
pliance with the policy of the Bank that no proceeds of the Loan
shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied by, or
in the territory of, the Guarantor on goods or services, or on
the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof; to
that end, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in respect
of any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
decreases or increases, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower,
increase or decrease the disbursement percentage then applicable
to such item as required to be consistent with the aforementioned
policy of the Bank.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for


﻿- 14 -
expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, except that
withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent
of $3,000,000, may be made on account of expenditures made before
that date but after June 1, 1982.
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Loan or
the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in paragraph
1 above, if the Bank has reasonably estimated that the amount of
the Loan then allocated to any Category will be insufficient to
finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures in that
Category, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower: (i) reallocate
to such Category, to the extent required to meet the estimated
shortfall, proceeds of the Loan which are then allocated to
another Category and which in the opinion of the Bank are not
needed to meet other expenditures, and (ii) if such reallocation
cannot  fully   meet  the   estimated  shortfall,   reduce  the
disbursement percentage then applicable to such expenditures in
order that further withdrawals under such Category may continue
until all expenditures thereunder shall have been made.
6.   If the Bank, after consultation with the Borrower, shall
have reasonably determined that the procurement of any item in
any Category is inconsistert with the procedures set forth or
referred to in this Agreement, no expenditures for such item
shall be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan and the Bank
may, without in any way restricting or limiting any other right,
power or remedy of the Bank under the Loan Agreement, by notice
to the Borrower, cancel such amount of the Loan as, in the Bank's
reasonable opinion, represents the amount of such expenditures
which would otherwise have been eligible for financing out of the
proceeds of the Loan.


﻿- 15 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The purpose of the Project is to modernize and expand the
Guarantor's food marketing system at the producer, wholesale and
retail levels within the policy framework set forth in the Gua-
rantor's Sistema Nacional para el Abasto and will consist of th!
following:
Part A:   Producer Level Marketing Investments
Sub-loans for Investment Projects consisting in one or more
of the following:
(1) Establishing of new or expansion and modernization of
existing: (i) assembling facilities, (ii) producer dis-
tribution centers with access to major metropolitan
markets, (iii) markets of origin in major producing
zones, and (iv) collection centers for the processing
of products for the domestic market.
(2) Procurement of vehicles and equipment required for the
transport and handling of products.
Part B:   Wholesale and Retail Levels Marketing Investments
(i) Sub-loans for Investment Projects to be carried out by
groups of wholesalers and retailers and consisting of
modernization and expansion of existing wholesale
warehouse facilities, construction of new warehouses,
and retail facilities, handling equipment and trucks.
(ii) Sub-loans for Investment Projects to be carried by
wholesalers moving into wholesaler market facilities
and consisting of acquisition of warehouse space,
vehicles and handling equipment.
(iii)  Sub-loans for Investment Projects consisting of the
establishment of retail units for perishables in
neighborhood shopping areas, including the acquisition
of vehicles and equipment.
(iv)  Sub-loans for Investment Projects consisting of the
construction of retail units in low income neighbor-
hoods.


﻿- 16 -
(v) Sub-loans for Investment Projects consisting in the
construction of wholesale and retail market facilities
in medium-sized cities.
Part C:   National Market Information System
Support for the operations of the Guarantor's national
market information system which is designed to provide reliable
and timely information on market transactions of major agricul-
tural products.
Part D:   FIDEC's Institutional Strengthening
Improvement of FIDEC's capabilities for the preparation of
investment programs and evaluation and supervision of marketing
investment projects.
Part E:   Promotion Program
A program to promote among potential beneficiaries, FIDEC's
role in the financing of marketing development projects.
Part F:   Training
A training program for suitable FIDEC's staff and members of
institutions participating in the Project in the fields of food
marketing and management and rural and urban marketing systems.
Part G:   Studies
Studies on:
(a) central wholesale facilities in urban centers;
(b) transportation services for perishable products; and
(c) marketing of perishable product.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31,
1986.


﻿- 17 -
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                          (expressed in dollars)*
On each February I and August 1
beginning August 1, 1986
through   August 1, 1997                  4,790,000
On February 1, 1998                            4,830,000
*    The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents
determined as of the respective dates of withdrawal; see
General Conditions, Section 3.04.


﻿- 18 -
Premiums on Prepayment
The following percentages are specified as the premiums
payable on repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of the
principal amount of the Loan pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the
General Conditions:
Time of Prepayment                           Premium
The interest rate (ex-
pressed as a percentage
per annum) applicable to
the balance outstanding
on the Loan on the day
of prepayment multiplied
by:
Not more than three years                          0.20
before maturity
More than three years but                          0.40
not more than six years
before maturity
More than six years but                            0.73
not more than 11 years
before maturity
More than 11 years but not                         0.87
more than 13 years
before maturity
More than 13 years before                          1.00
maturity


﻿INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Bank for Reconstruction and Develop-
ment.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Bank thereunto
this J       day of  Z    , 198 s3-.
FOR SECRETARY


