FILEOa                                                                             ocue/PY  Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
EGT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE
ALEXANDRIA PORT AUTHORITY
WITH THE
GUARANTEE OF THE ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
FOR THE
PORT OF ALEXANDRIA PROJECT
March 22, 1976
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contenis may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Official Rate
1 Egyptian Pound (LE 1) =    US$ 2.56 or SDR 2.118
1 US Dollar             =    BE 0.391
Parallel Market Rate
1 Egyptian Pound (LE)   =    US$ 1.56
1 US Dollar             =    LE 0.64
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
INTERNATIONIAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE ALEXANDRIA PORT AUTHORITY
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF THE ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
FOR THE PORT OF ALEXANDRIA PROJECT
1.   I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan of
$45 million equivalent to the Alexandria Port Authority (APA) with the
guarantee of the Arab Republic of Egypt to help finance the foreign ex-
change costs of a project for rehabilitation and modernization of the Port
of Alexandria. The loan would have a term of 25 years including 5 years of
grace, with interest at 8.5 percent per annum. Arrangements for cofinancing
on concessional terms by USAID and the Japanese Overseas Economic Coopera-
tion Fund are at an advanced stage.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        An Economic Report on the Arab Republic of Egypt (No. 870a-EGT),
dated January 5, 1976, has been distributed to the Executive Directors. An
updating mission visitetd Egypt in January/February 1976, and its findings
are incorporated in this report. Country data sheets are attached as Annex
I.
Background
3.        The 1974 "October Paper," presented by President Sadat to the
people and the Parliament and approved in a national referendum, continues
to provide the basic principles which guide Egyptian development. These en-
visage decentralization of decision-making of state-owned enterprises, lib-
eralization of the private sector, incentives to stimulate and encourage
private foreign investment and expanded economic cooperation with Arab coun-
tries. Accordingly, in 1974 and 1975, Egypt initiated a number of steps in
furtherance of these pr[nciples, which are expected to lead to a significant
restructuring of the economy. In particular, steps were taken to remove some
of the heavy restrictions on private business activities, to encourage fo-
reign private investmenl: and to expand foreign exchange transactions outside
the official rate. It should be noted, moreover, that this policy of economic
liberaliza tion was pursued in a generally unfavorable international political
and economic environment.
4.        The new Government, formed in April 1975, has reaffirmed its inten-
tion to maintain the momentum towards a more self-reliant, equitable and
liberalized economy, and for that purpose to implement a wide-ranging economic
management program. In particular, the Government has initiated or intends
to take measures: (i) to improve coordination in economic policy making;
(ii) to improve public sector efficiency through decentralization and rehab-
ilitation; (iii) to rationalize consumption subsidies and to increase national
savings, while protecting the real income of lower income groups, through ap-
propriate price, fiscal and monetary policies; (iv) to promote efficiency in
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- 2 -
resource allocation through widening the parallel foreign exchange market and
pursuing price policies that would better reflect economic scarcities; and
(v) to rationalize its external debt situation and implement a debt-management
program. The implementation of these policy objectives, in conjunction with
the substantial inflow of foreign aid.obtained in 1975 and expected in 1976
(paragraphs 16 and 17), revenues from the Suez Canal (opened on June 5, 1975),
revitalized economic activity in the Canal Zone and rapidly rising oil income,
should lead to a considerable strengthening of the Egyptian economy in the
coming years.
Recent Economic Developments
5.        Egypt's economy enters 1976 bearing the marks of war and a decade of
under-investment requiring substantial rebuilding and rehabilitation. In 1974
and 1975 Egypt's economy was dominated by pressures that originated in the
external sector but spilled over into the rest of the economy.     On the external
side, these included the slow progress towards peace in the Middle East; the
steep rise in the prices of Egypt's main imports; the recession in the indus-
trialized countries; and the slow disbursement of concessional assistance and
private external capital. On the domestic side, the escalation in the world
prices of food led to an almost threefold increase in the net budgetary sub-
sidies on items of mass consumption, as the Government attempted to maintain
domestic prices of imported foodstuffs. Pent-up demand led to a rise in the
level of consumption and, combined with world inflation, led to a marked rise
in the general level of prices.
6.        The deficit in the balance of payments in 1974 was largely met by
the use of short-term bank credit facilities, which reached a level of LE
1,055 million ($2.7 billion) 1/ at the end of 1974. The debt structure
worsened and the short maturity period of the bank credit facilities created
problems of liquidity. The heavy subsidization of items of mass consump-
tion, together with the slow growth of tax revenues, squeezed public sector
savings and increased the Government's borrowings from the banking system.
This resulted in a 29 percent increase in money and quasi-money in a year
where output in real terms is estimated to have increased only by about 4
percent. Almost inevitably, inflation continued at a high rate. Thus, the
Egyptian economy entered 1975 in a very vulnerable state, with both external
and domestic resources fully stretched.
7.        In 1975, the Government made efforts to prevent a major expansion in
the use of bank credit facilities. It also sought to obtain long-term loans
from Arab countries in order to "refinance" the bank credit facilities. These
efforts succeeded in raising LE 672 million ($1.72 billion) during 1975 on con-
cessionary terms from Saudi Arabia, Kuwait, Iran, Abu Dhabi, and Qatar and
a start was made towards reducing the level of outstanding bank credit facili-
ties (see paragraph 21 below). However, the net cost-of-living subsidies in
1975 were budgeted at LE 493 million ($1.26 billion) -- an increase of almost
50 percent above the actual figure for the previous year.     Public sector
1/   Including undisbursed amounts.



- 3 -
savings -- and hence, because of its size, total domestic savings -- for 1975
remained low.
8.        Production and Investment.   Economic growth in 1974 is estimated
at about 4 percent in real terms, with industry (largely because of greater
utilization of capacity) and services (including construction and tourism)
being the leading growth sectors. Investment expenditures increased from
LE 470 million in 1973 (which was only marginally above the 1965/66 level) to
LE 740 million in 1974 (in current prices), which is about 20 percent of GDP,
and represents an increase of about 40 percent in real terms. The 1975 Plan
envisaged gross fixed investment of LE 1154 million, of which LE 1056 million
were in the public sectorZ. The 1975 Plan had the following priorities: (i)
reconstruction in the Suez Canal area (mainly in housing and related infra-
structure); (ii) completLon of ongoing projects; (iii) replacement, renewal,
and better utilization o. idle capacity; and (iv) new projects considered
essential for economic development, such as for producing fertilizers and
cement. The Plan also proposed tripling investment in the private sector to
LE 98 million, almost all of which will be in service activities and commodi-
ties production. Preliminary estimates indicate that the real growth of GDP
in 1975 is likely to have been around 4 percent, while investment may have
reached about 70 percent of the target.
9.        Prices.   Despite subsidies and price controls over a wide range of
commodities, inflation has continued at a high rate: the Consumer Price Index
for urban population increased by 10 percent in 1974, with the food and bever-
ages sub-index registering a rise of 15 percent. Price increases in 1975 are
likely to be of the same order of magnitude. It is likely that these figures
substantially understate the real level of inflation in the economy, as they
are based on controlled prices.
10.        The Domestic Budget.   Preliminary budget figures for 1974 show a
rise in the deficit to LE 653 million ($1.7 billion) compared with LE 386
million ($990 million) in 1973, largely because of a 270 percent increase in
the cost of living subsidies (to LE 330 million-$845 million) 1/, while cur-
rent revenues increased by about 12 percent to LE 1,143 million ($2.9 billion).
The 1975 budget projected a deficit of (LE 925 million - $2.4 billion), despite
an estimated 35 percent increase in current revenues (arising principally from
a doubling of revenues from customs duties, including collection of arrears).
Direct bank financing of the budget deficit is projected at LE 125 million, but
in fact total lending by the banking sector to the Government will greatly ex-
ceed this level. Preliminary figures for the first half of 1975 indicate that
both current revenues and expenditures were in line with budgeted amounts,
although, on the revenue side, continuing substantial arrears in import duties
were offset by a higher-than-projected growth of other taxes.
1/   Almost entirely due to the increase in international prices of imported
foodstuffs (largely flour, maize, sugar and edible oils).



- 4 -
11.       Balance of Payments.    Egypt's deficit on its trade and services
account amounted to LE 619 million ($1,584 million) in 1974 (more than twice
that experienced in 1973). Egypt's balance of payments difficulties were
further compounded by a slow disbursement of medium- and long-term loans
committed during 1973 and 1974 and a high level of debt repayments of LE 255
million ($654 million) in 1974; this resulted in a net outflow of LE 52 mil-
lion ($132 million) on official medium- and long-term capital. Substantially
increased Arab grants of LE 475 million ($1,217 million) in 1974 helped to
reduce the current deficit but the overall deficit on the current and the
medium- and long-term capital accounts nevertheless amounted to LE 199 million
($511 million), which was met by the use of bank credit facilities.
12.       Estimates of Egypt's balance of trade and services in 1975 indicate
a deficit of about LE 1,015 million ($2.6 billion). Repayments of about LE
344 million ($880 million) had to be made during the year on outstanding in-
ternational obligations (excluding banking facilities). The resulting deficit
(of about LE 1,360 million -- about $3.5 billion) was financed largely through
Arab grants, commodity loans, project loans, suppliers' credits and "rolling
over" of banking facilities (see paragraph 22).
13.       Since September 1973 a feature of Egypt's trade and exchange rate
regime has been a "parallel market" for certain transactions in foreign ex-
change (tourism, non-traditional exports, and private sector current imports),
for which a devalued rate (originally about LE 1 = $1.70) of the Egyptian pound
is applied. During 1974, this market was expanded by the introduction of the
'own exchange imports scheme,' whereby Egyptians holding foreign exchange ab-
road were permitted to use their balances to import commodities from a list of
about 300 items. In November 1975, the own exchange imports scheme was ex-
panded to cover almost all private imports. The scope of the parallel market
was widened in January 1976 to cover ten percent of all official imports ex-
cept supply commodities. The parallel market rate was adjusted in February
1976 to LE 1 = $1.56.
Development Prospects
14.       Despite the current economic difficulties, Egypt's economic poten-
tial over the long run is promising. The reasons for this assessment are in
brief: (i) the country has a large market, a skilled population, low wages,
varied raw materials, and a key geographical location, which makes it a
natural base for industries that wish to supply the domestic market and the
growing regional market; (ii) Suez Canal revenues are estimated to rise to
a level of around LE 300 million ($770 million) per year by 1980, and may
increase further as a result of physical expansion and greater usage of the
Canal; (iii) Egypt's improved prospects for oil production, which is put (by
the oil companies) at one million barrels a day by 1980-82; (iv) considerably
increased earnings from tourism which reached an estimated $225 million in
1975; (v) a more intensive utilization of agricultural land, with greater
emphasis on high-value crops; and (vi) an increased flow of remittances
(estimated at about $250 million in 1975) from Egyptians working in the
richer Arab countries of the region.



- 5 -
15.       However, the realization of the long-term potential hinges upon a
number of complex factors, some of which are not within Egypt's control. The
most important of these is a definite movement towards an equitable and
permanent peace settlement in the Middle East. Moreover, the attainment
of Egypt's prospects requires the transfer of large amounts of capital from
abroad; this, in turn, must be preceded by a considerable amount of work on
preparing a suitable portfolio of projects for the consideration of potential
investors (whether private or official). And finally, it requires fundamental
changes in economic po:Licies and institutions. Hence, a realistic estimate of
the time required to achieve a significant restructuring of the economy would
be of the order of at :Least 5-10 years.
External Assistance
16.       Egypt obtained substantial amounts of external aid until the mid-
1960s. Thereafter, new commitments of Western assistance practically ceased:
the gross inflow of medium- and long-term capital fell by nearly 50 percent
immediately after the 1967 war. Although aid levels gradually rose again,
net inflows from Western countries averaged only $10-12 million (LE 4-5
million) annually in medium- and long-term capital over the five-year period
FY 1968-1972; amortization payments were some $7 million (LE 3 million)
greater than disbursements in 1973. During the period 1968-1973, non-military
aid from Eastern countries (estimated in excess of $1,200 million (LE 470
million)) financed the bulk of-Egypt's development. These inflows, however,
declined significantly in 1974 and new commitments in that year dropped to a
relatively low level of $76 million (LE 30 million). On the aggregate, slow
disbursements of medium- and long-term aid resulted in a net outflow on this
account (to both Eastern and Western bloc countries) increasing to about $132
milion (LE 52 million) in 1974. Drawings on suppliers' credits exceeded
repayments by about $21 million (LE 8 million); disbursements on other medium-
and long-term loans amounted to about $249 million (LE 97 million) while re-
payments of such loans amounted to $402 million (LE 157 million). In addition,
interest payments (mainLy on bank credit facilities) amounted to about $156
million (LE 61 million).
17.       Substantial Arab aid was received in recent years.    Aid received
from Arab countries in 1!974 amounted to $1,217 million (LE 475 million) and
financed about 36 percent of Egypt's imports. Of this, $996 million (LE 389
million) was received in convertible foreign exchange while the rest was in the
form of petroleum grants. A major development during the year was the renewal
of substantial aid commitments, estimated at about $205 million (LE 80 million),
from Western countries. In fact, following the approval of the Bank loan and
IDA credit for the first Agricultural and Industrial Imports Project in December
1974, sizeable program assistance was obtained by Egypt from the US, Iran,
Germany, and Japan, enabling these sectors further to increase their output and
capacity utilization. In 1975 aid commitments totalled about $3.26 billion
(see para 21 below). For FY76, the US Government has obtained Congressional



approval for economic assistance on a level of some $725 million, part of
which is expected to be in the form of commodity aid. Grants from Arab coun-
tries which reached about $1 billion in 1973 and 1974 are expected to con-
tinue, perhaps at a somewhat lower level. Aid from the other OECD countries,
especially France, Germany, UK and Japan, is expected to remain at the in-
creased level of 1974/75; the European Community is also supplying agricultural
commodities (including one million tons of wheat) during 1975/76.
External Debt and Creditworthiness
18.       Egypt's external debt profile worsened in 1974 almost entirely as a
result of its borrowing short-term funds at high rates of interest (in the
form of bank credit facilities). Bank credit facilities (including undis-
bursed) amounted to $2.7 billion (LE 1055 million) at the end of 1974, com-
pared with about $1,127 million (LE 440 million) at the end of 1973. Out-
standing debt to correspondent banks overseas (i.e., disbursed amounts or
letters of credit encashed by these institutions) amounted to $1,082 million
(LE 423 million) compared with $499 million (LE 195 million) at the end of
1973. The use of this type of financing created enormous external liquidity
problems for Egypt in 1975, during which $2,190 million (LE 855 million) of
repayments (including interest payments of LE 75 million-$192 million) on
these credits had to be made.
19.       Egypt's non-military medium- and long-term public debt outstanding
and disbursed at December 31, 1974, was estimated at $2,760 million (LE 1,078
million), i.e., roughly the same level as the previous year. The composition
of this debt changed, however, with medium- and long-term government debt in-
creasing slightly to $1,769 million (LE 691 million) and amounts owed as sup-
pliers' credits and balance of bilateral accounts showing significant declines
to $474 million and $417 million (LE 185 million and LE 163 million), respec-
tively. In addition, $100 million (LE 39 million) of medium-term debt was con-
tracted from financial institutions. At end 1974, the USSR was Egypt's prin-
cipal creditor, followed in importance by Germany, Kuwait, the United States,
Australia and Italy. IBRD/IDA debt comprised about 1 percent of the total. Of
the reported external public debt at end 1974, about 31 percent was due to be
repaid within two years, 40 percent within three years, and 46 percent within
four years. Debt service on medium- and long-term debt was estimated to amount
to about $710 million in 1974, indicating a debt-service ratio of 32 percent.
No reliable estimates of military debt are available, but it is understood that
Egypt is seeking a rescheduling of service payments on such debt.
20.       During 1975, the Egyptian authorities embarked upon a four-pronged
strategy to place the country's external accounts on a sound basis. The first
step was to stop outstanding foreign bank credit to Egypt from spiralling even
higher (and worsening the liquidity position) by placing a "one-to-one" limit
on the use of banking facilities. Thus the amount of new letters of credit
opened against bankers' facilities in any given period could not exceed the



amount of cash repayments made on such facilities falling due in that period.
Simultaneously, the Egyptian Government sought the aid of Arab and other states
for substantial medium- and long-term loans on concessionary terms which would
constitute a "fund" to be held in the Central Bank to meet further payments due
on bankers' facilities. Third, medium- and long-term aid was sought from
Western countries and Japan in a quick-disbursing form (such as program loans
and commodity assistance) in order to finance Egypt's essential imports.
Finally, discussions were resumed with the Soviet Union for a rescheduling of
debt service payments.
21.       The Government's efforts to mobilize external assistance met with
considerable success in 1975. Long-term loans, at concessionary terms, total-
ling $1,720 million (LE 672 million -- $600 million from Kuwait, $600 million
from Saudi Arabia, $320 million from Iran, $150 million from Abu Dhabi and
$50 million from Qatar) were received in 1975. In addition, Arab countries,
Arab Development Funds, USA, Germany, Japan, France, Denmark and Iran have com-
mitted about $1,530 million as concessional aid. In February 1976 President
Sadat visited a number of Arab countries, and commitments for an immediate
transfer to Egypt of about $700 million in cash have been announced. It is
expected that further funds will be sought, and imports will probably be
reduced from the currently projected level. It has also been announced that,
for the longer-term, a fund to assist Egyptian development is being set up by
a group of Arab countries, although the amounts that will be available to it
are still uncertain.
22.       Egypt was, however, unsuccessful in its efforts to reduce its depend-
ence on bank credit fccilities. Although a large part of the loans received
from Arab countries were in fact used to pay off bank credits falling due, be-
cause of the country's import requirements (estimated at $4.5 billion in 1975),
a high level of fresh bank credits (LE 700 million or $1,792 million) was in-
curred. As a result, Egypt's external debt situation deteriorated further in
1975. While medium- and long-term debt outstanding at end 1975 increased to
about $5.1 billion, compared to $2.76 billion at end 1974, short-term debt in
the form of bank credit facilities outstanding (including unutilized credits)
was only slightly reduced; on December 31, 1975, it was $2,620 million, com-
pared with $2,700 million at end of 1974.
23.       Accordingly, considerable further measures are required to assure a
permanent improvement and the firm establishment of creditworthiness. To
assure stable and sustained growth in the long-term, some fundamental policy
decisions will be required. These include:
(i) improved coordination in economic policy-making;
(ii)  improved pubLic enterprise efficiency through decentralization
and other measures;



-8-
(iii) rationalization of consumption subsidies and increased domes-
tic savings, while protecting lower income groups through
appropriate price, fiscal and monetary policies;
(iv) promotion of efficient resource allocation through widening
the parallel foreign exchange market and pursuing price
policies that would better reflect economic scarcities; and
(v) reduction of the use of short-term lending facilities, ratio-
nalization of the external debt situation and implementation
of a debt management program.
While some steps have been taken recently with respect to (ii), (iv) and
(v) above, these other measures will require continuing review and action.
At the Government's request, the Bank has arranged to review developments
in the economy by economic missions three or four times a year; the first
of these took place in October 1975 and the second in January 1976. In
view of Egypt's promising medium term prospects, and the efforts currently
underway to prepare and implement policies that will enable the country
better to exploit its development potential, Egypt may be considered credit-
worthy for Bank lending as well as IDA.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN EGYPT
24.       The proposed loan would be the Bank Group's eighteenth lending opera-
tion in Egypt. It would bring Bank and IDA commitments to $446.1 million.
Annex II contains a Summary of Bank Loans and IDA Credits as of January 31,
1976, and notes on the execution of ongoing projects.
25.       Following a decade of severe underinvestment in the economic sectors
and in infrastructure, Egypt's need for investment and its absorptive capac-
ity are both large. Also, as a result of the weak balance of payments posi-
tion over the past two years, the funds available for essential raw materials
and intermediate goods for agriculture and industry have been insufficient
and the productive capacity of the economy was largely underutilized. The
principal objective of the Bank/IDA lending program in Egypt is to provide
foreign exchange in support of its development program through lending (i)
for increasing utilization of available productive capacity, (ii) for proj-
ects which would increase production and foreign exchange earnings or sub-
stitute for imports, particularly in the key industrial and agricultural sec-
tors, (iii) for projects aimed at rehabilitation and expanding infrastructure
necessary to facilitate development, and (iv) for selected social sectors,
namely population and education. The impact of Bank/IDA participation in
projects has been widened by attracting additional foreign exchange required
for these projects from other donors. Besides the technical assistance in-
cluded under the Bank/IDA projects, the Bank has been asked to act as Exe-
cuting Agency for a UNDP-financed National Power Sector Survey and a Master
Plan for Water Resources and Uses. Work on these is expected to begin in
1976.



- 9 -
26.       The projects financed in FY74 and FY75 were in support of this
strategy. A second credit for the development finance operations of the
Bank of Alexandria was approved in early FY76. A project for production of
fruit and vegetables for the domestic and export market and a third drainage
project covering additional land in Upper Egypt have been appraised and are
likely to be presented for consideration by the Executive Directors in the
next few months. A pipeline of projects for future lending is also being
developed, including a project aimed at rehabilitation and modernization of
two major public sector textiles enterprises. Other projects under discussion
which may lead to lending operations in FY77 include a fourth drainage project
in the Nile Delta, also covering soil amelioration to increase agricultural
productivity, and projects in education, water and sewerage, and power.
27.       Bank Group disbursements will continue in 1976 to represent a small
portion, less than 10 percent, of Egypt's overall capital inflow requirements.
The Bank Group's share of total external debt outstanding and disbursed was
about 1 percent at the end of 1974. For the future, the Bank/IDA share of
total external debt outstanding and disbursed excluding military debts is
estimated to reach about 10 percent in 1978 of which the Bank share would be
about 7 percent. It is estimated that in 1978, debt service payments due to
the Bank Group will represent about 1 percent of service payments due on
Egypt's external debt.
28.       IFC has in the past year also been discussing private sector and
joint venture projects and has appraised one in the building materials subsec-
tor.
PART III - THE TRANSPORT SECTOR
Background
29.       Economic activity in Egypt is concentrated along the Y-shaped Nile
Valley and Nile Delta. In the past, the area adjoining the Suez Canal was
also active, and is being rapidly reconstructed and developed once again.
The population of about 37 million is concentrated in the narrow land mass
formed by the Nile Delta and Valley which accounts for less than 4 percent
of the total area of just over 1 million km2. As a result, the transport
demand is dominant in the Alexandria-Cairo-Aswan corridor which is about 1,000
km long. The linear configuration of economic activity and the flat topography
have supported the development of the railways as the main means of inland
transport, supported by inland waterways. Short distance hauls are carried by
road. Air and coastcl shipping have potential, but could not be fully utilized
and developed in the recent past because of hostilities. Egypt's domestic
transport system consists of about 3,500 km of railways, 26,400 km of roads,
3,300 km of inland waterways, and four major airports. An oil pipeline (con-
necting Suez with the Mediterranean) is due for completion in 1976. The Suez
Canal, at the eastern edge of the Nile Delta, while not a part of the domestic



- 10 -
transport system, attracts considerable economic activity. It was well con-
nected to the rail and road systems; some of the rail and road links which
existed on both sides of the Canal prior to 1967 have been damaged, but are
being replaced.
Transport Coordination and Planning
30.       The Government is anxious to develop a master plan for the transport
sector, covering all transport modes including ports and coastal shipping.
Due to uncertainties regarding the level of funds available for investments,
little or no economic planning of transport investments or operations was
carried out in the past decade. Cost minimization and the desire for a bal-
ance between costs and revenues on revenue-earning modes have been implied
objectives for the transport system, but no specific policy has been formul-
ated to achieve these objectives. A comprehensive Transport Survey, covering
all transport modes serving domestic and international demand, and which will
also review the construction and storage industries to the extent that they
influence transport costs, is financed under the Second Railways loan
(1098-EGT). The survey was due to commence in September 1975, but is about
six months behind schedule due to delays in issuing the invitations to con-
sultants, and in the evaluation of proposals. Contract negotiations are
underway with consultants Louis Berger, of USA. The survey is expected to
provide a comprehensive information base on the sector as a whole, together
with recommendations on policy measures and the investments appropriate for
rational development of the sector, within the framework of Egypt's 1976-1980
Development Plan. The survey will be in two phases, the first of eight months
duration expected to be completed by the end of 1976, while the final report
should be available during 1978. The survey is expected to make recommenda-
tions which will inter alia form the basis for a national port development
plan. The Government has agreed that no major port development other than
the proposed project will be implemented before completion of the national
transport survey and the port development plan (Section 2.05(a), Guarantee
Agreement).
Previous Bank Group Transport Sector Operations in Egypt
31.       This would be the fifth Bank Group operation for transport in Egypt,
and the first for ports. The first lending operation in the transport sector
was a $56.5 million loan made in 1959 to the Suez Canal Authority (SCA) for
expansion of the Canal. The project was completed satisfactorily and on
schedule, and the loan was fully repaid in September 1974. A second loan to
the SCA was approved in December 1974 for rehabilitation of the Canal and its
facilities, to enable resumption of operations at the level prior to 1967.
This loan financed some 17 percent of total project costs, the remainder being
covered by concessional loans from Arab sources. The Canal was reopened to
international shipping in June 1975. The project is progressing well. How-
ever, until now procurement has been carried out with the funds from the co-
financiers which carry softer terms than the Bank loan, and consequently no
withdrawals have been requested under the Bank loan. Contracts for a feas-
ibility study of the expansion of the Canal were signed with consultants
(Maunsell, Ltd., UK and SOGREAH of France) in January 1976, some six months
behind schedule.



32.       The first phase of Egyptian Railways' (ER) Investment Program is
being assisted by an IDA credit of $30 million approved in February 1972.
Despite emergency conditions prevailing until the end of 1974, satisfactory
progress was made, although some deferred items have been included in the
second project. The bulk of the credit has been disbursed. A $37 million
loan to ER was made in April 1975 to help finance the second phase of ER's
Investment Program and is being disbursed against expenditures on selected
investments in the Program. This loan includes $2 million for the Transport
Survey (see paragraph 30). The Bank loan financed about 20 percent of the
foreign exchange costs of the project, and the rest was financed by bilateral
sources including the Saudi Fund for Development. Procurement for this proj-
ect is making good p-ogress.   Most of the major contracts have been placed.
The Ports
33.       Alexandria is Egypt's main port for both import and export traffic,
handling over 90% of total overseas port traffic in 1975. It is expected that
Alexandria will continue to handle about 80% of total overseas traffic by 1980,
with a projected increase in tonnage handled of approximately 30% for Alexandria
alone, compared with 1974, when it handled over 15 million tons of all types of
cargo (including bulk cargo, oil, etc.). The port has 7.3 km of quays for mer-
chant ships, of which 2.0 km are shallow berths. Traffic consists of about
2,700 cargo ships per year. The port complex also includes a passenger termi-
nal, which is used mainly by cruise ships, ship repair facilities, and a
Naval port.
34.       The basic construction and configuration of the port are about 150
years old. It has suffered increasingly in recent years from congestion in
berthing and maneuvering of vesels, and in cargo handling and storage. This
congestion, due to the generally run-down condition of the Port's equipment
and facilities (which because of pressure of use and shortage of foreign ex-
change have lacked maintenance, replacement or development for many years),
has caused a severe loss of foreign exchange in the form of demurrage and
shipping congestion surcharges (currently estimated at about $25 million per
annum), as well as dislocation of other economic activity in the country.
35.       The two other important ports for general cargo are Port Tewfiq
(Port Suez) and Port Said, at either end of the Suez Canal: these were
severely damaged in 1967 and 1973 but are being reconstructed. The traffic
which will be diverted to them in the short term has been allowed for an
analysis of this project.   Port Safaga on the Red Sea is being expanded to
handle alumina and phosphates.   In addition, a new port is planned to be
developed at Dekhela, about 15 km west of Alexandria, to service a sponge
iron plant to be const:ructed there. This port may eventually have substan-
tial general cargo facilities, but these facilities are not expected to be
operational before 19135. The Government has agreed that no construction of
general cargo handling facilities will be started at Dekhela before completion
of the transport survey and the port plan described in para 30 above.    (Sec-
tion 2.05(b) Guarantee Agreement).



- 12 -
Port Administration Within the Transport Sector
36.       The transport sector in Egypt is coordinated by the Ministries of
Transport and of Maritime Transport. The organizational structure of the
transport sector has remained largely unchanged for several years, but con-
siderable investments in the sector are likely, to cater to the needs of the
economy.  Some revision in transport sector organization may therefore be
appropriate, and the transport survey is expected to include recommendations
on organizational matters. The Port of Alexandria is operated by the
Alexandria Port Authority (APA), an autonomous agency reporting to the Min-
istry of Maritime Transport. Port Said is operated directly by the Suez Canal
Authority, which is a completely autonomous organization. Port Tewfiq, Safaga,
and other minor ports are the direct responsibility of the Ministry of Mari-
time Transport's Ports and Lighthouses Administration. Given the primary
position of Alexandria, as the port handling the bulk of Egypt's trade, and
the unique role of the Suez Canal, the present port administration structure
is satisfactory.
The Alexandria Port Authority (The Borrower)
37.       APA, which will be the Borrower and executing agency for the Proj-
ect, is an autonomous body. It is the Government's'agent for port planning
and construction, maintenance and operations at Alexandria. The APA proper
provides pilotage, towage, berthing. and other services to ships. It owns two
subsidiary companies, the United Arab Stevedoring Company (UASC), and General
Warehouses of Egypt (GWE), which perform stevedoring, shorehandling, warehous-
ing and storage of cargo. The Chairman of APA's Board of Directors, who is
also its Chief Executive Officer, is appointed by the Minister of Maritime
Transport; its other members are the Chairmen of the Stevedoring and the Ware-
houses Companies, and representatives of the Ports and Lighthouses Administra-
tion, of the Shipping Agency Company (which is a public sector company report-
ing to the Ministry of Maritime Transport), and of Egyptian Railways.
38.       The legislation governing APA dates from 1963.    The consultancy
studies to be financed under the proposed loan will include a review of the
statutory instruments relating to APA's organization and operations to deter-
mine whether any change would be desirable.
39.       During the past 10 years, APA has been working under conditions of
extreme difficulty. The pressure put on it following the closure of Egypt's
other ports, as well the shortage of foreign exchange which prevented it from
developing the port, replacing outdated equipment, or buying new equipment, was
handled with a considerable degree of success, which reflects well on APA's
ability to work under adverse conditions. Although APA's management is in
general satisfactory, it is uneven and needs improvement in specific fields.
APA is inhibited by the civil service routine, although it includes a number of
very active individuals; the composition of APA's Board of Directors makes it
more a Board of Management than a Board of Directors and reduces its bargaining
power with other Government agencies. Competent professional staff, marine of-
ficers and engineers exist, but the quality is uneven. Middle level staff



- 13 -
exist in large number; they have a bureaucratic tradition. The quality of
management in the Stevedoring and in the Warehouses Companies (which were
originally private companies) seems to be adequate, but is uneven in a number
of fields, such as maintenance of equipment; the commercial tradition also
helps these companies to have more flexible and active management than APA's.
APA's accounting sysl:em is outdated; it has no adequate system of cost account-
ing or budgeting. None of these judgments should overlook the fact that the
staff is in general willing and anxious to improve the present situation and
to learn more about modern port management.
40.       APA faces the general problem of being unable to pay salaries
higher than the low civil service rates, which would be necessary to attract
high quality staff. APA and the Government will study, before December 31,
1977, incentives appropriate to reward the services of qualified staff as well
as for new recruitment (Section 4.08, Loan Agreement).
41.       APA and its two subsidiaries employ some 10,200 workers in all:
labor supply and relations at lower levels are not problems, although there is
need for training in many types of operations.   The port operates 16 hours a
day, seven days a week, with additional overtime when appropriate. A combina-
tion of factors, including an out-dated port design, inadequate and worn-out
equipment, which cause slow working and frequent stoppages, and the absence
of modern cargo-handling techniques such as palletization, have resulted in
low productivity in handling general cargo, and in its decline from 11.3
tons per hook-hour in 1972 to 8.9 tons in 1975. The equipment to be pro-
vided as part of the project, together with the training, management and
organizational measures to be undertaken following consultancy studies, are
expected to bring substantial increases in productivity. APA has agreed to
increase productivity to at least 11.3 tons per hook-hour by January 1, 1979
(Section 4.05, Loan Agreement).
42.       Maintenance of facilities, especially of equipment, is a major
issue. Programmed and scheduled preventive maintenance does not at present
receive the necessary priority; this together with the lack of spare parts
(due to shortage of foreign exchange) and the increase in traffic (which re-
quires excessive use of existing equipment), has led to the present poor
state of most equipment, which in turn lowers productivity considerably. The
project includes measures to improve maintenance, and the Government has
agreed to make foreign exchange available as necessary to APA to procure spare
parts for port equipment (Section 2.03, Guarantee Agreement).
43.       The project will include consultancy studies covering inter alia
(see para 49 below): (i) a study of the present management, organization
and staffing, with a special emphasis on planning and maintenance; (ii) as-
sistance in the formulation and subsequently in the implementation of appro-
priate training programs; (iii) preparation of a modernized accounting system,
with emphasis on cost accounting leading to cost-based tariffs, and (iv) sea
pollution in the Port and measures and regulations to control it (paragraph 56
below).



- 14 -
PART IV - THE PROJECT
44.       A project to rehabilitate the Port of Alexandria was first proposed
during the visit of the mission to appraise the Suez Canal Rehabilitation
Project in April 1974. As an interim measure, to ease the bottlenecks causing
congestion in the Port, an allocation of $3 million was provided in the 1974
Agricultural and Industrial Imports Project for spare parts and replacement
equipment. A preparation mission visited Alexandria in April 1975, and the
project was then appraised in July/August 1975. During appraisal it became
apparent that to enable the Port to accommodate the expected level of traffic,
it would be desirable to add to the project (which had originally been seen
solely as one of port rehabilitation and replacement of equipment) the con-
struction of three deep sea berths and related facilities. Because of this
expansion of the project, the chairman of APA, Dr. Younis Amin Omar, visited
Washington in October 1975 to provide further information. Negotiations were
held in Washington from February 11 to 18, 1976, with a delegation consisting
of Dr. Wagih Shindy, Under Secretary, Ministry of Economy and Economic Coop-
eration, and Dr. Omar. A Staff Project Report entitled "Appraisal of a First
Alexandria Port Project" (990a-EGT)is being distributed separately. A Loan
and Project Summary is attached as Annex III. Maps of Egypt and df the Port
of Alexandria are also attached.
General
45.       The Project provides for rehabilitation of the facilities and equip-
ment of the port, for developing additional facilities, and for improving port
management. Its aim is to enable APA to accommodate existing and future trafic
and considerably to alleviate congestion, to improve productivity of general
cargo operations by purchase of modern equipment and to assist in improving
port planning, management accounting and tariff setting at Alexandria Port.
46.       The project has been designed to meet the needs of APA for the
next five years, so as to enable it to provide satisfactory service through
more modern and better maintained equipment, and to modernize port operations.
The project has been limited to what can be absorbed by the APA organization,
workshops, staff, etc.
47.       The main elements of the project are:
(i) the dredging of 1.8 million m3 accumulated sand in the exist-
ing entrance channels and harbor. This is maintenance dredging
which has been deferred due to the lack of dredgers.
(ii)  completion of the opening of a new channel by dredging 800,000 m3
to provide additional access, which will make ship traffic flows
easier and safer to accommodate and control;
(iii)  paving and surfacing roads and work areas;



- 15 -
(iv)  establishing a new general cargo storage area outside the port;
(v) building 550 m (3 berths) of deep sea quay;
(vi)  procuring floating, cargo handling, communication and transport
equipment for port operations;
(vii) procuring maintenance equipment;
(viii)  consultancy studies for management, organization, accounting
and training; and
(ix)  consultancy services for final project design and engineering,
including soil investigation, and preparation of tender docu-
ments.
48.       Even though the present port is obsolete in design, with many small
finger piers and basins, no major reconstruction of the existing port facili-
ties has been included. in the project, because this would have partly dis-
rupted port operations, thus increasing congestion in the short run. Further-
more, major reconstruction of the Port of Alexandria should be decided upon
only after the results of the Transport Survey become available, and in the
context of a national port plan (para 30).
Consultancy Services
49.       The consultancy services to be included in the project, referred to
in para 47 (viii) above, will be as follows:
(i) to review management responsibilities and administration pro-
cedures within APA, with particular attention to maintenance
functions, p.Lanning, and financial management;
(ii)  to review staffing and manpower needs, to identify training
needs, and to formulate and to assist in implementation of
appropriate t:raining programs.
(iii)  to review the organizational structure of APA and its subsi-
diaries, perhaps leading to decentralization of some functions
at present carried out by APA itself, such as operation of
the maintenance workshops and certain marine activities;
(iv)  to develop a cost-based financial and tariff policy, together
with development and installation of appropriate financial and
management accounting systems and to assist APA in revaluation
of its assets; and
( v) *to review sea pollution in the port and measures and regulations
to control it.



- 16 -
APA will review with the Bank the consultants' recommendations and the action
it proposes to take (Section 4.06, Loan Agreement).
50.       In addition, consultancy services will be provided (para 47 (ix)
above) for (i) final engineering of the deep-water quays, and (ii) preparation
of tender documents and specifications for communications and radar equipment.
Consultants will work on these tasks with APA counterparts. Because of the
need to start construction as early as possible in order to avoid continuing
demurrage charges, consultants will be appointed early in 1976 and retroactive
financing up to a total of $500,000 is therefore recommended for engineering
consultancy (Schedule 1, Loan Agreement).
Project Costs
51.       The project cost is estimated at US$151.0 million, including contin-
gency allowances, domestic taxes and custom duties, but excluding interest on
various loans during construction.   The foreign exchange c tst is US$95.0 mil-
lion or 63% of total cost. A summary of cost estimates is as follows:
Percentage of
Local   Foreign    Total   Foreign Exchange
-----(US$ million)-----
a. Dredging                       1.59     6.42      8.01
b. Paving/Surfacing               1.38     0.59      1.97
c. Berth construction            10.32    13.58     23.90
d. Storage facilities             3.30     2.00      5.30
Total civil works           16.59    22.59    39.18          57.6
e. Floating equipment             8.77    19.81     28.58
f. Cargo handling equipment       8.43    17.09     25.52
g. Transport equipment            5.67     8.33     14.00
h. Other                          1.25     3.37      4.62
Total equipment             24.12    48.60     72.72         66.6
i. Consultants and Training       1.42     2.75      4.17
Sub total                   42.13    73.94    116.07         65.4
j. Contingencies                 13.87    21.06     34.93
Total                       56.00    95.00    151.00         63.0
52.       Local currency costs for floating, cargo handling and other equipment
include customs duties totalling US$29.0 million equivalent. Contingencies in-
clude 15 percent physical contingency on civil works. The annual allowance for
price contingencies is (i) 10 percent on local costs, which is consistent with
the present situation of the Egyptian economy (ii) 13 percent in 1976 and 12
percent thereafter on the foreign exchange component of civil works, and (iii)
12 percent on foreign exchange costs of imported equipment. These percentages



- 17 -
are considered realistic. Because of continuing inflation, delays in project
implementation would increase the total cost of the project by about US$1.0
million/month. Completion is expected by December 31, 1979.
Financing Plan: Foreign Cost
53.       The proposed Bank loan of $45.0 million equivalent to APA would be
for a period of 25 years including five years of grace and would meet 43% of
the foreign exchange requirements of the project. The Goverunent and APA have
applied to USAID and to the Overseas Economic Cooperation Fund (OECF) of the
Japanese Government to confinance the project. USAID have indicated that
final approval is expected shortly for a loan of at least US$30.8 million for
cargo handling, transport and other equipment (on USAID's standard conces-
sionary terms). The Jctpanese Government has been asked to lend at least $19.2
million, equivalent, for floating equipment. Subject to further appraisal and
administrative procedures OECF expects to be able to finance the project ac-
cordingly. The terms cf any such loan would be subject to negotiation; in
the past OECF loans have been on concessionary terms.    On the above basis the
foreign exchange costs would be met as follows:
US$ million
World Bank
Civil works                                           22.70
Floating and other equipment                           6.17
Consultants Services                                   2.75
Contingencies                                         13.38
Total                                           45.00
USAID
Cargo handling equipment                              16.04
Transport equipment:                                   7.96
Other equipment                                        1.37
Contingencies                                          5.43
Total                                            30.80
OECF (Japan)
Floating equipment                                    16.30
Contingencies                                          2.90
19.20
Grand total                                      95.00
The conclusion of cofinancing agreements to meet the total foreign exchange
cost of the project will be a condition of loan effectiveness (Section
7.01(b), Loan Agreement). Because of the competitiveness of US and Japanese
producers of the kinds of equipment to be financed by USAID and OECF, tied
procurement of these items is not expected to impose any cost penalty on
APA. Interest during coinstruction will be borne by APA.



- 18 -
Financing Plan: Local Cost
54.       Local costs amount to $56 million equivalent (calculated at the
official rate of exchange), including $29 million customs duties on imported
equipment. It is estimated that APA will be able to provide nearly $40 mil-
lion from its own resources, leaving a shortfall of $16 million. The Govern-
ment will finance any local cost shortfall there may be in carrying out the
project, either by providing additional equity for APA or by exempting the pro-
ject from import duties (paragraph 59, and Section 2.02, Guarantee Agreement).
APA Development Program
55.       The project forms the major part of APA's five year program for
1976-80, which in turn is part of the country's draft five year indicative
development plan. Other items included in the program total about $20 mil-
lion equivalent, all but $4 million of which is in local currency. APA will
finance these items itself; they are considered valuable for the Port's op-
erations, but are not strictly complementary to the project. APA's five year
program as at present constituted is considered feasible and justifiable.
APA will not make any amendments or revisions to the 1976-80 program without
prior consultation with the Bank, so as to avoid impairment of APA's proj-
ected financial performance (Section 4.07, Loan Agreement).
Subsidiary Beneficiaries
56.       Parts of the Project are for the direct benefit of APA's subsidia-
ries, the Warehouses and Stevedoring companies. The funds provided to APA
to finance these parts of the project will be passed on to the subsidiaries
on the same terms as they are received through subsidiary loan agreements
satisfactory to the Bank; their signature will be a condition of effective-
ness of the loan (Section 7.01(c) and (d), Loan Agreement).
Tariffs
57.       In March, 1976 APA increased its tariffs by an estimated average
of 100%, effective May 1, 1976. Tariffs charged by the Warehouse Company were
also increased by 60% in June 1975, but the Stevedoring Company tariffs have
remained constant since 1969. Tariffs for all port services will be at rea-
sonable levels following the APA increase, but over the medium-run it is de-
sirable that APA and its subsidiaries develop a system of tariff review based
on properly valued assets and on operating costs. Consultants' studies for
this purpose will take about two years, and a revised tariff structure,
for APA and its subsidiaries, on a cost basis, will be introduced not later
than December 31, 1978. (Section 5.05(b), Loan Agreement, Section 2.04(b),
Guarantee Agreement). APA may not currently benefit to the extent desirable
from charges for rent of land and other special facilities provided to other
public sector agencies operating within the Port area. This question will be
examined as part of the consultancy studies under the project, and appropriate
charges introduced as part of the revised tariff structure (Section 5.05(b),
Loan Agreement).



- 19 -
Present Financial Position
58.       During recent years, neither the Port Authority proper nor its two
subsidiaries could undertake investment or replacement of equipment, mainly
because of unsettled conditions in the country and the lack of foreign ex-
change. Maintenance of structures or equipment has also been inadequate
and undertaken at low cost. At the same time, increased traffic has brought
in additional revenue, since the cost of congestion in the port is not re-
flected in the port's financial results. Therefore, the cash position of
the Port Authority is good; since assets have not been renewed and are valued
at historic cost, and thus remain undervalued, the return on fixed assets has
been a high 35%.
Financial Projections
59.       Cash outlays are expected to increase dramatically during the execu-
tion period of the project, and the cash position of the Port Authority is ex-
pected to be strained. Because of the introduction of new equipment and fa-
cilities included in the Project, which will increase depreciation and oper-
ating costs, the operating ratio is expected to increase from 66% in 1975
to 78% in 1980. The return on fixed assets will decrease to some 9% in 1980,
which is realistic and reasonable, although there are uncertainties on the
actual value of many asets, which need to be revalued. However, the port's
current liquidity position will deteriorate from a ratio of 1.8/1 in 1975 to a
low of 0.68/1 in 1978, when investment reaches a peak; the ratio will improve
subsequently. The total cash shortfall anticipated during project implementa-
tion (see para 54 above) will be met by the Government. APA has agreed to
maintain its revenue at a level sufficient to cover depreciation provisions
and to generate a return on average net fixed assets of not less than 9 per-
cent before taxes and interest (Section 5.04, Loan Agreement). Should exemp-
tion from customs duties be granted, cash flow would more than meet local
costs; in this case the surplus would accrue to the State.
60.       APA's debt/equity ratio will rise from 21:79 in 1975 to 65:35 by
1980. The Government will provide additional equity for APA, as and when
necessary (Section 2.02(b), Guarantee Agreement) to maintain the debt/equity
ratio at 60:40. The contribution of $16 million to meet the forecast cash
shortfall (para 54) would be adequate for this purpose if made as equity; if
exemption from customs duties is granted, the debt:equity ratio is unlikely to
fall below 60:40.
Economic Analysis
61.       Total dry cargo traffic handled through Alexandria Port went up from
8.1 million tons in 1973 to 9.3 million tons in 1974 and is expected to be
about 10.7 million in 1975 and 14.0 million tons in 1980. This large increase
reflects the recovery of the Egyptian economy as well as the major role played



- 20 -
by the Port of Alexandria, which handles presently 90% of the traffic through
all Egyptian ports, and is expected to retain a very major share of traffic
(at least 80% in 1980) after the other ports are reopened or improved.
62.       The proposed project is expected to improve overall proauctivity for
general cargo traffic. Traffic will benefit from more and better handling
gear, more storage space, quicker clearance of the discharged cargo from
sheds, unitized handling, the entry of larger ships due to dredging, and the
use of a larger number of hooks per ship resulting from the availability of
more shore cranes. Benefits have been quantified as savings from reduced
shipping costs, arising from the scale-economies in using bigger ships after
dredging, and from reduced ship service-time and ship-waiting time due to in-
creased productivity and additional berth capacity. Because 70% of general
cargo traffic at Alexandria Port is carried on charter terms, and since freight
rates in charter trade are very highly sensitive to changes in port conditions,
freight benefits are transmitted to the country by the immediate release of
dispatch money or through improved voyage/time charter freight rates, and so
will almost entirely accrue to the Egyptian economy. The remainder of traffic
(30%) is carried on liner terms, but, through its powerful maritime agency,
MARTRANS, Egypt is in a favorable bargaining position in the liner market.
Part of this traffic is carried under the Egyptian flag, and the benefits
will accrue in total to Egypt. Overall, it is estimated that about 85% of
the ship cost savings arising from the project would be transferred to Egypt.
However, for assessing the economic return from the project, only 50% of the
total ship cost savings has been taken into account.
63.       It is estimated that the project will yield an economic return of
above 50%, and a first year return, using a 12% discount rate, of 37%. Sen-
sitivity analyses have been conducted; assuming a decrease of 25% in benefits
and an increase of 25% in costs, the project would still yield a rate of re-
turn of about 22%. Using a shadow rate of exchange with 50% premium in local
currency for foreign exchange costs and savings, which is close to the paral-
lel market rate of exchange, the project yields a rate of return of about 63%,
reflecting the large foreign exchange savings. These figures indicate the
strong economic justification for the project as well as its great urgency.
The fact that even after the project, there will still be some port conges-
tion in Alexandria shows that, if anything, the size of the project is smaller
than it should ideally have been. However, further expansion of the project
coverage would have been operationally difficult in the short run, since the
proposed project consists of all major improvements possible in the port's
general cargo areas without dislocating existing port operations, and because
further expansion is not desirable pending the national port plan (paragraph
30).
Environmental and Employment Impact
64.       Water pollution and hazards from inadequate refuse disposal are
serious at present in the Port of Alexandria. The consultancy studies will
provide for measures to control pollution and the drafting of modern regula-



- 21 -
tions, which will aid control over disposal of refuse and ballast residues by
ships. Boats equipped for water pollution control are being procured under
Credit 524-EGT/Loan 1062-EGT, while lorries and other equipment for refuse
collection are included in the proposed project. The items of mechanical
equipment being procured under the project, although more efficient and of
more modern design than what is being replaced, will by their type and number
inevitably add to air pollution, but this is not a major problem in Alexandria.
65.       No adverse effect on port labor is expected from the proposed proj-
ect. On the contrary, laborers will work under better conditions and the
number of skilled workers (drivers or equipment operators) who will find em-
ployment, will increase. About 1300 additional workers, of which 1000 will
be skilled labor, will find employment after project completion, bringing
total employment to about 11,500.
Implementation and Procurement
66.       Project implementation will be the responsibility of APA.    It will
supervise civil works and, in addition, will establish a special interdisci-
plinary monitoring unit Eor the Project. All contracts under the loan will
be awarded on the basis of international competitive bidding in accordance
with Bank guidelines. Qualified local contractors are available and it is
believed that they are lkely to secure some or all of the contracts for
paving and surfacing and for constructing storage facilities, which total
about $11.0 million. A riargin of preference of 15% or the prevailing import
duties (whichever is the less) for local equipment procurement would be per-
mitted.
67.       Project executiLon is scheduled to start in March 1976, with desig-
nation of consultants. Final engineering for civil works is expected to be
completed by October 1976.   Dredging would start in January 1977, and all
civil works are expected to be completed by the end of 1979. Procurement
of equipment would take place between 1976 and 1978. Management consultants
should be selected by Jurne 1976. and start work by autumn 1976. The schedule
allows for a reasonable safety margin during the early stages of the project,
because experience proves that a first project with a new borrower may ini-
tially be slow.
Disbursement
68.       The proposed loan will be disbursed as shown below.    For components
where the Bank will finance a proportion of total expenditures, the proportion
is calculated so as to represent the total estimated foreign exchange portion
of that component.



- 22 -
Proportion of Expenditures to be
Category                                          Financed by the Bank
Dredging and associated underwater           80% of total expenditures
quay investigation
Paving & Surfacing                           35% of total expeditures
Berth Construction (excluding dredging)      50% of total expenditures
Sheds                                        80% of total expenditures
Storage Facilities                           35% of total expenditures
Floating and Other Equipment                 100% of foreign expenditures, or
(except barges)                            100% of ex-factory cost of
locally-manufactured equipment
Steel and equipment for barges               100% of foreign expenditures
Consultants Services                          75% of total expenditures
Conclusion
69.       Bank support for the project is fully justified because of its high
economic rate of return (over 50%), and because of Egypt's urgent needs for
rehabilitation of its main port, Alexandria, in view of the foreign exchange
costs currently being incurred by the economy from shipping surcharges, delays
in imports and exports, and other results of congestion. The project will aid
institution building through consultancy studies leading to reorganization of
APA, improved management practices, especially in management accounting and
planning, and revision of the Port's tariffs. To ensure that the bulk of the
benefits accrue to the country, a revised tariff structure will be introduced
on the basis of revalued assets and an accurate assesment of costs. Consult-
ants will help to devise and implement training programs, and to improve main-
tenance. The Bank will maintain close contact with APA to ensure that APA
benefits from these studies, and that improvements are introduced as soon as
possible. Designation of the consultants for final engineering and management
studies are critical points in the execution of the project, and possible de-
lays are a cause of concern. A further possible cause of concern is that if
other major port facilities were to be developed in the near future, some parts
of the project could be redundant, and that there would be an uneconomic use of
Egypt's scarce capital resources. Protection against this eventuality is pro-
vided by section 2.05 of the Guarantee Agreement (see paragraphs 30 and 35
above), by which any such development must await results of the national trans-
port survey, and the production of a national port plan.



- 23 -
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
70.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Bank and APA, the draft Guar-
antee Agreement between the Arab Republic of Egypt and the Bank, the recom-
mendation provided for in Article V, Section l(d) of the Articles of Agree-
ment, and the text of a draft Resolution approving the proposed loan, are
being distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
71.       Features of the draft Loan and Guarantee Agreements of special
interest are described in paragraphs 30, 35, 40, 41, 42, 49, 53, 54, 55, 56,
57, 59, 60 and 69 of this Report.
72.       Special conditions of effectiveness are:
(a) the conclusion of the cofinancing agreements (Section 7.01(b), Loan
Agreement), and
(b) the execution and delivery of the subsidiary Loan Agreements with
APA's subsidiaries, duly authorized and ratified (Section 7.01(c)
and (d) Loan Agreement).
73.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank.
Recommendations
74.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
March 22, 1976
Attachments






tUNINX I
Page I of 4 Pages
EGYPt               - SOCIAL INDCATORS ODATA SHEEt
LAND AREA (THOU KNZ)                                       - -
'' --''''''''''                              EGYPT                              REFERENCE COUNTRIES (1970)
TOTAL      1O00.4                                      NOST RECENT
ARABLE       55.6                      1960       1910   ESTINATE           PHILIPPINES    TURtKEY        SPAIN '
7SP PER CAPITA CUSS)                      100.0      210.0       250.0              220.0       450.0      1260.0
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION (NIO5R. MILLIOl)              25.8       31.3        35.6               36.9        I5.2        33.6
POP'JLATION DENSITY
PER SQUARE KM.                        26.0        33.0        06.0              120.0        45.0        66.0
PER SOUARE KM. ARABLE LAIID             ..       903.0      1001.0                 ..       140.D          .
VITAL STATISTICS
CRUDE NINTH RATE PER THOUSAND         43.0        35.0        15.0               45.0        08.0/a      19.6
CRUDE DEATH RATE PER THOUSAND         I.0         15.0        15.0D12.0                      1.0/         8.5
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (/1HOU)        109.0       116.G       100.0               80.0       145.0        27.9
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YMS)        S1.0        50.0        50.0               58.0        55.0/b     7I.0
GROSS REPROOUCI ION RATE               2.8/8       3.0         3.0                5.3         2.677,b     1.4
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (X)
T0TAL                                  2.4         2.5         2. 5               0.0          .5         1.1
JRsAN                                  6.0         3.6         0.5                4.0         4.5         2.0
URBAN POPULATION (I OF TOTAL)            08.0       42.0        45.0               02.0        09.0        49.0
AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
J T0 14 YEARS                        43.0 /b     44.0          ..               41.0        41.8      82.8
IS TO 64 YEARS                        54.0 572.                 *.              .51.0        5.9        62.5
65 TEARS  N Dt OVER                    3. 0b       4 0          ..                4.0         4 .         9.r
AGE DEPENOENCY RATIO                      0.9        0.9          ..                0.9         0.9         0.6
ECONOHIC oEPENDENCY RATIO                 1.8        1.7          ..                1.6         1.1 I       1.1
FANILY PLANNING-
ACCEPTORS (CUNULATIVE. THOU)            ..      Z2D.O           ..              409.0       484.0/d        .
JOERS (1 OF MARIED tOrEN)               ..          ..         9.0                8.0         8.2 
EMPLOY"ENT
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANOS)         8800.0 Ic   8300.0 Ia,b 9500.0            12300.0     14500.0 c  11900.0
LABOR FORCE IN AIRICULTURE (1)          s5.o 0c     53.0 /a b   47.0               51.0        67.0        24.8
UNERPLOYE0 (K OF LABOR FORCE)            5.0         3.0         2.0/a              7.0         4.0 'f      2.0/a
IVCONE OISTRIBUT10I
-  OF PRIVATE INCINE RECDO 8Y
HIGHEST  5x or POPULATION             19.2 Id       ..          .,                 ..        32.8 L        .
HIGHEST 201 OF POPULATION             48.4 Id       ,,          .,                 ..        60.64*
LdELST  20X J3 POPULATION              4.6Th        ..          .                   .         2 9.
LJWEST  40* 07 POPULATION             14.1 7        ..          ..                 .,         9.4 L        .
ITSTRI1UTION OF LAND OWNERSHIP
_ _  E_ -8 _ ___ .1- _  . . . . .   _ ,_                                                        S. _ ... 
I OdNEO AT TOP 1IX OF lONERS               ..         ..          ..                 ..        53.0          .
I OONED dY SMALLEST 102 OWNERS             ..         ..          ..                 ..         0.9
HEALTH AND NUTRITI3N
POPJLATION PER PHYSICIAN              2500.0/1    1910.0/o    1820.0 b           2710.0      2220.0       r50.0 /b
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON         2710.0ZLe   1640.0/k    12     lb          19r7.0      1890.0/h   14030.
POPJLATION PER HOSPITAL dED             Soo.o/e    460.0       460.0              850.0       490.0       220.0
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF -
CALORIES (2 OF REQJIRERENTS)          95.0        94.0       100.0               85.0       110.0       107.0
PROTEIN (GRANS PER   AYA)             66.0        66.0        69.0               45.0        78.0        81.0
-0r WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE          1t. 0       16.0          *.               Z2.0        22.0 /1     40.0
TEATH HATE (ITHOJ) AGES 1-4              39.0          ..          ..               7.o       IS. ib       0. 9
EOUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIO
PR4IARY SCHOOL                        66.0       T1.O           *-              119.0       111.0        83.0
SECON3ARY SCH03L                       16.0       03.0          *-               45.0        28.0        49.0
YEARS OF SCHOOLING PROVIDEO
(FIRSr AND SECJND LEVEL)              12.0        12.0        12.0               10.0        I1.0        11.0
VOCATIONAL _NRO.NENT
(2 OF SECONDARY)                      22.0        19.0        19.0                10.0/ab    14.0        20.0
ADULT LITERACY RATE (1)                  20.0          ..       40.0                72.0        55.0 a     94.0
PERSONS PER ROOM (AVERAGE)                1.6          ..          ..                 ..         1.9
QCCJPIED ODWLLINGS NI THOUT
PIPED WATER                            60.0/h       ..          ..                66.0 /b    64.0
ACCESS TO ELECTRICItY
(Z OF ALL OWEL.INGS)                   38.0/h       ..          ..                21.0 /b    41.0
RURAL DWELLINGS CONNECIED
TI ELECTRICITY (K)                       ..         ..          ..                6.0 /b     18.0
CONS04PTIDN
RADIO RECEIVERS (PER THOU POP)           58.0       132.0       140.0               45.0        89.0      214.0
PASSENG:R CARS (PER IHOU POP)             S.0         4.0         5.0                8.0         4.0         0.0
ELECTRICITY (KWH/YR PER CAP)            102.0      228.0       230.0               235.0      244.0      1627.0
NEWSPRINT (KG/YR PER CAP)                  .          1. 0        1 .3               1 .5 /c     0.7         5.8
SEE NOTES AND DEFINITIONS ON REVERSE



Page 2 f 4IPages_
NOTES
Unless. otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to 1959-61, for 1970 to 1968-70, and for Moat Recant Estimate to 197t-73.
Spain   succes  ful  iversification of Its economic atructura. degras of ioduatriaiiaat;on and development of tourism makes it an appropriate
'obecIve.    cunry.
EGYPTr               1960     /s  1950-55:    lb  Excluding population of email agglomerationa in the frontier districts:        It  Figure relates to person
____                 __  s~~~~~~ix year. sod over, excludes nomad population;  Id  1964-65. households.    /e  1962,    7f   Including assistan t nurses
and midwives;     /a  1960-62;     lb  Ulrban only.
1970    Is   1966,    /b  Relatee to 12-hi years of age.      Ic  Registered, not oil practicing in the coutry.
MOST RECENT ESTIeTE- Is May 1972. lb Registered, cot all practicing In the country.
PHILIPPINES          1970    l    Public education only,     lb  1967;    /c   Imports only.
TURKEY               1970     IaExcludes 17 Eastern Provinces;       lb   1965-67;    Ic  Ratio of population under 15 and 65 snd over to labor force age iS years
______       ____    __  so~ed over,   Id  1964 - jun   1974. 86 percent being IUD.;     Ie  15 years and -oer, excludes unemployed;       If  Registered
only,    /A   Disposable incam of houaehslda, *    l    Secluding ass istant sure.. and aidwivas;     In  1964-66,
Li Personsatsi years old and over who tell the census taken that they can read and write.
SPAIN                1970     Ia  Registered unemployed;   lb  Registered. not all practicing in the country.
RS February 18, 1976
DEFINITIONS OP SOCIAL INDICATORS
Lend Area (thou Im 2)                                                                  Popultion pe nuring po-o        - PoPulation divided by number of prac tiring
Tota=     Total surface area coxprining land area and inlan,d watern.                    mlanfelegdute nuso, " trained" or "cnartified"- nurses, and
Arable - Moot recent wstinate of land area. used temporarily or permanontly              auxiliary pesonnel with training or experience.
for cultivation, panturen, market and kitchen gardens or to lie fallow.              ts'riiigar hosital bad - Population divided by number of hospital bed.
aV.ilbl In puiblic and private general and spocialioed hospital and
GNiP per capita (05$) - tGNP per capita estimates at market prices, calcu-               rehabilitation cantors; excludes nursing hooms and establishnents for
Toted by non   conversio n- ethod as World Bank Atlas (1977-71. banio).                cuatadial and prevetive care.
PercaPta uoo,y'of  alonoa(%ore,siemennts) - Computed frm   energy
Pouainad vital statint icn                                                        equvalen     f  e  fo uppl    iest e.o-~l   availabl  icountry per capita per day;
Psuaio  mda-yr. million) - As of July firnt; if not available, average             available supplies coxprise domestic produc ticn, Imports less exporto,
of two end-year estimates,                                                             and changes in stock; net supplies exclude animal feed, needs, quan tities
used In food processing and losses in distribution; requirements werec
peuaio  esty - e  sure io       id-year population per nquare kilo-              estimated by PAO based on pbyniologicaa needs for normal activity
meTte (0hetes         ofttlaa,and bealth considering environmental temperature, bndy weights, age and
Populatio idT sity -Per square lot of arable loin    - Comnputed as above for            sex distributions of population, and allowing lid for waste at h-unholdt
orobe lr      ony,                                                                    level.
Per toapitassup ply of potein (gam    par day) - Protein content of per
vital stotssl1cn                                                                         capi ta met suppl  offood Per dy; net supply of' toad i~ defined as
Pru.de bit   aepe       huad - Annual lion births per thousand of mid-                   above; requirements for all countries established by USIA Economic
year populationonn9luo y, fi ve-year averages ending in 1960, 1970 and                 Researoh Services provide for a mdnimum allowsnce of 60 grams of total
1975 for developin,g countries,                                                        protein per day, and 20 grams of animal and poise protein, of which 1l
C-de death role ncr thousand - Annual deaths per thousand of mid-yeargrmshudbanalpoe, these staniiarss are lower                                        n.ar those if
poptilon     usually five-year averages ending in 960, 1970 and 1975                  75 grams of total protei-n and 23 groom  of animal protea-n us x' ar'rri,e
Pro developing countirin.                                                              fur the world, proposed bay PAD in the Third World Pond Survey.
b1fat mrtaityrate j"thou) - Annual daathn vf infants under one yea,r               Per caitaprotl~einsupl frnanimal and pulse - Protein supply of fnc.,
of age Per thousan    iveirths.                                                        deie     frmaiml       ndple      In grams per day.
Life expectancy at birth (i-rn) - Average number of years of life remain-              loath rae     to      em  -- Annual deaths per thounand in age group 1-i
ing at birth; ustially five-year averages ending in 1960, 1970 and                      ea.tot            oZE_tfi  age group; suggested as an indicator of mal-
1975 for developing countries,                                                         nutrition.
Gros   re' odct rate - Ave,rage number of live daughtern a woman will
bear in  yr nomlreproductive period if she experience. present age-                  Education
specific fertility rates; usually five-year averages ending in 1960,                 Aduted_ erolleant rtio -_primaysho           - Enrollbsont of all ages as
1970 and 1975 for developing countries,                                                percenag    ofpiaysho-g             opulation; includes children aged
Populat'ion.growth rate (%) - total - Compound annual growth rates of mid-               6-11 yea,rs but adjusted for different lengths of primary edsttation;
year pnplaioc for 1951.-bO, 1960-70, and 1960 to most recent year.                     for countries with universal education, enrollment may exceed 100%
Popuilation growth rote (%) - urban - Computed like grm.th rote of total                 since some pupils   are below or above the official school age.
population; different definitonna of urban areas nap affsct cuipaa-                  Adustod enrollment, ratio - secondaryschool - Computed as above; second-
bility of data among countries.                                                        or   ndcton requires at least four year       of approved primary instnc--
Urban population (% of total) - Patio of urban to total population; dif-                 tion; provides general, vocatinnal or teacher training inntructions for
ferert definitions of urban areas may affect, comparability of data                    pupils of 12 to 17 ywear  of age, correspondence courses are generally
among countries,                                                                       excluded.
Ageisru5ture (    rycent) -nChildren (0-li years), working-age (15-64. years),         Years o.f schooling provide,d.(first and seconld 1evels) - Total years of
ad retiie   (5yer     a d nver) is percentages of mid-ya      ouaio,shoig=a eodr                                 evel vocational instruction may be partially
Aedoenerdency ratio  - Ratio of population under 15 and 65 and over to                 or completely excluded.
toeof ages 15 thrnugh AL.                                                         Vocational emrollment 0% of seonar)- vocational institutions include
Eonoic dependency ratio - Ratio of' population order 15 and 65 and over                technical, induastrial oroir programs which operate independently or
to the labor forte In age (group of 15-61. years.                                      as deparstmunts.of secondar-y institutions.
Family paningn   _ occept.ors (cumulative, thou) - Cumulative number of                Adult literacy rate (%    - idterate adtults (able to read and write) as per-
acceptors of birth-control devices ttnder auspices of national family                  rentage of total adult population aged 15 years and over.
planning program since inception.
Faiy  lnin  - users 0% omaried wmn          Peroentages of married               liousIng
women of rhid-bearling(agef(15-1.1 years) who use birth-onstrol de-                  Persons Dr room (average) - Average number of Parsons per room icr rc-.ptn~d
rices to all married women in sore age group,                                          conventional duwellings in urban areas; duellingo exclude non-pernacnt
stiniture  andgunoccupied parts.
O,ccuid   wlling   without piped fet er W%   - Occupied co;vo.-,.tonaZ 4iwoll-
M  .force     thousad) - Economically active persons, including                    insi      ra    n   ual areas withou    iside or outside piped water
ares  forces and un  lpoyed hut excluding housewives, students, etc.;                  facilities as percentage of all occupied dwellrugv.
definitiont it. various countries are not comparable.                                Access to electricity(    ofall dwelplings) - Conoentail- iwluoswth
Labor force in agriculture()- Agricultural labor force (in farming,                      ectitynlvng qatr                  nproto         oadeluon            ra
foety, hunting ,,nd fsig     aspretge of total labor force,                         and rural areas.
Uele    %of 1ubor force) - Unemployed are usually defined as persons            Rura1dwllings connected to electricity_(%) - Computed as shore for rxr:,l
who are abj    ndwlln      to take a job, out of a job on a given day,dwlig                       ony
remained out of a iob, and seekinig work for a specified minimum
period not exceeding one week; may not be coomparable between noun-                  consumption
tries due to differenit definitionis of unemployed and source of data,               Ra!dio receivers (per thou pop) - All tYPes of receivers fur radio broad-
e.g. , employmient offite statistics, sample surveys, compulsory totem-                casts to general public per thousand of population; excludes unlicensed
Ploymnent insurance,                                                                   receivers in countries and int years t*sen registration of radio nets was
in effect; data for recant years may not be comparable since mast noun-
Income distribut-ion - Percentage of private income (both in cash and                    tries abolished licensing.
kind) received by richest 5%, richest 20%, poorest 20%, and poorest                  tasne         ars oDr thou PO) - Passenger cars comprise motor cars seating
1.0% of population.                                                                  --6iesstaightpeson, xclde             ambulances, hearses and tilitary
vehicles.
Distributios, of land ownership - Percentages of land owned by wealthiest              Elcr-PJ                rcp        Annuml comstion of industrial, co'onr-
10% and poorest, IP   fln     owners.                                                  ca ,pui       an  pr vote electricity in kilowatt hours per capita; gen-
erally based on production data, without allowance for losses in grids
Health and Nutrition                                                                     but allowing for imports and exports of electricity.
ti n  Dephylcan- Pouplat ion  divided by number of practicing               Nesrn         k/rDrcp       - Per capita annlual consumption in kilograms
p  5 rns qual     =e   ron a medical school at university level,                         slte        'o  dmomstic production plus net imports of newsprint.



ANNEX I
Page 3 of 4 pages
COUNTRY DATA - EGYPT. ARAB REPUBLIC OF
GNP PER CAPITA IN 1974.- US$280
GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT IN 1974                                        ANNUAL RATE OF GROWTH (%. constant prices)
US $  ln.     %                            1960-65     1965-70     1970-73    1974
GNP at Market Prices          10,109    100.0                           6.6         3.8         3.0        3.8
Gross Domestic Investment      1,894     18.7                          11.0        -1.1         8.8       26.4
Gross National Saving 2/         310      3.1                            -           -           -          -
Current Account Balance 2/    -1,534    -15.6                            -           -
Exports of Goods, NFS          2,136     21.7                           5.0         1.9        (3/)       (3/)
Imports of Goods, NFS          3,823     37.8                           8.0         1.0        (3/)       (3/)
OUTPUT, LABOR FORCE AND PRODUCTIVITY IN 1974
Value Added-/                Employment                V. A. Per Worker
US $Mln.    %              Mln.         %               US $         %
Agriculture                    3,187     34.2           4.21       46.6                757        73.4
Industry and Mining            1,9:13    20.7           1.15       12.7              1,681       162.9
Electricity                      123      1.3             .04       0.4              3,075       298.0
Construction                    3Y5       3.7            .31        3.4              1,113       107.9
Distribution Sector            1,352     14.5            1.29      14.3              1,048       101.6
Services Sector                2.369     25.6           2.04       22.6              1,171       113.5
Total/Average               9,329    100.0           9.04      100.0              1,032       100.0
GOVERNMENT FINANCE                  Central/Federal Government
($ Mln.)             7. of GDP
1974-/         1974        1969-716/
Current Receipts                    2,926         31.6          21.3
Current Expenditure                 3,105         33.5          20.7
Current Surplus                      -179         -1.9           0.6
Emergency Fund 7/                   1,308          14.1          9.2
Capital Expenditures                1,492         16.1          11.7
External Financing (net)              202          2.2          -0.4
I/ The Per Capita GNP estimate is nt market prices, calculated by the same conversion technique as the
1975 World Bank Atlas. All ot:her conversions to dollars in this table are at the average exchange rate
prevailing during the period covered.
2/ Excluding unrequited transfer receipts.
3/ Accurate constant price growth sates are not available due to insufficient information concerning
trade deflators.
4/ At current factor costs.
5/ Preliminary figures.
6/ 1969-71 current receipts and expenditures not comparable with 1974 data because of differences in
methodology.
7/ A Government account for special defence facilities and reconstruction, funded by Arab grants and
earmarked revenue receipts. The operations of the Fund are excluded from the national budget.



ANNEX I
Page 4 of 4 pages
-2-
MONEY, CREDIT and PRICES                            1971             1972            1973             1974
(Millionm LOutstanding i0Period)
Money and Quasi Money                             1,166            1,345           1,633            2,114
Claims on Government                              1,342            1,469           1,656            2,038
Claims on Non-Government Sector                     549              553             531              788
(Percentages or Index Numbers)
Money and Quasi Money as % of GDP                  36.0             39.7            44.9             53.2
Consumer Price Index (1966/67 = 100)               113.61l/        117.4            122.4           135.7
Annual percentage changes in:                          1
Consumer Price TInde                                4.o 1           2.8              4.3            10.0
Claims on Government                               13.6              9.5            12.7             23.1
Claims on Non-Government Sector                     5.0              0.7            -4.0             48.4
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS                                                  MERCHANDISE EXPORTS (AVERAGE 1973-74)
1972     1973      1974                                               US $ Mln    %
(Millions US $)
Raw Cotton                          545      40.7
Exports of Goods                813    1,003    1,674             Yarns and textiles                   218     16.3
Imports of Goods              1,286    1.6602/  3/428_2/          Rice                                  73      5-5
Trade Balance (deficit = -) T7         -657   -1,754              All other commodities               502     37.5
Total                       1,338    100.0
Services, Net                     7        7      170
Net Transfers                   295      727-/  1_2582/            EXTERNAL DEBT. DECEMBER 31. 1974
Balance on Current Account     :I71       77      -326
US $ Mln
Net MLT Borrowing                                                    Public Debt  Outstanding & Disbursed    2,760
Disbursements               417       362      522
Amortization                294       420      654
SubStotal                   123       -58     -132                                         3/
DEBT SERVICE RATIO for 1974 -
Other Non-Monetarv Capital      21       -13       -53                                                         X
(net)                    -         -
Overall Balance (surplus +)    -27         6     -511                Public Debt Outstanding & Disbursed     32.3
Gross reserves                                356
(end of year)
RATE OF EXCHANGE
Through Januar 1973
US $ 1.00 = 6 0.435
1.00 = us 2.30
Since February 1973
us $ 1.00 LE 0.390
1.oo = US $2.56
1/ Due to non-availability of data on calendar year basis, figure refers to "fiscal" year 1970/71.
2/ Includes the market value of petroleum grants.
3/ Ratio of Debt Service to Exports of Goods and Non-Factor Services.
EKENA Region
March 5, 1976



ANNEX II
Page 1 of 5
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN EGYPT
A.  STATEIENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CRED)ITS (As of January 31, 1976)
Amount in million US doll.ars
Loan/Credit                                                            Less cancellations
Numbers           Year  Borrower  Purpose                      Bank     IDA   Undisbursed
Ln 243-UAR        1959    SCA     Suez Canal Expansion         56.5     --        --
Cr 181-UAR        1970    UAR     Nile Delta Drainage           --     26.0      10.7
Cr 284-lIAR       1972    ARE     Railwayq                      --     30.0       3.8
Cr S-13-UAR_/     1972    ARE     Cotton Giinning Engr.         --      0.2
Cr 393-UAR        1973   AkRE     Upper Egypt Drainage          --     36.0      31.3
Cr 412-UAR        1973    ARE     BOA                           __     15.0       6.4
Cr 423-lUAR       1973    ARE     Cotton Ginning                --     18.5      12.9
Cr 437-UAR        1973    ARE     Population                    --      5.0       4.8
Cr S--15-UAR!/    19      ARE     Talkha Engr.                  --      0.4       --
Cr 484-UAR        1974    ARE     Talkha Fertilizer             --     20.0      14.9
Cr 524-EGT        1974    ARE     Ag/Ind Imports I              --     35.0       9.5
Ln 1062-EGT       1974    ARE        "       "    "            35.0     --       23.0
Ln 1064-EGT       1974    SCA     Suez Canal Rehabilitation    50.0     --       50.0
Ln 1085-EGT       1975    ARE     Tourah Cement                40.0              37.2
Ln 1098-EGT       1975    ERO     Railways                     37.0     --       36.9
Cr 548-EGT        1975    ARE     Teleconmmunications           --     30.0      30.0
Cr 576-EGT3/      1975    ARE     BOA II                        --     25.0     (25.0).!/
Totals                                                        218.5   241.1     a96.4 S/
Of which has been repaid                                       56.5     0.6
Total now outstandinig                                         162.0  240.5
Amount sold                                            7.4
Of which has been repaid                               6.0       1.4  _964_
Total now held by Bank and IDA4/                               160.6  240.5     296,4 _
Total undisbursed
B.  STATEMENT OF IFC INVES1'MENTS (As of January 31, 1976)
None
1/  Refinanced under Credit 423-UAR
2/  Refinanced under Credit 484-UAR
3/  Declared effective on F'sbruary 19, 1976
4/  Excluding exchange adjustments
3/   Including BOA II



ANNEX II
Page 2 of 5
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/
Cr. No. 181-UAR - Nile Delta Drainage Project; US$26 million Credit of April 17,
1970; Effective Date: December 22, 1970; Closing Date: December 31, 1976.
In 1973 a revised implementation program was prepared, extending
this project until 1978, and the Government agreed to take a number of actions
recommended by IDA to improve project performance and to provide effective man-
agement. The major problem facing this project up to the end of 1974--of lack
of local funds--was resolved by allocation under the 1975 national budget.
Adequate local currency is expected to be available for 1976. However, in spite
of the recent improvement in project implementation, it will not be possible to
recoup all the time lost and project completion will not now be possible before
December 1979. Because procurement is well advanced, no substantial foreign
cost overrun is expected; the Government has stated that it will continue to
meet local cost overruns that may occur.
Cr. No. 284-UAR - Egyptian Railway Project; US$30 million Credit of February 9,
1972; Effective Date: July 17, 1972; Closing Date: (i) September 30, 1976,
for track materials, locomotives and spare parts; and (ii) September 30, 1976,
for signalling and telecommunications equipment and installation.
The project is being implemented satisfactorily. Most of the pro-
curement contracts have been awarded, and the bulk of the credit has been com-
mitted. To allow the small balance of some $600,000 to be utilized for purchase
of spare parts for the existing locomotive fleet, the Closing Date for the first
part of the project, originally December 31, 1973, was extended for a third time
to September 30, 1976.
Cr. No. S-13-UAR - Cotton Ginning Rehabilitation Engineering Project;
US$175,000 Credit of November 17, 1972; Effective Date: June 15, 1973;
Closing Date: November 30, 1973.
This credit was fully disbursed and subsequently refinanced under
Cr. 423 below.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any prob-
lems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to remedy
them. They should be read in this sense, and with the understanding
that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths
and weaknesses in project execution.



ANNEX II
Page 3 of 5
Cr. No. 393-UAR - Upper Egypt Drainage Project; US$36 million Credit of June 8,
1973; Effective Date: November 28, 1973; Closing Date: December 31, 1979.
Progress on both the drainage and the bilharzia control components
of this project was initially slow, but is now reasonably saisfactory. How-
ever, project cost estimates have increased by about 30%, as a result of price
increases. Foreign exchange costs are expected to rise by over 20%, largely
due to price increases of materials for bilharzia control. Discussions are
continuing between the Government and the Association as to how the increases
are to be financed.
Cr. No. 412-UAR - Bank of Alexandria Project; US$15 million Credit of June 29,
1973; Effective Date: November 29, 1973; Closing Date: September 30, 1977.
Almost the entire amount of the credit has been committed to sub-
projects. Disbursements which were only $2.3 million as of May 31, 1975, have
accelerated and stood at $7.8 million as of December 31, 1975.
Cr. No. 423-UAR - Cotton Ginning Rehabilitation Project; US$18.5 million
Credit of July 30, 197-3; Effective Date: February 15, 1974; Closing Date:
June 30, 1978.
Prices of bids received in May 1974 for major equipment packages
were much higher than expected, and the total estimated foreign exchange cost
is now estimated to be about $41.5 million. In November 1974, Saudi Arabia
agreed to provide $23 million to finance the cost overrun thus enabling
implementation of the project as appraised. Awards for most of the major
contracts have been made and equipment delivery has begun. However, due to
the deteriorated condition of the buildings in one of the nine ginneries to be
rehabilitated and the u-navailability of additional power for another ginnery,
two other ginneries have been substituted and the project description amended
accordingly in November 1975.
Cr. No. 437-UAR - Population Project; US$5.0 million Credit of November 6,
1973; Effective Date: Mlarch 25, 1974; Closing Date: December 31, 1977.
There were initial delays but following appointment in November 1974
of a new Coordinator and Executive Director, progress on the construction of
clinics has been reasonably satisfactory. The Consultant Architects have
produced a procedures guide, and design guidelines; executive architects have
been appointed for detailed design of the health clinics, and the family plan-
ning activities are underway. Sites have been selected and acquired; construc-
tion contracts are being awarded, and construction on some sites has started.
Progress on the program components of the project, which was slow, is now
expected to improve, and some are underway.



ANNEX II
Page 4 of 5
Cr. No. S-15-UAR - Talkha Urea Fertilizer Engineering Project; US$400,000
Credit of November 20, 1973; Effective Date: April 24, 1974; Closing Date:
March 31, 1975.
A consulting firm, appointed as the technical advisors, did some of
the work covered by this credit-and was paid by Egypt. The credit was refi-
nanced under Cr. 484 below.
Cr. No. 484-UAR - Talkha II Fertilizer Project; US$20 million Credit of
June 24, 1974; Effective Date: January 22, 1975; Closing Date: April 1, 1979.
The general contractor has been appointed and work on implementation
is proceeding satisfactorily. The fertilizer sector study began in November
1975. The general contractor has prepared revised estimates of the likely
cost of equipment and civil works and it appears that a cost overrun of some
17% of the total cost of fixed assets may be incurred. The project entity is
examining ways in which some costs could be reduced and at the same time has
approached the other lenders with a view to mobilizing necessary additional
funds.
Cr. No. 524-EGT and Ln. No. 1062-EGT - Agricultural and Industrial Imports
Project; US$35 million Credit and US$35 million Loan of December 20, 1974;
Effective Date: March 19, 1975; Closing Date: June 21, 1976 (Credit) and
December 21, 1976 (Loan).
The bulk of the procurement actions has been completed and disburse-
ments are proceeding satisfactorily. Two of the six surveys of industrial
subsectors have begun and the rest are expected to commence shortly.
Ln. No. 1064-EGT - Suez Canal Rehabilitation Project; US$50 million Loan of
December 20, 1974; Effective Date: April 21, 1975; Closing Date: June 30,
1978.
No Bank funds have yet been disbursed, since the Canal Authority
wished first to use lower interest funds from other sources. Progress to
date on project implementation has been good. Bid documents for items to
be financed by the Bank are now being prepared, and consultants have been
selected to carry out a study of the enlargement of the canal.
Ln. No. 1085-EGT - Tourah Cement Expansion Project; US$40 million Loan of
February 10, 1975; Effective Date: June 9, 1975; Closing Date: June 30, 1979.
Bids for cement manufacturing equipment were opened according to
schedule on February 1, 1975. Consultants assisted in bid evaluation, and
the contract for the Bank-financed cement manufacturing equipment was awarded
in August 1975 some three months behind schedule. Bids for the electrical
equipment to be financed by the Arab Fund have been awarded.



ANNEX II
Page 5 of 5
Ln. No. 1098-EGT - Railways II Project; US$37 million Loan of April 2, 1975;
Effective Date: August 20, 1975; Closing Date: December 31, 1978.
Action on procurement progressed satisfactorily and bids for major
items have been awarded. Consultants for the transport sector survey have been
selected.
Cr. No. 548-EGT - Telec:ommunications Project; US$30 million Credit of May 16,
1975; Effective Date: August 14, 1975; Closing Date: September 30, 1978.
Bids for cab:Les are being evaluated and those for telex equipment
have been invited.
Cr. No. 576-EGT - Second Bank of Alexandria Project; US$25 million Credit of
July 30, 1975; Effective Date: February 19, 1975; Closing Date: October 31,
1979.
The credit was appproved on July 15, 1975, signed on July 30,
1975, and declared effective on February 19, 1975. Meanwhile, the Bank of
Alexandria has continued to appraise sub-projects to be submitted for fi-
nancing under the project.



ANNEX III
Page 1 of 3
EGYPT: PORT OF ALEXANDRIA PROJECT
Borrower:               Alexandria Port Authority (APA)
Guarantor:              Arab Republic of Egypt
Beneficiarils:          APA, together witlh its two subsidiary companies General
Warehouses of Egypt and United Arab Stevedoring Company.
Terms:                  25 years, including 5 years of grace, at 8-1/2 percent per
annum.
Relending Terms:        Same as terms of loan to APA.
Project Description:    The Project is to rehabilitate and to relieve congestion
at the Port of Alexandria. It includes the following
components:
A.  (1)  Deferred maintenance dredging of accumulated sand
in the access channels (Great Pass and Bougaz Pass)
of, and fairways inside, the Port, and alongside
quays.
(2) Capital dredging of sand and hard materials in the
Alternate Pass.
(3) Underwater quay investigation (associated with
dredging alongside quays).
(4)  Paving and surfacing of about 100,000 square meters
of roads and work areas.
(5) Construction of about 550 meters length of deep sea
berths with associated utilities and dredging and
about 22,500 square meters of transit sheds.
(6) Construction of 100,000 square meters of storage
facilities and the paving and surfacing of an ad-
ditional 100,000 square meters in a new storage
area.
B. Purchase of floating, cargo handling and miscellaneous
equipment, and necessary spare parts for such equipment.



ANNEX III
Page 2 of 3
C.  (1)  Provision of consultancy services for (a) soil
investigation in area of construction of deep-
sea berths, (b) final engineering for berth con-
struction, preparation of tender documents and
bid evaluation and (c) final engineering for
harbor radar and radio installation.
(2) Provision of consultancy services for:
(a)  the Borrower's organization and staffing;
(b)  assistance in the revaluation of the Bor-
rower's assets, identification of cost and
revenue centers, modernization of accounting
systems and introduction of cost accounting
and budgeting systems.
(c)  re-organization of the Borrower's workshops
including a program of maintenance of its
equipment;
(d)  identification of the Borrower's training
needs, preparation and implementation of its
training programs;
(e)  a study of sea pollution in the Port and of
measures and regulations to control it.
Project Cost:                                                   Percentage of
Local   Foreign    Total    Foreign Exchange
----- (US$ million) ----
a.  Dredging                       1.59      6.42      8.01
b.  Paving/Surfacing               1.38      0.59      1.97
c.  Berth construction            10.32     13.58     23.90
d.  Storage facilities            3.30       2.00      5.30
Total civil works           16.59     22.59     39.18         57.6
e.  Floating equipment            8.77      19.81     28.58
f.  Cargo handling equipment      8.43      17.09     25.52
c. Transport equipment            5.67       8.33     14.00
d. Other                           1.25      3.37      4.62
Total equipment            24.12      48.60     72.72         66.6
e.  Consultants and Training       1.42      2.75      4.17
Sub-total                  42.13      73.94    116.07         65.4
g.  Contingencies                 13.87     21.06     34.93
Total                      56.00 /1   95.00    151.00         63.0
/1   Local costs include import duties on imported equipment



ANNEX III
Page 3 of 3
Financing Plan:
Local    Foreign     Total
US$ million
Bank loan                                  45.0      45.0
USAID                                      30.8       30.8
Japanese Overseas                 -        19.2       19.2
Development Cooperation Fund
APA                             40.0*       -         40.0
Egyptian Government             16.0*       -         16.0
56.0       95.0      151.0
*If APA secures exemption from customs duties, its contri-
bution would be reduced to $27 million and there would
he no need for further financing from the Government.
Disbursement:                                  Proportion of Expenditures to
Category                      be Financed by the Bank
Dredging and Underwater
Quay Investigation       80 percent
Paving & Surfacing         35 percent
Berth Consruction          50 percent
Transit Sheds              80 percent
Storage Facilities         35 percent
Floating & Other Equip-    100 percent of foreign expendi-
ment (except barges)      tures or the exfactory cost of
locally manufactured items
Steel and Equipment
for Barges               100 percent of foreign expenditures
Consultants' Services      75 percent
The loan is expected to be fully disbursed by September 30,
1980.
Procurement
Arrangements:      International competitive bidding in accordance with the
Bank's guidelines would apply for all civil works and
procurement of equipment. Domestic preference of 15%
or the custom duties whichever is lower will apply for
equipment. Consultants will be appointed in accordance
with Bank procedures.
Technical            Consultants will be employed to carry out studies as
Assistance:        described.  It is expected that a total of approxi-
mately 220 man-months will be required.
Estimated Economic   56%.
Rate of Return:
Staff Project
Report:            Report No. 990a-EGT dated March 19, 1976
Regional Projects Department
EMENA



ANNEX IV
Page 1 of 2
SU_PLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken to prepare project:        One year (May 1974/May 1975)
(b)  Agency which prepared project:        Alexandria Port Authority (APA)
(c)  Project first presented to Bank/IDA: During visit of Suez Canal appraisal
mission of April 1974
(d)  First Bank missior, to review proj-   Second Railways Project Appraisal
ect:                                  Mission of June 1974
(e)  Departure of Appraisal Mission:       July 1975
(f)  Completion of Negotiations:           February 18, 1976
(g)  Planned date of effectiveness:        August 1, 1976
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Actions
After appraisal, the project scope was reviewed in detail with the Chairmain
of APA in Washington in October 1975. Terms of reference for management and
engineering consultants were discussed during negotiations. It is proposed
to assist APA in selection of consultants, in particular, to prepare engi-
neering tender documents. A mission is scheduled prior to Board presentation
to assist in initiating key implementation steps.
Section III: Special Conditions
(a) Government to provide APA sufficient foreign exchange for spare parts and
equipment annually;
(b) General cargo handling productivity to be raised to at least 11.3 tons
per hook-hour by January 1, 1979;
(c) APA to review, and to implement by the dates shown, the recommendations of
consultants studies on:
(i) organization and staffing; January 1, 1980.
(ii) reorganization of workshops and maintenance of equipment; January 1,
1980.
(iii)   identification of training needs, preparation and implementation of
training program; January 1, 1980.



ANNEX IV
Page 2 of 2
(iv) revaluation of assets; December 31, 1977.
(v) identification of cost and revenue centres, modernization of ac-
counting systems and introduction of cost accounting and bud-
geting systems; December 31, 1978.
(vi) pollution control measures; January 1, 1980
(d) APA to consult Bank before amending or revising its 1975-80 investment
program;
(e) APA to study in consultation with Government by December 31, 1977, ap-
propriate incentives for the services of qualified staff and to recruit
new staff of APA;
(f) APA's accounts to be audited by qualified independent auditors and to be
submitted to Bank within six months of end of fiscal year;
(g) APA to achieve a rate of return of at least 9 percent on net fixed assets
in operation;
(h) APA, with the assistance of consultants, to implement a new cost-related
tariff structure agreeable to the Bank and the Guarantor (including charges
on land), by December 31, 1978;
(i) Government not to implement any major port investment prior to completion
of national transport survey and preparation of national port plan;
(j) Government not to start construction of new general cargo facilities at
Dekhela before completion of national transport survey and preparation of
national port plan;
(k) Government to increase APA's equity as necessary to secure adequate
financing for the project and to maintain the debt/equity ratio at 60:40.



SbRD 10047
.,"     '            '   :   :'__                                   ,.
2             < ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~SAEL
X fi f * ttX 9 1~~~~~~~~ N   A   'I'
----------  - ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ..-
ARAB  REUBI _.,/OFM,..                 4   _,7, 
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-                   ?tj / Sf? 
EGYPT
i                  00 L.Xob' 
I ~ ~ ~ ~  ~  00f011. .t.                                   ; -
-1~~^J. *
/     _   -   ARAB REPUBLIC OF                 =3 z
F4 :- ,1EYt-5 
/   D.__4lA.d8S9Rln"y.7        3                          -   l






dS_                                      f iA    riSW  mum         0 0
f i____ _ =~~~~~~~~~~~~1O/6-            -w        - -\--
8( n. o             -- 6nSt VIC                >X1 H 
ILSI  U33.3S30                        ///z
~flOdVH~  i nogNH VM V~
SMWN0 0 3
6Zell- Gd~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~00  0 100 00 Ii, 



