VIRCULAT in35 d
Document of   k           BE RETUREN   T  F             DESK
The World Bank                                 -01FR   E
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
FILE  COPY                                    Report No99 a-EGT
F; 71t,  I 7;. "   T3
STAFF PROJECT REPORT                      G        E
PORT OF ALEXANDRIA PROJECT
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
17 MARCH 1976
Europe, Middle East and North Africa Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only In the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



ALEXANDRIA PORT AUTHORITY
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit                 =     Egyptian Pound (LE) (1,000 milliemes)
US $1.00                      =     LE 0.40
US $1 million                 =     LE 400,000
LE 1.00                       =     US $2.50
LE 1 million                  =     US $2,500,000
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric                                British/US
1 meter (m)                   =     3.28 feet (ft)
1 kilometer (km)              =     0.62 miles (mi)
1 metric ton (m ton)          =     1.10 US short tons (sh ton)
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
ATIM        Association Technique des Industries de la Manutention
DB          Dry Bulk
ER          Egyptian Railways
APA         Alexandria Port Authority
GC          General Cargo
GPD         General Planning Department
GWE         General Warehouses of Egypt
LB          Liquid Bulk
MARTRANS    Maritime Transport Company
MM          Milliemes
NPA         National Port Authority
P and 0     Passengers and Others
SCA         Suez Canal Authority
SCRNT       Suez Canal Registered Net Tonnage
UASC        United Arab Stevedoring Company
US AID      United States Agency for International Development



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
STAFF PROJECT REPORT
PORT OF ALEXANDRIA PROJECT
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
Table of Contents
Page No.
INTRODUCTION AND SUMMARY ...............................             i-xiv
I.   THE TRANSPORT SECTOR ...................................                1
A.   The Transport System ......1........................ 
B.   Transport Coordination and Planning                               2
Organization Chart of Transport Ministries   .....              3
C.   The Ports and Port Planning .......................               4
II.   THE PORT ...............................................                7
A.   Port Facilities and Traffic .......................                7
B.   Port Administration ......          .........................     10
- Organization Chart of Ministry of Maritime
Transport                     . .    11
- Organization Chart of Alexandria Port Authority             12
C.   Operations ..          ......................................    16
D.   Finance, Accounting and Audit .......... .. ..........           17
III.  THE PROJECT .........                                        .......  23
A.   The Port Investment Program .....            ...........    23
B.   Project Objectives, Dimensions and Timing ..........    25
C.  Description . ..............                      . .             25
D.   Engineering Evaluation .....          ........................    27
E.   Cost Estimates ..................      .................. .       35
F.   Financing ........         ..................................    36
G.   Project Execution, Supervision and Reporting .......    38
H.   Procurement and Disbursements ..................        ....    40
I.   Environmental Impact .......... .. ...................    41
J.   Employment Impact ......          ............................    42
IV.   ECONOMIC EVALUATION ...                ..................... ............  43
A.   Traffic Analysis .           ..................................    43
B.   Project Benefits ......................,.,....    45
C.   Project Costs .        . .......................      .....    54
D.   Economic Return .         .     ..................................    55
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be discosed without World Bank authorization.



TABLE OF CONTENTS (Continued)                                       Page No.
V.   FINANCIAL EVALUATION ........................................  56
A.   General .............................................  56
B.  Past Financial Performance ................... ......  56
C.   Presentation of Financial Analysis ..................  57
D.   Forecast Financial Performance 1975-80 ............ ..  58
E.   Cash Flow and Financial Plan ................ ......  61
F.   Balance  Sheets  ....... .  ............... .  ..............  63
VI.   AGREEMENTS REACHED AT NEGOTIATIONS ........... ............  64
ANNEX
Documents Available in Project File.
MAPS
Arab Republic of Egypt - IBRD 10047
Alexandria Harbor - IBRD 11879
This report was based on information provided by the Alexandria Port Authority
and on findings of a project mission in July/August 1975 composed of Messrs.
J.C. Grosdidier de Matons (Senior Port Specialist), T. Pankaj (Economist) and
S. Purvis (Financial Analyst, Consultant).



INTRODUCTION AND SUMMARY
THE TRANSPORT SECTOR
Background
1.        Economic activity in Egypt is concentrated along the Y-shaped Nile
Valley and Nile Delta. In the past, the area adjoining the Suez Canal was
also active, and is being rapidly reconstructed and developed once again.
The population of about 37 million is concentrated in the narrow land mass
formed by the Nile Delta and Valley which accounts for less than 4 percent
of the total area of just over 1 million km2. As a result, the transport
demand is dominant in the Alexandria-Cairo-Aswan corridor which is about 1,000
km long. The linear configuration of economic activity and the flat topography
have supported the development of the railways as the main means of inland
transport, supported by inland waterways. Short distance hauls are carried by
road. Air and coastal shipping have potential, but could not be fully utilized
and developed in the recent past because of hostilities. Egypt's domestic
transport system consists of about 3,500 km of railways, 26,400 km of roads,
3,300 km of inland waterways, and four major airports. An oil pipeline (con-
necting Suez with the Mediterranean) is due for completion in 1976. The Suez
Canal, at the eastern edge of the Nile Delta, while not a part of the domestic
transport system, attracts considerable economic activity.  It was well con-
nected to the rail and road systems; some of the rail and road links which
existed on both sides of the Canal prior to 1967 have been damaged, but are
being replaced.
Transport Coordination and Planning
2.        The Government is anxious to develop a master plan for the transport
sector, covering all transport modes including ports and coastal shipping.
Due to uncertainties regarding the level of funds available for investments,
little or no economic planning of transport investments or operations was
carried out in the past decade. Cost minimization and the desire for a bal-
ance between costs and revenues on revenue-earning modes have been implied
objectives for the transport system, but no specific policy has been formul-
ated to achieve these objectives. A comprehensive Transport Survey, covering
all transport modes serving domestic and international demand, and which will
also review the construction and storage industries to the extent that they
influence transport costs, is financed under the Second Railways loan
(1098-EGT). The survey was due to commence in September 1975, but is about
six months behind schedule due to delays in issuing the invitations to con-
sultants, and in the evaluation of proposals. Contract negotiations are
underway with consultants Louis Berger, of USA. The survey is expected to
provide a comprehensive information base on the sector as a whole, together
with recommendations on policy measures and the investments appropriate for
rational development of the sector, within the framework of Egypt's 1976-1980
Development Plan. The survey will be in two phases, the first of eight months
duration expected to be completed by the end of 1976, while the final report



- ii -
should be available during 1978. The survey is expected to make recommenda-
tions which will inter alia form the basis for a national port development
plan. The Government has agreed that no major port development will be im-
plemented before completion of the national transport survey and the port de-
velopment plan (Section 2.05(a), Guarantee Agreement).
Previous Bank Group Transport Sector Operations in Egypt
3.        This would be the fifth Bank Group operation for transport in Egypt,
and the first for ports. The first lending operation in the transport sector
was a $56.5 million loan made in 1959 to the Suez Canal Authority (SCA) for
expansion of the Canal. The project was completed satisfactorily and on
schedule, and the loan was fully repaid in September 1974. A second loan to
the SCA was approved in December 1974 for rehabilitation of the Canal and its
facilities, to enable resumption of operations at the level prior to 1967.
This loan financed some 17 percent of total project costs, the remainder being
covered by concessional loans from Arab sources. The Canal was reopened to
international shipping in June 1975. The project is progressing well. How-
ever, until now procurement has been carried out with the funds from the co-
financiers which carry softer terms than the Bank loan, and consequently no
withdrawals have been requested under the Bank loan. Contracts for a feas-
ibility study of the expansion of the Canal were signed with consultants
(Maunsell, Ltd., UK and SOGREAH of France) in January 1976, some six months
behind schedule.
4.        The first phase of Egyptian Railways' (ER) Investment Program is
being assisted by an IDA credit of $30 million approved in February 1972.
Despite emergency conditions prevailing until the end of 1974, satisfactory
progress was made, although some deferred items have been included in the
second project. The bulk of the credit has been disbursed. A $37 million
loan to ER was made in April 1975 to help finance the second phase of ER's
Investment Program and is being disbursed against expenditures on selected
investments in the, Program. This loan includes $2 million for the Transport
Survey (see paragraph 2). The Bank loan financed about 20 percent of the
foreign exchange costs of the project, and the rest was financed by bilateral
sources including the Saudi Fund for Development. Procurement for this proj-
ect is making good progress. Most of the major contracts have been placed.
The Ports
5.        Alexandria is Egypt's main port for both import and export traffic,
handling over 90% of total overseas port traffic in 1975. It is expected that
Alexandria will continue to handle about 80% of total overseas traffic by 1980,
with a projected increase in tonnage handled of approximately 30% for Alexandria
alone, compared with 1974, when it handled over 15 million tons of all types of
cargo (including bulk cargo, oil, etc.). The port has 7.3 km of quays for mer-
chant ships, of which 2.0 km are shallow berths. Traffic consists of about
2,700 cargo ships per year. The port complex also includes a passenger termi-
nal, which is used mainly by cruise ships, ship repair facilities, and a
Naval port.



- iii -
6.        The basic construction and configuration of the port are about 150
years old. It has suffered increasingly in recent years from congestion in
berthing and maneuvering of vesels, and in cargo handling and storage. This
congestion, due to the generally run-down condition of the Port's equipment
and facilities (which because of pressure of use and shortage of foreign ex-
change have lacked maintenance, replacement or development for many years),
has caused a severe loss of foreign exchange in the form of demurrage and
shipping congestion surcharges (currently estimated at about $25 million per
annum), as well as dislocation of other economic activity in the country.
7.        The two other important ports for general cargo are Port Tewfiq
(Port Suez) and Port Said, at either end of the Suez Canal: these were
severely damaged in 1967 and 1973 but are being reconstructed. The traffic
which will be diverted to them in the short term has been allowed for an
analysis of this project. Port Safaga on the Red Sea is being expanded to
handle alumina and phosphates. In addition, a new port is planned to be
developed at Dekhela, about 15 km west of Alexandria, to service a sponge
iron plant to be constructed there. This port may eventually have substan-
tial general cargo facilities, but these facilities are not expected to be
operational before 1985. The Government has agreed that no construction of
general cargo handling facilities will be started at Dekhela before completion
of the transport survey and the port plan described in para 2 above. (Sec-
tion 2.05(b) Guarantee Agreement).
Port Administration Within the Transport Sector
8.        The transport sector in Egypt is coordinated by the Ministries of
Transport and of Maritime Transport. The organizational structure of the
transport sector has remained largely unchanged for several years, but con-
siderable investments in the sector are likely, to cater to the needs of the
economy. Some revision in transport sector organization may therefore be
appropriate, and the transport survey is expected to include recommendations
on organizational matters. The Port of Alexandria is operated by the
Alexandria Port Authority (APA), an autonomous agency reporting to the Min-
istry of Maritime Transport. Port Said is operated directly by the Suez Canal
Authority, which is a completely autonomous organization. Port Tewfiq, Safaga,
and other minor ports are the direct responsibility of the Ministry of Mari-
time Transport's Ports and Lighthouses Administration. Given the primary
position of Alexandria, as the port handling the bulk of Egypt's trade, and
the unique role of the Suez Canal, the present port administration structure
is satisfactory.
The Alexandria Port Authority (The Borrower)
9.        APA, which will be the Borrower and executing agency for the Proj-
ect, is an autonomous body. It is the Government's agent for port planning
and construction, maintenance and operations at Alexandria. The APA proper
conducts pilotage, towage, berthing and other services to ships. It owns two
subsidiary companies, the United Arab Stevedoring Company (UASC), and General



- iv -
Warehouses of Egypt (GWE), which perform stevedoring, shorehandling, warehous-
ing and storage of cargo. The Chairman of APA's Board of Directors, who is
also its Chief Executive Officer, is appointed by the Minister of Maritime
Transport; its other members are the Chairmen of the Stevedoring and the Ware-
houses Companies, and representatives of the Ports and Lighthouses Administra-
tion, of the Shipping Agency Company (which is a public sector company report-
ing to the Ministry of Maritime Transport), and of Egyptian Railways.
10.       The legislation governing APA dates from 1963.  The consultancy
stuLdies to be financed under the prcposed loan will include a review of the
statutory instruments relating to APA's organization and operations to deter-
mine whether any change would be desirable.
11.       During the past 10 years, APA has been working under conditions of
extreme difficulty. The pressure put on it following the closure of Egypt's
other ports, as well the shortage of foreign exchange which prevented it from
developing the port, replacing outdated equipment, or buying new equipment, was
handled with a considerable degree of success, which reflects well on their
ability to work under adverse conditions. Although APA's management is in
general satisfactory, it is uneven and needs improvement in specific fields.
APA is inhibited by the civil service routine, although it includes a number of
very active individuals; the composition of APA's Board of Directors makes it
more a Board of Management than a Board of Directors and reduces its bargaining
power with other Government agencies.  Competent professional staff, marine of-
ficers and engineers exist, but the quality is uneven. Middle level staff
exist in large number; they have a bureaucratic tradition. The quality of
management in the Stevedoring and in the Warehouses Companies (which were
originally private companies) seems to be adequate, but is uneven in a number
of fields, such as maintenance of equipment; the commercial tradition also
helps these companies to have more flexible and active management than APA's.
APA's accounting system is outdated; it has no adequate system of cost account-
ing or budgeting. None of these judgments should overlook the fact that the
staff is in general willing and anxious to improve the present situation and
to learn more on modern port management.
12.       APA faces the general problem of being unable to pay salaries
higher than the low civil service rates, which would be necessary to attract
high quality staff. APA and the Government will study, before December 31,
1977, incentives appropriate to reward the services of qualified staff as well
as for new recruitment (Section 4.08, Loan Agreement).
13.       APA and its two subsidiaries employ some 10,200 workers in all:
labor supply and relations at lower levels are not problems, although there is
need for training in many types of operations. The port operates 16 hours a
day, seven days a week, with additional overtime when appropriate. A combina-
tion of factors, including an out-dated port design, inadequate and worn-out
equipment, which cause slow working and frequent stoppages, and the absence
of modern cargo-handling techniques such as palletization, have resulted in
low productivity in handling general cargo, and in its decline from 11.3



tons per hook-hour in 1972 to 8.9 tons in 1975. The equipment to be pro-
vided as part of the project, together with the training, management and
organizational measures to be undertaken following consultancy studies, are
expected to bring substantial increases in productivity. APA has agreed to
ensure that an annual average target of at least 11.3 tons per hook-hour will
be attained by January 1, 1979 (Section 4.05, Loan Agreement).
14.       Maintenance of facilities, especially of equipment, is a major
issue. Programmed and scheduled preventive maintenance does not at present
receive the necessary priority; this together with the lack of spare parts
(due to shortage of foreign exchange) and the increase in traffic (which re-
quires excessive use of existing equipment), has led to the present poor
state of most equipment, which in turn lowers productivity considerably. The
project includes measures to improve maintenance, and the Government has
agreed to make foreign exchange available as necessary to APA to procure spare
parts for port equipment (Section 2.03, Guarantee Agreement).
15.       The project will include consultancy studies covering inter alia
(see para 21 below): (i) a study of the present management, organization
and staffing, with a special emphasis on planning and maintenance; (ii) as-
sistance in the formulation and subsequently in the implementation of appro-
priate training programs; (iii) preparation of a modernized accounting system,
with emphasis on cost accounting leading to cost-based tariffs, and (iv) sea
pollution in the Port and measures and regulations to contr-ol it (paragraph 28
below).
THE PROJECT
16.       A project to rehabilitate the Port of Alexandria was first proposed
during the visit of the mission to appraise the Suez Canal Rehabilitation
Project in April 1974. As an interim measure, to ease the bottlenecks causing
congestion in the Port, an allocation of $3 million was provided in the 1974
Agricultural and Industrial Imports Project for spare parts and replacement
equipment. A preparation mission visited Alexandria in April 1975, and the
project was then appraised in July/August 1975. During appraisal it became
apparent that to enable the Port to accommodate the expected level of traffic,
it would be desirable to add to the project (which had originally been seen
solely as one of port rehabilitation and replacement of equipment) the con-
struction of three deep sea berths and related facilities. Because of this
expansion of the project, the chairman of APA, Dr. Younis Amin Omar, visited
Washington in October 1975 to provide further information. Negotiations were
held in Washington from February 11 to 18, 1976, with a delegation consisting
of Dr. Wagih Shindy, Under Secretary, Ministry of Economy and Economic Coop-
eration, and Dr. Omar.
General
17.       The Project provides for rehabilitation of the facilities and equip-
ment of the port, for developing additional facilities, and for improving port



- vi -
management. Its aim is to enable APA to accommodate existing and future trafic
and considerably to alleviate congestion, to improve productivity of general
cargo operations by purchase of modern equipment and to assist in improving
port planning, management accounting and tariff setting at Alexandria Port.
18.       The project has been designed to meet the needs of APA for the
next five years, so as to enable it to provide satisfactory service through
more modern and better maintained equipment, and to modernize port operations.
The project has been limited to what can be absorbed by the APA organization,
workshops, staff, etc.
19.       The main elements of the project are:
(i) the dredging of 1.8 million m3 accumulated sand in the exist-
ing entrance channels and harbor. This is maintenance dredging
which has been deferred due to the lack of dredgers.
(ii)  completion of the opening of a new channel by dredging 800,000 m3
to provide additional access, which will make ship traffic flows
easier and safer to accommodate and control;
(iii) paving and surfacing roads and work areas;
(iv)  establishing a new general cargo storage area outside the port;
(v) building 550 m (3 berths) of deep sea quay;
(vi)  procuring floating, cargo handling, communication and transport
equipment for port operations;
(vii) procuring maintenance equipment;
(viii)  consultancy studies for management, organization, accounting
and training; and
(ix)  consultancy services for final project design and engineering,
including soil investigation, and preparation of tender docu-
ments.
20.       Even though the present port is obsolete in design, with many small
finger piers and basins, no major reconstruction of the existing port facili-
ties has been included in the project, because this would have partly dis-
rupted port operations, thus increasing congestion in the short run. Further-
more, major reconstruction of the Port of Alexandria should be decided upon
only after the results of the Transport Survey become available, and in the
context of a national port plan (para 2).
_onsultancy Services
21.       The consultancy services to be included in the project, referred to
in para 19 (viii) above, will be as follows:



- vii -
(i) to review management responsibilities and administration pro-
cedures within APA, with particular attention to maintenance
functions, planning, and financial management;
(ii) to review staffing and manpower needs, to identify training
needs, and to formulate and to assist in implementation of
appropriate training programs.
(iii) to review the organizational structure of APA and its subsi-
diaries, perhaps leading to decentralization of some functions
at present carried out by APA itself, such as operation of
the maintenance workshops and certain marine activities;
(iv) to develop a cost-based financial and tariff policy, together
with development and installation of appropriate financial and
management accounting systems and to assist APA in revaluation
of its assets; and
(v) to review sea pollution in the port and measures and regulations
to control it.
APA will review with the Bank the consultants' recommendations when they are
received and the action it proposes to take (Section 4.06, Loan Agreement).
22.       In addition, consultancy services will be provided (para 19 (ix)
above) for (i) final engineering of the deep-water quays, and (ii) preparation
of tender documents and specifications for communications and radar equipment.
Consultants will work on these tasks with APA counterparts. Because of the
need to start construction as early as possible in order to avoid continuing
demurrage charges, consultants will be appointed early in 1976 and retroactive
financing up to a total of $500,000 is therefore recommended for engineering
consultancy (Schedule 1, Loan Agreement).
Project Costs
23.       The project cost is estimated at US$151.0 million, including contin-
gency allowances, domestic taxes and custom duties, but excluding interest on
various loans during construction. The foreign exchange cost is US$95.0 mil-
lion or 63% of total cost. A summary of cost estimates is as follows:



- viii -
Percentage of
Local   Foreign   Total   Foreign Exchange
…(US$ million)-----
a. Dredging                        1.59      6.42     8.01
b. E'aving/Surfacing               1.38      0.59      1.97
c. Berth construction             10.32    13.58    23.90
d. Storage facilities              3.30      2.00     5.30
Total civil works            16.59    22.59    39.18           57.6
e. Floating equipment              8.77    19.81    28.58
f. Cargo handling equipment        8.43    17.09    25.52
g. T'ransport equipment            5.67      8.33    14.00
h. Clther                          1.25      3.37     4.62
Total equipment              24.12    48.60    72.72           66.6
i. Consultants and Training        1.42      2.75     4.17
Sub total                    42.13    73.94   116.07           65.4
j. Contingencies                  13.87    21.06    34.93
Total                        56.00    95.00   151.00           63.0
24.       Local currency costs for floating, cargo handling and other equipment
include customs duties totalling US$29.0 million equivalent.  Contingencies in-
clude 15 percent physical contingency on civil works. The annual allowance for
price contingencies is (i) 10 percent on local costs, which is consistent with
the present situation of the Egyptian economy (ii) 13 percent in 1976 and 12
percent thereafter on the foreign exchange component of civil works, and (iii)
12 percent on foreign exchange costs of imported equipment. These percentages
are considered realistic. Because of continuing inflation, delays in project
implementation would increase the total cost of the project by about US$1.0
million/month. Completion is expected by December 31, 1979.
Financing Plan: Foreign Cost
25.       The proposed Bank loan of $45.0 million equivalent to APA would be
for a period of 25 years including five years of grace and would meet 43% of
the foreign exchange requirements of the project. The Government and APA have
applied to USAID and to the Overseas Economic Cooperation Fund (OECF) of the
Japanese Government to confinance the project. USAID have indicated that they
are considering a loan of at least US$30.8 million for cargo handling, trans-
port and other equipment (on USAID's standard concessionary terms). The
Japanese Government has been asked to lend at least $19.2 million, equivalent,
for floating equipment. Subject to further appraisal and administrative pro-
cedures OECF expects to be able to finance the project accordingly. The terms
of any such loan would be subject to negotiation; in the past OECF loans have
beenL on concessionary terms. On the above basis the financing plan would be
as follows:



- ix -
US$ million
World Bank
Civil works                                            22.70
Floating and other equipment                            6.17
Consultants Services                                    2.75
Contingencies                                          13.38
Total                                            45.00
USAID
Cargo handling equipment                               16.04
Transport equipment                                     7.96
Other equipment                                         1.37
Contingencies                                           5.43
Total                                             30.80
OECF (Japan)
Floating equipment                                     16.30
Contingencies                                           2.90
19.20
Grand total                                      95.00
The conclusion of cofinancing agreements to meet the total foreign exchange
cost of the project will be a condition of loan effectiveness (Section
7.01(b), Loan Agreement). Because of the competitiveness of US and Japanese
producers of the kinds of equipment to be financed by USAID and OECF, tied
procurement of these items is not expected to impose any cost penalty on
APA. Interest during construction will be borne by APA.
Financing Plan: Local Cost
26.       Local costs amount to $56 million equivalent (calculated at the
official rate of exchange), including $29 million customs duties on imported
equipment. It is estimated that APA will be able to provide nearly $40 mil-
lion from its own resources, leaving a shortfall of $16 million. The Govern-
ment will finance any local cost shortfall there may be in carrying out the
project, either by providing additional equity for APA or by exempting the pro-
ject from import duties (paragraph 31, and Section 2.02, Guarantee Agreement).
APA Development Program
27.       The project forms the major part of APA's five year program for
1976-80, which in turn is part of the country's draft five year indicative
development plan. Other items included in the program total about $20 mil-
lion equivalent, all but $4 million of which is in local currency. APA will



x 
finance these items itself; they are considered valuable for the Port's op-
erations, but are not strictly complementary to the project. APA's five year
program as at present constituted is considered feasible and justifiable.
APA will not make any amendments or revisions to the 1976-80 program without
prior consultation with the Bank, so as to avoid impairment of APA's proj-
ectecd financial performance (Section 4.07, Loan Agreement).
Subsidiary Beneficiaries
28.       Parts of the Project are for the direct benefit of APA's subsidia-
ries, the Warehouses and Stevedoring companies. The funds provided to APA
to finance these parts of the project will be passed on to the subsidiaries
on the same terms as they are received through subsidiary loan agreements
satisfactory to the Bank; their signature will be a condition of effective-
ness of the loan (Section 7.01(c) and (d), Loan Agreement).
Tariffs
29.       In March, 1976 APA increased its tariffs by an estimated average
of 60%, effective May 1, 1976. Tariffs charged by the Warehouse Company were
also increased by 60% in June 1975, but the Stevedoring Company tariffs have
remained constant since 1969. Tariffs for all port services will be at rea-
sonable levels following the APA increase, but over the medium-run it is de-
sirable that APA and its subsidiaries develop a system of tariff review based
on properly valued assets and on operating costs. A revised tariff structure,
for SPA and its subsidiaries, on a cost basis, will be introduced not later
than ]December 31, 1978. (Section 5.05(b), Loan Agreement, Section 2.04(b),
Guarantee Agreement). APA may not currently benefit to the extent desirable
from charges for rent of land and other special facilities provided to other
public sector agencies operating within the Port area. This question will be
examined as part of the consultancy studies under the project, and appropriate
charges introduced as part of the revised tariff structure (Section 5.05(b),
Loan Agreement).
Present Financial Position
30.       During recent years, neither the Port Authority proper nor its two
subsidiaries could undertake investment or replacement of equipment, mainly
because of unsettled conditions in the country and the lack of foreign ex-
change. Maintenance of structures or equipment has also been inadequate
and undertaken at low cost. At the same time, increased traffic has brought
in additional revenue, since the cost of congestion in the port is not re-
flected in the port's financial results. Therefore, the cash position of
the Port Authority is good; since assets have not been renewed and are valued
at historic cost, and thus remain undervalued, the return on fixed assets has
been a high 35%.



- xi -
Financial Projections
31.       Cash outlays are expected to increase dramatically during the execu-
tion period of the project, and the cash position of the Port Authority is ex-
pected to be strained. Because of the introduction of new equipment and fa-
cilities included in the Project, which will increase depreciation and oper-
ating costs, the operating ratio is expected to increase from 66% in 1975
to 78% in 1980. The return on fixed assets will decrease from an unrealistic
35% in 1975 to some 9% in 1980, which is realistic and reasonable, although
there are uncertainties on the actual value of many asets, which need to be
revalued. However, the port's current liquidity position will deteriorate
from a ratio of 1.8/1 in 1975 to 0.68/1 in 1978, the lowest point, which
results from the phasing of investment reaching a peak in 1977-78; the ratio
will improve subsequently. The total cash shortfall anticipated during proj-
ject implementation (see para 26 above) will be met by the Government. APA
has agreed to maintain its revenue at a level sufficient to cover depreciation
provisions and to generate a return on average net fixed assets of not less
than 9 percent before taxes and interest (Section 5.04, Loan Agreement).
Should exemption from customs duties be granted, cash flow would more than
meet local costs; in this case the surplus would accrue to the State.
32.       APA's debt/equity ratio will rise from 21:79 in 1975 to the figure
of 65:35 by 1980. The Government will provide additional equity for APA, as
and when necessary (Section 2.02(b), Guarantee Agreement) to maintain the
debt/equity ratio at 60:40. The contribution of $16 million to meet the
forecast cash shortfall (para 26) would be adequate for this purpose if made
as equity; if exemption from customs duties is granted, the debt:equity ratio
is unlikely to fall below 60:40.
Economic Analysis
33.       Total dry cargo traffic handled through Alexandria Port went up from
8.1 million tons in 1973 to 9.3 million tons in 1974 and is expected to be
about 10.7 million in 1975 and 14.0 million tons in 1980. This large increase
reflects the recovery of the Egyptian economy as well as the major role played
by the Port of Alexandria, which handles presently 90% of the traffic through
all Egyptian ports, and is expected to retain a very major share of traffic
(at least 80% in 1980) after the other ports are reopened or improved.
34.       The proposed project is expected to improve overall productivity for
general cargo traffic. Traffic will benefit from more and better handling
gear, more storage space, quicker clearance of the discharged cargo from
sheds, unitized handling, the entry of larger ships due to dredging, and the
use of a larger number of hooks per ship resulting from the availability of
more shore cranes. Benefits have been quantified as savings from reduced
shipping costs, arising from the scale-economies in using bigger ships after
dredging, and from reduced ship service-time and ship-waiting time due to in-
creased productivity and additional berth capacity. Because 70% of general
cargo traffic at Alexandria Port is carried on charter terms, and since freight



- xii -
rates in charter trade are very highly sensitive to changes in port conditions,
freight benefits are transmitted to the country by the immediate release of
dispatch money or through improved voyage/time charter freight rates, and so
will almost entirely accrue to the Egyptian economy. The remainder of traffic
(30%) is carried on liner terms, but, through its powerful maritime agency,
MARtTRANS, Egypt is in a favorable bargaining position in the liner market.
Part of this traffic is carried under the Egyptian flag, and the benefits
will accrue in total to Egypt. Overall, it is estimated that about 85% of
thEt ship cost savings arising from the project would be transferred to Egypt.
However, for assessing the economic return from the project, only 50% of the
total ship cost savings has been taken into account.
35.       It is estimated that the project will yield an economic return of
above 50%, and a first year return, using a 12% discount rate, of 37%. Sen-
sitivity analyses have been conducted; assuming a decrease of 25% in benefits
and an increase of 25% in costs, the project would still yield a rate of re-
turn of about 22%. Using a shadow rate of exchange with 50% premium in local
currency for foreign exchange costs and savings, which is close to the paral-
lel market rate of exchange, the project yields a rate of return of about 63%,
reflecting the large foreign exchange savings from the project. These fig-
ures indicate the strong economic justification for the project as well as its
great urgency. The fact that even after the project, there will still be some
port congestion in Alexandria shows that, if anything, the size of the project
is smaller than it should ideally have been. However, further expansion of
the project coverage would have been operationally difficult in the short run,
since the proposed project consists of all major improvements possible in the
port's general cargo areas without dislocating existing port operations, and
because further expansion is not desirable pending the national port plan
(paragraph 2).
Environmental and Employment Impact
36.       Water pollution and hazards from inadequate refuse disposal are
serious at present in the Port of Alexandria. The consultancy studies will
provide for measures to control pollution and the drafting of modern regula-
tionis, which will aid control over disposal of refuse and ballast residues by
ships. Boats equipped for water pollution control are being procured under
Credit 524-EGT/Loan 1062-EGT, while lorries and other equipment for refuse
collection are included in the proposed project. The items of mechanical
equipment being procured under the project, although more efficient and of
more modern design than what is being replaced, will by their type and number
inevitably add to air pollution, but this is not a major problem in Alexandria.
37.       No adverse effect on port labor is expected from the proposed proj-
ect. On the contrary, laborers will work under better conditions and the
number of skilled workers (drivers or equipment operators) who will find em-
ployment, will increase. About 1300 additional workers, of which 1000 will
be skilled labor, will find employment after project completion, bringing
total employment to about 11,500.



- xiii -
Implementation and Procurement
38.       Project implementation will be the responsibility of APA.  It will
supervise civil works and, in addition, will establish a special interdisci-
plinary monitoring unit for the Project. All contracts under the loan will
be awarded on the basis of international competitive bidding in accordance
with Bank guidelines. Qualified local contractors are available and it is
believed that they are likely to secure some or all of the contracts for
paving and surfacing and for constructing storage facilities, which total
about $11.0 million. A margin of preference of 15% or the prevailing import
duties (whichever is the less) for local equipment procurement would be per-
mitted.
39.       Project execution is scheduled to start in March 1976, with desig-
nation of consultants. Final engineering for civil works is expected to be
completed by October 1976. Dredging would start in January 1977, and all
civil works are expected to be completed by the end of 1979. Procurement
of equipment would take place between 1976 and 1978. Management consultants
should be selected by June 1976 and start work by autumn 1976. The schedule
allows for a reasonable safety margin during the early stages of the project,
because experience proves that a first project with a new borrower may ini-
tially be slow. However, APA recognizs that delay would add approximately 1%
per month to project costs.
Disbursement
40.       The proposed loan will be disbursed as shown below.  For components
where the Bank will finance a proportion of total expenditures, the proportion
is calculated so as to represent the total estimated foreign exchange portion
of that component.
Proportion of Expenditures to be
Category                                            Financed by the Bank
Dredging and associated underwater            80% of total expenditures
quay investigation
Paving & Surfacing                            35% of total expeditures
Berth Construction (excluding dredging)       50% of total expenditures
Sheds                                         80% of total expenditures
Storage Facilities                            35% of total expenditures
Floating and Other Equipment                   100% of foreign expenditures, or
(except barges)                             100% of ex-factory cost of
locally-manufactured equipment
Steel and equipment for barges                100% of foreign expenditures
Consultants Services                            75% of total expenditures



- xiv -
Conclusion
41.       Bank support for the project is fully justified because of its high
economic rate of return (over 50%), and because of Egypt's urgent needs for
rehabilitation of its main port, Alexandria, in view of the foreign exchange
costs currently being incurred by the economy from shipping surcharges, delays
in imports and exports, and other results of congestion. The project will aid
institution building through consultancy studies leading to reorganization of
APA, improved management practices, especially in management accounting and
planning, and revision of the Port's tariffs. To ensure that the bulk of the
benefits accrue to the country, a revised tariff structure will be introduced
on the basis of revalued assets and an accurate assesment of costs. Consult-
ants will help to devise and implement training programs, and to improve main-
tenance. The Bank will maintain close contact with APA to ensure that APA
benefits from these studies, and that improvements are introduced as soon as
possible. Designation of the consultants for final engineering and management
studies are critical points in the execution of the project, and possible de-
lays are a cause of concern. A further possible cause of concern is that if
other major port facilities were to be developed in the near future, some parts
of the project could be redundant, and that there would be an uneconomic use of
Egypt's scarce capital resources. Protection against this eventuality is pro-
vided by section 2.05 of the Guarantee Agreement (see paragraphs 2 and 7
above), by which any such development must await results of the national trans-
port survey, and the production of a national port plan.



I. THE TRANSPORT SECTOR
A. The Transport System
1.01      In Egypt the concentration of economic activity along the Nile
Valley and in the Nile Delta has resulted in a relatively simple transport
network. However, this network, through lack of maintenance and development,
is now barely adequate for existing demand.
1.02      The domestic transport system comprises:  3,559 route km of rail-
way, 26,400 km of roads, 3,310 km of inland waterways, four major airports,
three major ports, and an oil pipeline due for completion in 1976. The Suez
Canal, while not a part of the domestic transport system, attracts consider-
able economic activity; located east of the Nile Delta, it is connected to
the rail and road systems. The transport network is concentrated in the Nile
Delta and Valley, the latter stretching about 900 km south from Cairo to
Aswan. The Nile Valley narrows and becomes somewhat rugged towards Aswan.
However, the topography of the country is, in general, characterized by flat,
sandy desert plains.
1.03      Egypt's population of about 37 million is growing at an annual rate
of 2.5%; it is concentrated in the fertile Nile Delta and Valley which accounts
for less than 4% of the total area of just over 1 million km2 . The localized
density of over 1,000 persons per km2 is one of the highest in the world.
About 50% of the population lives in urban areas, of which almost half resides
in Cairo. The estimated GDP per capita in 1974 was US$242 (1973 market prices)
and has been growing at about 2.7% per annum in real terms. The transport de-
mand arising from this economic geography is dominated by the Cairo-Alexandria
import/export freight traffic, followed by the Aswan-Cairo-Alexandria corridor.
The total transport demand is expected to increase significantly during 1975-
80 in keeping with the rising tempo of industrialization and an expected 6.5%
growth in GDP in real terms.
1.04      The linear configuration of populated areas, the flat topography,
and the high value of fertile land, have all supported development of the
railways as the dominant inland transport mode. This has been reinforced by
the Government's desire and ability in a planned economy to direct long dis-
tance traffic to the railways (and to a lesser extent inland waterways) and
short distance traffic to the roads. The modal distribution of inland freight
traffic in ton/km has also remained fairly constant in recent years at about
50% to railways, 25% to roads, 20% to inland waterways, and 5% to pipelines.
1.05      Development of the transport sector has been constrained along with
other sectors by limited foreign exchange. This has resulted in the deferral
of both maintenance of, and new investments in, facilities and vehicles. The
impact of the latter has been most severe on rolling stock, locomotives, and



heavy trucks. The recent initiation of the Phase II of the Railway In-
vestment Program taken up with the help of Loan 1098-EGT is expected to
solve this problem to some extent.
B. Transport Coordination and Planning
1.06      Four ministries, the Ministry of Transport and Communications, the
Ministry of Petroleum and Mineral Resources, the Ministry of Maritime Trans-
port and the Ministry of Tourism and Civil Aviation share responsibility for
the transport system, and coordination between them is formally achieved
through Cabinet meetings as shown by the organization chart enclosed herein.
Financial coordination of transport investments is undertaken by the Ministry
of' Planning, and all investment funds are allocated by the Ministry of Finance,
following approval by the Ministry of Planning. Little or no economic plan-
ning of investments or operations has been carried out in the past, either
within the transport ministries or by the Ministry of Planning. There is
little explicit formulation of policy, although cost minimization as an ob-
jetCtive for the transport system is implied, as is the desire for a balance
between costs and revenues on revenue-earning modes. For highways and inland
waterways there are no general user charges. In the past, some funds for road
maintenance came directly from a tax on bus fares, but this system is no longer
used. Similarly, an airport tax exists but it is unclear if this is related
directly to costs. The examination of policy and investment alternatives has
been largely taken over by the Transport Planning Authority located in the
Ministry of Transport and Communications but its responsibilities cover
only road, rail, and inland waterway transport.
1.07      In addition to Government agencies and Departments, state-owned
corporations play an important role in the transport sector. Most were
established in the 1960s, by nationalization of private firms. Apart from
the Suez Canal Authority, they include the Egyptian Navigation Company,
which owns and operates sea-going ships; the Egyptian Maritime Transport
Company (MARTRANS) which charters ships and arranges liner freight booking
for Egyptian cargo, the Alexandria Ships Agents Company which acts as an
agent on behalf of the owners of non-Egyptian ships calling at Alexandria,
the Arab Ship Supplies Company, the Canal Zone Stevedoring Company, etc.
All these organizations, with the exception of the Suez Canal Authority,
are controlled by the Maritime Transport Organization under the Ministry of
Maritime Transport.
1.08      The Government is aware of the importance and potential benefits
of sound transport policies and investment planning. However, for such
analysis, the statistical base in terms of traffic flow data and unit costs
is inadequate. In these circumstances, investment plans have in the past
reflected budget allocations on the basis of first priority for maintenance



ALEXANDRIA PORT PROJECT
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
TRANSPORT MINISTRIES
C  C A B I N E T A
MMENEsTRY A f TOURISM TY  AU I T                                                   MINISTRY OF PETROLEUM] 
AND CIVI AVIATION                              MARITIME RANS                   AND MINERA RESOURCES  ONAND COMMONICATIONSI
TRANSPORT  AD BRIGES  RAD HAULAGE    ASSENGERS E PANNRING                         EGNYTPTTN EYPIAIRASPN
ORGAVIATION      ORGCVL  AVIATION  OR CAIRO AIRPORT  ORGA NIZATIO      AUTHORIY |E                        R     Y          A
| lNsTlTUIE  | L AUTHORITY j  | AUTHORITY | j ORGANIZATION | | AUTHORITY | | LIGHT HOUSES }Wl4ORGANIZATION |
|PIPELINE
|DEPAR1TMENT|
World Bank-1E421iRI



of existing systems, second for reconstruction of war-damaged facilities and
third for new works. The Government is aware of the limitations of such an
approach and has commissioned a comprehensive Transport Survey for which fi-
nance has been included in Loan 1098-EGT for Egyptian Railways. The Govern-
ment has invited and received proposals for the Survey from different consul-
tants on the basis of Terms of Reference agreed with the Bank and the Survey
is hopefully to start soon. The Survey will cover all transport modes in
Egypt, and will review the construction and storage industries to the extent
that they influence transport costs, and is expected to study future transport
demand and suggest optimal plans for developing the country's various trans-
port facilities including its ports. Phase I of the survey will take 8 months
and Phase II a further 15 months; the Government has agreed to review, jointly
with the Bank, the consultant's recommendations after each phase and the ac-
tion that might be appropriate on such recommendations. Further, the Govern-
ment has agreed during negotiations that no other major port development will
be implemented before the completion of the Transport Survey and the National
Port Development Plan.
C. The Ports and Port Planning
1.09      Alexandria is the main port in Egypt.  It handled over 90% of the
total overseas traffic handled by all Egyptian Ports in 1975. Two other
important ports for general cargo are Port Tewfiq (Port Suez) and Port Said,
located at the two ends of the Suez Canal. Two other ports, Safaga and Qseir
on the Red Sea, are specialized in bulk traffic of phosphate and other min-
erals. On the Mediterranean, Mersah Matrouh, midway between Alexandria and the
Libyan border, is another small port. In addition, there are some more small
ports on the Egyptian coast which handle a nominal amount of traffic, but some
of which hold much promise for future development. Egypt has also specialized
oil ports.
1.10      The hostilities in 1967 and 1973 badly affected the working of Port
Said and Port Tewfiq, which had led to an increase in the relative share of
Aliexandria Port from 76% in 1966 to 91% in 1975. These ports have now partly
resumed operations and some reconstruction work is now in progress which will
increase their capacity to some extent by 1977-78. Recently some traffic in
foodgrains, fertilizers, timber, and general cargo has been diverted from
Alexandria to Port Said; it is expected that by 1978, the limited development
works in Port Said and Port Tewfiq will enable more of such traffic to be
handled there; Port Tewfiq may particularly be called upon to handle the large
volume of cement imports expected during 1976-78 followed by the large cement
exports expected subsequently. Some development work is in progress also in
Port Safaga for providing mechanized handling facilities for alumina and
phosphates. In addition, a new port is planned to be developed at Dekhela,
about 15 km west of Alexandria, to service a sponge iron plant to be con-
structed there. This port may eventually have substantial general cargo



- 5 -
facilities, but these facilities are not expected to be operational before
1985; the government has agreed during negotiations that no such facilities
will be constructed before completion of the plan described in para 1.08 above.
The appraisal mission attempted to project traffic demand for all Egyptian
ports for the period up to 1980, and to allocate traffic to these "other ports"
to their fullest possible capability; the resulting estimates showed an increase
in their dry cargo traffic from about 0.8 million tons in 1974 to about 3.5 mil-
lion tons in 1980, their relative share rising from 9% to 20% during the same
period.
1.11      The scope for further development of the capacity of Egyptian ports
is presently constrained by the limited availability of resources and equally
by the lack of information regarding the extent and type of port traffic de-
mand on a long-term basis and the optimal location for developing such major
port facilities. The Transport Sector Survey is expected to form the base
for a national port development plan for Egypt. The present investment pro-
ject for Alexandria port is intended to meet rehabilitation needs, pending
the preparation of such a National Port Development Plan. All immediate pos-
sibilities for expanding Alexandria's general cargo facilities without dis-
locating existing traffic have been included. However, the project is un-
likely to completely eliminate port congestion in Egypt; the development of
major new port facilities, whether at Alexandria or elsewhere, will be required
for this purpose.
Previous Bank Group Transport Sector Operations in Egypt
1.12       The proposed loan would be the fifth Bank Group operation for trans-
port in Egypt and the first for ports; the first four operations are:
(i) one credit and one loan were made for railways. The first
phase of Egyptian Railways' (ER) Investment Program is being
assisted by an IDA credit of US$30 million (Credit 284-UAR -
February 1972), and despite emergency conditions prevailing
until the end of 1974, has made satisfactory progress; some
items had to be deferred and included in the Second Project.
Eighty percent of the Credit has been disbursed. A US$37
million loan to Egyptian Railways was made in April 1975
(Loan 1098-EGT) to help finance the Second Phase of ER's
Investment Program and is being disbursed against expendi-
tures on selected investments in the Program. US$2 million
also provides for the Transport Survey (1.08). Procurement
on this project is making good progress. About 40% of the
total value of contracts has been placed and bids for a
further 50% has been received.
(ii) Two loans have been made for the Suez Canal: the first, for
US$56.5 million (243-Egypt, December 1959) was for widening
and deepening the canal and its approaches, construction of



additional facilities and purchase of equipment, and was
completed satisfactorily; the second, of US$50.0 million
(1064-EGT, December 1974) for rehabilitating the Canal and
related facilities, to enable operations to be resumed at
a level of at least the scale and efficiency prior to clo-
sure in 1967. This loan financed 27% only of the project
total costs, the remainder being covered by concessional
loans mainly from Arab sources and the USA. The project
is making good progress and procurement is fast; however,
because disbursements have started on the Arab loans first,
no disbursement has yet taken place on the Bank loan. It
is expected. that disbursements will start in the second
quarter of Calendar Year 1976. Contracts for a feasibility
study of the expansion of the Canal have been passed with
consultants Maunsell, Ltd. (UK) and Sogreah (France) in
December 1975, some six months behind schedule.
1.13      In addition to these specific transport loans, the Bank financed
urgent spare parts and equipment for the Port of Alexandria in Loan/Credit
524/1062-EGT (Industrial and Agricultural Imports).



II. THE PORT
A. Port Facilities and Traffic
Situation and Access
2.01      Alexandria is situated at the western extremity of the Nile Delta,
and is established on a strip of land between the sea and Lake Maryut. Sec-
ond city of Egypt and its principal port, it handles more than three quarters
of the country's foreign trade. The harbor is protected by outer reefs; two
channels give access to it, the Great Pass and the Bougaz Pass, respectively
12m and 9m. There are no tides. These channels have silted up during recent
years and need to be dredged of about 0.5m of silt, which is included in the
proposed project (para 3.07). A third pass, the Alternate Pass, is planned to
be opened at a depth of 15.0m, which will necessitate dredging 4.0 million m3
of sand, of which 2.1 million m3 are to reach a depth 12.0m and 1.9 million m3
to reach the final depth of 15.0m. One and three-tenths million m3 have been
dredged up to 1973 by dredgers from the Suez Canal Authority (SCA) and dredging
has since been interrupted due to the lack of dredgers.
Accommodation: General (Map 11879)
2.02      Alexandria has two harbors, East and West, separated by a T-shaped
peninsula. The East Harbor is shallow, and used only by fishing craft. The
following particulars relate to the West Harbor, where commercial activity is
concentrated. The harbor is formed by two converging breakwaters, with en-
trance channel some 500m wide. Total water area is 600 ha, of which 200 form
the Inner Harbor (mainly for general cargo traffic) and the remainder form the
Outer Harbor (mainly for bulk and oil traffic); these harbors are separated by
a further breakwater. Total length of quayage for merchant shipping is 7,300m,
of which 2,000 are at shallow berths. A further 2,500m is used for ship repair,
by the Navy, etc. and is distributed over the port area. This makes communica-
tion in the port difficult and lengthy, specially since the harbor stretches
for seven kilometers alongside the coast.
2.03      The above would show that the port of Alexandria is impressive in
size. However, earlier developments without a master plan, with many small
basins separated by piers, make it difficult to operate. The Port Authority
*          has sensible master plan projects to correct this and redesign the port, of
which the civil works in the proposed project are a part (para 3.07). How-
ever, since modification of most berths will necessitate their temporary clo-
sure, facilities will have to be developed outside the present port to relieve
congestion and to permit continued operations during the closure. The devel-
opment of such facilities will emerge from the ongoing Transport Plan Survey;
such development may take place at Dekhela, 20 km west of Alexandria where a
project exists for industrial development of a shore-based sponge iron plant.



-8-
General cargo port
2.04      There are 3,400m of quay (27 berths) for general cargo of which
only about 1,500m (11 berths) can accommodate deep sea ships exceeding 130m
in length and 8m draft, (which are modest dimensions by modern standards).
310m of length of berth presently under reconstruction will be back in service
in 1977 and 140m in 1978, all with improved design characteristics (para 3.01).
In addition, the use of four berths at the passenger terminal is limited because
these berths must be available for priority passenger vessels. Transit sheds
and stacking yards are too small; there are 16 m2 of transit sheds and 30 m2
of stacking yards per linear meter of berth, whereas modern standards are 40
and 130 m2 respectively; most quay aprons have half the required width to op-
eriate equipment effectively. All this is due to the large number of narrow
finger piers of inadequate and obsolete characteristics. Siltation by ships'
refuse has developed alongside these quays and further limit their opera-
tional use; part of the surface is in a poor condition which causes rapid
wear and tear of mobile cargo handling equipment. The project, which in-
cludes the construction of three large dimension deep sea berths, developing
storage facilities outside the port limits, dredging alongside quays, revet-
ment repairs, and procuring lighters to unload ship at anchorage, will partly
alleviate present shortcomings for the next years to come (para 3.08). How-
ever, modifying the port facilities is the only long-term solution (para 2.03).
Bulk cargo and oil port
2.05      The bulk cargo port comprises 2,800m of quays for coal, fertilizers,
corn, timber, etc. Half the berths have either inadequate dimensions, with
narrow aprons, or inadequate length and draft for modern bulk carriers. Sil-
tation has also developed alongside. Corrective measures are being taken by
reconstructing the timber berths to adequate dimensions and extending the grain
berths and silos. The proposed project includes dredging alongside the berths
to restore the original depth. Long-term plans which are not part of the
project include the redesign and extension of coal berths. Oil berths are
adequate in dimensions and maintenance.
Traffic
2.06      Traffic is about 2,700 cargo ships per year, of which 1,500 are
general cargo, 800 dry bulk and 400 liquid bulk/oil ships. In addition,
40CI passenger vessels, mainly tourist, visit the port each year. Many
cargo ships are small which is significant of the Eastern Mediterranean
trade, which is confirmed by the low average tonnage of 2,200 dwt per ship.
Total cargo traffic is 15.0 million tons of which 3.0 are general cargo,
6.C0 dry bulk and 6.0 liquid bulk. Alexandria handles most of Egypt's gen-
eraLl cargo grain and industrial raw materials; its role as an oil port is
also significant. Roll-on/Roll-off traffic develops rapidly and is ex-
pected to play a major role in the future; development of that traffic
will be reviewed by the consultants responsible for the Transport Survey
(para 1.08).



2.07      Traffic projections have been made in detail up to 1980; general
cargo imports are expected to go up from about 3.0 to 4.4 million tons between
1975 and 1980. Total traffic in timber and bagged fertilizer, also handled
and stacked by USAC, is likely to decline from 1.1 million tons in 1975 to
0.75 million tons in 1980, mainly due to the expected decline in bagged fer-
tilizer traffic, following the opening of a new fertilizer plant in Egypt.
Traffic projections are summarized below and additional details are given in
Chapter IV (para 4.03).
Traffic Projections, 1975-1980
1974    1975    1976    1977    1978    1979    1980
(Actual)
A. General Cargo
Imports               1,986   3,000   3,310   3,640   3,960   4,170   4,420
Exports               1,246   1,270   1,375   1,460   1,495   1,600   1,725
Total A            3,232   4,270   4,685   5,100   5,455   5,770   6,145
B. Dry Bulk
Imports              5,986   6,360   6,515   6,740   7,250   7,370   7,580
of which:
fertilizers
(10% in bags)       1,030      900      600      600      600     300      300
Exports                  56       30      50       50       50       50       50
Total B         6,042   6,390   6,565   6,790   7,300   7,420   7,630
Total A+B       9,274  10,660  11,250  11,890  12,755  13,190  13,775
C. Liquid Bulk
Imports              5,610   6,000   6,000   4,500   4,000   4,000   4,000
Exports                 585      750     800   1,500   2,250   2,250   2,250
Total C         6,195   6,750   6,800   6,050   6,250   6,250   6,250
Total Traffic
(A+B+C)
Imports              13,582  15,360  15,825  14,880  15,210  15,540  16,000
Exports               1,887   2,050   2,225   3,060   3,795   3,900   4,025
Total          15,469  17,410  18,050  17,940  19,005  10,440  20,005



- 10 -
B. Port Administration
The Alexandria Port Authority
2.08      Port administration at Alexandria reflects both the influence of
European, mainly continental, administrative law, which resulted in upgrad-
ing in 1963 the Alexandria Port Directorate from a Government Department
to an autonomous port authority, and the influence of socialist principles,
which resulted in nationalizing the local private companies conducting
cargo handling and warehousing within the port premises.
2.09      The Alexandria Port Authority (APA), which has some financial and
administrative autonomy and is run by civil servants seconded to it, is char-
tered to control and regulate all activities in the port area as an agent of
the executive branch of Government; plan, build and maintain port facilities;
arLd conduct all ship and cargo operations, either directly, or through li-
censees. At present, the APA owns two of the licensee companies, the United
Arab Stevedoring Company (UASC) and the Warehouses Company of Egypt (GWE); these
pe!rform general cargo operations. Special facilities, such as grain silos or
oil and bulk terminals, are licensed to other Government agencies or state-owned
companies or organizations (such as General Company for Silos for grain berths,
or the General Organization for Metallurgical industries for the coal berths)
and theoretically supervised by the APA. The bargaining position of APA in
relation with these agencies, or with these monopolistic state-owned companies
or general organizations, appears weak; mainly, land leased to them for their
specialized facilities may not be adequately charged for. This should be
corrected when modernized accounting (para 2.28) will have identified cases
of under pricing. A provision to that effect has been introduced in the Loan
Agreement.
2.10      Private sector operations are expected to be reintroduced, mainly
stevedoring, to compete with UASC. No details are known at the present
sltage.
2.11      During the past 10 years, APA has been working under conditions
of extreme difficulty. The pressure put on it following the closure of
Egypt's other ports, as well as the shortage of foreign exchange which
prevented it from developing the port, replacing outdated equipment, or
buying new equipment, was handled with a considerable degree of success.
However, a review of present organization and management practices is
necessary now, to be followed by changes aimed at improving it.
National Port Organization
2.12      The APA is the only autonomous port authority in Egypt.  The SCA
directly operates Port Said. Other ports, which are of lesser importance
at present, are local departments of the Port and Lighthouses Administration
in the Ministry of Maritime Transport, the organization of which is detailed
in the chart on page 11. There are no plans at present for establishing a
National Port Authority (NPA), although a separate authority to run all Red
Sea ports has been under consideration. The establishment of a national port



ALEXANDRIA PORT PROJECT
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
MINISTRY OF MARITIME TRANSPORT
J  UNDER SECRETARY
FOR FOLLOW-UP
UNDER SECRETARY
MINISTER                              I  FOR FINANCE/
ADMINISTRHATION
UNDERSECRETARY
1 FOR ECONOMICS/
FOREIGN RELATIONS
I 
MARITIME                                       ALEXANDRIA                PORTS AND LIGHT           ARAB MARITIME
ORGANIZATION                                    PORT AUTHORITY           ADMINISTRATION            ACADEMY
Navigation    Egyptian  Arab        Ship       Suez Canal  Shipping    High Seas    ( See Chart )       Secondary    Light and
Company     Maritime    Repair      Supplies    Secondiary    Agencies    Fisheries                      Ports       Signals
Transport    Company    Company    Company    Company
Company
World Bank-15420



PORT OF ALEXANDRIA PROJECT
ORGANIZATION CHART OF GENERAL ALEXANDRIA PORT AUTHORITY
SOARD OF DIRECTORS
CHAIRMAN AND PRESIDENT
OF THE BOARD
GENERAL DEPARTMENT
ADMINISTRATION ANOD    _                                                     _      FOR PLANNING AND
ORGANIZATION OFFICE   _                                                      _       .  FOLLOW-UP
I SUPERVISION AND  T                                                                   RAL RELATIONS
INSPECTION DEPARTMENT  r                                                      4           EART
SECURITY DFFICE
SECRETA RY
| OFFICE        r
GFNEIAL MANAGER I
|EP ENT  DEIPARTMENTARA8                                                                                                         1                                    I          GEI lTD AN
l                                                                                         |      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                          ~     ~~~~~STE VEDORING      WHAREHOUSES  |\
GENERIAL        IGENERAL                                               I         GENERAL        IGERA 
FINANCIAL                             EN GINEERING                     |          TRAFFIC                              ADMINIST RATION                                      BOARD OF DIRECTORS                                            BDAC  O IETR
_ DGEPARTMENT    l                _    DEPARTME PT    M                                   DEPA PTMENT                                                                                    D                                                              DPREPAMTMENTENT
L|   SUPPLY AND   l   _l  CIVIL ENGINEERING   l   2   TRAFFIC OEPARTMENT  |             >       ADMINISTRATION"'|S|RAHAIRMACHAIRMAN EANDEPR SIDENT                          PI ... iq                     C.Al                               nn -g
TM   T        0         R               L.0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~MANOOMT
|    MECHANICAL                                                                                                                             O lLGA       DMINISTRATION                                      FORWARINUG
DEPARTMENT                                                                                                                                   DEATET                                                |        EPRMN
WORKSHOPS                                                                                                                                   EHIA                                                            IAC
7   DEPARTMENT                                                                     R  E                                                OEPARTMENT D                                        _          DEPARTMENT
LE :  -|ECPDMINTMSTRION    SD



- 13 -
authority appears neither urgent nor reasonable now because (i) Alexandria
handles 90% of national traffic and its relative importance would imbalance the
organization of a national port authority; (ii) the transfer of the canal zone
ports from the SCA to the NPA would have operational implications on the Suez
Canal operations, the inconvenience of which might not be outweighed by the
benefits to be obtained from the new set-up; (iii) the consultants responsible
for the National Transport Survey, will issue recommendations on improvements
of the organization of transport agencies; and (iv) major changes in adminis-
trative set-up are neither a condition of success of the proposed project nor a
condition of future improvement of port operations and management at Alexandria.
Port Management Policy
2.13      According to law, it is APA's duty "to administer the port in such
a way as to assure good and regular operation at the port, and to elevate its
standard to the maximum degree of efficiency with respect to all aspects of
activity thereat". This policy statement puts the accent on the level of
service to be given to the public, rather than on the economic/financial
character of port operations. The interpretation by APA's staff of this
policy appears to be that (i) good service to the public will lead inevitably
to positive macro-economic results; (ii) peak demands must be dealt with,
whatever the costs; and (iii) financial viability, even though it is desir-
able, is not essential. This public service oriented approach of Egyptian
port administration, itself a consequence of the legal tradition (para 2.08)
must be reconciled with (i) a cost-benefit approach to port investment and
services, and (ii) a cost-based financial/tariff policy supplemented by a
modern accounting system, none of which presently exists. This is possible
if care is taken to convince APA that the necessary adjustments in manage-
ment techniques do not conflict with the basic policy, but rather aim at
improving its implementation.
Port Organization
2.14      The APA is placed under control of the Ministry of Maritime Trans-
port (the Minister), which approves budgets and major decisions; as indicated
in the organization chart attached herein, the Ministry supervises all port and
maritime transport in Egypt. APA proper is headed by a Board of Directors and
a Chairman, who is also the Chief Executive of the Authority. The Board of
Directors is formed by the Chairman of the Stevedoring and Warehouse Companies
and representatives from the Ports and Lighthouses Administration, Ships Agency
Company and Egyptian Railways. Pursuant to a 1972 legislation, it has re-
placed a larger board which included representatives of various ministries
or Government Departments; this earlier composition of the Board was known
to help transactions between the APA and the Departments and to speed up the
decision process. It is recognized that the present composition of the Board
is not satisfactory and changes are being considered which will necessitate
a change in statutory instruments relating to APA by the Minister. Since the
present instruments, although acceptable by the Bank for the purpose of the
project, need to be completed mainly to organize planning and reporting systems
and to strengthen the financial organization, the opportunity to review the
statutory instruments and to introduce changes that would be both in line with



- 14 -
modern port legislation and adapted to the legal environment of the country
should be seized. At negotiation, the APA and the Government agreed that the
consultants studies to be financed from the Loan and to be reviewed by the Bank
before recommendations inserted in them will be implemented, will include a
review of the instruments relating to the borrower's organization.
2.15      As shown by the organization chart on page 12, APA includes:
I)   a Head Office under the Chairman, which includes a General
Planning Department (GPD) for development planning and
follow-up of projects; and
ii)   four General Departments for Finance, Administration, Engineer-
ing and Traffic.
APA controls its subsidiaries through the help of a Supervision and Inspec-
tion Department.
2.16      Finance and Administration General Departments are staff departments
wherfeas the Engineering and Traffic General Departments perform operational
line functions. Their size and diversity make them unwieldy to handle. In
both exists a dichotomy between regulatory/quasi-governmental and commercial/
industrial activities. Thus, the General Engineering Department operates a
large mechanical workshop (900 workers), which needs modernization and re-
organization; it is governed by civil service rules and regulations, basically
not adapted to industrial management, and may not be profitable financially.
Also, marine officers in the General Traffic Department devote a large part of
their activities to operating equipment such as floating cranes for unloading
heavy lifts; this is detrimental to their duties of controlling traffic and
port users, which should be their priority task.
2.17      Since, with a staff of 3,200 (see para 2.19 for details) the APA
has probably reached the point beyond which it will be unmanageable in its
present set-up, the present organizational set-up needs to be reviewed. It
may be beneficial to decentralize further and establish the workshop and some
of the marine activities as separate companies, similar to the UASC and the
GWE. APA's staff is not unsympathetic to this solution, and it also appeared
attractive to Government officials when it was presented to them. However, it
needs to be explored further; this will be done during the management study
which is included in the project.
Port Planning
2.18      APA's  Head Office includes a General Planning Department (GPD) for
development planning and follow-up of projects. This Department is staffed
mainly with technical staff (engineers and architects); it has no economist
nor financial planning officer. Planning is viewed mainly as an engineering
exercise, not as a comprehensive process incorporating financial, maintenance,
training as well as engineering planning. It is the intention of APA's Chair-
man to reinforce the planning unit by recruiting an economist/statistician and
to establish a monitoring unit for supervising project execution (see details
in para 3.36). This monitoring unit is expected to be the nucleus of future
development and improvement of the GPD.



- 15 -
Staffing and Training
2.19      APA and its two subsidiaries together employ about 10,200 people,
of which about 3,200 are under APA, 6,000 under UASC and about 1,000 under
GWE. APA's staff is distributed as follows:
Head office             70  (of which 37 in Planning)
Engineering          1,700  (of which 900 in Workshops)
Traffic                950
Administration         250
Finance                210
3,180
2.20      APA's complement is high, as indicated by the mediocre ratio of 1.2
between total staff employed and the number of ships entered. Moreover, the
quality of staff is uneven, which itself is a cause of overstaffing in general
and understaffing in some trades (such as qualified marine officers). Unattrac-
tive civil service salaries are said to make recruitment of experienced staff
difficult, especially since civil service compensation levels in the APA are
lower than in the UASC and GWE, where higher, nationalized industries' salary
levels are applicable. It would be unreasonable to expect that the Government
can accept that salaries of civil servants in APA should differ from salaries
in other Government agencies. However, it has been agreed during negotiations
that APA shall, in consultation with the Guarantor, study appropriate incen-
tives for the services of qualified staff, and the recruitment of such staff,
such study to be completed by December 31, 1977.
2.21      The need for training is generally recognized in APA's staff.
Marine officers are strongly in favor; workshop staff visualize it as on-the-
job training exclusively of young apprentices by veteran workers (most probably
their fathers or uncles); some engineering staff appear more reticent and seem
to be afraid of a loss of status and the questioning of their diplomas and ac-
tivities. Some training has already been obtained from foreign sources, such
as the French Association Technique des Industries de la Manutention (ATIM).
However, no training program exists and APA's Training Department has little
activity.
2.22      Chances of staff attrition are slim, because of the employment situa-
tion; in view of the expected increase in traffic and in APA's activities, it
may be not necessary. The objective should be the full employment of existing
staff and the following actions are necessary:
i)   review of staffing and manpower needs, with identification
of positions;
ii)   identification of training needs;
iii)   formulation of training programs; and
iv)   implementation of training programs.



- 16 -
2.23      The necessary measures to conduct the above-mentioned actions are
included in the project (para 3.07).
Equipment and Maintenance
2.24      The APA owns and operates all marine equipment in Alexandria Port
(for cargo handling see para 2.25); most of it is either overage or ill-
adapted to its purpose, and, mainly, is inadequately maintained. This is be-
cause (i) equipment is insufficient in number, which causes existing equipment
to be used full time without preventive maintenance; (ii) maintenance facili-
ties are inadequate, particularly slipways; (iii) the existing workshop does
not have the necessary output, despite its impressive size and staffing; and
(iv) spare parts have been in short supply during recent years because of
shortage of foreign exchange. Action is being taken or will be taken to im-
prove the situation, as follows:
(i) priority marine equipment will be procured under the pro-
posed project (paras 3.15 to 3.18) which will permit the con-
demnation of old equipment or equipment for which spare parts
cannot be procured easily;
(ii)  a new 600t slipway is being built and will be operational by
1977, with twelve careening posts;
(iii) the workshop will be reorganized and its staff trained within
the scope of the present project; and
(iv)  spare parts are being procured under the Industrial Imports
Loan (1062-EGT) and Credit (524-EGT). Spare parts for three
years are included into the cost estimates for equipment to be
procured under the project which is necessary, because of the
acute shortage of spare parts caused by lack of foreign exchange
and delays in obtaining licenses. In addition, assurances have
been obtained from the Government, during negotiations, that the
necessary foreign exchange will be made available each year to
APA to acquire spare parts needed to maintain its equipment.
C.   Operations
2.25      All general cargo and timber and bulk bagged fertilizer traffic is
handled by the Stevedoring Company whereas bulk traffic (grain, coal and pe-
troleum traffic) is handled by other licensees, mainly Government-owned corpora-
tions (para 2.09). General cargo ships are loaded and unloaded mostly with
ships' gear, because not enough shore cranes are available. About 10 percent
of the import handled is delivered directly to the consignees; the extreme
shortage of transit sheds and warehousing facilities, compounded with the
shortage of warehousing capacity in the Alexandria city, results in delays in
clearing goods from the port's sheds. The Warehouses Company operates some
open storage areas about 15 km away from the port and moves overflow cargo



- 17 -
from the wharves to these storage areas in their own transport fleet; however,
the operation is constrained by the shortage of trucks and the lack of covered
sheds in these outside storage areas. This results in considerable cargo con-
gestion in the wharf area, hampering efficiency of ship operations. The pro-
vision of additional storage facilities and equipment in the project should
alleviate congestion and improve operations (para 3.04).
2.26      The port operates 16 hours a day from 8 a.m. to midnight 7 days a
week. Overtime work beyond midnight is carried out whenever it is considered
essential. This aspect of operations therefore does not call for improvement.
However, while scope exists for handling about 35 percent of the traffic, in
units loads or pallets, only 10 percent is so handled. This, compounded with
the lack of equipment, contributes to the low handling productivity. Relief
comes from the development of roll-on/roll-off traffic, which develops rapidly
in the Mediterranean; this traffic is presently accommodated at the passenger
berths, which are adequate for that purpose. Containerization also develops.
Both containerization and roll-on/roll-off have been taken into account in the
computation of the share of traffic likely to be unitized.
2.27      Productivity per hook-hour in handling general cargo import/export
traffic (general cargo divided by gross total of hook-hours employed) has de-
clined from 11.3 tons in 1972 to 10.2 tons in 1973, 9.9 tons in 1974 (Jan.-June)
and 8.9 tons in 1975 (Jan.-June). With the introduction of new equipment and
floating craft, palletization, and additional storage and transport capacity,
it is assumed that productivity will at least be restored to the 1972 level
of 11.3 tons per gang hour (hook-hour). This amounts to about 25% increase;
abouit 10% of this is likely to come from avoiding work interruptions due to the
inadequacy of equipments (the figure based on 1975 data); the rest will come
from better handling efficiency obtained through increased equipment, expanded
storage and transport, and an increase in palletized cargo. The objective set
is conservative and easily attainable; further details of future productivity
assumptions are presented in paras 4.16 and 4.17. During loan negotiations, the
APA has committed itself to increase the annual average productivity on general
cargo to at least 11.3 tons per hook-hour by 1979.
D.   Finance, Accounting and Audit
General
2.28      The Alexandria Port Authority holds virtually all the equity of the
stevedoring and warehousing companies, a small balance being held by the private
sector in the UASC:



- 18 -
Shares in UASC and GWE
(LE million)
Held by          Held by             Total
APA       private interest         Capital
Stevedoring Company (UASC)            1.40            .06                  1.46
Warehouses Company (GWE)              0.71            .00                  0.71
2.11            .06                 2.17
Each of the three organizations is separately organized and administered and
maintains its own accounting, invoicing, tariffs and payment systems. Each
organization owns the assets it uses and is responsible for their maintenance
and replacement. There are technical differences due to the fact that the
APA is an authority retaining some aspects of management of a government de-
partment, whereas its subsidiaries are subject to the rules applicable to
nationalized industries, more similar to the private sector's.
Accounting
2.29      All three organizations are subject to Egyptian accounting law by
which, inter alia, (i) 25% of profit is allocated to a Worker's Profit Par-
ticipation Scheme; (ii) 15% of profit must be transferred to legal and statu-
tory reserves; (iii) accounts must be prepared in accordance with the statutory
accounting code; and (iv) the official policy on depreciation must be followed,
which dictates not only the annual percentage rates by asset classification but
also provides for on-going depreciation at 50% of the normal annual rate, once
the asset has reached a "nil" value, thereby building up additional reserves
for asset value increase. Depreciation rates are adequate, although rather
high for fixed assets such as wharves and breakwaters. Assets are valued as
cost/acquisition price and financial accounting is undertaken on a full accrual
basis; it is complex, but carefully conducted, and needs modernization, which
will be done with the help of consultants whose services are financed from
the proposed loan.
Revenue
2.30      APA earns its revenue from (i) charging for its own operational ac-
tivities such as pilotage, berthing, etc; (ii) rent for use of assets by the
Warehouses Company; (iii) a charge to its subsidiaries for administration and
supervision, calculated as 10% of profits earned by UASC and GWE; and (iv) from
income from its investments in the two subsidiary companies, calculated as
75% of profit balances, the other 25% going to the Worker's Profit Participa-
tioni Schemes, as indicated above. In turn, APA transfers all its profits to
Government and any deficits are covered by the Government. With the reserva-
tionis expressed in para 2.09 and 2.35, this structure of revenue is considered
adequate and, during recent years, APA has always operated at a surplus.



- 19 -
Budgeting
2.31      Subsidiaries prepare their budgets initially for submission to the
APA. These in turn are submitted with the composite budget for the port
group to the Ministry of Maritime Transport. This is then subject to the ap-
proval of the Ministry of Planning (on capital expenditure) and of the Mini-
stry of Finance (on revenue expenditure). Budget flexibility does not appear
to be a major problem.
Investments
2.32      Investments are financed by funds from the depreciation provision
and from Government, after approval has been obtained of investment plans
through the Ministry of Maritime Transport and the Ministry of Planning. It
is apparent that investment in replacement of renewal of assets has lagged
behind depreciation reserves during recent years, which resulted in consider-
able build up of accumulated depreciation in each organization. This was due
mainly to lack of foreign exchange at Government level.
Audit
2.33      APA is subject to Government audit by the Central Accounting Organ-
ization; audit is adequate. Independent audit firms are appointed by the
Government to undertake a full audit of the subsidiaries' financial affairs.
These audit firms are qualified and audit is thorough.
Tariffs
2.34      Each of APA, UASC and GWE operates its own tariff system and is
responsible for applying, invoicing and collecting revenue from service users.
APA tariffs cover pilotage and berthing operations, and vary according to
commodity classification and are on a tonnage or unit basis; the hire of
equipment is on a hourly basis. GWE tariffs cover a wide range of services,
the dominant group being for cargo storage which is based on the duration of
stay in stores. None of the tariffs are cost related; they are established
and reviewed on a "what the market can bear" basis or in relation to port
tariff levels in the Eastern Mediterranean.
Costing Information
2.35      Costing information does not exist.  As a result, it may be that APA
operates at a loss on pilotage, berthing, and other of its proper activities
and draws all its resources from transfers by the subsidiaries, which make the
larger participation to net surplus of the port group. This is important be-
cause APA draws a large part of its revenue from ships, whereas the subsidiaries
mainly charge cargo, and the economic effect of charges on ships and on cargo,
are not the same. Cost accounting should be established in view of tariff ad-
justments (para 5.14); this will be conducted with the help of management con-
sultants and has been agreed upon during negotiations. Pending such revision,
ship tariffs are to be increased by 60% on May 1, 1976, thus modifying the
present unsatisfactory situation. The enactment of the ministerial decision
increasing the tariffs was a condition of presentation of the proposed loan to
the IBRD's Board of Directors.



- 20 -
2.36      APA tariffs have not changed for ten years.  Considering inflation,
the 60% increase to be effective May 1, 1976 appears reasonable. These tariffs
are presently as follows:
Iterm                           Tariff                      Comments
Entrance Pass Pilotage (LE)
up to 450 SCNRT                 LE  4,500
1. 25% surcharge
applied from 1969
451 - 4,000 SCNRT               LE  5,500 -  9,000
2. Fees applied twice
4,001 - 10,000 SCNRT            LE 11,000 - 15,000             on each arrival and
departure
over 10,001 SCNRT               LE 16,000
Harbor Pilotage (LE)
up to 2,000 SCNRT               LE  4,000                   1. 25% surcharge from
1969
over 2,001 SCNRT                LE  6,DOO                   2. Fees applied on each
vessel maneuver
Harbor Fees (LE)
vessels with cargo
or passengers                 LE 0.375/SCNRT
vessels arriving for
other purposes                LE 0.1875/SCNRT
coastal and tourist
ships                         LE 0.09375/SCNRT
Berthing fees (in milliemes per meter of ship's length)
alongside quay                   1.35 x no. of days          5/8 added per day in
excess of 15 days
by aft of ship                   5/16 x no. of days          roll-on/roll-off shifts



- 21 -
I te                           Tariff                     Comments
Hire of floating Cranes & Tugboats (LE)
up to 100 ton capacity crane  first hour LE 70.0          10% added for working
thereafter LE 50.0        outside official hours
over 101 ton capacity crane   first hour LE 100.0         20.0 added for work-
thereafter LE 60.0        ing on holidays
Tugboats                        per hour LE 28.0          20.0 added for work-
ing on holidays
2.37      UASC tariffs were increased by 75% in 1969, which was related to de-
valuation of the LE at that time. However, the present tariff bears no rela-
tion to the economic cost of cargo packaging and handling by obsolete techni-
ques. When reviewing their tariffs, UASC should consider the possibility of
tariff diversification for pre-palletized and pre-slung cargo, that would
encourage modern techniques of cargo packaging and handling. Main tariffs
are presently as follows:
I tem                           Tariff                    Comments
Bagged Cargo (per ton)
up to 3,000 tons                LE 0.215
over 3,001 tons                 LE 0.155
Cars, Vehicles (samples, per unit)
- Railway Locomotives           LE 32.23
- Automobiles                   LE 2.15
- Lorries, tractors, trailers LE 6.45
Labor Charges (per head)
Laborers - Foreman              LE 1.308 - 1.854          Per 8 hour day or night
Tally clerks/Supervisors        LE 2.016 - 2.544
Fertilizers (per ton)
Bulk (for bagging in port)    jute bags-LE 0.358          Rates apply to discharg-
plastic bags-LE 0.490    ing inside the fertil-
izer zone.
Bagged                          jute bags-LE 0.235        Outside the zone, the
plastic bags-LE 0.292    rate is LE 0.427.
Timber (per ton)
Discharge on berth (FOB)        from LE 0.152 to 0.908  According to type of
Discharge on lighter            from LE 0.350 to 1.033  timber.
Coal (per ton)
Hatches to berth                LE 0.345
Berth to open                   LE 0.586



- 22 -
2.38      GWE has substantially increased its storage charges from June 1975,
the objective being to discourage users from leaving goods in the port area
for long periods:
Daily for                  Prior to June 1975               After June 1975
(per 100 kilos)                (per 100 kilos)
1st week                       LE 0.005                        LE 0.030
2nd week                       LE 0.010                        LE 0.060
After 2nd week                 LE 0.020                        LE 0.300
The increase appears to have produced beneficial results by reducing the
average duration of stay of cargo in port. The average duration of stay
exlperienced in 1974 was 17 days; at the end of 1975, it was reduced to 8
days.



- 23 -
III. THE PROJECT
A. The Port Investment Program
3.01      In the absence of a long-term Port Development Plan, decisions
have been made on a short-term basis. There has been a limited amount of
investment for reconstructing Port Said and Port Tewfiq, the facilities of
which were damaged by the recent hostilities, and for developing bulk hand-
ling facilities for phosphate and alumina in the Port of Safaga. However,
the major part of the port investments programmed by the Ministry of Maritime
Transport for 1975-80 (and to be in principle incorporated in the 1976-80
National Plan) concentrates on developing the facilities at Alexandria. This
consists of:
Total   Local   Foreign
Cost    Cost      Cost
(LE '000)
I.   Alexandria Port Authority
A.   Proposed World Bank Project                  35,140   11,640    23,500
(details in this chapter)                          -
B.   On-going Projects (financed locally)
1.   Reconstructing berth 41                        15 )               -
2.   Reconst. berths 27, 28, 29                      50 )               -
3.   Constructing a slipway at the Port             100 )               -
4.   Renewing the existing slipway                   60 )    5,734      -
5.   Renewing the dry dock                          25 )                    6
6.   Prolongation of the existing silo berth       180 )               -
7.   Const. shallow berths 5, 6, 7
(for barges)                              1,500 )               -
8.   Floating equipment 1975                       860                    860



- 24 -
Total   Local   Foreign
Cost    Cost      Cost
(LE '000)
C.   New Projects
9.   Maintenance/strengthening of breakwater    2,000 )
10.   Stores & office buildings                       700 )
11.   Overbridge over rail-lines in the
coal area                                    500 )
12.   Expansion of land area of the Port              450 )
II. United Arab Stevedoring Company
A.   Proposed World Bank Project
(details in this Chapter)                   16,800    6,800    10,000
B.   On-going Projects
(Cargo handling equipment 1975)                820                  820
C.   New Projects
Office building                                 750 )
)    640
Construction of stores                           50 )
III. Warehouses Company of Egypt
Proposed World Bank Project                        8,460    3,960      4,500
(details in this Chapter)                        _8___60   _8____4    39_686
68,460   28,774    39,686
3.02      As seen from the above, the proposed project includes 90% of the
total cost of the-program.  While non-project items are useful and may add to
the overall efficiency of the project, they are not considered strictly com-
plementary to it. In addition, the Government is planning the construction of
more silo capacity and additional mechanized handling facilities for faster
discharge of grain vessels, with a view to eliminate the large demurrage pay-
ments on grain shipments; these investments are proposed to be undertaken
under the aegis of the Egyptian General Company for silos.
3.03      In view of the heavy costs involved and the lumpy nature of port
development, a rational long-term solution to the lack of facilities is pos-
sible only on the basis of a national port plan for the country which should
indicate the optimal location, magnitude, and phasing of future port develop-
ment. Since the Bank-financed Transport Sector Survey about to be initiated
addresses itself to this problem, such a long-term plan can take shape in
the future. However, it is important to note that a long-term investment



- 25 -
plan should be treated as deserving high priority, in order to avoid continued
port congestion. The Government has agreed in Section 3.01(b) of the Guarantee
Agreement for the Second Railway Project to review with the Bank the recommenda-
tion of the consultants conducting the Transport Survey and any action required
to implement such recommendations. In particular, assurances will be sought dur-
ing loan negotiations that GAPA will not make additions to the 1975-80 investment
program without prior consultation with the Bank so as to avoid impairment of
GAPA's projected financial performance.
B.   Project Objectives, Dimensions and Timing
Objective
3.04      The, project has as its general objective to relieve congestion at
Alexandria Port and to accommodate future traffic. Because the port is obso-
lete in its design, which cannot be easily corrected, the project provides also
for facilities outside the port area proper; this is to remove cargo to transit
depots for storage, sorting and distribution. The project will also increase
productivity of cargo handling operations through procuring additional equip-
ment and improving maintenance. Lastly, operational improvements are expected
to result from institutional improvements and training.
Dimensions
3.05      It is likely that even after the present project is completed, there
would still be considerable congestion at the general cargo facilities at the
port. However, the scope of this project could not be readily expanded, as it
would have involved major reconstruction of the port's existing facilities and
dislocation of existing traffic, causing more port congestion in the short run.
The proposed project therefore includes all major improvements possible in the
port's general cargo facilities without dislocating existing port facilities and
existing traffic.
Timing
3.06      The present state of operations at the port, with heavy congestion
of facilities, inadequate maintenance, shortage of marine equipment, and the
overage of many equipments, clearly indicate that the project is overdue,
which is confirmed by the economic analysis (Chapter IV). The best efforts
are to be deployed to speed up execution, both to avoid increased project costs
and additional economic losses to Egypt. The approach to project programming
(para 4.34) reflects that sense of urgency.
C. Project Description
3.07      The project consists of:



- 26 -
i.   Civil works (Map 11879)
APA:  a)   Dredging 1.8 million m3 of accumulated sand in the access
channels (Great Pass and Bougaz Pass) fairways and basins
inside the port, including underwater exploration along-
side quays; all this is deferred maintenance dredging.
b)   Dredging 0.64 and 0.16 million m3 respectively of sand and
hard material in the Alternate Pass. This is capital
dredging.
c)   Paving and surfacing 100,000 m2 of roads and work areas
in the port.
d)   Constructing 550m of deep sea berths, with associated
dredging at 12.0m, 22,500 m2 of sheds and utilities.
GWE: Constructing 100,000 m2 of sheds (half of which will be open
structures) and paving and surfacing 100,000 m2 in a new
storage area.
ii.   Floating equipment
APA:   two 35t self-propelled floating cranes, six 20t pull tug
boats, three 480 hp/16m pilot boats, eight 250 hp service
boats, one grab dredger, two self-propelled dump barges.
UASC:  eight 250 hp service/tug boats, fifty 200t barges.
iii.   Cargo handling equipment
UASC:  115 forklift trucks (3.0 to lOt); 38 mobile cranes (10 to
30t); I high tower mobile crane (35t); 27 high tower mobile
cranes (10 and 15t); 80 trucks (8 to 30t); 20 tractors;
95 trailers (5 to 40t); 15 belt conveyors; 2 side loaders;
6 hopper silos for unloading bulk cargo; 10,000 pallets.
GWE:   70 forklift trucks (3t); 10 mobile cranes (10 and 30t);
2 high tower mobile cranes (lOt); 85 trucks (8 to 30t).
iv.   Miscellaneous equipment
APA: a) Workshop equipment, liaison cars, pickup trucks and buses.
b) Traffic control equipment.
GWE: Liaison cars, pickup trucks and buses.



- 27 -
v.   Consultants/technical assistance services
All consultants services will be appointed to APA.
These services include:
(a)  Additional soil investigation in area of construction of
deep-sea berths.
(b)  Final engineering for berth construction, preparation of
tender documents and bid evaluation.
(c)  Final engineering for harbor radar and radio installation.
(d)  Study of (i) organization of port authority, including plan-
ning and workshops, (ii) maintenance of equipment and (iii)
training programs.
(e)  Implementation of (i) training programs and (ii) workshop
organization.
(f)  Cost accounting and budgeting.
(g)  A study of sea pollution in the port and measures and regu-
lations to control it.
D. Engineering Evaluation
General
3.08      The general principles used in the engineering evaluation were:
(i)  to provide the port with the capability to supply satisfactory
service primarily through the replacement of overage equipment
by more modern, better adapted and standardized equipment;
(ii) to accompany and encourage the existing trend towards improved
methods of cargo handling, mainly,by increased palletization,
use of modern shore-based cranes rather than ship's gear, shift-
ing of cargo outside the port area for storage and distribution;
(iii)  to restore and consolidate previous productivity levels;
(iv) to provide the port with adequate workshop equipment so that
equipment procured under the project can be adequately maintained;
(v)  to facilitate the tasks of port officers by procuring adequate
liaison and auxiliary equipment; and
(vi) to measure exact equipment needs to avoid wasting scarce re-
sources by procurement of too large or over elaborate equipment;
this has led, in general, to a reduction of the original speci-
fications presented by the borrower, with their full agreement.



- 28 -
Dredging
3.09      Siltation in Alexandria port was formerly controlled by maintenance
dredging carried out by one dredger belonging to APA. However, that dredger
wias sunk in 1967 and no maintenance dredging has been carried out since. This
riesulted in accumulated silt in the Great Pass and Bougaz Pass, and in the fair-
way inside the port, reducing their depth by about Im. Siltation has also
developed in the port basins and in front of existing quays partly because of
lack of control of ship's refuse. Depth limitations in the port are now severe,
as indicated below:
Design        Actual
Type of berth                       Berth no.             depth          depth
(m)           (m)
General cargo                          10                  8.75           5.10
11                  8.75          5.95
12                  8.00           5.30
13                  8.75          5.95
14                 10.00           7.80
16                 10.00           8.10
18                 10.00           8.25
2C to 24               12.00           9.00
25 -  26               10.00           8.10
27 -  28               12.00          12.00
30             7.00 to 5.60         -
31                  5.60           5.10
34                  9.50           6.10
35 to 39               10.00           8.70
44                  6.50           4.60
Bulk ore & Fertilizer              55 to 61                9.00           5.50
Coal                               62 to 64               10.00           8.20
Fertilizer                         65 to 67               10.00           7.30
Timber                             71 to 77                9.00           6.70
Wheat                              79 to 81                9.00           6.10
82 to 85               10.00       8.50 to 9.50
Oil piers                          87/1 and 2             10.00           9.50
87/3 to 5               12.00          10.40
APA's dredger is presently under repair and will be incapable of clearing
the considerable backlog of maintenance dredging, which makes contract dredg-
ing necessary. Amounts to be dredged are estimated at:
Great Pass           200,000 m3
Bougaz Pass           60,000 m3
Fairway              400,000 m3
Basins               240,000 m3
Existing Quay        200,000 m3
Alternate Pass       800,000 m3
New Berths           800,000 m3
Total            3,400,000 m3



- 29 -
Dredging in the passes will restore the original depths of 12.0 and 9.0m re-
spectively. Underwater exploration alongside quays will be necessary to con-
trol the condition of existing sea-walls before this particular dredging is
undertaken. Cost of this has been included in dredging costs.
3.10      To complete dredging in the Alternate Pass, 800,000 m3, of which
160,000 are hard material, have to be dredged. This will be 12.Om deep.
Because it is better oriented in relation to prevailing winds and easier to
negotiate, it will (i) improve access by large bulk carriers, (ii) allow
ingoing and outgoing traffic to be distributed in two lanes, thus making
traffic safer and (iii) permit the temporary closure of the Great Pass, where
dangerous wrecks will to be cleared by APA. Another 800,000 m3 have to be
dredged at the site of the new berths to remove the soft soil.
3.11      A physical contingency of 15% has been added to the estimates, in
case volumes to be dredged are greater than estimated.
Berth Construction
3.12      The site for berth construction has been used for phosphate exports,
which have been discontinued, and is presently occupied by a shallow quay which
is little used. The site is adequate for building a wharf which will be easily
accessible to 10,000 dwt cargo ships, a condition which is not often met in
Alexandria Port. Soil conditions are bad, as established by the borings which
have been taken; additional borings will be taken from March to July 1976.
Plans are for the construction of a caisson-type quay, which will be confirmed
after soil investigation has been completed. 22,500 m2 of covered storage will
be built (3 transit sheds), which is adequate for the proposed length of berth.
The sheds will be steel on concrete foundations with aluminum roofs.
Paving and surfacing
3.13      Paving and surfacing in the port area is necessary to avoid damage
to cargo handling equipment and to permit the extensive use of forklift
trucks, which is necessary for palletization. 100,000 m2 to be paved under
the project will complete APA's present program of paving and surfacing,
the execution of which is presently limited by cement import restrictions.
Storage facilities
3.14      Storage facilities are to be established on 20 ha of land
recently purchased by the APA.  Half the area will be paved for open storage
and the other half will be built in sheds, some of which will be open and the
other closed by brick walls. These sheds will be lighter than transit sheds
at deep sea berths (para 3.12) and built mainly from local material. Taking
allowance for alleyways (30%), broken storage (25%), stacking height (1.75m),
etc. and a three week turnover time in the storage area, the sheds are ex-
pected to have a capacity of 0.9 million tons/year, for a cargo density of



-30 -
0.6t/m3. An increase in transit time from 3 to 4 weeks would reduce the ca-
pacity of the storage area to 710,000 tons, thus causing congestion again in
the port area. An increase in stacking height by 0.25m would increase capac-
ity to 1.1 million tons, but would reduce the speed of cargo handling operations
and thus increase costs. Clearly the capacity of such storage space is extreme-
ly sensitive to good day-to-day management to expedite turnover of cargo and
maintain storage time at reasonable levels.
Tugs
3.15      APA operates three 1,200 hp, USSR built tugs, of which one only will
be less than 10 years old in 1978. Characteristics of these tugs are inade-
quate; their availability is reduced by lack of spare parts and by need for
overhauls. In fact, in recent years, towage was provided by four tugs from the
Suez Canal Authority, which have now been returned to the Canal. The situation
is, at present, critical, and considerable ship delays are caused by the lack of
adequate tugs.
3.16      To evaluate the number of tugs necessary, the following factors have
been taken into consideration:
(i) there are presently an average of 42 ship movements/day, with
peak periods having more than 60 movements/day. The number
of movements is in proportion with the number of ships calling,
which is presently increasing at a very fast rate; however,
this increase is expected to taper off somewhat and the num-
ber of ships is expected to be 12% more in 1980 than in 1976;
(ii)  ships movements are concentrated at sunrise and before sunset;
(iii) because of the geography of the port, considerable time is lost
by tugs moving from one berth to another, which makes necessary
a distribution of tugs in at least two groups, each in one part
of the port;
(iv)  towage service has to be provided to the Alexandria shipyard
for ships entering or leaving any dry dock;
(v) the restricted area of most basins make the use of tugs
necessary by most vessels calling at Alexandria, even small
ones.
Six tugs are necessary, making allowance for repairs and overhauls, and the
expected procurement in 1976 of two small tugs as an emergency operation.



- 31 -
3.17      The size and power of the tugs were determined by considering:
(i) the distribution of the size of ships calling at Alexandria,
mainly passenger ships, tankers and bulk carriers. Clearly,
the average size of ships is increasing and the following ex-
amples of average size are indicative:
1971     1972      1973
(in dwt tons)
Passenger ships                     9,300    11,400   11,600
Dry bulk ships                      7,400    10,600   12,300
Present distribution shows that 50% of ships (including tankers) are more
than 15,000 dwt, thus necessitating 20 to 40t static pull per ship.  Because
of the development of grain traffic, the percentage of ships above 15,000 dwt
is forecast to increase to 60% by 1980.
(ii) the fact that all quays have been built to leeward of the prevailing
wind which makes towage necessary most of the time, and necessitates
two tugs for large ships.
(iii)  the preference for standardization of tugs to make maintenance easier.
Twenty-ton pull tugs have been selected, fitted with nozzles or thrusters to in-
crease pull strength and maneuverability while saving energy.
other floating craft
3.18      Pilot boats are necessary to replace existing boats, which are over-
age; the evaluation of requirements takes into account an improved schedule
and turn round of boats compared with present schedule and service. Specifica-
tions are for 16m/480 hp/15 knots boats. The evaluation of floating cranes
is based on the number, distribution and maximum size of heavy lifts; this
has lead to selecting 25t 1300hp/4 knots cranes with automatic load safety
devices. Service boats are for auxiliary works and light towage in the port
area and would be 400 hp/4t pull boats. The 50m/250 m3 grab dredger is
mainly for removing ship's refuse and siltation at the foot of the seawalls of
the wharves, a work which cannot be conducted by suction dredgers, and is
a slow and permanent maintenance operation. 350 m3 dump hopper barges will be
self propelled for faster and safer transport of refuse to dumping grounds four
miles off the coast; present method of towing the existing 450 m3 hopper barges
has shown that this was not practical and mainly, very slow.
Cargo handling equipment
3.19      The estimates for cargo handling equipment to be procured under the
project were made with reference to (i) traffic projections (paras. 2.07 and



- 32 -
4.03), (ii) productivity per hook, from which the number of hooks to be ope-
rated was deduced, and (iii) equipment presently existing and which is expected
to be in operation in 1978.
3.20      The following assumptions on operations were made to build up the
estimates for UASC equipment;
(i) Estimates are made for the base year 1978, when almost all the
new equipment would be in full operation and the expected pro-
ductivity gains (sub para iv) would be almost fully realized.
(ii) About 13% of the traffic is presently palletized/unitized
and handled with forklift trucks. It is assumed that by
1978 this will be 35%.
(iii) About 8% of the number of gangs working for unloading cargo
is presently using high tower shore cranes. The rest uses ship
derricks, many of which have limited speed and workload, thus
delaying operations. The share of hooks worked with shore
cranes is expected to increase to 30%, thus reducing undue de-
pendence on ship's gear.
(iv) The overall productivity per hook hour is expected to go up from
8.9 tons in 1975 to 11 tons in 1978 and 11.3 tons in 1979, which
are by no means excessive figures by modern standards. Para
2.27 gives details of the productivity assumptions.
(v) Ten percent of the import traffic is assumed to be delivered
directly to the consignees, thus needing no shifting/storage
by UASC/GWE's equipment. Such traffic is stored by traders in
their own facilities in town.
Using the above expected productivity increases per hook/hour and import traf-
fic needing dockside handling and storage, the average hooks required per day
(at 16 work hours) was estimated for 1976-1980 at 85, 86, 80, 75 and 80. The
temporary drop in 1979 is due to the sudden fall in fertilizer traffic.
3.21      APA's original list of equipment did not appear to be based on an
in depth analysis of present and future operations, but rather on a rough guess
of what practice made apparently necessary. The list was reviewed in coopera-
tion with APA's staff; norms regarding basic equipment for each hook were used,
again based on port practice, but adjusted for the expected increase in pal-
letization and productivity. The norms used are:
(a)  Fully Palletized Traffic.  35% of all hooks, i.e., 28
hooks/day in 1978, handled mainly by forklift trucks.
Equipment needed: 3 forklifts per hook to move cargo from
hook to storage point (shed/open yard).



- 33 -
(b) Traffic handled by tractors/trailers. 40% of all hooks,
i.e., 32 hooks/day in 1978. Equipment needed: Two cranes
per 3 hooks (80% of traffic) and one forklift truck per hook for
unloading cargo (20% of traffic); three tractors and nine trail-
ers for every 2 hooks for moving cargo to store area.
(c) Traffic handled using trucks. 25% of all hooks, i.e., 20
hooks/day in 1978. Equipment needed: Two cranes per 3 hooks
(80% of traffic), one forklift per hook (20% of traffic) for
unloading cargo; three trucks per hook for moving cargo.
(d) Traffic using barge berths. Such traffic is handled only by
mobile cranes. The barge berths can accommodate 25 barges,
another 25 barges will be waiting alongside ships and 25 will
be in between in transit, which makes a total of 75. The norm
for tugs is one tug for six barges; a total of 14 tugs is
necessary.
(e) Reserve and maintenance. The estimates for forklifts, trucks,
cranes, etc., have been increased by 40% of which 30% are for
absorbing seasonal peaks (particularly during the citrus
season) and 10% for maintenance and reserve. Ten barges have
been added also for maintenance and reserve.
3.22      In addition to the basic equipment identified in paragraph 3.21, the
following support equipment is necessary and norms adopted are as follows:
(a) High tower cranes. for 27 general cargo berths in operation in
1978-79, including 11 deep sea and 16 coasters/Mediterranean
shipping berths. Two cranes are assumed for each deep sea
berth and one crane for each of the remaining berths.
(b) Citrus trucks. 60 trucks are necessary for transport of fruits
by the UASC to ensure quick dispatch of ships during the citrus
season.
(c) Electric forklift trucks. 25 small forklift trucks are in-
cluded in the estimates for working within ship holds.
(d) Shifting and other movements in the port area. These move-
ments justify 2 tractors, 4 trailers and 3 trucks.
3.23      The estimates for cargo handling and transport equipment for GWE
are made with reference to the same tonnage as for UASC, to be handled and
stored in the port area (para. 3.14) and the movement of about 700,000t of
overflow cargo from the port's transit sheds into the warehousing and storage
area outside the port.  Due to lack of transport and storage facilities only
70,000t of such cargo could be so moved in 1974.
3.24      Total estimates for main cargo handling and transport equipment are
summarized below:



- 34 -
Forklift Mobile High Tower Trucks Tractors Trailers Barges Tugs
Trucks  Cranes   Cranes
Estimates of       229      79       44        232     67       205      85    14
needs
Less projected
equipment in
operations in
1978              44       31       16         67     47       110      35    6
To be procured
under project    185       48       28        165     20        95      50    8
3.25      Miscellaneous equipment.  Tipping lorries and by-loaders are for
garbage collecting in the port area and are complementary to the anti-pollution
equipment financed under Credit 524-EGT (Industrial Imports Project). Rubber
fenders are necessary to reequip existing quays, which have no such protection
at present. Liaison cars and pickup trucks are for port marine officers and
stores operations. Harbor radar and radio equipment are necessary to dispatch
ships' traffic and speed up tug and pilot movements. The operational require-
ments are to provide radar surveillance over the approaches out to a distance
of 20 km from the harbor entrance, the waiting area, the access channels and
the harbor. The workshop equipment list has been established by a local con-
sultant; this equipment is necessary for a workshop recently taken over from
the Suez Canal Authority, where the equipment to be procured under the project
wiLll be maintained.
3.26      Consulting services for management.  The project includes the serv-
ice of a team of 6 to 8 experts in the administration and organization of ports
and in accounting. The experts' tasks will be:
(i)  to review existing statutory instruments relating to APA's
basic organization;
(ii)  to recommend to the competent authorities all the measures
they consider necessary for the improvement of APA's in-
ternal organization, to enable it to carry out its statutory
responsibilities and objectives, with a special accent on
maintenance of equipment in APA proper and its subsidiaries;
(iii)   to assist APA in improving its accounting system and its fi-
nancial operations, reevaluate its assets and establish cost
based tariffs;
(iv)  to identify training requirements and organize vocational
training programs, either in or outside APA, for personnel
in all departments of APA; and



- 35 -
(v) to establish a system of job classification and descrip-
tions, and study present policies and practices in the
areas of recruitment, promotion, salary scales, etc., and
in general evaluate APA's staff situation;
(vi) to review sea pollution in the port and measures and regu-
lations to control it.
E. Cost Estimates
3.27      Cost estimates for dredging have been based on most recent quotations
for this type of dredging in the region. Cost estimates for berth construc-
tion have been based on detailed computation by APA's staff and adjusted
after quotations have been obtained from recent bids (Fall 1975) in the Medi-
terranean and Middle East areas. Cost estimates for revetment and warehouse
constructions, which will most probably be conducted by local contractors, are
based on amounts paid presently by APA for similar works. Cost estimates for
equipment are based on the latest cif costs for similar equipment recently
imported in Egypt by the Suez Canal Authority (Rehabilitation Project), the
APA itself (Credit 524-EGT) and equipment financed from bilateral aids, and
on information collected from industrialized countries which export to Egypt.
Cost estimates for workshop equipment have been established by a local con-
sultant. Cost estimates for rubber fenders and traffic control equipment are
based on offers presented by makers of such equipment. In view of partial
financing of equipment by USAID, cost estimates of equipment have been com-
pared with costs prevailing on the US market. Although there are some dif-
ferences on individual items, the total amount allocated in cost estimates
is adequate.
3.28      The project cost, on January 1, 1976, is estimated at US$151.0 mil-
lion. It includes a physical contingency allowance of 15% of all civil
works. Price contingencies on local costs are 10%/year, which is consistent
with Bank's projections. Price contingencies on foreign exchange costs of
civil works are 13% in 1976 and 12% thereafter. Price contingencies on equip-
ment are 12%/year, which is higher than present Bank's estimates, but was jus-
tified at the time of appraisal by the uncertainty as to which country would
supply the equipment.
3.29      The foreign exchange cost is estimated at US$95.0 million.  Cost
estimates have been reviewed with APA at the time of negotiations of the
proposed loan and contingencies have been adjusted according to the program for
project execution. Project costs are as follows:



- 36 -
- ---- - ----Project Cost- -              - -- 2     of
Local  Foreign  Total   Local  Foreign  Total  Project
----(LE '000)-----           (USs$ '000)-          Cost
(a) Dredging               636   2,568   3,204   1,590   6,420   8,010        5.3
(b) Paving/Surfacing       552      238     790   1,380      595   1,975      1.3
(c) Berth construction  4,130   5,430   9,560  10,325  13,575  23,900    15.8
(ci) Storage facilities  1,320     800   2,120   3,300   2,000   5,300        3.5
Sub-total (1)       6,638   9,036  15,674  16,595  22,590  39,185    25.9
(a) Floating equipment  3,510   7,920  11,430   8,775  19,800  28,575    18.9
(b) Cargo handling
equipment          3,370   6,838  10,208   8,425  17,095  25,520    16.9
(c) Transp. equipment   2,270   3,332   5,602   5,675   8,330  14,005         9.2
(d) Other                  500   1,350   1,850   1,250   3,375   4,625        3.0
Sub-total (2)       9,650  19,440  29,090  24,125  48,600  72,725    48.0
Physical Contingency    1,322   1,320   2,642   3,305   3,300   6,605         4.5
Price Contingency        4,220   7,104  11,324  10,550  17,760  28,310    18.8
Sub-total (3)       5,542   8,424  13,966  13,855  21,060  34,915    23.3
Consultant Services        570   1,100   1,670   1,425   2,750   4,175        2.8
Total        22,400  38,000  60,400  56,000  95,000 151,000   100.0
3.30      Local cost estimates include a total of US$29.0 million equivalent
(including contingencies) for customs duties on Imported equipment. APA may
be exempted at a later stage from paying these duties, in which case they will
be deleted from the project costs.
3.31      A sensitivity analysis of the costs of delays in project execution
has been conducted. It shows that a delay of three months would increase the
project costs by about $3.1 million and a delay of six months by $6.3 million.
Additional delays would necessitate a detailed review and updating of project
costs, because of the uncertainties of inflation.
F. Financing
Bank Loan
3.32      The proposed Bank loan of US$45.0 million would cover the foreign
currency costs (including contingencies) of:



- 37 -
(US$ million)
Civil works - APA               30.70
Civil works - GWE                2.00
Equipment - APA                  6.17
Consultants services             2.75
Contingencies                   13.38
Total                45.00
3.33      The proceeds of the Bank loan financing project items earmarked for
GWE will be passed from the Borrower to GWE under a subsidiary loan agreement.
This has been discussed and agreed upon at negotiations and the conclusion
of the agreement will be a condition of effectiveness of the Bank loan. The
distribution of costs between APA, UASC and GWE is as follows:
…----------------Project Cost…-----------------      of
Local  Foreign  Total   Local  Foreign  Total  Project
------(LE '000) ------   ------(US$ '000) …___  Cost
APA
Civil Works            5,318   8,236  13,554   13,295  20,590  33,885
Equipment              2,450   8,290  10,740    6,125  20,725  26,850
Consultants              570   1,100   1,670    1,425   2,750   4,175
Contingencies          3,382   5,794   9,176    8,455  14,485  22,940
Total (1)          11,720  23,420  35,140   29,300  58,550  87,850   58
UASC
Equipment              5,530   8,310  13,840   13,825  21,275  34,600
Contingencies          1,270   1,690   2,960    3,175   4,225   7,400
Total (2)           6,800  10,000  16,800   17,000  25,000  42,000   28
GWE
Civil works            1,320      800   2,120    3,300   2,000   5,300
Equipment              1,670   2,740   4,410    4,175   6,850  11,025
Contingencies            890      940   1,830    2,225   2,350   4,575
Total (3)           3,880   4,580   8,460    9,700  11,450  21,150   14
Grand Total             22,400  38,000  60,400   56,000  95,000 151,000  100
Other Loans
3.34      The difference of US$50.0 million between the Bank Loan and the
total foreign exchange cost of the project is expected to be financed (i)
from a USAID loan (at standard terms) of US$30.8 million, which will finance
cargo handling and transport equipment and (ii) from a US$19.2 million loan
from the Overseas Economic Cooperation Fund (OECF) of the Japanese Govern-
ment which will finance floating equipment; the terms of this loan are sub-
ject to negotiations but are expected to be favorable. The proposed financ-
ing plan would therefore be as follows:



- 38 -
USAID                                               US$ million
Cargo handling equipment                                16.04
Transport equipment                                      7.96
Other equipment                                          1.37
Contingencies                                            5.43
Total                                              30.80
Overseas Economic Cooperation Fund (Japan)
Floating equipment                                      16.30
Contingencies                                            2.90
Total                                              19.20
Because of the competitiveness of US and Japanese producers of the kinds of
equipment to be financed by USAID and OECF, tied procurement of these items is
not expected to impose any cost penalty on APA. The proposed financing plan
would in principle be acceptable to the Bank. The conclusion of co-financing
agreements to meet the foreign exchange cost of the project not-provided for by
the proposed Bank loan will be a condition of effectiveness of this loan. This
was agreed upon at negotiations.
Local Costs
3.35      It is estimated that APA will be able to provide nearly $40 million
from its own resources to finance part of the $56 million equivalent of local
costs (paras 5.16 and 5.17). The Government will make necessary arrangements
to meet any local cost shortfall; this has been agreed upon at negotiations.
G. Project Execution, Supervision and Reporting
3.36      The APA is competent to execute the project with the assistance of
consultants for (i) additional soil investigation to be executed in the con-
struction area; (ii) preparation of specifications for the radar equipment;
(iii) final engineering, preparation of tender documents and evaluation of
tenders for civil works. The APA has recently prepared and evaluated tenders
for certain floating and cargo handling equipment and no difficulty is expected
in ithat field. All consultants will be employed in accordance with the Bank's
guidelines. The management consultants' terms of reference have been discussed
during negotiations and are being finalized. It has been agreed during nego-
tiations that the management consultants' recommendations will be reviewed with
the Bank before they are implemented. Terms of reference have been agreed
upon with APA.



- 39 -
3.37      The program for project execution has been agreed upon at negotia-
tions. The program is mainly as follows:
1.   Berth construction
Selection of engineering consultants          March 1976
Additional borings                            March-June 1976
Final engineering                             June-October 1976
Prequalification of contractors               September-November 1976
Tendering                                     December 1976
Construction                                  June 1977 to September 1979
2.   Dredging
Preparation                                   March-April 1976
Tendering                                     May 1976
Dredging                                      January 1977 to January 1979
3.   Paving and Surfacing/Storage Facilities
Preparation                                   March-April 1976
Tendering                                     May 1976
Works                                         February 1977 to June 1979
Procurement of equipment is expected to take place from 1976 to 1978. Consul-
tants for management study, assets inventory, accounting, etc. will be re-
cruited between March and June 1976 and are expected to start working in November
1976. Training programs will be implemented from 1977 to 1979. The planning
allows for a fairly wide safety margin during the starting period of the project
(January 1976-March 1977) because, as proved by experience, starting a first
project with a new borrower may be slow. This will permit adjustment of plan-
ning hopefully without modifying the completion date of the project. The
project is expected to be completed by the end of 1979, final acceptance taking
place in 1980 and the loan would be closed on December 31, 1980.
3.38      APA will perform supervision itself.  APA is establishing under
its Chairman's direct control a special unit to monitor the project and act as
interface for relations with the Bank. The unit will include one project
manager, one civil engineer, one accountant/financial analyst and one economist;
it is intended that the unit will be established by June 1, 1976. This unit will
monitor supervision, whereas direct supervision of civil works, quantities
surveying, etc. will be conducted on the spot by APA's General Engineering
Department, which is competent to do so. The monitoring unit will also prepare
quartely reports for the Bank; a draft format of quarterly reports has been
prepared and has been agreed upon at negotiations; it is expected that the first
report will be issued on October 1, 1976.



- 40 -
H. Procurement and Disbursement
3.39      International competitive bidding in accordance with Bank guide-
lines will apply to dredging, berth construction, paving and surfacing, and
the construction of storage facilities inside and outside the port. Pre-
qualification will apply to contractors for dredging and berth construction,
which are specialized marine works.
3.40      Procurement for project equipment financed under the Bank's Loan
will be through internationally advertized competitive bidding in accordance
with Bank's guidelines; domestic preference of 15% or the customs duties,
whLchever is lower, will apply and is likely to have significance for trailers
and possibly trucks, which are assembled locally, although the delays for de-
livery of local trucks, which are long, may make these unattractive. Barges
wi]Ll probably be built locally, but with imported steel.
3.41      Disbursements will be on the basis of 80% of the cost of dredging
ancl shed construction, 50% of cost of berth construction and 35% of cost of
storage facilities and paving/surfacing. The differences between the foreign
exchange allocation in the case of sheds and in the case of storage facili-
ties is due to the fact that the latter will be lighter construction, using
more local material (bricks and stones). Among the goods to be imported, are
cement, of which local production does not meet the country's requirements,
and. structural steel. Disbursements will be on the basis of 100% of the cif
costs of the floating, traffic control, cargo handling and other equipment
items, and 100% of the foreign exchange cost of consulting services. The
tentative schedule of disbursements of the Bank Loan (adjusted after nego-
tiations after an understanding was reached on the program for project
execution) is as follows:



-41 -
IBRD Fiscal Year                                        Cumulative Disbursements
and quarter                            Amount            at end of Quarter
1976/77
September 30, 1976                    220,000                    220,000
Dec. 31, 1976                         250,000                    470,000
March 31, 1977                        250,000                    720,000
June 30, 1977                       1,290,000                  2,010,000
1977/78
Sept. 30, 1977                      2,350,000                  4,370,000
Dec. 31, 1977                       3,460,000                  7,830,000
March 31, 1978                      4,960,000                 12,790,000
June 30, 1978                       5,650,000                 18,440,000
1978/79
Sept. 30, 1978                      5,170,000                 23,610,000
Dec. 31, 1978                       5,150,000                 28,760,000
March 31, 1979                      5,250,000                 34,010,000
June 30, 1979                       4,500,000                 38,510,000
1979/80
Sept. 30, 1979                      1,880,000                 40,390,000
Dec. 31, 1979                       1,850,000                 42,240,000
March 31, 1980                      1,350,000                 43,590,000
June 30, 1980                         860,000                 44,450,000
1980/81
Sept. 30, 1980                        550,000                 45,000,000
Retroactive financing may be necessary, up to US$500,000 for engineering con-
sultants services.
I.  Environmental Impact
3.42      Water pollution is increasingly serious in Alexandria Port at pres-
ent. This is due (i) to disposal in the port waters of ship's refuse and bal-
last residues by ships' captains, (ii) to the design of existing facilities,
with small basins in which polluting oil accumulates, (iii) to difficulties
of enforcing regulations by the small number of available marine officers,
who are overworked, (iv) to inadequate regulations and fines, and (v) to the
low priority given until recently to such problems. Among the reasons for



- 42 -
the importance of land pollution are port congestion and overcrowding, and
the il controlled development of temporary constructions, canteens, etc., in
the port area. APA has recently started to take action, and the situation
is improving significantly; specially equipped boats are being procured as a
matter of priority under Credit 524-EGT (Industrial Imports) for water
pollution control.
3.43      The project will further improve the situation by (i) procurement
of 8 tipping lorries and 2 shovels for garbage and refuse collection and (ii)
the management study which will include measures to be taken to fight water
and land pollution and the drafting of adequate regulations thereon. However,
the increase in number of mechanical equipment will further develop air pollu-
tion, but this is not a major problem in Alexandria. Stricter standards for
fume and gas emission by cargo handling and transport equipment have to be
enforced by builders or makers of such equipment
3.44      No adverse effect is expected from dredging spoil in coastal waters;
spoil is mainly sand which will be dumped in very deep water available a few
kilomerers from the port. The present absence of a modern sewage system in
Alexandria (which is due to be corrected under a Bank-financed project pre-
sently under study) represents a much greater health hazard than dredging
spoils from the proposed project.
J. Employment Impact
3.45      No adverse effect on port labor is expected from the proposed proj-
ect. On the contrary, laborers will work under better conditions and the num-
ber of skilled workers (drivers or equipment operators) which will find employ-
ment, will increase. About 130 additional workers, of which 115 will be skilled
labor will find additional employment in the workshops, where they are necessary.
In total, about 1,300 additional workers, of which about 1,000 will be skilled
labor, will have to be employed in the port area as a result of implementing
the project.



- 43 -
IV. ECONOMIC EVALUATION
A. Traffic Analysis
Recent Trends and Future Prospects
4.01      There has been an unprecendented increase in the traffic handled
at Alexandria Port during the last two years. The total dry cargo traffic
handled through Alexandria Port went up from 8.1 million tons in 1973 to 9.3
million tons in 1974, and is expected to be 10.7 million tons in 1975, repre-
senting an increase of about 32% in the last two years (Para 2.07). This large
increase, covering vainly the import traffic, reflects the post-war return to
normalcy of the Egyptian economy, and the rising tempo of imports required to
meet the pent-up demand for industrial machinery, raw materials, and general
consumption goods. In terms of value, Egypt's total imports, most of which are
handled through the Alexandria Port, increased by about 26% per annum during
1974 and 1975. The bulk of the repressed demand for imports having thus spent
itself, Egypt's imports may be assumed to grow at a rather lower but even pace
during the next five years, in keeping with the requirements of the 1976-80
Five Year Plan.
4.02      Tentative macroeconomic projections for Egyptian economy for the
period 1975-80 prepared by the Bank assume a real growth rate in GDP of 6.5%
per annum, a growth in investment expenditures (in constant 1973 prices) of
about 5.5% per annum and a concomitant growth in import-export trade values,
also in constant prices, of about 7.5% per annum. The last indicates roughly
the magnitude of growth in traffic which will pass through the Egyptian ports
in the next 5 years. Since Alexandria is, and will continue to be, the most
important port in Egypt, handling as it did over 90% of the country's overseas
dry cargo traffic in 1974, a large share of this expected growth in traffic
will pass through Alexandria.
Traffic Projections, 1976-80
4.03      Traffic expected through Alexandria Port has been projected for the
next 5 years. The methodology followed is presented in the following section,
and the resulting estimates with commodity details are presented in Para 2.07.
These estimates project growth in the port's total traffic from 17.4 million
tons in 1975 to 20 million tons in 1980. The general cargo traffic is expected
to increase from 4.3 million tons to 6.1 million tons, and the overall dry
cargo traffic is to increase from 10.6 million tons to 13.8 million tons. The
latter corresponds to an annual growth of 6%, very near the projected 6.5% GDP
growth for the period. The total traffic through all Egyptian ports will grow
at a still higher rate, since the relative share of the other ports is expected
to increase during the period, after their on-going reconstruction works are
completed by about 1978.



- 44 -
Basis for the Traffic Projections
4.04      The traffic projections presented above were prepared on the
foLlowing basis:
(a) For certain bulk items like coal, timber, fertilizers, and
petroleum traffic, where individual commodity projections
were possible on the basis of field data collected from
discussions with the concerned industry - sources or from
information compiled by the Port Authority, such estimates
were used. For example, the import of coal is projected
to go up as a result of the recent addition of a third
furnace to the Halwaan steel plant and the expected
addition of a fourth furnace in 1978-79. The prijection
for timber imports is based on estimates provided by the
Government agencies concerned with the large reconstruction
works in the Suez Canal area. The fertilizer estimates are
based on the expected impact of the starting of domestic
fertilizer production in Egypt, with an ammonium nitrate
plant already in production from 1975, and with two urea
plants scheduled for production in 1979. As regards pet-
roleum traffic, which forms a separate category in traffic
and port facilities at Alexandria, the traffic figures are
based on discussions with the Petroleum Planning Authority
and Refinery authorities; the main trend in the port's
petroleum traffic would be that the port's share will con-
tinue to remain at about 6 million tons, but there will be
a change in the flow pattern: part of the crude imports
shifting to a new oil discharge facility outside Alexandria,
and more product exports based on additional refinery capa-
city, taking its place in the Alexandria traffic. Such
estimates were made also for some export items - such as
cement,. ferro-slag etc. In cement, based on certain cement
project studies in Egypt, it is expected that there may be
a period of heavy cement imports, followed by significant
exports; but the bulk of this traffic would be through Port
Suez now under reconstruction and part of it through Port
Said, Alexandria handling only the immediate local require-
ments.
(b) For all other bulk items, and even more important, for all
general cargo items, for which such specific estimates were
not possible due to the lack of detailed data, projections
were made on the basis of the growth factors used in the
aggregate national foreign trade value projections for
Egypt recently prepared by the Bank, though these projec-
tions are presented for much broader commodity groupings.
The commodity groups in the port's traffic were regrouped



- 45 -
into the broad commodity groupings in the trade forecasts
for this purpose. These foreign trade projections indicate
the expected growth in Egypt's import/export trades in terms
of both current and constant prices, on the basis of various
macro-economic parameters projected for the Egyptian economy
for 1975-80. The rate of growth in constant price trade
values of each commodity groups shown in these estimates is
taken to represent approximately the rate of growth in physical
volume of the import/export items concerned. Since Egypt's
overseas trade is almost exclusively handled through its sea-
ports, these growth factors were applied to the traffic tonnage
handled by all Egyptian ports in the relevant commodity groups
in 1975, to arrive at the national port traffic projections for
1976-1980; from these, Alexandria's potential traffic was
estimated after allocating traffic shares to other ports in
accordance with past trends, the main origin/destinations of
the traffic, and expected handling and transport capability
of the other ports assuming full use of their capacity. This
procedure enabled realistic group-wise variations in the trade
growth to be reflected in the port's traffic projections. The
estimates use varying annual growth rates such as: about 16%
for capital goods imports, 10% for intermediate goods imports;
while only 1% in cotton exports, 3% in rice exports; 6% in
agricultural exports and 12% in manufactured goods exports.
These rates, being based on a sectorally consistent five year
economic plan for Egypt, offer a realistic basis for the
country's port traffic projections.
Traffic Beyond 1980
4.05      No detailed estimates for the traffic growth beyond 1980 have been
made in this report. The port would reach its full capacity even with the
1980 traffic, and the continuation of this traffic level for three or four
years, which can be reasonably assumed, is sufficient to evaluate the pre-
sent project, which is mainly conceived of as a short-term measure. More-
over, firm ideas on the long-term industrial plans and port development
plans in Egypt are still on the anvil, and the transport sector survey which
is due to be completed over the next two years is expected to provide more
comprehensive traffic projections for the Egyptian ports covering a longer
span of time.
B. Project Benefits
Nature of Benefits
4.06      The present project will generate a number of savings to the
Egyptian economy - mainly through reduced shipping charges for Egypt's



- 46 -
growing overseas traffic, and through avoiding costly dislocations in the
production and distribution system of the country which would have resulted
from prolonged physical delays at the main Egyptian port in the absence of
the proposed rehabilitation and improvement of the port's facilities.
4.07      All traffic will not benefit uniformly from the project.  The pro-
ject's main impact will be in improving overall productivity for its general
cargo traffic, including the traffic in timber, all of which is handled by
APA. This traffic will benefit from better and more handling gear,
more storage space, quicker clearance of the discharged cargo from shed,
unitized handling, and the use of larger number of hooks per ship resulting
from the availability of more shore cranes and the entry of larger ships
after the proposed dredging - all of which would be facilitated by the pre-
sent project. All these factors would help improve productivity and would
considerably reduce the turn-around time of the general cargo ships. In
some measure, mainly through dredging, ships handling both dry bulk and liquid
bulk traffic also would benefit from the project, but these benefits would
be relatively smaller.
4.08      Only part of the benefits from the project have been quantified,
viz the benefits from reduced shipping costs. These savings have been
estimated by comparing the "with project" situation with the cost and per-
formance parameters of a situation where the project is not undertaken.
Given the traffic, (the alternative of reducing the country's-overseas traffic
to suit the deteriorating port capacity levels being prima facie ruled out as
unacceptable in view of its dislocation effects on the economy), the only
short-run alternative to having the project is handling the traffic at the
exLsting port facilities which would continue to deteriorate in efficiency.
Owing to the low ship-handling rates associated with such a situation, the
costs involved in the longer ship-service time and ship-waiting time would
be so huge that even this cannot be considered a sensible and practical alter-
native to having the project; the estimates of the cost of such a "without
project" situation have therefore to be treated as largely notional, but
necessary to estimate on a logical basis the magnitude of economic benefits
generated by the project.
4.09      The shipping benefits quantified fall into three categories:
(i)  benefits due to dredging which will enable bigger ships,
both bulk and general cargo, to visit the port, and pro-
duce freight savings due to the economies of scale in
ship operations;
(ii)  benefits due to increase in the berthing capacity of the
port, mainly through the addition of a new general-cargo
quay of 550m length, the benefits from this mainly
reflecting in reduced waiting costs for ships for the
the traffic level given; and



- 47 -
(iii) most significant of all, benefits from increased productivity
in cargo-handling operations, brought about as a combined
result of all the other investments in the project, covering
equipments, new storage sheds, transport vehicles, more
tugs to handle bigger ships, more barges, and many other
elements included in the project, all of which are essentially
complementary to one another in improving the port's operational
efficiency. The main beneficiary of these productivity gains
will be the port's general cargo traffic, as no bulk handling
equipments are included in the project. The estimate of savings
on this account has therefore been made with reference to the
port's general cargo traffic - defined in this context to include
the traffic in timber which is also directly handled by APA and
would benefit significantly from the new equipments.
4.10      For the convenience of computation, the above benefits have been
estimated under two different cargo categories: bulk cargo and general cargo.
For bulk cargo, the benefits are only those arising under (i) i.e., dredging,
since the project does not include any major equipment or berth for bulk cargo.
For general cargo, benefits arise from all the three elements listed above.
Details of these estimates are presented below for both bulk cargo and general
cargo.
Freight Savings in Bulk Traffic
4.11      The port's berths, harbor and channel have silted up considerably
during the past few years, and as a result berths with an original average
9m draft now have only 6m to 7m. The intensity of this problem varies from
berth to berth depending on its location and the priority given to maintenance
dredging for whatever dredging capability that existed. For bulk cargoes like
fertilizers, coal and foodgrains, the lower drafts have caused a fall in the
size of ships that can carry this cargo to the port, thus losing the freight
advantage in using bigger ships; in some cases, as in foodgrains and mineral
oils, the bigger ships that visit the port now are forced to come underloaded
thus incurring costly dead freight charges. The deferred maintenance dredging
provided under the project will remove these draft restrictions and should
produce considerable freight savings. The total savings estimated amount to
US$4.5 million annually of which about 2.0 are from foodgrains, 1.5 from coal,
0.5 from oil and the remainder from fertilizers. These are very conservative
estimates. It is important to note that these estimates do not include the
freight savings from improving the handling rates of grain imports, by the use
of evacuators and silos, which is proposed to be separately undertaken by the
Egyptian Silos Company, and not covered under the proposed project.
Shipping Cost Savings for General Cargo
4.12      The savings in shipping costs for general cargo are estimated for
all the three elements together, listed under para. 4.09. This is done



- 48 -
by computing the ship-service time on the basis of the higher ship-handling
rates expected as a result of the project. These higher productivity levels
are caused partly by increasing the share of bigger ships made possible by
dredging, which would enable more hatches to be worked at a time and a higher
operational efficiency per hatch; they are also due to the improvement in
output per hatch-hour resulting from the new equipment and other related
investments under the project.  The higher productivity levels due to the
project thus lead to a reduction in the ship-service time required to handle
the expected traffic, and, consequently, through the queueing relationship,
also to a reduction in ship waiting time. The impact of the new general cargo
berths in the project is reflected through further reductions in ship waiting
time, the ship waiting level after the project being assumed to be lower in
keeping with the additional berth capacity. The total service time and waiting
time for general cargo calculated as above is compared with the service-time
and waiting time likely under the "without project" situation, for assessing
total project benefits for the general cargo traffic. Further details of the
data and assumptions used for this exercise are discussed in the following
paragraph.
4.13      The amount of general cargo that will benefit from the project is
defined to include all general cargo classified as such and timber which is
also directly handled and stored by the Port Authority using their equipments.
The total tonnage of this traffic will increase as follows:
Year             1975    1976    1977    1978    1979    1980
Cargo Tonnage:
('000 tons)          4,670   5,325   5,750   6,105   6,420    6,785
Some of the fertilizer imports which are handled in bags will also benefit
from the handling equipments under the project, but these benefits are not
included in the calculations.
4.14      It is assumed that in the absence of the project, the productivity
of cargo-handling per ship-day (of service-time) will continue to decline at
the rate actually observed between 1974 and 1975, viz 5%.  The ship-day pro-
ductivity at the port continuously declined between 1972 and 1975 (para 2.25),
and the annual rate of decline for this period was even higher, viz 9%. The
figures given below are significant:
Actual                   1972      1973      1974     1975
(Jan.-June)
Tons of cargo handled per
ship/day of 16 hours work       486      423       352       335



- 49 -
As discussed in para 4.17, this decline can be mainly attributed to the
run-down condition of most of the port's equipments, and their growing in-
adequacy to cope with the increasing general cargo traffic. With the existing
equipments aging further towards a fully scrap condition, the "without project"
situation should mean even steeper decline in the port's future handling effi-
ciency. The present analysis, however, assumes conservatively only a 5% decline,
from 335 tons per ship-day in 1975 (first six months) to 318 tons in 1976, and
falling up to about 260 tons by 1980, and maintaining that level afterwards.
4.15      It is possible that in the absence of the project, the ship-service
time required to handle the expected traffic estimated under the foregoing
productivity assumptions, may have to be spread over to the other Egyptian
ports, but such diversion will only spread congestion to the other ports
as well, since these ports with only limited capability in the short run
have been assigned traffic to absorb their full capacity, and any additional
traffic will only lead to similar congestion as at Alexandria; moreover,
these ports have extremely inadequate transport links to the hinterland
which will add to the cost of such diversion. For the "without project"
situation, therefore, the cost levels applicable to handling all the
traffic at Alexandria have been taken for the calculations.
4.16      Productivity with the project is assumed to increase and get back
to somewhere below the peak level already achieved in 1972, after which the
handling rate at the port had started a trend of decline, as a result of
aging equipment and also shallower drafts which forced a shift to smaller
ships with less productivity per day. In terms of tonnage per ship-day, it
is assumed that productivity will increase from 335 tons in 1975 to 455 tons
in 1980 (compared to the high 484 tons achieved in 1972). About 10% of this
increase of 35% is expected to come from an increase in the share of bigger
ships after the port's dredging, enabling the working of more hatches per ship
at a time, which is further facilitated by the new shore cranes bought under
the project. There was a large-scale shift to smaller ships in the port's
general cargo traffic during 1972-74, and it is estimated that a mere switch-
back to the 1972 ship-size composition would increase the port's overall
productivity by an estimated 9%; with a still larger share for the bigger ships
that should be expected with the project, it is assumed that at least 10% out
of the 35% projected increase in productivity will come from such a shift back
to bigger ships.
4.17      However, the remaining larger portion of productivity increase i.e.,
25%, is likely to come through higher efficiency achieved in the average hourly
output for hatch or gang, as a result of the project. Output per gang-hour at
the port had declined from 11.3 tons in 1972 to 10.2 tons in 1973, 9.9 tons in
1974 and 8.9 tons in 1975 (Jan. to June). Since there was no adverse change in
cargo composition or any other identifiable reason, this decline must be attri-
buted to the growing inefficiency of the aged and run-down handling equipment at
the port. The project may be expected to reverse this trend and at least re-
store the 1972 level of output per gang-hour, as a result of the new equipment



- 50 -
greater storage and transport capacity, much greater unitization/palletization
of cargo handling and other factors covered by its investments. It is there-
fore assumed that gang-hour output in general cargo port operations at the port
will increase from 8.9 tons in 1975 to about 11.2 tons in 1979, thus restoring
the level achieved in 1972. The APA committed itself at negotiations to attain
this target (para 2.27). The increased productivity envisaged corresponds to
the improvement of a crane's cargo-handling cycle from 6.7 minutes to 5.3
minutes which is a modest assumption. Of this 25% increase in the gang-hour
ouitput, 10% may come from the elimination of work interruptions from equipment
breakdowns, which alone took up 10% of the total ship working time in 1974.  On
the whole, considering the large scope of the project in increasing output, the
assumed 35% increase in ship-day productivity (para 4.16), reaching a level
beLow what was achieved only three years back, must be considered very con-
servative.
4.18      While estimating waiting time, it is assumed that waiting-time to
service-time ratio, in the "without project" situation, would remain at 1:1.
ThiLs is a conservative assumption made to avoid computing the costs of in-
finite queues which may not be fully realistic. Waiting ratios in the port
have in the past risen from 0.3:1 in 1972 to 0.5:1 in 1974 and to the unenvi-
able 1.4:1 in 1975 (Jan.-June); the ship days for the last period were 6096
for working and 8687 for waiting. With the decline in service efficiency and
increase in traffic, congestion and waiting would in fact further increase in
the absence of the project. The assumption of a 1:1 ratio would therefore
reduce the project benefits in the estimates.
4.19      The fact that standard queueing tables failed to calibrate with
the actual waiting levels observed at the port, and the difficulty of de-
fining the standard number of berths in the port, made it difficult to
forecast future waiting through the use of conventional queueing analysis.
The future waiting level with the project is therefore estimated for this
exercise based on the historical relationship between waiting and service
time actually observed at the port. The lowest waiting ratio observed at the
Alexandria Port during 1970 to 1975 has been 0.3:1 in the year 1972. It is
assumed that under the impact of the higher service rates and the new berths
added through the project, the waiting level for general cargo ships would
considerably decline from 1975 levels to somewhere around the 1972 level of 0.3,
in the following pattern:
Waiting time/
Service time ratio      1976      1977    1978    1979    1980
Without project          1/1       1/1      1/1     1/1      1/1
With project             1/1       1/1   0.5/1   0.3/1   0.3/1
The fact that the productivity targets aim at a switch back to 1972 pattern of
operations partly justified this assumption.  The main difference between 1972



- 51 -
and 1979, the year of project completion, would be in traffic and berth capa-
city. Traffic in general cargo would have gone up by over 52%, whereas the
berth capacity (in quay-length) would have gone up by about 35% (both from
the present project and from earlier programs). Additional capacity in the
shape of more stream moorings and barges would also become available. Con-
sidering the system-effects of additional berths in reducing overall queueing
levels in a large port system, thus creating more effective capacity than is
added by the new berths, and in view of the additional handling capacity ex-
pected from greater unitization of cargo and the use of more modern equipments,
these differences may be taken to neutralize each other.
4.20      The size-group composition of ships, as well as the parcel size
carried, productivity per day and the percentage share of total traffic
carried - for each size-group of ships - have been calculated on the basis
of actual 1972-74 data. For the without project situation, it is assumed
that these features will stabilize at the 1974 level, and continue without
change. For the "with project" situation it is assumed that with the comple-
tion of dredging in 1977, the size-wise ship-composition, parcel size and
traffic share of each group will switch back to the 1972 level, thus neutral-
izing the adverse impact of uncleared siltation. For the subsequent years, it
is assumed that the ship size above 6000 dwt, will increase its traffic shares
by about 2% per year while the parcel sizes of each group will rise by about 1%
per year. The percentage gains in productivity have been assumed to affect the
various size groups of ships uniformly. The number of ship-days in various
size-groups expected in future is estimated on the above basis.
The Benefits Stream
4.21      The net gains in general cargo ship-service time and waiting time
with the project, compared to the "without project" situation, and the bene-
fits separately calculated for bulk traffic from the deeper drafts provided by
the project, together constitute the total benefits estimated for the project.
The share of these shipping savings accruing to Egypt is worked out in the light
of the discussions in paras. 4.25-4.27 below.
4.22      It is important to note that for calculating total project benefits,
the project is defined to include the investments of US$3 million in 1975-76,
undertaken on the basis of Loan/Credit 524/1062-EGT for acquiring urgently
needed spare parts and some urgent replacement equipment for the port. The
benefits from this investment should start from 1976; though these benefits
would be small compared to those of the present US$145 million project, it
was found difficult to estimate them separately, and, therefore, both the
costs and benefits of this initial investment are included in the present
project for the purpose of the economic calculations. As a result, the pro-
ductivity gains assumed from the project are treated to come partly from this
initial investment - particularly the benefits shown for 1976.



- 52 -
4.23      The generation of project benefits is phased according to the com-
pletion shedule of the main components of the project. Full benefits are
expected from 1979. No credit is taken for increase in traffic and project
benefits after 1980. The project benefits for the subsequent years are, there-
fore, taken to stabilize at the 1980 level.
4.24      The earliest a new major port facility can physically come into
existence on the basis of a long-term port plan for Egypt which is yet to
be evolved in the light of the agreed transport sector survey, is 1983.
Even after 1983, the investments under the present project will continue to
be in full use; what could happen is that the new port facility (whether at
Alexandria or elsewhere) would siphon off any excess traffic from the exist-
ing Alexandria Port facilities. However, the "without project" alternative
used for estimating benefits from the present project will cease to be valid
after 1983, since it would then be possible to handle the traffic at the new
port facility, with limited extra costs. Since this complicates the cal-
culation of benefits attributable to the project after 1983, the present
exercise takes the benefits stream only up to 1983. To complete the analysis,
a notional salvage value has, therefore, been taken for the project facili-
ties for the period beyond 1983, (25% for equipments and 50% for civil works
bot'h being underestimates considering the only six years' life elapsed by
198:3), the implicit assumption being that the project facilities would con-
tinue to be in full use and yield an acceptable rate of return for 2-6 years
morie.
Distribution of Benefits
4.225     The share of savings in ship-costs that will get passed on to the
country undertaking port development depends on several factors, and would
vary for different situations. However, in the case of Egypt, the following
factors favor a larger share for Egypt from the ship-savings produced by
the investment at Alexandria:
(i) In the general cargo traffic, about 70% is carried on
charter terms. Since freight rates in charter trade are
almost fully responsive to changes in port conditions, with
ship-savings from port improvement being transmitted to
the country by the immediate operation of the dispatch-
money clause in existing freight contracts or through
lower freight fixtures for subsequent contracts, this
large share of charter trade ensures quick transfer of
ship-savings for this part of the traffic.
(ii) Egypt has a strong Governmental agency - MARTRANS - through
which shipping arrangements for most of Egypt's overseas
traffic is channelized. Such pooling of shipping demand has
given Egypt tremendous bargaining strength in buying ship-
ping services on favorable terms - whether it is in the
charter market or even in the liner trade, where many special
rebates are negotiated and obtained.



- 53 -
(iii) Egypt's own ships carry about 15% of the traffic the full
ship-benefits for which can be assumed to accrue to Egypt.
4.26      Bearing in mind the above factors, the following assumptions can
be made for allocating to Egypt its share in the ship-time and freight savings
produced by the project:
(i) In the case of general cargo, for 70% of the traffic, which
is the share carried in charter ships, the full shipping
benefits (100%) will get passed on to Egypt.
(ii) For the remaining general cargo, viz 30% of the total
general cargo traffic, which is carried by liner shipping,
it can be assumed that 50% of the benefits will accrue
to Egypt, by avoiding congestion surcharges and freight
increases that would have become inevitable in the absence
of the project. Since there will be some congestion at
Alexandria even after the project, the main benefits from
the project may be said to be in reducing congestion levels
at the port and in preventing deterioration of service-
time. About 60% of the time-savings in ship-days fall in
the category, and only the remaining savings may be said
to come from a positive improvement in working efficiency.
The former is precisely the category of ship-time costs
which provoke congestion surcharges; this view has now been
substantiated by a recent UNCTAD study on congestion sur-
charges, (UNCTAD document, TD/B/C 4/130 of September 1975)
which concludes on the basis of empirical inquiries that:
(a) congestion surchages have recently become a widely
used mechanism to compensate the liner companies for extra
ship-time costs in particular ports arising from deteriora-
tion in service-efficiency and increase in waiting; (b) in
most cases, the amount paid by the country through con-
gestion surcharges is more than the extra ship-costs incurred
by the shipping conferences. The fact that all foreign line
shipping companies dealing with Alexandria Port imposed con-
gestion surcharges of 20 to 50% (of the freight rates) on
Alexandria's traffic in early 1975 is also worth mentioning
in this context. In view of all these, the assumption that
50% of the ship-time savings in the liner trade can be treated
as Egypt's share through avoided surcharges/freight increases
is very conservative;
(iii) combining the savings mentioned under (i) and (ii) above, the
ship-savings accruing to Egypt from the general cargo category
would amount to 85% (viz 70 x 100% and 30 x 50%), and
(iv) for the bulk cargo category, which would benefit from the
dredging included under the project, all the freight savings
could be assumed to come to Egypt as this traffic is carried
on charter basis.



- 54 -
4.27      Even though the above order of benefits is likely to pass on to
Egypt, credit for only a 50% share of the total shipping cost savings has
been taken while calculating the economic return from the project. Based
on the above assumptions and on the schedule of project execution, the bene-
fits accruing to Egypt are projected to grow from about US$3.0 million in 1976
to US$32.0 million in 1978 and US$53.0 million in 1980. They are assumed to
remain constant thereafter.
C. Project Costs
4.28      The project cost stream for the economic calculations is taken by
removing customs duties, local taxes and price contingencies from the finan-
cial cost of the project; this expresses economic costs in terms of 1975
prices. As discussed in para 4.22 an investment of US$3 million undertaken
as an emergency investment at the port is added to the cost. However, neither
the non-project investments being undertaken by the Port Authority, nor the
investments proposed to be undertaken by the Egyptian General Company for Silos
for improving grain handling rates at the port, have been included in the cost
estimates; these fall outside the project and their benefits are also excluded
while calculating project benefits. The recurring operational expenditure on
account of the project investments has been developed from projected financial
expenditure, in terms of 1975 prices. Cost and benefit streams are as follows:
(Figures in '000)
Capital Costs Operating Expenses
Year                  Ci                C2           Total Costs       Benefits
(US$)           (US$)          (US$)    (LE)   (US$)   (LE)
1975                 3,000                           3,000  1,200      -        -
1976                 1,240              250          1,490    596   2,909  1,164
1977               38,140            1,100          39,240 15,696   6,986  2,794
1978               35,750            3,500          39,250 15,700  32,264 12,905
1979                14,100           3,725          17,825  7,130  45,943 18,377
1980                 5,520           3,810          10,130  4,052  52,853 21,141
1981                   -             3,810           3,810  1,524  52,853 21,141
1932                   -             3,810           3,810  1,524  52,853 21,141
19133                  -             3.810           3,810  1,524  52,853 21,141
1984 (Salvage                          -               -       -    32,625 13,050
value assumed
Notes:  1.  Benefits include savings from bulk traffic and from general cargo;
Egypt's share assumed 50% of total ship savings.
2. Costs include the US$3 million investment on Loan/Credit
1062/524-EGT.
3. Uses official rate of exchange, 1 LE = US$2.5.



- 55 -
D. Economic Return
4.29      The economic return from the project was calculated on the basis
of the methology and data presented in the foregoing sections. It is
estimated that the project will yield a very high rate of return (IER) of
about 55%, even under the very conservative assumptions made. Assuming a
project life of only six years up to 1983 (the earliest year when an alter-
native port facility can be developed in Egypt in the light of the Trans-
port Survey findings), and assuming no salvage value (though this is not
a realistic assumption), the project would still yield an economic return
of about 50%.  The First Year Return from the project is estimated at about
37%, using a 12% discount rate.  These figures indicate the strong economic
justification for the project as well as its great urgency.
4.30      The above economic return was tested for its sensitivity to varia-
tions in the cost and benefit parameters.  The results showed that (a) a 25%
increase in costs will reduce the internal economic return to 39%; (b) a 25%
decline in benefits (already conservatively estimated) will yield a rate of
return of 34%; and (c) a 25% cost increase and 25% decline in benefits happen-
ing together would still yield a rate of return of about 22%.
4.31      The estimates of economic return presented above are based on the
official exchange rate of 1 LE = US$2.5. The economic return from the proj-
ect has also been worked out separately on the basis of a shadow rate of ex-
change of 1 LE = US$1.66, which assumes a premium of 50% in local currency
over the official exchange rate and is equivalent to the parallel rate of
exchange accepted by Egypt for many foreign transactions. Converting both
foreign cost components and foreign exchange benefits from the project into
local currency on the basis of this shadow rate of exchange, the project
yields an even higher rate of return of about 63%. This higher return re-
flects the large foreign exchange savings in terms of reduced shipping costs,
generated by the project.
4.32      Since the entire project consists of operationally interdependent
components which should work together to produce the proposed objectives of
improving general cargo handling rates and reducing port congestion, no
attempt has been made to estimate separate returns for individual project
components.



- 56 -
V. FINANCIAL EVALUATION
A. General
5.01      Financial policy and performance of APA and its two subsidiaries
have been subordinated by the need to provide essential port services to Egypt.
Little investment has been undertaken with the result that asset replacement
and improvement to port facilities has lagged behind traffic growth.  In addi-
tion, maintenance of structures and equipment has been inadequate and under-
taken at low cost. In revenue and cash terms therefore, the port group has
produced a satisfactory result with little call on its cash resources, low
operating costs and adequate revenues. This position will change in the fu-
ture as the Authority embarks on an investment program for both rehabilitation
and expansion. Net fixed assets presently are undervalued at LE 13 million.
By 1980, net fixed assets are expected to increase to almost LE 57 million.
At least 40% of this investment program is for replacement and rehabilitation.
5.02      Such a program means a substantial commitment for the port and must
prompt the need to review its financial policies, systems and management. With
financing by the Bank and other sources of the foreign exchange element in the
project (LE 39.50 million), the port has a cash shortfall of over LE 6 million
over 1975-80. Although APA will increase its tariffs on May 1, 1976, and GWE
has already done so, revenues are in fact inadequate to enable the port group
to finance all the local currency requirements of the investment programs.
It is estimated, however, that the port group can finance 78% of local cur-
rency needs over the period 1975-80. The Government has agreed to provide the
necessary capital, in principle by financing the equity capital of the port
group. However, as most of the local currency needed to finance equipment
investment is to cover customs duties, the possibility of the Port Authority
obtaining relief from such duties may be considered by the Government as an
alternative to providing cash (para 5.18).
5.03      Further review of tariffs is needed, particularly to ensure that all
services and facilities provided by the Authority are covered by revenues and
that a satisfactory return on investment is obtained. As borrowing and invest-
menit increases, the port group will become progressively under capitalized.
B. Past Financial Performance
5.04      Each of the APA, UASC and GWE have produced adequate profits and
cash reserves. By 1974, they had cash reserves of LE 2.6 million and gen-
erated a return on the average value of net fixed assets of over 28%. This
is, however, misleading due to asset values being set at historic cost. The



- 57 -
Warehouses Company increased its storage charges in 1975 with the objectives
of clearing the port area faster to relieve congestion. APA will increase
its tariffs by an estimated 60% in May 1976. Apart from a 25% increase in 1969
to balance devaluation of the LE, UASC tariffs have not changed. The cost of
congestion in the port does not reflect in past financial results. Wage and
maintenance cost levels are low whilst traffic has increased to its current
level of 16 million tons. This results in the apparent adequacy of operating
revenues, reserves and return on investment.
C. Presentation of Financial Analysis
5.05      Because of the existence and interplay between the three organiza-
tions comprising the Alexandria Port group and the lack of consolidated fi-
nancial data, the financial evaluation is presented in terms of both indi-
vidual estimates for the companies and as a consolidated analysis for the
group. Although it is the latter which best demonstrates the ability of the
port to finance its investments and its overall financial performance, the
analysis of the individual units is important not only to establish the
group picture but also to highlight the differences between each.
5.06      The assumptions used in the financial analysis are as follows:
(1) Tariffs. The average or unit prices emerging from 1974 actual
earnings from operations have been used with assumptions that:
(i) the port authority (APA) has increased its tariffs by
60% from May 1, 1976; (ii) the Stevedoring Company (UASC) will
maintain its existing tariff levels through to 1980; and (iii)
the Warehouses Company (GWE), having introduced major in-
creases in storage charges, will both reduce the length of stay
of goods in stores and increase its unit revenues to LE 1.5/ton
from June 1975 onwards.
(2) Revenues. APA revenues are directly affected by ship movements,
parcel/cargo size, ship size or capacity and berths occupancy.
The estimates reflect traffic trends with the following assump-
tions: (i) passenger and other shipping to increase at 3% p.a.
(ii) berth occupancy to reflect size of ship and cargo with the
following efficiency factors:
1975 + 10% on 1975 (number of days)
1976 - 10% on 1975 ( "          It )
1977 - 20% on 1975 ( "    "   "  )
1978 as 1977; and
(iv) the apportionment of GWE revenues to APA to reflect asset
and land rent to remain the same as 1974 as follows:



- 58 -
APA %           GWE%
Storage                                50             50
Porterage                               10            90
Services to Owners                     60             40
Transportation                          -            100
Other Revenues                         25              75
(3)  Expenditure.  Actual results for 1974 are taken as the base
and projected in line with traffic forecasts with the assump-
tions that:
(i) wage costs are 40% fixed and 60% variation with traffic
volume and will increase by 5% per annum because of inflation;
(ii) raw materials, spare parts and servicing costs can be sub-
ject to annual price inflation of 10%; (iii) depreciation is 10%
on equipment and 5% on civil works; and (iv) taxation will con-
tinue at the same average levies as in 1974, taken as a percent-
age of net revenues or surplus and (v) relief on income tax is
given for loan interest.
(4) Others
(i) the balance of foreign exchange finance needed in addition
to the proposed Bank loan of $45.0 million is assumed to be
available from other sources and on the IBRD terms and con-
ditions of 25 years including a 5-year grace period and
interest at 8-1/2% per annum plus 3/4% commitment fee on
loan balances outstanding; this may prove a pessimistic,
therefore safe, assumption since USAID conditions are ex-
pected to be more concessional than Bank's;
(ii) working capital investment is assumed to follow income and
expenditure levels;
(iii) issued capital of the port group is assumed not to increase
remaining at the present level of about LE 16.5 million,
distributed as indicated in para 2.27; and
(iv) distribution of earnings is assumed to remain as indicated
in para 2.29.
D. Forecast Financial Performance 1975-1980
General
5.07      The financial forecasts of each of the three organizations are dis-
cussed hereinbelow. The results are then consolidated to present the total
picture in terms of revenue and expenditure estimates for the port group, cash
flow and consolidated balance sheets. The estimates of revenue and expenditures



- 59 -
indicate a satisfactory position with the port being able to maintain a return
on net fixed assets of around 8%.
Traffic Revenue Forecasts
5.08      Because revenues are assessed on Suez Canal net registered tonnage
(SCNRT) it was necessary to assess the present vessel size in terms of SCNRT
to estimate APA's revenue. Tonnage forecasts have then been converted into
vessel arrivals, estimated berth occupancy and use of equipment. It was as-
sumed that tonnage or cargo package for arriving ships would increase by 3%
annually. Berth occupancy was increased in terms of average number of days
to reflect the larger cargo package. APA's projected income from operations
are:
1975      1976       1978       1980       1975-1980
-------------------million LE---------------------
Ships                       1.435      2.070      2.470      2.645        13.480
Others                        395        420        480        550         2.810
1.830      2.490      2.950      3.195        16.290
Tariffs on ships are to be increased by 60% on May 1, 1976, which explains
the sharp increase in revenue.  As explained in para 2.34, services to ships
may be undercharged and land certainly is leased at low rates or at no charge.
5.09      UASC and GWE traffic forecasts were based primarily on the propor-
tion of 1974 traffic handled by the companies and then updated on the basis
of 1975 tonnage and developed in ratio with the total traffic forecasts. In
the case of GWE, a progressive control of more road transportation traffic
has been assumed as a result of an increased fleet of vehicles being brought
on stream through the execution of the investment program. Revenue are as
follows:
1974    1976    1978    1980    Total 1974-80
----------------million LE-------------------
Stevedoring Co.           5.655   8.110   9.240   10.325          52.250
Warehouses Co.             2.530   2.620   4.490    4.940          23.400
Expenditure Forecasts and Investment Program
5.10      Expenditure forecasts take account of increases in traffic and of
price inflation. The effect is to forecast an increase in operating costs
from LE 7.3 million in 1975 to LE 12.2 million by 1980. Depreciation pro-
visions reflect the substantial investment program planned and reach LE 5.5
million in 1980 or almost 52% of operating surpluses before depreciation.



- 60 -
5.11      As indicated in para 3.01, the cost of the 1975-80 investment program
for the port group is LE 68.5 million. Total depreciation provision for the
same period are LE 25.5 million, leaving a gap in terms of cash flow of LE
43.0 million. This gives an indication that maintaining an adequate cash flow
from surplus and equity will be a matter of concern during the execution of the
investment program. Significantly, average net assets in use of the port group
increase from LE 28.3 million in 1975 to LE 72.5 million in 1980.
Consolidated Revenue and Expenditure Estimates
5.12      A summary of the estimates is as follows:
1975      1977       1980
-------…LE'OOOs---------
Revenues                                 14,090    19,245    22,880
Operating Costs                           7,325      9,160    12,230
Operating Surplus                         6,765    10,085    10,650
Depreciation                              2,035      4,275     5,605
Net Revenues                              4,730      5,810     5,045
Operating Ratio                             66%        69%        78%
Return on NFA (before taxes)             35.14%      23.26%    9.03%
Times Interest Covered                      -         6.1x      1.6x
5.13      The salient point of the analysis of the revenue and expenditure
is that APA derives much of its income from the two subsidiaries.  The Ware-
houses Company pays APA for use of its buildings; APA holds most of the sub-
sidiaries' equity and earns income from those securities; both subsidiaries
pay a charge for administration and supervision (para 2.29). In 1974, the
structure of APA's revenue was:
Income from operations                    35%
Storage and land rent from GWE            22%
Securities and investments                36%
Transferable revenue                       7%
100%



- 61 -
These features are important in cash flow terms for each of the three units.
In group or consolidated terms, they are eliminated and indeed it is to be
expected that the port authority will control its cash position on a group
basis rather than allowing a surplus to build up in one unit and a deficit
in the other. This emphasizes the importance of corporate finance planning
particularly in a period of high investment.
5.14      The port is obviously able to maintain a good operating ratio,
generate a realistic return on assets of 9% at the end of the period and
cover its loan interest commitment adequately, with these reservations that
there most probably exists a cross-subsidization by cargo handling and
warehousing activities of other operations and that assets valuation does
not reflect replacement cost. Agreement has been reached during nego-
tiations that:
(i) APA should revalue its assets with the assistance of
the consultants whose services are financed from the
proposed loan;
(ii) APA will develop a review of tariffs and operating costs,
developing identification of cost centers and a cost-
related tariff structure reflecting asset investments,
the new tariffs being applicable with Government's
approval not later than June 30, 1978 and including
adequate charges on land (para 2.09); and
(iii)  APA should provide revenue sufficient concurrently to
(a) produce an annual return on the net fixed assets in
operations of not less than 9% before tax; and (b) enable
it out of internally generated funds to pay interest on
and amortize loans and debts, pay current taxation and
dividends and provide adequate reserves, maintain an ade-
quate working capital and finance out of its own funds a
reasonable part of the cost of new capital investments.
E. Cash Flow and Financing Plan
5.15       Cash flow estimates indicate that APA will be able to contri-
bute over LE 22.0 million towards the needs of its investment program.
But the total program for 1975-80 is LE 68.5 million, which, taking ac-
count of Bank and other foreign financing sources already secured for equip-
ment delivered in 1975, for a total of LE 39.7 million, would leave a cash
shortfall of some LE 6.5 million which is to be provided by the Government.
5.16       A summary of the 1975-1980 cash flow and financing plan is as
follows:



- 62 -
1975 - 1980
(LE 000)
Local      Foreign       Total
Sources of Funds
Internal                                         57,885                    57,885
Less Debt Service                                 10,257                   10,257
Profit distribution to Employees                   4,175                   4,175
Taxation                                          11,451                   11,451
Surplus to Government                             4,635                     4,635
30,518                   30,518
Net internal                                      27,367                   27,367
IDA Credit 524EGT                                                600          600
IBRD Loan 1063EGT                                                600          600
Proposed IBRD Loan                                            18,000       18,000
Other Foreign Loans                                           20,000       20,000
Other Bilateral Sources                                           480         480
Government Financing                               6,539            6       6,545
33,906      39,686       73,592
Requirements
Investment Programs                         28,776       39,686       68,460
Work in Progress                             3,402                     3,402
Financial Investments                          814                       814
32,990      39,686       72,676
Increase in Working Capital                    916                       916
33,906      39,686       73,592
5.17       The financing plan shows the financial requirements of the total
investment program 1975-1980 and the contribution made by the various sources.
It is based on the assumption that foreign loans, such as USAID, or Japan, etc.
will be available to cover the foreign exchange needs additional to those
covered by the proposed Bank loan. During negotiations, the Government and APA
gave to the Bank the assurance that the balance of external finance was being
secured and presented a tentative financing plan satisfactory to the Bank. The
prior conclusion of agreement securing the necessary foreign finance is a
condition of effectiveness of the proposed Bank loan.



- 63 -
5.18      It has to be pointed out that APA is financing 78% of the local cur-
rency element in its investment program from internally generated resources.
This is considerable achievement that must be supported by an adequate effort
from the Government to bring in capital money, specially since sizeable surplus
have been or will be cashed. As a consequence the Government has agreed at
negotiations to provide finance when necessary in accordance with a financing
plan acceptable to the Bank. This may tak ethe form of equity, or since the
Government is to obtain LE 11.6 million as customs duties on imported equipment
financed from the project (para. 3.30), it may take the form of remission of
custom duties. Production of a satisfactory financing plan for local finance
is a condition of effectiveness of the proposed Bank loan.
F. Balance Sheets
5.19      The projected balance sheets, which are summarized below take into
account the LE 6.5 million to be injected by the Government (para. 5.15).
Balance Sheets
(LE million)
Assets                                1975   1976   1977   1978   1979   1980
Fixed assets and works
in progress                         15.2   15.5   40.6   58.9   62.8   62.0
Financial investments                  3.0    3.1    3.4    3.6    3.8    3.8
Current assets less creditors          7.1   13.6    4.9    0.5    1.5    5.2
Liabilities
Capital and Revenues                  20.0   26.8   27.2   27.7   28.1   28.5
Debt                                   5.3    5.4   21.7   35.3   40.0   42.5
Total                            25.3   32.2   48.9   63.0   68.1   71.0
Current ratio                         1.80   2.43   1.69   1.10   1.18   1.45
Debt/equity ratio                    21/79  17/83  44/56  56/44  58/42  59/41
The low current ratio in 1978 and 1979 indicates that LE 6.5 million is the
minimum amount acceptable to maintain APA in a relatively sound financial
situation. It should be pointed out that the low current ratio assumes a
much lower, though acceptable, liquid ratio; without the LE 6.5 million
APA's cash account would be in deficit during four consecutive years from
1977 to 1980.
5.20      Any cash shortfall would impair APA's ability to finance any
investment additional to the existing program (para 3.01) that may be neces-
sary between 1975 and 1980. As a consequence, the Bank sought and obtained
during negotiations assurances from APA and Government that they will consult
with the Bank on changes to the program in view of securing the necessary
financing so that APA's financial performance, as defined hereinabove, is
not impaired by additional investments.



- 64 -
VI. AGREEMENTS REACHED AT NEGOTIATIONS
6.01      During negotiations, confirmation was obtained from the Government
that, as a condition of effectiveness of the Bank's loan, the Government will
conclude satisfactory agreements with other parties to meet the total project
cost. The Government and the APA presented to the Bank a financing plan ac-
ceptable to the Bank and gave assurances that the necessary finance is being
secured to meet the total project cost (paras 3.34 and 5.17).
6.02      During negotiations, the Government and APA gave assurances to the
Bank that:
(i) they will study before December 31, 1977, the appropriate
incentives that will be considered necessary to reward
the services of qualified staff as well as to recruit
new staff in APA (para 2.20);
(ii)  they will review with the Bank the management consultants'
recommendations before they are implemented in view of
taking appropriate action (para 3.36); and
(iii) they will consult with the Bank on changes to the 1975-80
investment program (paras 3.03 and 5.21).
6.03      During negotiations, the Bank has obtained assurances from the
Government that:
(i) no major port development will be implemented before the com-
pletion of the transport survey and preparation of a national
port development plan (para 1.08);
(ii)  no general cargo facilities will be constructed in Dekhela
before completion of the transport survey and preparation
of a national port plan (para 1.10);
(iii) APA will obtain each year the necessary foreign exchange
allocation to procure spare parts so as to adequately main-
tain its equipment (para 2.24);
(iv)  it will approve cost-based tariffs revision proposed by
APA to ensure an adequate return on investment, and in-
cluding charges on land, the new tariffs being applicable
not later than December 30, 1978 (paras 2.09 and 5.14); and
(v) it will increase APA's equity by the necessary amount to
secure a sound financial position for the Borrower (para
5.18).



- 65 -
6.04      During negotiations, the Bank obtained assurance from APA that:
(i)  hook-hour productivity on general cargo will be increased
to 11.3t by January 1, 1979 (paras 2.27 and 4.17);
(ii)  it agrees with the program on project execution (para 3.37);
(iii)  it concurs on producing quarterly progress reports on the
format presented by the Bank, the first report to be issued
on October 1, 1976 (para 3.38);
(iv)  it will revalue its assets with the assistance of the
consultants whose services are financed from the proposed
loan (para 5.14);
(v) it will review tariffs and operating costs to identify cost
centers and develop a cost-related tariff structure re-
flecting assets investments, and including charges on
land, to be applicable not later than December 31, 1978
(para 5.14); and
(vi) it will maintain its revenue at a level which covers de-
preciation provisions and debt service and generates a
return on average revalued net fixed assets of 9% (para 5.14).
6.05      During negotiations, the Bank reached an understanding with the APA
on the terms of reference of the consultants and the extent of consultancy/
technical assistance required (para 3.36):
(i) to review the statutory instruments relating to APA's
organization;
(ii)  to study the structure, organization and staffing of the Port
Authority (paras 2.22 and 3.26);
(iii)  identify training needs, and formulate and implement training
programs (paras 2.22 and 3.26);
(iv)  reorganize the workshop (paras 2.22 and 3.26);
(v) modernize accounting (paras 2.29 and 3.26);
(vi)  prepare cost accounting (paras 2.35 and 3.26);
(vii)  to assist in assets revaluation (paras 3.26 and 5.14); and
(viii)  to review sea pollution in the port and the measures and
regulations to control it (paras 3.26 and 3.39).



- 66 -
6.06      At the time of negotiations, the Bank and APA reviewed project
costs and reached an understanding on their amount (para 3.29).
6.07      The project, subject to completion on an acceptable Financing Plan
and agreement on the other matters referred to in paras 6.01 to 6.06 is suit-
able for a Bank loan of US$45 million for a 25-year term including 5 years of
grace.



Annex
Page 1
STAFF PROJECT REPORT
PORT OF ALEXANDRIA PROJECT
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
Documents Available in Project Files
Implementation of Schedule
Outline of Quarterly Progress Report
Civil works escalation calculation
Draft term sof reference for management consultants
Estimates of Needs for Cargo Handling Equipment
Project Cost Estimates
Project Cost Estimates:  Recapitulation per Project
Item, including Contingencies
Distribution of Cost Estimates per Agency
Distribution of Project per Lending Agency
Detail of Bank Loan disbursement schedule
Ship Turn-Round Data for the Period 1967-1975
Traffic Projections 1975-1980   (i)  Imports
(ii)  Exports
(iii) Summary
Estimates of Freight Savings in Bulk Cargo Traffic
due to Dredging
- General Cargo Productivity Levels, with and without
the Project
General Cargo:  Traffic Shares (%) assumed for different
Size Groups of Ships
General Cargo:  Estimated Service Time and Waiting Time
(Ship-Days) with and without Project
Estimated Shipping Cost Savings to Egypt Generated by
the Project: General Cargo
Project Costs and Benefits Streams
Estimation of Economic Return, Assuming a Shadow Rate for
foreign Exchange
Traffic and Revenue Forecasts
Revenue and Expenditure Estimates 1975-80
Cash Flows 1975-80
Balance Sheets 1975-80
Investments Programs - Fixed Assets and Depreciation
Consolidated Revenue and Expenditure Estimates 1975-80
Consolidated Cash Flow Forecast 1975-80
Consolidated Balance Sheets 1975-80



Annex
Page 2
Traffic handled at the Red Sea ports in Egypt, 1968-1973.
Note on situation and use of tugs in Alexandria port
Note on operations
Report on technical assistance rendered to Port of
Alexandria by Frederic R. Harris, Inc. New York,
NY, 1975.
Note on quay specifications
Map of Alexandria Port
Map of existing depths in outside channels
Map of Dekhela and Agaui Gulf
Several information notes on port, climate, winds,
buoyage, etc.
. General information on Port Said
General information on Adabiya Port
Details of Five Year Investment Program for Alexandria Port
Notes during Project Preparation
Inventory of existing equipment of Alexandria Port Authority
Marine Units of Alexandria Port Authority
List of revised equipment for Alexandria Port Authority
Inventory of equipment owned by United Arab Stevedoring
Company
List of requirements for United Arab Stevedoring Company
Inventory of equipment for Warehouses Company of Egypt
List of requirements for Warehouses Company of Egypt
Detail of 5 year plan showing equipment required
according to parties.
Emergency Requirements list
Detailed list of workshop equipment
Technical specifications of floating crane, tugboats,
service boats, hopper barge, floating grab, self
propelled bucket dredger
Notes on estimated quantities to be dredged in channels
Notes taken during updating of appraisal, October/
November 1975
Estimated cost and quantities for civil works
Estimated quantities to be dredged alongside
Cost estimates and escalation calculation
Note on customs duties
Alexandria Port - Ship turn-around statistics -
Quarterly 1973
Ship turn-around statistics monthly data Jan. 1974
to June 1975
Turn-around details for a 10% sample of ships, 1974



Annex
Page 3
Alexandria Port, passenger traffic, 1965-74
Number and NRT of Ships visiting Alexandria 1964-74
Data on ship size Composition, 1972-74
Commodity wise Traffic handled by UASC, 1972-74,
and Jan-June 1975.
Details of crane break-downs, June 1975
Detailed productivity data, UASC:
Annual 1972, 1973, 1974
Monthly Jan-June in 1974 and 1975
Traffic handled by GWE in 1974
Capacity estimates by GWE for the proposed
transport fleet for GWE
List of Congestion surcharges imposed on
Alexandria Port by various liner conferences,
1974 and 1975
Liner freight rates on selected commodities to/from
Alexandria Port (1975)
Selected charter freight fixtures for  Egypt's imports
1974 and 1975
Details of demurrage paid by Egypt to foreign shipping
companies during 1974
Traffic file:  Past traffic, notes on traffic projections,
berth occupancy, imports and exports
Tariffs file:  Ship, cargo handling, stevedoring, storage
tariffs, agency fees tariffs, general conditions.
Proforma ships' accounts. Port Authority Tariff
Investment Program file: All documents on existing equipment
and future program
Unitd Arab Stevedoring Company file: Balance sheets, Profit
and Loss Accounts, Revenue and Expenditure
Accounts, etc. for 1974
General Warehouses Company file: Same documents as above
Port Authority file: same documents
Miscellaneous working papers






IBRO 10047
----)    a tR etISArAEL'p
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~E
,/Y";=      - '                                                 i$T- 'ZX  ' .         i },yS A U D A
<98> 2   3            A R A B A
ntAOoo,---- ---- ---
"'i,'l REPUBLIC   OF                                     D   "    '          ' R
~~~~~~~~~~~~~77...   ...," . '  ' 
I  i.                                 , /   "bX                        PSiEs~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-N
-      1w-N>a -   
,,.  '/I E                     S                -
!~ ~ ~ ~ ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~5 .                                           f2 ,c  
, ; '--' ' 1 -- - - - . i,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~N 
f4--S.z ... .U-- .....ARAB REPUBLIC OF ji 1-.
*~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~lt '.5ns  nods,i Atq In.o






ARAB fREPUBLtC OF EGYPT
7'   ~ ~ ~                      ALEXANDRIA  HARBOUR                                                                                                                    Il
.~~~9                      WOOER 15090910909~~~~~~~~~~~~9              lp
/  4,         99010CR ORBO ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AST        
99  A   teacoos                                0           009~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ARI         
LI07000090$  /9  ,~~~~~~~                METERS~M
R,9   --,-- BAt  91FE
7/7,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ U/TEMAR19R000U 
9/7/               /7~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~rOROU S;p
MEX HARB'OU7/ A
// ~~~~~~-/t                l/ Om7,/ ,~                                                                                      0E19~           '
~~~~/ >   /                                           /9      /      /                                                          01000099~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~s     i
EL ARA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~RANSt
"lk ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~ ~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~>
I00909A OO.    000E'9-                                           - USWB E-oa
1. G91
Ai~~~~~~~~~~~~~~9



