Report No. 248b-TH 
Thailand                                                                              LE COPY
Appraisal of the
Phitsanulok Irrigation Project
June 27, 1975
East Asia and Pacific Projects Department
Irrigation and Area Development Division
Not for Public Use
U
Document of the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
International Development Association
This report was prepared for official use only by the Bank Group. It may not
be published, quoted or cited without Bank Group authorfzation. The Bank Group does
not accept responsibrity for the accuracy orcompleteness of the report.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$1.10           Baht (B) 20.0
B 1.00            US$0.05
U'i$1 taillion   =  B 20 million
B 1 million    = US$50,000
WEICITS AND MEASURES (METRIC SYSTEM)
1 meter (m)         =  3.28 feet (ft)
1 kilometer (km)    =  0.62 miles
1 hectare (ha)      =  2.47 acres (ac)
= 6.25 rai
1 million cubic
meters (Mm )   =  810 acre-feet
1 cubic meter per
second (m3/s)  =  35.3 ft3/s
1 ton               =  1,000 kilograms (kg)
= 2,205 pounds
1 megawatt (MW)     =  1,340 horsepower (hp)
NOTATION
= Less than half the smallest unit shown
= Nil or negligible
- Not available separately but included
in total
- Not available
Not applicable
ABBREVIATIONS
Ammophos       =  Diamonium phosphate (fertilizer)
BAAC           =  Bank for Agriculture and Agricultural Cooperatives
cif            =  Cost, insurance and freight
EGAT           =  Electricity Generating Authority of Thailand
fob            =  Free on board
GVW            =  Gross vehicle weight
HYV            =  High-yielding variety
LS             =  Lump sum
O&M            =  Operation and maintenance
NESDB          = National Economic and Social Development Board
NVP            = Net value of production
RD1, RD5       = High-yielding rice varieties
RID            =  Royal Irrigation Department
USBR           =  United States Bureau of Reclamation



GLOSSARY
Amphur         =  District
Changwat       =  Province
Nai Amphur      =  District Officer
FISCAL YEAR
October 1 - September 30






THAILAND
APPRAISAL OF THE PHITSANULOK IRRIGATION PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
SUMM{ARY AND CONCLUSIONS            ..               i - iii
I.  INTRODUCTION ........................................    1
II.  BACKGROUND ..........................................    1
General .....................                       1
The Agricultural Sector ........................    2
Irrigation Development in Thailand .............    2
Project Selection ................'i......... ...   3
III. THE PROJECT AREA.                                         4
General                   ..4
Climate ..
Topography, Soils and Drainage       .     .4
Farm Size and Land Tenure .         .              5
Existing Irrigation Facilities    .6
Agricultural Production          .       .          7
Transportation .................................    8
IV.  THE PROJECT .........................................    8
Project Works     ..........................9 
Chao Phya Basin Study ......  ....................   11
Administration and Organization Study ..........   11
Studies for Future Irrigation Projects .........   11
Water Supply, Demand and Quality ...............   12
Engineering Design   .............................   12
Construction Schedule ..........................   13
Cost Estimates   .................................   13
Financing   ......................................   14
Procurement        ....................   14
Disbursements   ..................................   16
Accounts and Audits ............................   16
Environmental Effects of tlie Project ......... ..   16
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal rmission, composed of
Messrs. G. J. Tibor, P. W. Whitford, A. S. Cheema, P. C. Garg (Bank), and
D. Benor (consultant) and a re-appraisal mission composed of Messrs. W. T.
Smith, P. W. Whitford, and B. W. Berman (Bank).



Page Thc.
iORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT .........................         17
Proiect Coordination .........................           17
Inpleementation of Project Works.                        18
Supporting Agricultural Services .19
Consultants' Ser-vices ..........................        20
Operation and Maintenance ............ .........         21
Proiect Monitoring ..............................        21
Recovery of Costs .....................                  22
VI.   PRODUCTION, ZL.RKET PROSPECTS, P'RICES AND
FARNMERS' INCOME .............................2I3.......       23
Production ..............                                23
Market Prospects .........................    --Z4
Prices ...........
Farmers' Income .25
VII.   BENEFITS IND JIUSTIFICATION .........................          26
VIII.   AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS ..............           28
ANNEXES
1.   Irrigation Development in Thailand
2.   Climatolog ical Data
3.   Project Works
4.   A. Chao P'hya Basin Study
B. Administratinn and Organization Study
C. Studies for Future Irrigation Projects
5.  Wiater Supply, Demand and Quality
6.   Construction Schedule
7.   Cost Estimates
8.   Equipment List
9.   Scheduling of Expenditures and Disbursements
10.   Project Coordination and Implementation
11.   Consulting Services
12.   Supporting Agricultural Services
13.   Operation and Maintenance
14.   Present and Projected Cropping P'atterns and Production
15.   Marketing and Prires
16.   Crop and Farm Budgets
17.   Farm Labor Analysis
18.   Economic Analysis



MAPS
No. 10202B.     Location Map
10616R     Proiect Area
10617      Typical Layout for On-Farm Development w'ith
Boindary Realiement
p






TH-AILAND
APPRAISAL OF THE PHITSANULOK IRRIGATION PROJECT
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
i.        This report appraises an irrigation project in the Nan River
Valley, for which a Bank loan of US$95.0 million is proposed. The project
is part of an on-going Government program to increase wet season rice yields
as well as the cultivation of rice and upland crops during the dry season.
The project would make better use of past investments for irrigation devel-
opment, especially through utilization of water stored in the Sirikit Dam
(Loan 514-TH). The first project in this program is the recently-launched
Chao Phya Irrigation Improvement Project (Credit 379-TH) which, like the
present project, is based on feasibility studies prepared as part of the
Sirikit Dam Project. The Phitsanulok Project would be the Bank Group's
ninth operation in the agricultural sector in Thailand.
ii.       According to the Bank's Agricultural Survey Mission to Thailand
the production of rice, the country's basic food crop and the largest for-
eign exchange earner, grew by about 3% per annum during the last decade,
barely in line with population growth. A substantial part of the gains in
rice output, as well as those of other crops, came from lateral expansion
of the cultivated area. Further gains in output, to meet growing domestic
demands and maintain Thailand's position in the export market, will require
more productive use of presently cultivated land. The Sector Mission also
pointed to a severe and increasing imbalance between the incomes of those
engaged in agriculture and those in other sectors. The proposed Phitsanulok
Project would make a significant contribution to the economic and social
development of Thailand by increasing the cropping intensity and yields in
an area currently under rainfed subsistence farming and by generating signi-
ficant employment opportunities.
iii.      The Nan River is located in Northern Thailand with its origin
in the mountainous country near the border with Laos. The river basin com-
prises an area of some 33,000 km2. The project area, which forms part of
the basin, has an established rice milling and marketing industry and enjoys
easy access to the country's main urban centers. It is eminently suited
for the cultivation of rice and a wide range of other crops. Sirikit Dam,
completed in 1972, regulates the Nan River flows and provides irrigation water
for the Nan Valley and the Northern Chao Phya Plain, with power, navigation
and flood protection as additional benefits. Available land capability and
water resources surveys point to the Phitsanulok project area as a priority
phase in the development of the basin.
iv.       The proposed project would include a diversion dam, irrigation
canal systems, drainage and flood control works and on-farm works, for some
97,000 ha. It would also include agricultural supporting services for exten-
sion, credit, research and farmers' organizations. The project also includes
(a) detailed preparation of a second phase development of 42,000 ha, (b) a
water resource study of the Chao Phya and Meklong Basins, (c) an administra-



- ii -                                                 a
tion and organization study of institutions concerned with irrigation
development and (d) the preparation of further irrigation projects.
V.        The estimated project cost, including the above studies is UJS$21n.O
million with an estimated foreign exchange component of US$88.0 million or
42% of the total. The Bank loan of US$95.0 million would finance foreign
exchange costs of US$85.0 as well as US$10.0 million of local currency re'.
quirements. The balance ofE costs would be financed by the Government. Th e
total cost of civil works and equipment (including physical contingencies
and expected price increases) to be put to international competitive bidding
would be US$125 million and US$23 million, respectively.   In the case of
on-farm development, the works would need to be planned and executed in close
consultation with the farmers and be scheduled to minimize disruption of iiarm
operations. For these reasons, the on-farm works cannot be grouped into
contracts of sufficient size to attract international contractors. They
would be constructed by force account or following local competitive bidding.
For drainage and flood control works, access to the worksites is dependent.
on weather conditions and it is difficult to estimate in advance the quanti-
ties of excavation needed. As a result, most of these works are unlikely to
be suitable for implementation by contract and would therefore be executed
on force account. The cost of works to be constructed by force account,
excluding the cost of equipment, is estimated at around US$28.0 million
including physical contingencies and expected price increases. The project
construction period would be eight years.
vi.       The project would be implemented by departments of the Ministry
of Agriculture and Cooperatives in cooperation with the Land Department of
the Ministry of Interior. The Government would appoint a Project Executive
Committee with authority to make all major decisions required for project
implementation such as budgets, staffing and procurement. The Executive
Committee would have the Minister of Agricullture as Chairman and would include
senior representatives of relevant ministries and departments. The R6yal
Irrigation Department (RID) would be responsible for planning, design and
construction of the prcject. A Deputy Direct:or-General of RID would be
appointed as Project Director and would be responsible for managing and
coordinating the implementation of project works. A Project Manager, with
staff assigned exclusively to the project, would supervise project design
and construction. The Department of Agricultural Extension of the Ministry
of Agriculture would establish a separate extension and farmer training
section in the project area. RID would promote the formation and strengthen-
ing of irrigation associations for each tertiary command area. The Bank for
Agriculture and Agricultural Cooperatives (BAAC) would expand its activities
to meet the credit requirements of the farmers.
vii.      The project would make a significant contribution towards meetin:;
the Government's objectives of increasing rice yields and cropping intensi-
ties as well as promoting crop diversification. It would raise the income
level of the rural population and generate new employment opportunities in.               J
North-Central Thailand, in line with the regional objectives of Government
economic policy. Upon completion of the project, about 60% of the project
area would be cultivated during the dry season while crop yields, both during
the dry and wet season, which are presently low because of recurrent droughts



- iii -
and floods, would be substantially increased. Income levels on the 16,000
farns in the area are also expected to rise with annual average crop income
increasing from about US$130/ha at present to between US$450/ha and US$500/ha
at full development. Finally, the proj ect would utilize the underemployed
labor in the area as well as provide substantial employment opportunities
to unemployed labor from neighboring areas and from other parts of Thailand.
It is estimated that at full development the equivalent number of full-time
jobs in agriculture would increase from the present level of 14,500 to 57,000.
In addition, the project would generate 2.2 million mandays in peak season
employment. The labor supply will be met by natural increase of the labor
force at-d migration into the project area.
viii.     The annual gross value of production is expected to reach US$70   - 
million (B 1,400 million) at full development, 14 years after project com-
mencement, compared with a current level of US$20 million (B 400 million).
Using farm-gate prices, the incremental net value of production due to the
project at full development would be about US$36 million (B 720 million).
Using shadow wage rates for labor and including rice taxes, the incremental
economic benefits will be US$34.0 million (B 680 million) per annum at full
development, giving an economic rate of return of 'bout 20%. This analysis
*        does not account for substantial secondary benefits from facilities to be
- -       constructed under the project (e.g. an improved transportation network),
benefits from livestock production or returns from crops such as cotton
and sugar, which might be introduced and which would be more profitable than
some crops presently included in the cropping pattern. The quality o.f the
available data does not warrant a refinement of the economic analysis to
incorporate these additional factors, but it is reasonable to assume that
if they could have been quantified and evaluated, the economic rate of
return on the project would lhave been significantly higher.
ix.       The project is suitable for a Bank Loan of US$95.0 million.
for a period of 30 years, including a seven-year grace period. The borrower
would be the Kingdom of Thailand.
w






THAILAND
APPRAISAL OF THE PHITSANULOK IRRIGATION PROJECT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The Government of Thailand has requested Bank assistance in
financing the construction of the Phitsanulok Irrigation Project. This
would be the ninth Bank Group operation for agricultural development in
Thailand.
1.02      The Sirikit Dam Project (Loan 514-TH) included provision for
soil surveys and a feasibility study for irrigation development in the
Nan River Valley. These studies, which were completed by the Royal
Irrigation Department (RID) in 1970 and were further revised in 1972,
together with the reports of several missions by Bank staff between 1968
and 1973, served as the basis for appraisal of the project. A mission to
appraise the project visited Thailar,d in March-April 1973, comprising Messrs.
G.J. Tibor, P.W. Whitford, A.S. Cheema, P.C. Garg (Bank), and D. Benor
(Consultant). The mission's report was completed just before the sharp rise
in oil prices and, therefore, it was agreed with the Government to update
the appraisal in light of expected cost escalation and the changed outlook
for commodity prices. A mission to update the appraisal visited Thailand
in June 1974 and comprised Messrs. W.T. Smith, P.W. Whitford and B.W. Berman
(Bank).
II. BACKGROUND
General
2.01      Thailand's territory extends over 514,000 km , almost one-fourth
being crop land and one-half forest and grazing land.  Its population, which
current estimates put at about 40 million, increased by 3.1% a year during
the 1960's. Despite the high rate of population growth, the per capita
economic growth rate was substantial from 1960 to 1968 when GDP growth averaged
8% a year in real terms, mainly because of large increases in exports and
investment. More recently, GDP growth has slowed down somewhat to around 6%.
a year because of rapid shifts in export demand, stagnation of public invest-
ment since 1970, and adverse weather and shortages of agricultural inputs.
Agricultural growth has been slower, averaging 5.4% a year, with wider
fluctuations from year to year due to weathoer. However, agriculture continued
to produce large and increasing surpluses for export. Per capita GNP was
US$230 in 1973 with large regional differeaces, a result of the concentration
of past public and private investments in the Bangkok area.
2.02      Inflation in Thailand has historically been very low. However
since mid-1972 the sharp upward movement in world prices for rice and other
Thai exports has driven up domestic agricultural prices; inflation abroad,



- 2 -                                             0
exchange rate realignments, and the petroleum price increase have resuLt:ed
in inflation of 9% in 1973, and 33% in 1974. However, inflation slowel in
the second half of 1974, as key export prices stabilized and then declLned,
and the government's highly deflationary budget and tight monetary polLcies
took effect.
The Agricultural Sector
2.03      The agricultural sector will need to provide employment in the
next five years for an additional 300,000 workers per year.  At the sa[ae
time, the relative share of agriculture in employment and gross domest:Lc
product indicates a severe imbalance between the incomes of those engaged
in agriculture and those in other sectors. Presently the agricultural
sector's share in gross domestic product is only 35%, although it empl:ys
close to 80% of the total labor force and accounts for 50% of merchand:'se
exports. Rice is t'he country's staple food crop with per capita consunlption
averaging around 270 kg of paddy per year, among the highest in the world.
Paddy production increased during the 1960's at an average rate of 3% per
year and reached a record 14.3 million paddy tons in 1973, but declined 12%
in 1974 because of adverse weather. Although most rice is consumed locally,
Thailand is a major rice exporter; in 1972, a record 2.0 million tons of
rice, or about one-fourth of total production, was exported.  In the p:st
few years, exports have ranged from one to two million tons.
2.04      Given the high quality of Thai rice and recent developments in the
world foodgrain trade, Thailand at present enjoys a strong export demanid for
its rice. Moreover,, paddy production must still be raised by 3.5% per year
over the next decade, in order to satisfy increased domestic requirements.
Much of the increase in rice output must come from increased productiv:lty,
as only limited opportunities exist for the opening up of new lands under
rice, a process which accounted for a significant amount of the total yro-
duction increase in the 1960's.  Considerable increases were registered
during the last decade iLn the production and export of a wide range of oTher
crops, the more importarnt of which were maize, rubber, tapioca, kenaf and
sugar. Here again, most: of the gains in output have come from lateral
expansion of cultivated area.
2.05      Due to the lack of new land which could be economically developed
for rice growing, the Government's agricultural policy is directed to ia-
creasing cropping intensities through dry season irrigation and to improving
yields through use of high-yielding varieties, together with necessary
improvements in water control, agricultural credit and extension services.
The Phitsanulok Project incorporates these objectives.
Irrigation Development in Thailand
2.06      Traditional rice cultivation in Thailand has relied on monsocinial
rainfall or natural inundation from the annual flooding of the major rivers.    41
Improved irrigation systems were introduced in the early years of the 2)th
century but the first major project, the Chao Phya Project (Loan 36-TH), was
not constructed until the 1950's. This project provided some degree of water



-3 -
control over one million ha in the Chao Phya Plain. Between 1963 and 1967,
this system was improved at relatively low cost by the construction of ter-
tiary canals and drains ("ditches and dikes"), with Bank assistance under
Loan 328-TH. Overall responsibility for implementation of these projects
rested with the Royal Irrigation Department (RID).
2.07      In order to provide storage for dry-season irrigation and for power
production, the Bank assisted Thailand in constructing the Bhumiphol (Loan
175-TH) and Sirikit (Loan 514-TH) Dams, which were completed in 1964 and 1972,
respectively, on the major tributaries of the Chao Phya. After a period of
slower growth than expected in the 1960's, dry-season cropping of rice has
expanded more rapidly in recent years as a result of higher rice prices and
increasing farmer acceptance of varieties suited to dry-season cultivation.
In 1974 the dry-season rice crop in the Chao Phya Plain was over 200,000 ha.
System operation studies indicate that under reasonably conservative as-
sumptions water is available for about 450,000 ha of dry-season rice. Studies
carried out as a part of the Sirikit project showed that more intensive dry-
season cropping would require improvements in on-farm distribution systems,
and in some areas, modifications to the main canals and laterals to provide
better water control.
2.08      Two pilot projects developed in the Chao Phya Plain in the 1960's
with assistance from the Netherlands and Taiwan confirmed these findings.
In these projects on-farm development i.e. ditches, drains and roads to
nearly every farm with land levelling and boundary realignment, where
required, led to higher cropping intensities, more efficient water use and
higher standards of farm management. Further details on irrigation develop-
ment in Thailand are presented in Annex 1.
Project Selection
2.09.     The present project follows, and is expected to benefit from, the
Chao Phya Irrigation Improvement Project (Credit 379-TH), in developing
implementation techniques for on-farm development on a project scale. Al-
though it is possible that a project in the Chao Phya Plain comparable to
Phitsanulok might have given a marginally greater economic return, the
Phitsanulok project area was given priority, following the studies referred
to in para 2.07, for the following reasons:
(a)  Soils in the Nan Valley are more suited to diversified
cropping than in the Chao Phya and cropping patterns can
be adjusted more readily to market conditions;
(b)  Return flows from the Nan Valley can be reused
for irrigation downstream in the Chao Phya Plain; and
(e)  Investment in the Nan Valley would shift the develop-
ment emphasis from the Bangkok area and would be the



0
- 4 - 
first major public investment in agriculture in the
north-central lpart of Thailand.
2.10      For these reasons, the Government's Central Committee for Irrigated
Agriculture (para 5.01) and the Bank's sector survey mission concluded 1lhat
the Phitsanulok Project has high priority among new irrigation investmer.ts
in Thailand.  Further expansion of dry season cultivation in the Chao Plya
Plain is also accorded hiLgh priority by the Government and feasibility ti.tudies
are being carried oul: under Credit 379-TH.
III.  THE PROJECT AREA
General
3.01      The Nan River is located in Northern Thailand with its origin in
the mountainous country near the border with Laos. It flows generally EsDuth
to its confluence with the Chao Phya near ithe town of Nakhorn Sawan, a t3t:al
of some 600 km (Map 10202 Rl). The river basin covers about 33,000 km2.
Downstream of Uttaradit, the river flows across the vast alluvial plain known
as the Central Plain, the area drained by the Chao Phya River and its
major tributaries, the Ping, Wang, Yom and Nan Rivers.
3.02      The gross area of the first and second phases of the project i3
about 212,000 ha, of which 155,000 ha are under command and 139,000 ha are
irrigable. This area is located along both banks of the Nan River in a
strip some 130 km long, and not more than 20 km wide (Map 10616 R). The
northern boundary is located some 140 km downstream of Sirikit Dam. The
area extends over three changwats (provinces): Phitsanulok, Phichit and
a small part of Nakhorn Sawan, and is potentially one of the best agricu..-
tural areas in Northern Thailand. The pritncipal towns are Phitsanulok
and Phichit, each with a population of about 20,000.  The present projecl:,
which is the first phase, will have a gross area of about 148,000 ha of
which 110,000 ha wouldl be under command and. 97,000 ha irrigable; the pro, -
ect area is confined to the west (right) bank of the Nan River.
Climate
3.03      The climate throughout the area is tropical and monsoonal.  Th.
warm temperatures throughout the year provide a potential twelve-month           -
growing season. However, almost 90% of the average rainfall of 1,240 mm
falls in the wet season from May to October when thunderstorms and cycloi%i
storms cause heavy but: irregular rainfall. In the wet season, rainfall Is
generally sufficient :Eor a rice crop but with considerable risks of fail ra
due to the likelihood of a dry period of several weeks at the critical t::aas-
planting stage early :Ln the season.  No dry season cropping is possible t;ith-
out irrigation.  Deta:Lls on climate are presented in Annex 2.



-5-
T2poraphy, Soils and Drainage
3.04      The flood plain of the Nan River is typic4l of large river plains
where deposits from recurrent floods have raised t1+ river levees and adja-
cent land above the surrounding area.  Older terra es, at lower elevations
away from the river channels, form the flat basin Aands which make up a large
part of the project area.  The same landforms, on a minor scale, occur along
the several abandoned river channels and smaller tributary streams. North
and east of the Nan River are low, rolling foothit s which blend into the
flood plain. The Yom River, descending from the m untains to the north and
flowing west of the Nan, has created a flood plain which is higher than the
Nan River plain.  Between Phitsanulok and Chumsaen+, the two rivers follow
parallel courses, and are about 5 km apart. Before-the construction of the
Sirikit Dam, lands in this area were subject to periodic inundation, caused
by overflows from both the Yom and Nan Rivers. With the Sirikit Dam, the
frequency of inundation has been greatly reduced.
3.05      Soils are derived mostly from mixed riverine alluvium.  The lower-
lying and basin soils, which cover 50-60% of the area, are heavy textured clay
loams or clays with poor drainage, well suited for paddy production but only
marginal for other crops.  Soils on the river banks and higher lying ridges,
which cover some 20% of the project area, are mostly medium textured and
better drained; with supplemental irrigation, they offer the best potential
for upland crops. 1/ The remaining 20-30% of the area's soils are suitable
both for rice and for upland crops.
3.06      Most of the project area is composed of flat paddy fields or lands
which are sufficiently smooth to be flood irrigated. The cropping pattern
and the method of irrigation would determine the amount of land leveling
to be carried out. Both the Nan and Yom Rivers and some of the tributaries
are higher than the lowest parts of the project area and overflow during
heavy flood periods. Runoff from rainfall also tends to accumulate in these
low areas. About one-third of the project lands suffer from such surface
drainage deficiencies, leading to crop failures or depressed yields in ex-
ceptionally wet years.
Farm Size and Land Tenure
3.07      Based on a sample survey conducted by RID, 16,000 farm families,
averaging 6.5 members per family, or a total farm population of about
104,000, live in the project area. The population generally lives in
hamlets, usually located on the highest ground adjacent to the rivers.
The average farm size is relatively large -- about 6 ha, with 70% of the
farms having more than 4 ha. Farm size distribution in the project area,
estimated from Ministry of Agriculture's sample surveys, is as follows:
"
11"Upland crops" include all crops other than rice.



-6-
Phitsanulok
Project Area                Thailand
Farm       Cultivated    Farm        Cultivated
Farm Size          Holdins         Area       Holdings        Area
Less than 1.0             2                         19            2
1.0 -  2.5              14                         29           14
2.5 -  5.0             25           14   -       28           28
5.0 -  7.0              30           30            13           24
7,0 - 10.0              12           16             6           16
10.0 -20.0               15            28            5           10
Mbre than 20.0            2             8           -             4
Total              100          100          100           100
Average Holding Size (ha):   6.0                         3.5
Most holdings are fragmented into two or three plots.  The degree of frag-
mentation, however, is not serious enough t:o require consolidation of
holdings. About 80% of all cultivated land in the project area is owner--
operated, the rest being rented to close relatives. At present the incidence
from outside tenant farmers the project area is quite low.  While the farit
size distribution is rath,er skewed, it is less so than in most Asian counitries. 0
The skewness is associated with a higher proportion of poorer quality loi7-
land in the larger farm holdings. The incidence of tenancy is much lowe:
than in most of Thailand and most other Asian countries.
3.08       Only about 20% of the farm holdings in the project area have fiill
title deeds, recognized for legal transfer or as security for credit. Tile
remaining owners have occuapancy certificates of various kinds. Cadastral.
surveys, to be ,carried out as part of the project, would permit the issuance
of title deeds to all owners (para 5.08).
Existing Irrigation Facil:ities
3.09       Irrigation deve:lopment of various types has already taken placa! in
parts of the project area. At about 12 locations within the project areaL,
RID or local irrigation associations have constructed regulating gates oil
small tributaries as they enter the Yom or Nan Rivers. These are used,
particularly in the early part of the wet season, to back up water and spread
it over several thousand hectares within the project area.  This provide;
some insurance .against drought but does little to improve yields.  Such breas
would normally support only long-stemmed, broadcast rice varieties.
3.10      The siecond Form of irrigation development consists of the Emer;ency
Pumping Scheme operated by RID. This is part of a nationwide effort to
assure wet season water supplies, but it has had particular importance for
the Nan Va7lley, as loi' rainfalls in 1972 coupled with the absence of inulndation
in the southern part of the project area since the closure of Sirikit Da&I



in June 1971 have caused serious crop losses. In the 1972 wet season, RID
provided supplementary irrigation water without charge to about 15,000 ha in
the Chao Phya Basin by means of large fixed or barge-mounted diesel pumps.
Some of these pumps are also operated in the dry season but the beneficiaries
are charged only for operating costs. In general, the cost of these pumping
operations is high and the scope for their economic expansion in the area
is limited. RID is also constructing a link between the Yom and the Nan
Rivers (Map 10616 R), costing about US$2.4 million, which will serve to
reduce flooding in the Lower Yom River (para 4.04) and also may be used to
provide supplemental water in the Phichit River for domestic and irrigation
use before the Phisanulok Project is completed.
3.11      With the encouragement of the provincial administrations, a few
irrigation cooperatives have been set up to use water pumped from the river
and distributed by means of ditches. Typically, the pump is furnished by
RID or the province and the farmers are charged only for operating costs.
There are also numerous small private pumps mounted on the banks of the Nan,
Yom and other rivers, but irrigation of this kind is limited to a narrow
strip adjacent to the rivers.
3.12      Available data indicate that only small quantities of groundwater
are available in the area.  Apart from shallow dug wells, which supply do-
mestic needs, groundwater could be economically used only for high value
crops such as vegetables, as is already being done at present.
Agricultural Production
3.13      As elsewhere in Thailand, rice is the most important wet season crop
in the project area (Annex 14). The rice varieties grown are locally bred,
long duration and non-glutinous. In the lower-lying lands (about 50%-of the
project area), late-maturing varieties are broadcast on land plowed with the
first rains in April-May, in order to have seedlings established before
the flood waters accumulate. Yields of broadcast rice average 1.4 ton/ha.
On higher land with heavy soils but unlikely to be deeply flooded (about 30%
of the project area) native varieties are transplanted between June and
August, the average yield being 1.8 ton/ha. Maize is sown early in the wet
season on about 15% of the project area, mostly on higher lands with lighter
soils. After the maize harvest in September, part of the same land is sown
to mungbeans for the remaining part of the wet season. The average yields
of maize and mungbeans are 1.7 and 0.6 ton/ha, respectively.
3.14      The low crop yields are the result of unreliable rainfall, lack
of drainage, poor cultivation methods, the use of low quality seeds and the
minimal usage of fertilizer and pesticides. Apart from some small areas
which rely on annual inundation from river overflows, all crops depend upon
the spread of rainfall throughout the wet season. Drought periods of 15-20
days duration, which commonly occur in the project area, often seriously
reduce yields, particularly of rice.
w



-8-                                                  0
3.15      Recently some favorably located and enterprising farmers have starrted
growing dry season paddy using water pumped from the river (para 3.10).  They
have obtained good yields, indicating the prospects of good returns to ad(li-
tional farm inputs in the project area. Apart from these small areas und Er
rice and some fruits and vegetables, there iLs no dry season farming in thbc
project area.
3.16      Most land preparation is done with hired tractors and implements.
Rice threshing is also partly mechanized. Corn shelling is done with corn
shellers hired from the traders. All other operations are non-mechanized.
Transportation
3.17      The main centers in and around the project area are connected to
each other by well-maintained, all-weather roads. The network of highway;,
railroads and navigable rivers between the project area and the Bangkok
market is also reasonably adequate.  Within the project area, however, farmt
to village and village to mnarket access is rather poor and consists mostly
of earth roads and cart tracks which are impassable in the wet season.
Substantial improvements in farm and feeder roads are needed (para 4.03),
especially when double cropping is introduced, as harvested rice would haz7e
to be transported during the wet season.
IV. THE PROJECT
4.01      The proposed project would provide irrigation and drainage for
97,000 ha on the west bank of the Nan River in the provinces of .PhitsanuL,k
Phichit, and Nakhorn Sawan. This is the first stage of a 139,0,00ha proj'!ct.
The second stage, to irrigate 42,000 ha on the east bank and for which co is-
truction is scheduled to biegin in 1980, would be served by the diversion Lam
constructed for ithe first lphase. The project (Map 10616 R) would include:
(a) Phitsainulok diversion dam and navigation lock on
the Nan River;
(b)  Main, lateral and sub-lateral unlined canal systems
and roads to serve 97,000 ha;
(c) Improvement of 120 km of existing main drains and
the construction of 215 km of new ones along with
flood control works;
(d)  On-fann development of 97,000 ha consisting of the
provision of ditches, drains and roads to nearly
every farm as well as land leveling and boundary
realignment where required;                                                 ia



0
9 -
(e)  Four pilot projects of about 500 ha each to
demonstrate improved farming techniques to the
farmers and to train project personnel during
the construction period;
(f)  Construction of offices, laboratories, workshops
and houses for project staff;
(g)  Procurement of vehicles and equipment; and
(h)  Programs to expand and strengthen agricultural
extension and institutional credit (paras 5.09 to 5.14).
Under the Project, about 14,000 ha of cultivable land would be added to the
present area of 83,000 ha through swamp drainage and the clearing and land
shaping of scattered small areas of scrubland. The Project also includes
a) detailed preparation of a second stage development of 42,000 ha, b) a
water resource study of the Chao Phya and Meklong Basins, c) an administra-
tion and organization study of institutions concerned with irrigation
development, and d) the preparation of further irrigation projects. Con-
sultants would be engaged to assist project staff with the planning, design
and implementation of the works, and the detailed preparation of the second
stage (para 5.15). Consultants will also be engaged to assist with the Chao
Phya Basin study, the administration and organization study, and preparation
of further irrigation projects.
Project Works
4.02      Phitsanulok Diversion Dam.  The diversion dam, to be located on
the Nan River about 30 km north of the city of Phitsanulok, would comprise
a concrete barrage, a navigation lock, and an earth embankment (Annex 3).
The barrage would be constructed on dry ground and the river would be
diverted through it by means of an earth closure dam. Detailed designs for
these structures have been completed and site preparation works are under
way. As the navigation lock represents a major investment (about US$10
million) and it appears that the present design would exceed requirements,
an economic study of the optimum size of lock would be included in the
proposed design review (para 4.14). The revised proposal would be submitted
to the Bank for its review and comment.
4.03      Irrigation Canal System. The main canal would begin just upstream
of the diversion dam and would extend for 170 km on the right bank. Check
structures would be provided at approximately 10 km intervals. About 110
lateral and sub-lateral (secondary) canals, having a total length of about
760 km, would be constructed. The head reach of the main canal would have
sufficient capacity to meet future demands of the left bank canal in the
second stage development.  Tertiary outlets, each serving an average of
85 ha, would be provided on each side of the main and secondary canals. All
canals would be unlined and flanked by a laterite-surface service road.
About 50 km of the major service roads would be surfaced with asphalt. This



-10-
road network would provide an adequate feeder road system for the existing
major roads (para 3.17).
4.04      Drainage and Flood Control.  Drainage of the project area woul`. be
mainly to the Yom and Phichit Rivers. For the main drainage, about 120 ltm
of natural channels would be improved and deepened, while about 215 km oi,
new collector drains would be constructed. About 150 structures would bil.!
required.  A levee banik, abou4. 200 km in length, would be built along the
left bank of the Yom to ensure that flood waters in the Yom do not damage
the project area. In the first year of project implementation, RID and
the project consultants would study the return period for floods causing
damage to the right btnk of the Yom River and investigate whether measures
to alleviate damage are needed. Available data indicates that any such
damage would be relatively minor.
4.05      On-Farm Development.  The objective of on-farm development, wh cl:i
includes all works below the outlet to the tertiary canal, would be to pt:ovide
the irrigation channels, drains, access roads and leveling necessary to
realize the projected cropping pattern and yields. The intensity of the
works to be carried out would be determined on the basis of land classifica-
tion, topography, the shape and size of the holding and the expected crol:ping
pattern. For about 70% of the project area, where plots are large and
moderately level, the on-farm works would not involve major boundary rea3.ian-
ment and only minimal Leveling would be undertaken under the project.  Tc
enable a rational layout of the infrastructure and to reduce costs to an
economic level, boundatry realignment would be required for areas where t1le
topography is more uneven and the land is divided into small irregular plots.
Such realigrment would involve minor exchanges of land between owners, w:.th
minimal effects on the actual size and location of the farm.  A greater cegree
of leveling and shaping would be required in these areas.
4.06      Pilot Projects.  In order to accelerate agricultural developmert
in the project area, aL numrber of pilot projtects would be constructed in the
first two years of the project to examine alternative types of on-fairm
development and the optimum degree of level:Lng, to demonstrate irrigation
tecnniques to the farmers in the surrounding areas and to train field leveL
extension workers. Four areas of about 500 ha each would be chosen, spaced
throughout the project area. Each pilot project would include a lateral
canal and all the necessary on-farm works and would form a permanent part of
the project. Water would be supplied initially from barge-mounted pumps iII
the Nan or Yom River. After a gravity supp:Ly of water becomes available,
pumping would be discontinued.  The sites of the first two pilot projects
have been chosen, and the first will be constructed in the 1975 dry seascn,
4.07      Buildings.  Prov-isions would also be included under the project
for the construction cf offices for the extension services; project head-
quarters; offices, laboratories and workshops for RID; and houses for ex-
tension agents and operation and maintenance personnel.



i                                             -11-
Chao Phya Basin Study
4.08      The water of the Chao Phya River and its tributaries is used for
many purposes: irrigation, power, municipal supply, waste disposal, navi-
gation, salinity control and others. Conflicts between the various users
of the available water resource have not been serious in the past but they
mlay be expected to become so in the future as the rate of irrigation devel-
opment is accelerated. In order to ensure coordinated water planning in
the basin and to guide decisions on the allocation of water between com-
peting uses, it is proposed that a set of studies should be undertaken.
Funds would be provided under the project for procurement of the required
consulting services. A working-level group composed of senior technical
and planning personnel from the various agencies concerned with basin devel-
opment would be established to supervise and coordinate the studies carried
out by consultants. RID, which has offices and other facilities throughout
the area, would be designated as the supporting agency. A Water Use Policy
Committee, with representatives from all concerned government agencies, would
be established to review the findings and recommend appropriate policies,
legislation, and administrative regulations to the Cabinet. Further details
are given in Annex 4.
Administration and Organization Study
4.09      The implementation of the Phitsanulok Project and other new proj-
ects, together with intensification and expansion of irrigated agriculture
in areas served by existing works, will place heavy demands on the Ministry
of Agriculture and Cooperatives and its constituent departments. While the
transfer of RID to the Ministry, and other measures such as the creation
of a separate Department of Agricultural Extension, have resulted in a more
logical organizational structure than previously existed, these changes
were not accompanied by the necessary review and updating of the various
rules and regulations governing the operations of individual departments.
Each Department has authorities and responsibilities laid down in various
laws and decrees which, in many cases, are not consistent with the new
organizational structure and appear to impose serious constraints on admin-
istrative efficiency. Similarly, the regulations governing the relation
between the Ministry and its departments and other government departments
in areas such as budgeting, staffing and procurement are not always clearly
defined. The Ministry is aware of such problems and wishes to effect
improvements in administration and organization so that it will be better
equipped to handle future irrigation programs and projects which will be more
technically and administratively demanding than in the past. To provide a
basis for instituting such improvements, a study outlined in Annex 4, would
be undertaken by the Ministry, with consultant and specialist assistance to
be financed under the project.
Studies for Future Projects
4.10      There are a number of irrigation projects in the Government's
program for which further studies are needed to prepare them for financing
and implementation. Two of the largest developments are the Pattani project



- 12 -
in Southern Thailand, and the improvement and expansion of the Meklong p:oject
in the central region.. There are also a number of smaller projects, some:
involving new works and others involving on-farm development and drainag4-.
Priorities for technic:al assistance in project preparation, to be financ6d
under this project, would be established by the Government in consultatii:n
with the Bank. Further details are given in Annex 4.
Water Supply, Demand and (uality
4.11      Water Supply.  T'he recently completed Sirikit Project, on theI;an
River 175 km upstream fromr the Phitsanulok Diversion Dam, comprises a re:;~ervoir
with an active storage capacity of 7,500 Mm3 and power plant with four 1,1.5
MW generating units. The reservoir will regulate the Nan River, which h..s
an annual average runoff at the damsite of about 5,600 Mm3, for irrigati:n
in the Nan Valley and the Chao Phya Plain.  Additional storage for the Cn.!ao
Phya Plain is provided by Bhumiphol Reservoir (active storage 9,750 Mm3)
on the Ping River.  The formulation of operating rules for these two maj:ir
reservoirs, to meet growing demands for irrigation and other purposes, w:ll
be an important featur.e of- the Chao Phya Basin Study.
4.12      Water Demand.  At full development, the diversion requirement Eor
the project at the Phitsanulok Diversion Dam would be about 1 ,200 hm3,. '::on-
struction of the second stage will bring these requirements to about 1,71)0
Mm3. Essentially all of the requirements during the period mid-June thro:ugh
mid-October, about 350 Mm3, would be met from natural runoff from the cai:ch-
ment area between the Sir:Lkit Dam and the diversion. Thus a diversion ri-
quirement of 1,350 Mm3 would have to be met from storage releases.  This
represents about 25% of the average stream flow available five years out
of six. Return flows from the project would be available for downstream
projects.
4.13      Water Quality.  The quality of water in the Nan River is excel.ent
for sustained irrigation and no problems of salinity are expected. Furtler
details on water supp:Ly, demand and quality are presented in Annex 5.
Engineering Design
4.14      Designs have been prepared by RIri for the diversion dam and apiur-
tenant structures, about 40 km of the main canal, and the lateral canals,
drains and structures to serve 22,000 ha on the upper right bank.  For t.ie
remaining 75,000 ha, preliminary layouts orly are available, although su::vey
and design work is proceeding. The consult:ants would undertake a review
of all designs and design criteria during the first six months of their
contract. For the on-farm works, no planning or design work has yet beei
undertaken. Aerial photography, topograph.Lc and cadastral mapping would be
carried out for the whole project area. For each tertiary conmiand area, a
layout would be made to determine the optimum spacing and location of di ches,
drains and roads and a decision made as to whether boundary realigiment
would be necessary to achieve the optimum layout.  If no realignment is
required, construction plans would be prepared.  Otherwise, a "land conso.i-
dation" scheme would be drawn up and, following negotiations with the farnles rs
to secure their acceptance, it would proceed to the final design and exe-
cution phases.



- 13 -
Construction Schedule
4.15      The project's proposed construction schedule is shown in Annex 6,
Figure 1. The first two years (1975 and 1976) consist mainly of planning
and design activities while physical construction occupies the remaining
six years. Project works are expected to be completed by June, 1983. The
limiting factor to early utilization of project works is the planning and
implementation of the on-farm works. These have been scheduled at the most
rapid rate consistent with the expected organizational constraints and thus
cannot be finished before 1983. The works would be scheduled so as to
minimize the time between the incurrence of expenditure and the realization
of benefits, in order to maximize the economic rate of return.
Cost Estimates
4.16      Based on mid-1975 unit prices, total project costs are estimated
at US$210 million, of which US$3.8 million would be for the studies. The
foreign exchange component is estimated at about US$88 million or 42% of
total project cost. The estimated cost of the diversion dam is based on
detailed design quantities, with a reduction due to anticipated savings
on the navigation lock following the design review (para 4.02). The costs
of part of the distribution system are based on final designs and detailed
quantities. The costs of the remaining distribution works are based on
preliminary designs while the on-farm works have been costed on the basis
of recent experience in the Chao Phya Irrigation Improvement Project (Credit
379-TH). For civil works to be constructed by force account, the cost of
equipment to be procured under the project is included in the civil works
item. RID's costs for design and construction supervision are included
under Engineering while the Supervision and Management entry includes
operation of the pilot projects, extension services during construction,
and project monitoring. Depending on the status of investigations, physical
contingencies of between 5% and 20% have been included in the estimates.
Expected price increases were derived by applying the following rates of
annual price escalation a) for civil works, 12% for calendar years 1975-79
and 10% thereafter, and b) for equipment and services, 12% for 1975, 10%
for 1976, 8% for 1977-79, and 7% thereafter. Expected price increases
amount to 55% of the total cost plus physical contingencies.
4.17      A breakdown of project costs is presented in Annex 7 and is sum-
marized below:



- 14 -
%      X 
Local, Foreign  Total  Local  Foreign  Total  Foreign  Base
-----B million      ----      US$ million-----  Exchanje Cost
Project Costs
Diversion Dam            194      130      324    9.7      6.5    16.2       40     13
Irrigation & Drain
System                697       465   1,162   34.9    23.2    58.1        40      48
Flood Control             29       15       44    1.4      0.8      2.2     35       2
On-Farm Development    298        244      542   14.9    12.2    27.1        45     22
Engineering & Admin.   123          7      130    6.2      0.3      6.5       5      5
Vehicles & Equipment    10         52       62    0.5      2.6      3.1      84      3
Consultants                9       51       60    0.4      2.6      3.0      85      2
Miscellaneous             17        19      36    0.8      1.0      1.8      53      1
Subtotal -
Capital Costs         1,377       983   2,360   68.8    49.2   118.0        41      97
Studies:
-Chao Phya Basin         24        26       50    1.2      1.3      2.5     52       2
-Organization Study        3        3        6    0.1      0.2      0.3     44      -
-Further Studies           9       11       20    0.5      0.5      1.0      52
BASE COST ESTIMATE   1,413    1,023   2,436   70.6    51.2   121.8           42    100
Physical Contingency   158        114      272    7.9      5.7    13.6      42      11
Expected Price
Increases             869       623   1,492   43.5    31.1    74.6        42      61
TOTAL PROJECT COST   2,440    1,760   4,200  122.0    88.0   210.0          42    172
Financing
4.18      At the Government's request it was agreed that the Government
would finance 100% of the cost of carrying out the last 35,000 ha of on-fi.rnn
development to be implemented under the project (approximately US$20 mill.lon
including price contingencies of US$11 million). The Bank Loan of US$95
million would finance 45% of the total cost of the project including about:
US$85 million in foreign exchange costs and US$10 million in local currenCy
requirements.  The Government's contribution of US$115 million (B 2,300 million)
would finance the balance of local currency requirements and about US$3 million
of foreign exchange costs (for the on-farm works for which the Government
would finance 100%) and would be met by annuatl budgetary appropriations tc
the implementing agencies.
Procurement
4.19      All contracts suitable for international competitive bidding wouild
be awarded in accordance with the Bank Group's Guidelines for procurement.,



*                                              15-
The Phitsanulok diversion dam (US$16.2 million) would be let as a single
contract, subject to international competitive bidding. The irrigation
canal and road systemii (US$53.8 million) would be divided into not rmore than
ten contracts, subject to international competitive bidding. The drainag,e
and flood control works (US$6.5 million) consist mainly of the dredging of
natural channels and it would be uneconomic to prepare detailed designs
and specifications or to attempt to measure exact quantities of work performed.
Moreover, access to the work sites is dependent on weather conditions. For
these reasons, few of these works would be suitable for implementation by
contract and would therefore be executed mainly by RID on force account.
4.20      The on-farm works are estimated to cost US$27.1 million.  These
works would need to be planned and executed at short notice to coincide
with the acceptance of boundary realigrment schemes by the landholders in
many cases, as well as to avoid the growing season and adverse weather
conditions. For these reasons, the on-farm works cannot be grouped into
contracts of sufficient size to be attractive to international contractors.
Due to the fact that Thai contractors have not previously had experience
with on-farm works on a large scale, it is expected that up to 75% of these
works would be carried out by RID on force account, but this percentage
would be reviewed periodically in the light of experience on this and the
Chao Phya Irrigation Improvement Project. Contracts for on-farm works will
be awarded on the basis of competitive bidding advertised locally and in
accordance with local procedures, which are satisfactory to the Bank.
-           Foreign contractors would be eligible to bid. Housing and office buildings
(US$0.8 million) would be tendered locally since these structures have to
be completed prior to the start of major construction and the amount involved
would not attract international competition.
4.21      Vehicles and equipment for force account construction (US$11.2
million), pumping equipment for the pilot projects (US$0.5 million), and
vehicles and equipment for project design, supervision, extension services,
and 0 & M during implementation (US$3.2 million) would be procured under
international competitive bidding. A 15% preference margin, or the prevailing
customs duty if lower, would be extended to local manufacturers in the
evaluation of bids. Small off-the-shelf items costing less than US$10,000
each and limited to a total of US$500,000, which are not suitable for inter-
national tendering, would be purchased through normal government procurement
procedures. There are sufficient suppliers of such goods to ensure adequate
competition. As most of the equipment would only be required in about two
years' time or even later, it is impractical to prepare a detailed equipment
list at this time. A summary list is presented in Annex 8 (total estimated
cost US$15.5 million) and assurances were obtained during negotiations that
RID would obtain the Bank's approval for all equipment items to be procured
under international competitive bidding before the tenders are issued.
Disbursements
4.22      Disbursements would be made at the rate of 100% against the cif
cost of directly imported equipment, or the ex-factory price net of taxes



- 16 -
for equipment manufactured locally, and at the rate of 65% of total expen-
ditures for imported equipment procured locally. For consultants' services,
disbursements would equal 85% of total costs or 100% of foreign expenditure3.
Disbursements for civil works carried out by contractors and by force accouoat:
would be on a percentage basis. No disbursements would be made against
expenditures for implementing the last 35,000 ha of on-farm development
(para 4.18). Disbursements for force account would be made against certified
statements of completed work, on the basis of detailed cost estimates pre-
pared in advance for each season's work program. Supporting data for such
estimates would be retained by RID, and would be available for inspection
during project supervision and to the auditors.  Any savings in the loan
account would be cancelled. The estimated schedule of expenditures on the
project, an allocation of the proceeds of the loan, and a semi-annual
disbursement schedule are presented in Annex 9.   It is expected that
disbursements would be completed by December 1982.
Accounts and Audits
4.23      The agencies involved in project implementation are departments
of Government ministries and are subject to normal Government control and
auditing procedures. Assurances were obtained during negotiations that:
(a)  all project accounts would be consoLidated by the
Ministry of Agriculture;
(b) auditors satisfactory to the Bank would be employed
to audit these! accounts annually; and
(c)  the audited project accounts, together with the
auditor's comments, would be sent to the Bank
within four months of the close of each financial
year.
Environmental Effects of the Project
4.24      The introduction of irrigation to the project area would tend
to increase groundwater levels thereby benefitting village water supplies,
which are mainly from wells. However, no pro'blems of water logging or
salinity are expected. As in other irrigation areas in Thailand, some
infestation of water hyacinth can be expected, particularly in the main
drains. This would be controlled by chemical or mechanical means.
4.25      The project would have both beneficlal and adverse effects on fish
production.  Construction of canaLs and roads would create many borrow p4ts
-qhich are prized by the local people for fish and frog productior.. On the
other hand, the provision of drainage and the reduction in swampy areas
together with a marked increase in the use of chemical pesticides could be
detrimental to fish production, especially in the lower reaches of the sys- 
tem.



0                              ~~~~~~~~~- 17 -
4.26      Irrigation can sometimes lead to the spread of disease vectors.
The most serious of these diseases, schistosomiasis (bilharzla), does not
exist in the area, but the situation should be carefully monitored. Malaria
has been eliminated from the area and does not present a problem. Waterborne
diseases, such as cholera, typhoid and dysentery, are not likely to be
exacerbated by the project, as the villagers rely on rainwater or well water
for drinking. An assurance was obtained during negotiations that the
Government would undertake annual surveys in the project area to monitor
the incidence of water-associated diseases and take appropriate action to
halt the spread of any such diseases.
V. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
Project Coordination
5.01      In order to improve coordination between RID, and the various
departments providing agricultural supporting services, RID was transferred
in 1972 to the Ministry of Agriculture and Cooperatives (from the former
Ministry of National Development) and a Central Committee for Irrigated
Agriculture, consisting of the heads of all the relevant departments in
the Ministry of Agriculture and representatives of other ministries was
set up (Annex 10). The Committee, under the chairmanship of the Under-
Secretary of State for Agriculture, meets periodically to establish priorities
for irrigated agriculture and coordinate activities of the various departments
in the execution of irrigation projects.
5.02      In view of the magnitude and importance of the project, the
Government would establish a Project Executive Committee (Annex 10) with
authority to make all major decisions on matters such as budgets, staffing
and procurement. The Executive Committee would have the Minister of Agricul-
ture as chairman and include senior representatives of relevant ministries
and departments (e.g. Finance, Budget Bureau, Civil Service Commission).
The purpose of establishing the Committee is to expedite decisions on major
issues which would otherwise have to be referred to a number of different
agencies.
5.03      The Under-Secretary of State for Agriculture would be appointed
as Project Coordinator and would meet periodically with representatives of
the departments engaged in project implementation to resolve any routine
coordination problems. The Government would also appoint a Project Director
(para 5.06), a Project Manager (para 5.06), a Project Land Officer (para
5.08), and a Project Extension Officer (para 5.09), each with qualifications,
powers, and responsibilities acceptable to the Bank. Assurances in respect
of these appointments were obtained during negotiations.
5.04      Coordination of project activities at the field level would be
effected through Provincial Coordinating Committees established in the



-18-
Phichit, Phitsanulok, and Nakhorn Sawon provinces under the chairmanship of
the respective Governors. Each Committee would include the senior field
representatives of RID, the Department of Dctension and branch managers o:
BAAC. An assurance was obtained from the Government at negotiations that it
would establish these committees within three months of Loan signing.
5.05      To facilitate the information flow to the Executive and Coordinating
Committees, the consultants appointed for the project would assist each oE
the departments concerned in the preparation of annual work programs and
progress reports; the latter would identify any problems being encounterEd in
project implementation, or in coordination between departments, and recomnend
solutions to such problems.
Implementation of Project Works
5.06      RID would be responsible for planning, design and construction  if
all civil works, including on-farm developmfent. RID would be assisted by
a qualified firm of consultants (Annex 11). A Deputy Director-General of
RID would be appointed as Project Director and would be responsible for
directing the implementation of project works and coordination with other
agencies. A Project Manager, with staff assigned exclusively to the project
would be responsible for all design and construction activities.
5.07      As explained, in Annex 1, there have been delays in realizing                4
the expected agricultural benefits of some of the large gravity irrigaticn
systems constructed by RID in recent years. Technical factors impeding
development include deficiencies in design, delays in land acquisition ard
in resolving construction problems, and inadequacies in on-farm distribu-
tion systems. The Phitsanulok project has been designed to avoid the en-
gineering and operations problems encountered in previous projects and a
detailed review of these designs would be carried out by the consultants
before bids for construction are invited. T'o avoid delays in land aequi-
sition, RID's policy is now to complete all formalities and clear the riga:t-
of-way before the construction contractors arrive on the site.  RID is ncv
placing more emphasis on on-farm works than in the past and has recently
established a Land Consolidation Branch. This unit will provide personnel
and technical support for the On-Farm Development Section of the PhitsanuLok
project organization, which has been established and is now engaged in the
design of the pilot projects (para 4.06).
5.08      The timely availability of accuralte topographic and cadastral
surveys will be a major factor in the implementation of on-farm works.
RID, in cooperation with the Land Department and the Royal Thai Survey
Department (RTSD), has prepared a plan of operation for the necessary topF-
graphic and cadastral surveys.  RTSD has completed aerial photography of
the project area at a scale of 1:15,000, and is now establishing the control
points required for preparation of orthopholtomaps by RID. All necessary
ground surveys needed to produce topographic maps and for construction



-19 -
control would be carried out by RID. The Land Department would be responsi-
ble for cadastral surveys before and after construction, and for the issue
of title deeds; a Project Land Officer would be appointed to direct and
supervise this work.
Supporting Agricultural Services
5.09      Extension.  The Department of Agricultural Extension of the Min-
istry of Agriculture would establish a separate extension and farmer train-
ing section in the project area. This section would be headed by a senior
extension officer appointed as Project Extension Officer. The section would
be manned by about 70 extension workers ("farmers' foremen") each serving
about 240 farmers, 10 extension agents and several subject matter specialists.
Extension workers would be recruited from among the better farmers in the
area in order to take advantage of their local knowledge and prestige. All
extension personnel would be concentrated for an initial period in the pilot
projects (para 4.06) and would receive intensive training. Details on the
organization of extension services and training are given in Annex 12.
Training programs for extension personnel have recently been initiated in
the project area.
5.10      Farmers' Organizations.  Various kinds of farmers' organizations
exist in the project area. During project implementation, RID would promote
the formation and strengthening of irrigation associations for each tertiary
command area to operate and maintain the project facilities (para 5.16).
5.11      Credit.  Almost half of the project area farmers use credit and
most of it comes from relatives and neighbors. The major institutional
source, the Bank for Agriculture and Agricultural Cooperatives (BAAC),
supplies at present only a small percentage of available credit but its
role would increase under the project. BAAC's lending criteria are rea-
sonable and it is in a financially sound position. The normal interest
rate is 12%. Assuming 40% of all cash inputs to be financed on credit,
the credit needs of the farmers are expected to rise from B 25 million
at present to B 200 million at full development. To ensure that these
needs would be adequately met, assurances were obtained during negotiations
that BAAC would (a) increase its trained staff at its Phitsanulok and
Phichit branch offices; and (b) make available such funds, both short-term
and long-term, as shall be needed to adequately meet the credit requirements
of the farmers. The issuance of land titles which will be accelerated by
cadastral surveys provided for in the project, would remove most problems
of farmers' eligibility for institutional credit.
5.12      Research.  Within the Ministry of Agriculture, each department
conducts its own research program and runs its own field experiment stations
scattered throughout the country. Experiment stations for rice, upland
crops, and fruits and vegetables exist close to the project area. In addi-
tion, work performed at the Chainat Research Station and the Samchook Water
Use Experiment Station would be of great value to the project. In order to
w



- 20 -                                              0
strengthen the link between research and ectension and to expand researchi in
certain applied fields, the Government would establish a Technical Advis:ry
Committee, consisting of representatives of the research stations, the
extension service, the project management, and the farmers' organization3.s
An assurance was obtained that the Committee would be set up within six
months of Loan signing. The Committee wou:Ld be responsible for establishi.ng
priorities and programs of research for the project area.  Details are given
in Annex 12.
5.13      Seeds.  There is no large-scale seed multiplication and distri-
bution system in Thailand. An adequate supply of good quality seed will be
needed to realize the full benefits of the project. The Government intends
to implement a national seeds program with financial and technical assistance
from the United States.  Assistance in foruIulating this program was provided
by the FAO/IBRD Cooperative Program. A lawq has recently been enacted
governing seed certification.  Assurances were obtained during negotiatiolls
that the Government would submit to the Bank within one year after sig.nin
of the Loan a national seed multiplication program, satisfactory to the Baink,
giving priority to the project's requirements, and that it would take
measures to ensure an. adequate supply of high quality seeds for the pro: ect.
5.14      Fertilizer.  AnL adequate fertilizer distribution system, throtgh
private dealers and coopexatives, exists in the project area and could 4xpand
to meet the needs of the project. In late 1973, the Government abollsh.d the
fertilizer import monopoly, and allowed the free importation of all fertil-
izers. However, this decision coincided with the development of acute u;o:rld-
wide shortages of fertilizer and a sharp rise in world prices. Presently,
therefore, the benefits of the latest government policy have been offset,
by these price increaLses and there has been little impact on the farm-gate
price of fertilizer. Howrever, with the free market in fertilizer now
operating, price projections indicate that incentives for fertilizer us(
will remain favorable provided the government maintains its present free
market policy.
Consultants' Services
5.15      RID would retain a consulting firm to assist in project plannIng,
design and construct:Lon and also to assist in the detailed preparation v:f
the second phase project.. The consultants would also provide the servic.es
of an extension spec-Lalist to assist the Department of Extension. It it"
tentatively estimatecl that about 500 man-months of consultant effort wol l1
be required and a draft of the proposed consultants' terms of reference
is presented in Annex 11.  RID is currently reviewing proposals from a
number of qualified and experienced consut1 i.ants, and a firm, is expecred  ao
be selected in July 1975. Assurances wera obtained during negotiations,
that consultants would be employed on tei.ns and conditions acceptable tz
the Bank, to assist in project implementation and the studies financed i.nder
the project.



-21 -
Operation and Maintenance
5.16      RID would be responsible for the operation and maintenance
(O & M) of the diversion dam, the canal system down to the tertiary outlets,
and for the drainage and flood protection systems. The operation and
maintenance of the on-farm works would be the responsibility of the farmers
concerned, organized into irrigation associations for each tertiary command
area. Such associations have operated with some success in several parts
of Thailand. However, guidance from RID will be needed to develop effective
and self-sustaining organizations. The farmers would elect a common irri-
gator to operate the system, to determine rotational schedules and to
organize maintenance before each irrigation season. RID's 0 & M unit would
supervise the performance of the irrigation associations and, in cooperation
with local government officials, undertake periodic inspection to ensure
adequate standards of operation and maintenance.
5.17      Before the start of each irrigation season in mid-January the
Provincial Coordinating Committees would meet to agree on cropping patterns,
crop calendars, and cropping intensities for each zone in the system. The
details would then be communicated to the farmers by RID officials in coop-
eration with officials of the Extension Department and the District Officers.
5.18      The annual cost of operating and maintaining the facilities under
RID's responsibility would be about US$14/ha. Proposals for recovering this
cost are given below. In addition, about US$3/ha would be required to
operate and maintain the on-farm worlks. The latter amount would be raised
by an assessment by the irrigation association on its members. Maintenance
equipment for RID would be provided initially under the project. Further
details on the 0 & M program and costs are given in Annex 13.
Project Monitoring
5.19      An assurance was obtained during negotiations that a project
monitoring unit would be established, under terms of reference acceptable to
the Bank, within three months of Loan signing to undertake an agroeconomic
base survey of the project area within one year of Loan signing and to
prepare periodic reports, as may be agreed between the Government and the
Bank, on the economic and social impact of the project. The Unit would draw
on specialists from universities and consultants on short-term assignments
and would assess the progress of the project and the problems encountered,
with particular emphasis on the coordination of the engineering and agricul-
tural components, and changes in land tenure and farm population. The
m.onitoring unit would report its findings to the Project Coordinator.
Recovery of Costs
5.20      At present farmers in the project area pay only a land tax of B 31
(US$1.50) per ha, irrespective of soil conditions or crop productivity. The
tax is levied by district officials under the provincial Government. Before
1970, a heavy tax on exported rice was in effect and was accepted by the



- 22 -                                               0
Bank for previous projects as a means of cost recovery. The export tax was
subsequently abolished on all but the highest grades of rice, but in 197'
it was reintroduced to keep domestic prices at reasonable levels in the face
of a rapid rise in export prices.  In 1974/75 the export tax ranged betwcel
B 2,000 - 4,500/ton for the most common export grades.  It has been assured
for project analysis that the 1985 level of the tax would be equivalent to
the 1972 average rate on all exported rice of B 240/ton. The incremental
export tax collected from the project is estimated to be about B 100 mil]lion
per annum at full development. It is expected that the Government would
continue to use the export tax to stabilize domestic rice prices.  Howevcr,
the tax would vary according to market conditions and the Government is
considering alternative means of cost recovery.
5.21      Under the project, farmers in the project area could be assesscd
for the cost of on-farm development, in accordance with the provisions oii
the 1974 Land Consolidlation Act.  Subject to a legal interpretation of tlhe
Act by Government, it is uncertain whether interest on the works could also
be collected and whether recovery could be applied to all project lands or
just those lands, roughly 30% of the area, which would require boundary
realignment (para 4.05). Aside from the Land Consolidation Act there is no
other legislation at present under which Government could recover project
costs from the beneficiaries.
5.22      In order to determine the farmers' repayment capacity on irrigaItion
projects, the Government agreed under Credit 379-TH to:  (a) initiate a
cost recovery study which, before May 1975, will propose levels of chargcs
and collection procedures; and (b) review t'he proposals with IDA and impcise
and commence to collec:t the agreed charges in the Chao Phya project with'n
two years of project completion. Preliminary results of this study show
that a moderate level of cost recovery is possible, especially for the lZirger
farmers, without reducing incentives to adopt new agricultural techniques.
However, the study malces no recommendations with regard to amounts to be
recovered from different f'arm units, the appropriate mechanism of recovery,
or the relationship between the water charges level and the prevailing tcix
on rice exports.  The latter is of particular significance, in as much as
it would affect farm-gate prices and repayment capability.  An agreement was
reached during negotiatiorns to extend the study's completion date to June
1976 in order to enable Government to take these factors into account.
Assurances were obtained that the Government would:
(a)  submit to the Balnk not later than June 1977 proposals for
establishing and collecting charges as set forth in (b)
below; and
(b)  promptly take all measures (including further legislation
or amendments of existing legislation), which would be
necessary to impose and collect not later than three years
after completion of the on-farm works in each area of about
1 OOO0 ha served by a secondary canal;



23 -
(i) charges at levels sufficient to recover on a current
basis, upon completion of all project works, the costs
of operating and maintaining said works; and
(ii)  an annual charge sufficient to recover the capital
costs of on-farm works and a reasonable proportion of
the capital cost of the other project works, on terms
and under procedures satisfactory to the Bank, taking
into account farmers' incentives and capacity to pay.
5.23      As an illustration of the farmers' capacity to pay, an annual
char e of B 1,000/ha (about 20% of incremental farm income) over a period
of 5Oyears would have a present worth of B 375 million at a discount rate
of 12%. The present worth of the project cost of B 2,620 million plus
operation and maintenance costs, at the same interest rate and period of
evaluation, would be about B 1,630 million, indicating a minimum cost
recovery ratio of 23%. If the rice export taxes on the incremental rice
production due to the project are regarded as an indirect recovery of
project costs, the recovery ratio would rise to 40%, under the conservative
assumption that the premium would be B 240/ton of rice throughout the
evaluation period. These results, together with analyses of farm incomes
(para 6.10), indicate that recovery of on-farm works plus a portion of
the capital cost of other project works would not impose an undue burden
on the project area farmers.
VI.  PRODUCTION, MA        PROSPECTS, PRICES AND FARMERS' INCOME
Production
6.01      Implementation of the project would lead to a more intensive
cropping pattern and higher yields. In the wet season, a shift from broad-
cast to transplanted rice and a substitution of native rice varieties with
the new high-yielding strains (mainly RD1) would take place. The present
and projected future cropping patterns and production data are shown in
Annex 14, Table 1. Paddy production would increase from 105,000 tons at
present to 554,000 tons at full development. Other field crops would in-
crease from 6,000 tons at present to 70,000 tons at full development.
6.02      The production of upland crops mainly maize, mungbeans and soy-
beans would be limited to the lighter soils of the project area. In the
absence of a secure regulated water supply, there has been little use of
high-yielding RD1 rice variety in the project area so far. Its use is
expected to increase rapidly as adequate irrigation facilities are provided,
as has been the case in other parts of Thailand. Unlike previous improved
varieties, RD1 has no significant problem of consumer acceptability.



- 24                                                 9
6.03      Under the project, cropping intensity would increase from 96%
at present to 184%.  The latter figure includes about 25,000 ha (25%) cr:pped
to non-rice crops in the intermediate season, immediately following the iet
season. Without the project, there would not be any significant change in
cropping intensity, as the opportunities for private irrigation are very
limited. The introduction of double cropping on a large scale will require
important changes in cultivation techniques, such as the use of short-duvrtion,
non-photosensitive high-yielding rice varieties, an increased use of pre-
emergence herbicides to reduce hand weeding requirements, the expanded usc
of fertilizers, and better insect and rodent control.  Farm mechanization
through private contractors would also increase to meet a more exacting
cropping calendar. Much of the land preparation work is already mechanized;
at full development all land preparation and most of the threshing is
expected to be mechanized.
6.04      Estimated yields at full project development (Annex 14) are
based on yields now being achieved by the few farmers in the project arEa
who have access to irrigation (para 3.11) and on recent results in the ChLo
Phya Pilot Projects. The projected yields also take account of the heavy
extension effort to be provided as part of the project (Annex 12). As a
result of the emphasis on extension work in this project, it is expected
that full benefits would be reached in the fourteenth year after commencement.
Development on those parts of the project receiving irrigation water early
in the construction period would be slower than on those which would have
been guided by the extension service for several years before water beccmes
available. Without the project, the lack of irrigation would limit yieli
increases to 1-2%.
Market Prospects
6.05      Domestic rice requirements are growing by 3% per year; and, to
maintain Thailand's present share of world rice trade, exports would hav2 to
increase from the present average level of 1.5 million tons to at least
2 million tons by 1980. Supplying domestic: and export markets will require
production increases averaging 3.5% per year, in comparison to the recent
average of 2.9%. Accordingly, no marketing constraints are anticipated Ecr
paddy.
6.06      Maize is primarily an export crop in Thai agriculture and export:s
of maize have increased dramatically during the last decade. Prospects Ecr
further increases are good and no difficult:y is foreseen in marketing thp
incremental production of maize. The increases in production of crops 1ile
soybeans and mungbeans would be relatively small in comparison with natinLal
output, and they could be absorbed easily t-ither in doTnestic or in foreiyrn
markets. The increased production of perishable vegetables and fruits E iuld
be used locally in the project area. Less perishable vegerables, like c-il-
lies and garlic, would be marketed nationally. Market prospects and cor-
straints are diSCUSSEd more fully in Annex. 15.



-25 -
Prices-
6.07      Because of pooi rice ,crops in several rice producing countries,
the 1974 export price reaed t_Weunusually high level of US$600/ton for
the highest grade, compared t6 prices in the past decade ranging from
US$85 to US$200/ton. The Bank's commodity price projections forecast lower
world-market prices for 1985, with US$270/ton for high grades to US$193/ton
for medium grades (in constant 1974 prices). The Government imposes an
export tax on rice (the "rice premium") to-keep-the domestic price lower
than the world-market prices, and adjusts the tax periodically-to comp-ensate
for variations in the world prices.  The farm-gate price for paddy average
about US$45/ton prior--to 1973 but rose to abou-tM /tiarrThn 19T7-nd has
recently reached U~$l25/ton.  In the economic analysis, a linear decline
in world-market prices as been assumed over the period 1974-1985 with-no-
further change beyond 1985.  The r-F4tpreiiijf has been assumed to decline
so that farm-gate prices would drop Ffr-omanout US$150/ton in 1974 to US$110/
ton in 1985. In Annex 18, an economic price adjustment has been made to
reflect the varying levels of the premium throughout the period analysis.
If, however, the Government should decide to retain the export premium at
higher levels, farm income would be reduced but the economic rate of return
would remain unchanged.
6.08      Bank projections show an decline in world soybean prices by
1985 to US$234 (B 4,681) per ton from a present level of US$303 (B 6,065)
per ton. For the economic analysis, the current farm-gate price of US$266
(B 5,314) is projected to decline to US$196 (B 3,918) by 1985 (Annex 15).
For maize, the projection shows a 23% decline between 1974 and 1985; the
current farmgate price of US$110 (B 2,200) per ton is projected to decline
to US$89 (B 1,370) per ton by 1985 (Annex 15). For mungbeans, a slight
price decline from the present US$214 (B 4,288) per ton to US$188 (B 3,752)
per ton is assumed.
Farmers' Income
6.09      Farm incomes on four representative farm models of 2.0, 4.0,
6.0, and 10 ha have been analyzed. The cropping pattern assumed in the
analysis for present conditions reflects the average for the project area,
modified for the fact that larger farms, generally, have a higher propor-
tion of broadcast rice. Prices used are the projected farm-gate prices
for 1985.
6.10      While there is considerable variation in farm sizes in the project
area, there is a compensating variation of farm incomes per hectare, due
to the fact that farmers with large holdings have to hire a high proportion
of their total labor requirement. The small farmers, on the other hand,
can usually earn money working off the farm in their spare time. The
estimated present income and that projected at full development for the four
model farms, including the estimated income from off-farm employment, is
-           described in detail in Annex 16 and summarized below:
1/   All prices are in year-end 1974 constant terms.



- 26 - 
Farmer's Income
Farm                Farm Income            of f-Farm Income     Total Income
Size   Present  Future  Present  Future  Present  Future   Present  Future
------B/ha-        -B -         ---      B-------   -------B-------
2.0    4,300    9,700   8,600   19,300   3 ,200    3,600   11,800   22,50)
4.0    3,900    9,200  15,500   36,600   2,500        300   18,000   36,90)
6.0    3,500    8,500  21,200   51,200   1,900        -      23,100   51,20)
10.0    3,400    8,000  34,300   79,800       -        -      34,300   79,80)
6.11      The minimum level of cost recovery charges, assumed in para 5.23,
has been deducted in arriving at the above estimates.  On-farm consumptiol
has not been charged against income. With a range in annual farm incomes
from B 22,500 to B 79,800, per capita income at full development would va: y
from about B 3,500 (US$175) to B 12,300 (US$630) for the farm models
examined. When compared w:ith the expected average rural per capita income
in the Central Plain of about US$160 in 1980, income levels in the project
area indicate that, while ithere is only a limited possibility of recovering
investment costs from small, single cropped farms, it should be possible
to recover a substantial part of the investment costs from the rest.
VII. BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION
7.01      The project would make a significant contribution towards meetiiig
the Government's objectives of increasing rice yields and cropping intens:.-
ties as well as promot:Lng crop diversification.  It would raise the incom,b
level of the rural populatiLon and generate new employment opportunities in
North-Central Thailand, in line with the regional objectives of Government
economic policy. Through the provision of perennial irrigation, on-farm
development and supporlting agricultural services it would result in a con.
siderable increase in cropping intensity and yields of rice and a wide
variety of other crops in an area currently under rainfed subsistence
farming. The project would also generate significant employment opportu-
nities. While at present the area provides the equivalent of 14,500 jobs
a year in agriculture, the number is expected to increase to about 57,000
at full development. In adldition, there would also be a significant in-
crease in employmaent opportunities in the services sector.
7.02      At full deveLopment the annual gross value of production from t1le
project area, at projected 1985 world market prices expressed in year-end
1974 monetary values, adjusted to farm-gate value, is expected to increaste
from the current B 400 million to B 1,400 million. Pricing all labor at
the seasonally adjusted market rate (Annex 17), the net economic worth of
the Incremental production, at full development, is estimated to be about
B 700 million (US$35 million). Most of the marketable surplus of project
area production would be exported, the fob value in 1985 (in end-1974
monetary values) being about US$55 million.                                            iv



2, 7 -
7.03      With about 16,000 families in the project area presently engaged
in agriculture, the available farm labor supply is estimated to be about
10 million man-days a year. Based on recent trends, the labor force in the
area is expected to grow to 14 million man-days a year at full development
(Annex 17). Under present cropping conditions only 4.3 million man-days are
needed for farm work. Even after the projected improvements in farm practices
under "without project" conditions, there would be need for only 5 million
man-days by 1985. The severity of underemployment in the area is accentuated
by the cyclic nature of existing farm labor requirement - at present there
is practically no farm labor demand in the dry season. At full development
there would be over a four-fold increase in employment opportunities, to
about 17 million man-days, spread throughout the year. These labor projections
assume mechanization of land preparation and threshing. The project would
not only utilize the underemployed labor in the area but would also provide
work to unemployed labor from neighboring areas as well as from other parts
of Thailand. It is expected that some families will migrate permanently to
the area and settle on land rented or bought from present owners. This
subdivision of land is feasible as over half the area consists of holdings
larger than 7 ha. These holdings under the proposed cropping patterns are
too large to be cultivated by family labor without a high degree of either
hired labor or mechanization. It is considered likely that under these
conditions the owners of these holdings would find it profitable to sell or
rent part of their land to farmers moving into the region from outside the
project area.
7.04      The economic rate of return of the project is calculated in
Annex 18 and is estimated to be about 20% based on the following assump-
tions: (a) a 50-year evaluation period; (b) an 8-year construction
schedule; (c) full benefits 14 years after beginning construction; (d) eva-
luation of all costs and benefits in end-1974 monetary values; (e) world
market prices for fertilizers; (f) shadow pricing the farm labor at its
seasonal opportunity cost (Annex 17); (g) without the project, cropping
intensity would not increase but yields would grow by 1-2% per annun
(Annex 14); and (h) omitting inter- and intra-temporal distributional
consideration. Other important benefits, such as the effect of training
and demonstration on future projects, increased employment opportunitie
in trade and industry based on the increased production in the project
area and the secondary benefits of facilities created under the project
(e.g. improved transportation network), have not been accounted for
in the economic analysis. Nor has the analysis considered the benefits to
be generated in the area from development of the livestock industry, or
returns from more profitable crops than those presently projected, such
as cotton and sugar cane, for which the area is well suited and the demand
prospects are promising. Finally, the analysis is based on a slow growth
rate for agriculture labor force through 1985 and a static labor force
thereafter; a change in the labor availability assumptions would have sig-
nificant impact upon its shadow pricing. Due to a lack of data these factors
could not be quantified in the economic analysis but it is reasonable
to assume that if they could have been quantified and evaluated, the economic
rate of return on the project would have been higher than 20%.



- 28-
7.05      The sensitivity of the estimated rate of return to each of the
important assumptions made in formulating and evaluating the project was
tested. The rate of return estimate is quit:e sensitive to the projected
1985 rice price, varying from 14% to 24%O for a + 20% variation in the
projected price. There is moderate sensitivity to changes in constructicn
costs but the assumptions made in pricing farm inputs and in shadow pricing
labor were found not to be critical. The return is moderately sensitive to
the degree to which the organizational consltraints on on-farm development
and agricultural supporting services can be removed. If the flow of
benefits is delayed three years due to any of the above constraints, the
rate of return would fall to 14%.
7.06      The rate of return for the full development of 139,000 ha, assuning
the second stage development to begin in 1980, would be about 21%.  The
second stage alone would have a higher rate of return, about 32%, because
it would utilize the diversion dam and main canal constructed under tne
present project.
VIII.  AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
8.01      During negotiations, assurances were obtained from the Government
that:
(a) it would appoint within three mont:hs of loan signing and
thereafter continue to employ a Project Coordinator, a
Project Director, a Project Manager, Project Land Officer
and a Project Extension Officer, each with qualifications,
powers and responsibilities accept:able to the Bank, and
would ensure that the Project Manager, the Project Extension
Officer and the staff assigned to them would be employed
exclusively in implementing the project (paras 5.03 to
5.09);
(b) a project monitoring unit would be established, under terms
of reference accieptable to the Bank, within three months of
loan signing to undertake an agro--economic base survey of the
project area witlhin one year of loan signing and to prepare
periodic reports, as may be agreed between the Government and
the Bank, on the economic and social impact of the project
(para 5.19); and
(c)  it would (i) submit to the Bank flte later than June 1977
proposals for establishing and collecting charges as set forth
in (ii) belaw; and (ii) promptly take all measures (including
further legislation or amendments of existing legislation),
which would be necessary to impose and collect not later than
three years after completion of the on-farm works in each
area of about 1,000 ha served by a secondary canal, charges



0                                          - 29 -
at levels sufficient to recover on a current basis, upon
completion of all project works, the costs of operating and
maintaining said works, and annual charges sufficient to
recover the capital costs of on-farm works and a reasonable
proportion of the capital cost of the other project works,
on terms and under procedures satisfactory to the Bank, taking
into account farmer's incentives and capacity to pay (para
5.22).
8.02      The proposed project is suitable for a Bank loan of US$95 million,
with a thirty-year maturity and a seven-year grace period. The borrower
would be the Kingdom of Thailand.
4
0






*                                                                       ANNEX 1
Page 1
THAILAND
PHITSANULOK IRRIGATION PROJECT
Irrigation Development in Thailand
Historical
1.        Rice cultivation in Thailand has relied on monsoonal rainfall
or natural inundation from the annual flooding of the major rivers. In
general, rainfed cultivation has been practised in the upper reaches of
the major rivers and in areas away from the rivers. Inundation has been
most beneficially used in the Chao Phya Plain, a triangular area with its
base along the Gulf of Thailand and its apex at Chainat. Over the centu-
ries, a network of canals has been constructed through the Chao Phya Plain,
both to assist inundation of the rice paddies and to permit navigation through
the Plain.
2.        Improved irrigation systems were introduced in the early 20th cen-
tury, though only small, scattered projects were constructed until the 1950's.
The first large-scale irrigation scheme was the Chao Phya Project, assisted
by Loan 36-'TH. This involved the construction of a diversion dam on the
Chao Phya River at Chainat, which was completed in 1957, and a system of
main canals to serve an area of about 1 million ha, which was completed in
1961. This project resulted in a limited control of natural flooding in the
area.
3.        However, as field-to-field irrigation over long distances was
still required and natural drainage was inadequate, only wet season irri-
gation of rice was possible and yields remained low. In order to improve
these conditions at a low cost per unit area, a system of tertiary canals
("ditches and dikes") and drains at about 400 m spacing, totalling 20,000
km, were constructed between 1963 and 1967 to serve an area of about 800,000
ha. This project, assisted by Loan 328-TH, has permitted an increase in
wet season yields and an expansion of dry season cropping.
4.        Concurrently with this phase of development, a measure of flood
control and dry season reservoir storage was provided by the Bhumiphol Dam
on the Ping River, the westernmost tributary of the Chao Phya. The dam
construction was assisted by Loan 175-TH. It has an active capacity of
8,600 Mm3, sufficient to irrigate about 220,000 ha in the dry season, and
was completed in 1964.
5.        A number of smaller projects were also constructed throughout
the country during the 1960's.  These include the Petchburi Project (Loan
327-TH), the Mae Klong Project (Loan 394-TH), the Mae Wang Project, and a



ANNEX 1
Page 2
number of projects in Northeast Thailand.  These have generally consistec of
a reservoir, main and lateral canals, maior drainage and, in some cases, ter-
tiary canals at similar standards to the "ditches and dikes" project (para 3).
6.        The next major project after Bhumiphol was the Sirikit Dam (9,C'13( Mm3
active storage) on the Nan River.  Construction of the dam, which was partly
financed by Loan 514-TH, began in 1968 and was completed in 1972.  This cdar
can provide irrigation water to about 400,000 ha in the wet season and about
380,000 ha in the dry season, with power and navigation as additional bene-
fits. The Bank financing of this project also included provisions for:
(a) a study for power generation at the dam;
(b)  a semi-detailed soil survey in the Northern Chao Phya
Plain and in the Nan River Valley;
(c) a study for the formulation of an agricultural development
program for the rapid introduction of second cropping in
the Northerni Chao Phya Plain; and,
(d) a feasibility study for the development of an irrigation
scheme in the Nan River Valley.
Recent DeveLopiqent in the Chao Pha Plain
7.        Storage releases from Bhumipol ancl Sirikit have led to an expan-
sion of dry season cropping of rice in the Chao Phya Plain. Over 200,000 ha
were reported to be planted in the 1974 dry season, but this is still far less
than the area for which water is available. Item (c) above, also known as the
"25 studies" program, revealed some of the factors which have limited the
development of double cropping, namely:
(a) many of the main canals and laterals were originally
designed for wet season irrigation and diversions to
the commanded areas are possible only when operating
at full capacity; additional structures are needed to
allow diversions or partial flows in the dry season;
(b) the need for a rational layout wit:hin a tertiary
irrigation command (canals, drains, and farm roads)
and the necessity, in many cases, for some realign-
ment of farm boundaries to enable implementation of
such a layout;
(c) the need for land shaping and leveling to permit more
efficient irrigation of high-yielcling rice varieties
and upland crops; and
(d)  the lack of adequate extension efforts to teach
farmers proper water manaaement techniques and im-
proved farming practices.



ANNEX
Page 3
8.        Studies conducted by a Dutch consulting firm (Nedeco), together
with a pilot project at Chanasutr, and a second pilot project at Sappaya
assisted by Taiwan, demonstrated that these constraints could be overcome
in the Chao Phya Plain at an economic cost.  These results formed the basis
for the Chao Phya Irrigation Improvement Project, begun in 1973 and assisted
by Credit 379-TIl, which would facilitate dry-season cropping and substan-
tially increase yields on an area of 17,000 ha. The Droject also provides
for a feasibility study for a similar project on 50,000 ha in the Northern
Chao Phya Plain.
Nan River Development
9.        In 1970 the Royal Irrigation Department (RID), with some assist-
ance from its United States Bureau of Reclamation (USBR) advisers, produced
a report entitled "Feasibility Report: Uttaradit Irrigation Project and
Phitsanulok Irrigation Project", which described two independent irrigation
projects along the Nan River downstream of the Sirikit Dam. The Uttaradit
Project was to serve 140,000 ha while the Phlitsanulok Project was originally
planned to serve 108,000 ha. In the 1970 formulation of the Phitsanulok
Project, all canals were to be lined, on-farm development was provided for
but dry season cropping was restricted to about 20% on the Rrounds that the
dry season water requirements of the Chao Phya Plain should have priority.
At the time of appraisal of the Sirikit Dam, it was assumed that the avail-
able dry season water should be used to irrigate 180,000 ha in the Chao Phya
Plain and 200,000 ha in the Nan Valley. However, insufficient data exist at
present to make any precise judgment on the optimal allocation (Annex 4).
10.       In 1972, RID made substantial revisions to the Phitsanulok project
proposal. The irrigable area was increased to 145,000 ha, canal lining was
eliminated and the question of on-farm development was deferred for later
consideration. The low cropping intensity, however, was retained.
11.       During appraisal, it became clear that the project should provide
for an appropriate level of on-farm development and improved agricultural
supporting services. It also became apparent that, in order to achieve economic
viability, a drv season cropping intensity much higher than the proposed 20%
would be required. Due to budgetary and organizational constraints,
construction of the whole Phitsanulok development as a single project would
take more than ten years. Therefore, two stages are envisaged. The present
project comprises the first stage of 97,000 ha.



ANNEX 2
THAILAND
PHITSANULOK IRRIGATION PROJECT
Climate
1.        The project area is a relatively homogeneous climatological unit,
with warm temperatures throughout the year providing a potential twelve-
month growing season. The climate is trop:Lcal and three seasons may be
distinguished: the wet season (May to October), when the moisture-laden
southwest monsoon prevails; the cooler dry season (November to February),
under the influence of northeast winds; and the hot pre-monsoon season
(March and April), when variable winds and some rain may occur. About 90Z%
of the rainfall occurs during the wet season. Average annual rainfall over
the project area is 1,240 mm, with considerable variation from year to year.
At the beginning of the wet season, rainfa:Ll is erratic and dry periods oi
two weeks or more are not uncommon. Rainfall becomes more intense duririg
August, reaches its peak during September, and falls off rapidly in Octcber
and November.  The total annual precipitat:Lon is generally sufficient tcl
produce a crop during the rainy season. However, as the rainfall is due o
mainly to thunderstorms and cyclonic storms, its distribution is poor arid
it is not a fully dependable source during the critical periods at the be--
ginning and end of the growing season.
2.        The relative humidity is high alL year, with a monthly mean vary-
ing from 75% to 85% during the rainy season and from 65% to 80% during the
dry season. The mean monthly evaporation varies from a low of 65 mm in the
rainy season to 125 mm in the dry season, with a mean annual total of 9E0 mm.
Climatological data for the Phitsanulok project area over a 15-year period
are presented in Table 1.
3.        At present the main climatic constraint to wet-season rice produc-
tion is a dry period of several weeks' duration which occurs during Junc and
July in one out of three years. This may destroy crops broadcast in May,
delay transplanting and seriously damage crops already transplanted. All ade-
quate irrigation network would remove this constraint.



ANNEX 2
Table 1
THAILAND
PHITSANULOK IRRIGATION PROJECT
ClimatoloRica Data
Mean                           Mean
Average          Mean          Monthly          Mean
Monthly /       Monthly  lb   Relative/b       tionthly  /b /c
Month          RainfallA   Temperature--    Humidity-- Egvaration--
(mm)            CIC)            (%             (mmn)
January            9.2            23.6            79             74.2
February          17.1            26.1            68             82.1
March             26.5            28.5            65            104.7
.        April             59.2            30.5            65            124.0
May              166.5            29.9            74            106.2
June             158.1            28.2            80             72.7
July             174.7            27.6            81             74.1
August           213.2            27.5            83             66.9
September        267.6            27.4            83             57.8
October          124.0            27.3            83             70.4
November          21.3            26.1            76             70.5
December           3.5            23.8            71             72.5
Annual Total  1,240.9               -             -             976.1
Period of
Record      1952-1968         1951-1968    1951-1968        1951-1965
/a   Average for a number of stations in project area.
Ob   Phitsanulok City.
/c   Class A Pan.



ANNEX 3
Page  1
THAILAND
PHITSANULOK IRRIGATION PROJECT
Project Works
1.        The project would have the following major components:
(a)  Phitsanulck Diversion Damr;
(b) Main canal;
(c)  Lateral and sub-lateral canals;
(d) Drainage works;
(e) Flood control works;
(f) On-farm works;
(g) Pilot projects; and
(h) Buildings and other works.
Phitsanulok Diversion Dam
2.        The diversion dam would be locat:ed on the Nan River near Amph:e
Phrom Phiram in Phitsanulok Province, 30 lan north of the city of Phitsanulok.
The dam would be constructed on dry ground adjacent to the river withir. a
meander loop.  A 1,100 m diversion channe:L would then be dug to direct the
river through the structure, and a closure dam would be constructed in the
old river channel. The purpose of the dam would be to maintain sufficient
head to allow the project diversion requirements to be met.  The structire
would not have any significant storage capacity.
3.        The dam would be similar in design to the Chao Phya and Vajirdlong-
korn barrages, which were also designed and built by the Royal IrrigatiD)n
Department (RID). It would be a concrete structure with five 12.5 m opaXL-
ings, each controlled by a 7.5 m radial gate. The spillway capacity is c:is-
cussed in para 15.  According to the present RID proposal, a navigatioral
lock 12.5 m wide by 120 m long, with steeL miter gates, would be constricted
adjacent to the barrage. The lock would be sufficiently large to acconnodate
log rafts from the upper reaches of the Nan, as well as expected boat aaa
barge traffic.  However, it is unlikely that such a large navigation lc_v:
is economically justified and thus feasib:Llity studies of this element are          ML
included in the consultants' terms of reference (Annex 11).  Some cost
reductions are anticipated in the project cost estimate (Annex 7).



ANNEX 3
Page 2
4.        After the barrage and dam are substantially completed, an earth-
fill closure dam, about 200 m in length and 16 m high with a top width of
12 m and side slopes of 1:3, would be constructed in the old river channel.
About 140,000 m3 of fill would be required.
5.        Designs for the diversion dam have been completed.  A bitumern
surface access road has been constructed together with other Dreparation
works, such as a bridge over the Nan River, a water supply, and workers'
accommodation. The dam and appurtenant works would be let as one contract
and a construction period of thirty-six months has been estimated. It should
be possible to begin diverting water after about twenty-seven months of
construction.
Main and Lateral Canals
6.        The intake structure or head regulator for the main canal would
be located on the right bank of the river about 1,600 m upstream of the
diversion dam. The main canal would be unlined with a capacity of 140 m3/s
at its head reach.  The canal would extend 170 km on the right bank.  Stage II
of the project would be served by the left main canal, with a total length of
75 km, branching off of km 37 and crossing the Nan River by an inverted syphon
to serve the left bank area of 42,000 ha.  An earlier proposal for a left
main canal beginning at the diversion dam was found to be uneconomic.
7.        The canal system has been designed to supply the peak irrigation
demands for the proposed cropping pattern, assuming a monthly rainfall which
is exceeded three years out of four (Annex 5).
8.        Check structures would be provided at approximately 10 km intervals
along the main canal in order to ensure at least 0.80 m head above the field
level under all conditions of flow.
9.        About 110 lateral and sub-lateral (secondary) canals, having a
total length of about 760 km, would be constructed. The average area served
by a lateral would be about 900 ha. These canals would be unlined and pro-
vided with the necessary checks and drop structures to maintain a water level
of 0.40 m above the field level under all conditions of flow. Tertiary out-
lets, consisting of a gate and a constant-head orifice for flow measurement,
would be provided at an average spacing of 1 km on each side of the canal.
About 1,600 structures (checks, drops, syphons, culverts, bridges and ter-
tiary outlets) would be required. The average area served by each tertiary
outlet would be about 85 ha, although individual command areas would vary
widely in size.
10.       The lateral system has been approximately located for the whole
project area by means of the available 1:20,000 scale topographic map with
1 m contours.  Strip surveys, 800 m wide, would be made along these approxi-
mate centerlines and the final canal locations fixed so as to give maximum
command.  Canal capacity would be equivalent to 0.9 1/s/ha, which is suffi-
cient to supply maximum crop requirements, even in the absence of rainfall.



ANNEX 3
Page  3                m
11.       Final designs, which may require some modifications in the
light of recent refinement of the design criteria, are available for ab DUt
22,000 ha. Construction would be by contract, the size of each contract
depending on the availability of designs and the work program for each
year. Probably not more than ten contract:s would be let for the lateral
system, which might include the appropriat:e parts of the main canal. A3
the soils of the project area have a high clay content, no problem is e--
pected in achieving a relatively impermeable result.  During constructinr
of the canal, a 4 m wide laterite surfaced road would be built along on,!
bank.  About 50 km of major roads would be surfaced with asphalt.  Due So
weather conditions, construction of canals and structures can only be
carried out in eight or nine months of the year.
Drainage Works
12.       Drainage of the right bank area would be mainly to the Yom ard
Phichit Rivers while the left bank area (Stage II) would drain to varicua;
small tributaries of the Nan River. For the main drainage, about 2L20 km
of natural channels including the Yom and Phichit Rivers would be imprcv ed
and deepened, while about 215 km of new collector drains would be constrlucted,
requiring about 150 structures.
13.       Drainage designs have been prepared for about 22,000 ha and de--
sign work is proceeding. As access to the worksites is largely dependent:
on weather conditions and it is difficult to specify in advance the quan-
tities of excavation needed, this work would not be suitable for contrct:
and would be executed by RID on force account.  Equipment for this draia-
age work would be purchased under the projiect (Annex 8).
Flood Control Works
14.       As the channel capacity of the Nan River decreases in the down-
stream direction, it is not possible to contain all floodwaters within th[e
river channel. Therefore, the spillway capacity of the Phitsanulok Diversion
Dam has been set at 1,600 m3/s. A flow of this magnitude can be contained
within the levee banks formed by the main canal on the right bank and the
railway embankment on the left bank downstream of the diversion dam, tEus;
limiting flooding to a small area.
15.       The once in a hundred years flood peak at Phitsanulok with Siri.kit
Dam in operation is 4,200 m3/s with a duration above 1,600 m3/s of eleven
days. The excess volume of 690 11m3 would be partly stored between levee
banks upstream of the diversion dam and partly diverted through several
side channel spillways on the right bank north of the diversion dam, irto
a tributary of the Yom River.  A levee bank about 200 km in length would
be built along the left bank of the Yom River to ensure that these diverl:ed
floodwaters or natural floodwaters in the Yom River do not damage the proj-
ect area.  Drainage channels to the Yom River would be provided with gated          l|
outlets so as to prevent floodwaters backing up into the project area.  'It
is recognized that this procedure would exacerbate flooding on the right



ANNEX 3
Page 4
bank of the Yom but it is believed that these losses would not be too seri-
ous or frequent. After nroject construction, damaging flooding would occur
approximately once in one hundred years within the project area. For the
surrounding areas, RID, with the help of Project consultants, would study
the return period for serious flooding and propose measures to alleviate
damages. If found necessary, flood control measures would be introduced
in the Yom River basin.
On-Farm Works
16.       Each tertiary command area would be treated as a unit for the
design and construction of on-farm works. The overall objective would be
to provide irrigation water, drainage and an access road to almost every farm
plot and to provide the minimiu amount of leveling required to make the pro-
jected cropping pattern and yields-feasible.  The standard or intensity of
development would be varied between and within command areas to allow for
variations in existing topographic and cadastral conditions, the size and
shape of plots and present cropping patterns, as well as the needs of proposed
future cropping patterns and whether double cropping would be practiced.
17.       On a significant part of the project area, plots are large, rectan-
gular and moderately level.  In such areas, farm ditches, drains and roads
would be located along the paddy boundaries and little or no leveling would
be undertaken under the project. The Dikes and Ditches Act of 1962 gives the
Government the power to construct such works without the need to realign
boundaries or to pay compensation for the land used.
18.       On other parts of the project, particularly on the upland areas
close to the planned laterals, the topography is more uneven and the land
is at present divided either into small, irregular paddies or has small fields
for upland crops interspersed with banana orchards or uncultivated scrubland.
In such areas, boundary realignment would probably be needed to enable a
rational layout of the irrigation, drainage and farm road system. Such a
realignment scheme would involve minor exchanges of land between owners with
minimal effects on the actual size and location of the farm. The scheme could
only be implemented with the consent of a majority of the farmers affected.
Areas best suited to rice would be leveled and bunded while those best suited
to upland crops would be cleared and shaped so as to permit furrow irrigation.
Earth-surfaced roads, 2.5 m in width, would be located along each irrigation
ditch. The ditch to drain distance would vary between 150 and 250 m. Concrete
culverts and division boxes would be provided as required and permanent out-
lets would be provided to each plot (Map No. 10617 gives a typical layout of
this type).
19.       The remainder cf the project area consists of the lower-lying
lands for which water would not be available for dry season cropping. The
main change in agricultural practice would be a shift from broadcast to
transplanted rice cultivation which requires a somewhat greater degree of



A4NVEX 3
Page  5                g
water control and land leveling.  As holdings and plots are large in these
areas, the system described in para 17 could be applied at a lower denE:iiy
and at a smaller cost per unit area.
20.       The Royal Thai. Survey DepartmrenE has recently completed aerial
photography of the project area to a scale of 1:15,000.  This photograrphv
will be used as a basis for 1:2,500 seale orthophctomaps on which topo-
graphic and cadastral information would be plotted directly in the field.
Semi-detailed soil surveys are available at a 1 :10,o0o  scale for the whole
project area. The topographic, cadastral and soils data would be asserb"ed
for each tertiary command area, and a decision made as to whether bouneary
realignment would be necessary to obtain a regular and efficient layout: of
the Irrigation and drainage system.
21.       If no realignment is required, the ditches, drains, roads anc&
required structures would be laid out alo-ng the existing plot boundaries,
which are typically oriented to the contour of the land, and construct-o01
plans prepared.  If realignment is proposed, a "land consolidation" scleme
would be drawn up.  This would attempt to lay out the ditches, drains  n(i
roads in the most efficient manner while locating farm boundaries so as I-o
minimize the loss of land from each farm.  In cases where the loss of land
is greater than 5%, compensation would be paid.  There would be no attempt
to consolidate the various fragments of an owner's holding, as fragmentai:lion
is not a serious problem in the project area. However, as far as poss:ible,
an attempt would be made to ensure that the owner's new holding overlais
at least 50% with the old.  Irrigation associations would be set up in each
tertiary command area as early as possible so that they could participaite
in the planning process to the maximum feasible extent.  This would ensmure
that plans would be more acceptable to the farmers and that the object.ves
of the project would be more easily realized.
22.       The completed "land consolidation" scheme for the area would then
be discussed with the farmers concerned by a committee of local offici'Als
(Annex 10).  Any errors would be corrected at this stage.  If more than 50%
of the farmers approve the scheme it would proceed to the final design and
execution nhases. Farmers objecting to the proposals would be able to appeal
first through the administrative process and then through the courts. How-
ever, a recently enacted Land Consolidation Law would give the Governmitnt the
power to begin implementation before such. disputes are settled. It ha;, been
assumed that the planning phase would take a year longer for command a-eas
for which boundary realignment is proposed.
23.       If a "land consolidation" scheme is not accepted, it would either
be redesigned or postponed for resubmission at a later date.  However, it
is believed that the promise of on-farm d evelopment, the participation of
the farmers in the planning phase, and the later issuance of title deeds
would be a strong incentive for farmers to accept such schemes, as loni; as
they are reasonable and equitable.



ANN EX 3
Page 6
24.       After completion of the project works, the 1:2,500 maps would be
checked and, if necessary, corrected to represent accurately the boundaries
finally adopted.  The maps would be a record of the new cadastral pattern
and form the basis for the issuance of title deeds by the Land Department.
Pilot Projec-ts
25.       A group of pilot projects would be constructed in the early years
of the project. These would serve to compare alternative types of on-farm
development and the optimum degree of leveling, to demonstrate irrigation
techniques to the farmers in the surrounding areas and to train field level
extension workers (Annex 12). Four areas would be chosen, spaced throughout
the project area, and these would be located where a suitable lateral is
planned close to the Nan (or possibly the Yom) River. The lateral, which
would command about 500 Ila, would be constructed to its final design and all
necessary or-farm works provided. In order to provide water to the pilot
projects in the years before the gravity water supply becomes available, barge-
mounted diesel pumps w7ould be installed in the river. Each of the four
pumps would have a capacity of 0.5 m3/s at 10 m lift.  An additional standby
unit and a fuel barge would be provided. Due to the greater pumping lift in
the dry season and the higher irrigation demand per unit area, the irrigable
*          area would be only half of the wet season area.
26.       After a gravity supply of water becomes available to each pilot
project, pumping would be discontinued and the pump and barge, which would
still have a considerable useful life, would be turned over to RID's Pumping
Division for use in other pumping programs.
Buildings and Other Works
27.       The following buildings would be necessary to execute and
operate the project:
RID:
(a) Project Headquarters;
(b) Offices, laboratories and houses at diversion
dam;
(c)  Workshop; and,
(d) Houses for operation and maintenance personnel.
Extension Service:
(a)  Project Office (12 rooms and a conference hall);



AiNNEX 3               A
Page  7
(b) 10 Extension f:ield offices (3 rooms and a meeting hall);
and,
(c)  10 Houses for extension agents.
These buildings would be constructed by local contract as the amounts iwlvolved
would not attract international competition.



ANNEX 4
Page 1
THAILAND
PHITSANULOK IRRIGATION PROJECT
Studies
A. Chao Phya Basin Study
Introduction
1.        This annex describes the studies to be conducted by the Government
and financed under the project. Estimated costs for consulting services are
given in Annex 7, Table 8.
Background
2.        Chao Phya Basin.  The Chao Phya Basin covers an area of 180,000 km 2
_       and has a population of some 20 million (35% of Thailand's land area and
40% of its population).  The northern part of the Basin is drained by four
major rivers, the Ping, Wang, Yom and Nan, which join together about 200 km
north of Bangkok to form the Chao Phya, the principal river of Thailand.
For about 80 km the Chao Phya follows a single course, then it splits into
a number of distributary channels which reunite above Bangkok where the
river enters the Gulf of Thailand. About 85% of the runoff from the Basin
occurs during the monsoon season (May to October). The ricelands of the
Basin, about 1.3 million ha in the Chao Phya Plain and about 0.4 million ha
in the flood plains of the tributaries, make an important contribution to
Thailand's rice exports. Other important crops are maize and cassava in
the northern parts of the Basin and fruits and vegetables in the Bangkok
area.
3.        In the southern half of the Chao Phya Plain there is an extensive
system of canals and control works, some dating back to the 1890's, which
serve the dual purpose of navigation and drainage. In the northern part of
the Plain, the Chao Phya Project was initiated in 1952 and includes major
diversion dams and canals with the primary function of irrigation. On the
tributaries of the Chao Phya, some small-scale canal systems have been con-
structed and much larger schemes are being planned. Other more recent devel-
opments in the Basin are the multi-purpose reservoirs on the Ping (Bhumiphol
Dam, 1964) and on the Nan (Sirikit Dam, 1972) which are the only sites
available in the Basin for water storage on a large scale.
4.        The canals constructed over the past eighty years opened up areas
which were previously inaccessible and allowed the flood waters to be spread
more evenly over the Plain.  As a result most of the plain is now cropped in
_w        the wet season.  Until the late 1960's, water use for dry-season agriculture
was on a small scale, but in recent years irrigation has been introduced on
more than 150,000 ha from both the existing gravity irrigation systems and by



ANNEX 4
Page  2
pumping from navigat:ion/drainage canials. In parallel with the developme-.nt of
drv-season agriculture there has been rapid growth in the water demands for
domestic and industr:ial purposes in the Bangkok area and such growth is likelv
to continue.
5.        In a large measure the expansion of dry-season cultivation in the
Chao Phya has been a result of dry-season releases from the Bhumiphol ard
Sirikit reservoirs. Demrands for dry-season water will continue to incriaase as
upstream canal systems are modified to permit dry-season irrigation, more pumps
are installed, and new systems are constructed.  While there remains a ].a::ge
potential for dry-season irrigation from the two reservoirs, decisions vrill
soon have to be made, not: only for agriculture but also for other importanit
purposes such as salinity control, pollution abatement, navigation, fisheries,
and domestic use. The required pattern of releases for these purposes iill
also have to be reconciled with the requirements for peaking capacity arid
energy generation at the hydro-electric plants.
6.        eiae K<ong  Sasin.  With an area of some 33,000 kmr, or about oiie-sixth
the area of the Chao Phya Basin, the Mae Klong Basin shares many of its
development problems and opportunities. Because of this, studies of the
basin in conjunction with the Chao Phya Basin Study appear desirable, although
they mav be somewhat more limited in scope in the early stages. A further
reason for concurrent study of both basins is that the deltas of the Chao
Phya and Mae Klong are linked by a large navigation/drainage canal and t:here
may be a case for inter-basin water transfers for salinity and pollutior.
control.
7.        The Mae Klc>ng Basin is drained by the Kwae Noi and Kwae Yai Rivers
which join together to form the Mae Klong some 90 km from the Gulf of
Thailand.   Development of an irrigation project on the left bank of the
Mae2 Klong was initiated in 1964, with assistance fromni Loan 394-TH. The
project was designed to provide wet season irrigation, surface drainage,
and partial flood control for about 175,000 ha.  A dry season water supply
for this area and additicnal areas, not yel: provided with irrigation
facilities, will be available by 1978 from the Ban Chao Nen multi-purpose
reservoir on the Kwae Yai partly financed by Loan 977-TH. As in the case
of the .Chao Phya, decisions will soon have to be made on water allocatic3s
for agriculture and other purposes, and on operational criteria for the
reservoir, taking into consideration power and energy requirements.
General Anproach to the Study
8.        Conflicts between the various uses have not been serious in thB past
but may be expected to become so in the future, as demands for water risa due
to continuing agricultural and industrial growth.  Resolution of such co-iflicts
wll 'I-equire detailed studies of the tradeoffs between the various uses is
welT as the technical alternatives which exist to maintain navigation anid
salinity cantrol.  Similarly, a major unanswered question is where the fiirther
invesLments :n irrigation should 'be made to permit dry-season cropping.  ALll_
these cuestions have cocial and political dimensions as well as economic



ANNEX 4
Page  3
consequences. In the future, a coordinated approach to water resources
planning would be required so that the finite water resource can be allocated
between various users in accordance with consistent economic and social
criteria.
9.        For the Chao Phya and Mae Klong Basins, a two phase study is proposed:
the first phase would aim at providing a broad understanding of the present
situation and future problems and potentials; the second phase, for which
the first phase will serve as the basis, would consist of more comprehensive
studies of identified problem areas and the development of specific guidelines
for allocating water and operating the entire water systems of the two basins.
10.       Solutions to the problems of the two basins would of course be highly
sensitive to trends in agricultural productivity and prices, transport policy,
industrial development and so on, trends which are difficult to forecast with
any accuracy. Thus, there will be a need to continuously update water planning
to take account of changing economic and social values, and to make use of
more refined methods of analysis as these become available.
11.       The first phase of the study would be designed to:
(a)  collect relevant existing data and analyses from government
agencies and other sources;
(b) identify data gaps and a program for data collection;
(c) identify conflicts in dry-season water use which now exist
or may arise in the next few years;
(d) identify options for resolving these conflicts;
(e) identify other basic studies needed to evaluate competing
requirements;
(f) define the methodology necessary to evaluate competing
requirements and formulate operational guidelines; and
(g) prepare terms of reference for the second phase studies.
12.       Studies of some of the above topics could start in advance of the
Basin study, provided the approach is consistent with the two-phase program
proposed which essentially aims at an overview of the present situation and
near-term problems before formulating plans for resolving potential conflicts.
If bilateral assistance is available to the Government, considerable progress
could be made in developing an understanding of such questions as water-borne
transport and the extent of the pollution and salinity problems.



ANNEX 4
Page  4
13.       The second phase of the study would be designed to:
(a)  establish the data collection program, identified in the
first phase, to provide information periodically for
revising operating guidelines if required;
(b)  carry out detailed studies of teehnical options for
resolving water use conflicts and other basic studies
identified in the first phase;
(c) identify and caLrry out any furth,er studies required;
(d) develop methodology for resolving particular conflicts
in water use and enable guidelines for overall allocation
of water among competing uses in the Chao Phya and Mae
Klong Basins to be formulated and periodically revised;
(e)  formulate guidelines for operating the water systems of
both basins;
(f)  identify development priorities in power, irrigation, salinit3
and pollution control, and navigation.
Organization of the Study
14.       The study will require:  (a) a high-level body to review the
findings of the studies atnd recommend appropriate policies, legislation and
administrative regulaLtiorts to the Cabinet; (b) a working level group to
supervise and assist in carrying out the studies; (c) consultants to work
primarily with this group; and (d) designated government agencies to prov:Lde
support for the working level group and the consultants.
15.       As envisaged, the studies would be carried out in various ways,
depending upon the nature of the particular study and the availability cf
local resources. Somie of the specific contributing studies, for exampl1c,
might be carried out by the particular agencies concerned (e.g. EGAT cotld
supply whatever information was needed on future electric power demand aind
the costs of hydro power vs other sources). Some probably would need con-
sultants (e.g. study of river navigation).  In any event, to insure that all
aspects were fully covered and properly coordinated, consultants would be
needed to assist overall supervision, synt'hesize the results of the var.oJ1s
studies, prepare the optimization program and formulate the guidelines.
Water Use Policy Committee
18s       Since the question of water us  is of major concern 2nd :m;pin-e:;
upon a number of areas ot responsibility, the high-level policy body sh uld
have representatives from all government agencies concerned, including Ih 
Ministries (and pertinent departments) of Agriculture and Cooperatives, Com               _
munlications, Industrv, Finance and interior, the Metropolitan Water Wor..s



ANNEX 4
Page 5
Authority, Electric Generating Authority of Thailand (EGAT), and the
National Economic Social Development Board (NESDB).
Working Group
19.      A working level group is needed to supervise, coordinate and facil-
itate carrying out the studies. This group should be composed of appropriate
representatives (preferably senior technical and planning personnel) from
the agencies which will be most directly involved in the studies. Since such
officials already have a considerable work-load they could not be expected
to participate in the day-to-day work of the studies, but they should give
guidance and assistance to the consultants, and help in defining problems and
periodically review the progress and findings of the studies.
Consultants
20.       In view of the amount of work involved and its complexity, con-
sultants would be required to augment local personnel. A team of consultants
would be needed for overall execution of each of the study's two phases,
although the team chosen for the first phase need not necessarily be the
same as those chosen for second phase. Additional teams of consultants might
be required for carrying out specific studies. The consultants would col-
laborate closely with the working group and with personnel from government
agencies seconded to work with the consultants on a full-time basis.
Supporting Agency
21.       The consultants will need special assistance from the government,
particularly for field studies. RID and EGAT have offices and other facilities
in the area and would be designated as the supporting agencies for the
study.
B. Administration and Organization Study
Background
1.        The implementation of the Phitsanulok Project and other new pro-
jects, together with intensification and expansion of irrigated agriculture
in areas served by existing works, will place heavy demands on the Ministry
of Agriculture and Cooperatives and its constituent departments. While
the transfer of RID to the Ministry and other measures such as the creation
of a separate Department of Agricultural Extension have resulted in a more
logical organizational structure than previously existed, these changes
were not accompanied by the necessary review and updating of the various
rules and regulations governing the operations of individual departments.
Each Department has authorities and responsibilities laid down in various
laws and decrees which, in many cases, are not consistent with the new
organizatio_ai structure and  app.-ar to 4.mpose serious constraints 3n admrhis-
>>t >rwrUC4 Nt 4t 2>+rt-'aG;t  1  8C'Nbe~nr.........Z,  .6=- 



ANNEX 4
Page 6
the Ministry and its departments and other government departments in are.s
such as budgetinig, staffing and procurement are not always clearly definiad.
The Ministry is aware of such problems and wishes to affect improvements in
administration and organization so that it will be better equipped to hal%dle
its future irrigation programs and projects, which will be more technicaltly
and administratLvely demanding than in the past.  To provide a basis for
instituting such improvements, an administration and organization study ltould
be undertaken by the Ministry, with consultant and specialist assistance
financed under the project.
Proposed Studies
2.        Measures to strengthen the implementation capacity of the Ministry
must be based on a detailed review of the existing situation. This will re-
quire: (a) a review of the program of ongoing and future irrigation pro;jects
(1974-1986) to assess the institutional, manpower and financial requirements;
and (b) a descriptive survey of existing authority and responsibilities,
organization, staffing, administrative procedures and practices and work1-ng
relationships of the Ministry of Agriculture, RID and other departments nInd
agencies involved in :Lrrigated agriculture. A team composed of represen!':a-
tives from the Ministry of Agriculture's Projects Division, RID, Budget
Bureau and NESDB, and consultants would carry out the review of irrigaticn
projects.  Consultants would be retained to assist with both studies.  The
second study would nerd inputs from Thai experts or organizations since ru,Th
of the work would involve research of government statutes and regulation .
3.        On completion of' the two studies a working party composed of sinior
officials of the Ministry of Agriculture, RID, Budget Bureau, and possib:y
other agencies, if required, would review the studies in order to identif'y
problems posed by the present pattern of authority and responsibilities,
organizational structures, staffing, working relationships and administrcitive
procedures and practices, and recommend improvements where appropriate.
4.        The Bank, through its Regional Mission, would be prepared to ai.sist
Government in preparinlg terms of reference, reviewing reports on the stu'ies,
and by participating in working parties and committees. The two studies to be
undertaken to provide information for the working party are briefly outl:lned
below:
Review of Irrigation Program
(a)  review on-going and planned agricultural irrigation projects
(1974-1986) to determine annual institutional, man-power and
financial requirements for development;
(b)  estimate capabilities of departments concerned to meet such
requirements;
(c)  work out schedules and possibly priorities for implementing
projects, based upon various assumed levels of capabilities;



ANNEX 4
Page 7
(d) suggest possible programs for expanding capabilities of the
various departments; and
(e) suggest patterns of organization and responsibilities of
the various departments in project implementation.
Review of Institutions and Procedures
(a) compile all relevant laws, decrees and recognized precedents
governing the establishmnsent, authority and responsibilities
of the Ministry of Agriculture and Cooperatives and each of
its constituent departments dealing with irrigated agriculture;
(b) describe the structures, (including organization charts),
staffing and working relationships within and between each
of the above agencies; and
(c) describe administrative procedures and regulations of these
same agencies and those of NESDB, Ministry of Finance,
Budget Bureau, Civil Service Commission, etc., which concern
project approval and execution, budgetary allocations and
expenditures, cost accounting, personnel (e.g. hiring,
promotion, transfers, secondment and establishment of new
positions), and use of bilateral and multi-lateral aid.
C. Studies for Future Irrigation Projects
l.        A large potential for irrigated agriculture remains to be exploited
in Thailand through new developments and improvement and expansion of exist-
Ing projects. Bank financed projects have normally included provision for
feasibility studies of further developments. Examples are the studies of
the Nan River Valley provided for in the Sirikit Project (Loan 514-TH) and
the on-going second stage studies for the Chao Phya (Cr. 379-TH) and North-
east Thailand (Cr. 461-TH) Irrigation Improvement Projects. Similarly, the
project consultants financed under the Phitsanulok Project would assist in
detailed preparation of the project's second stage.
2.        In addition to the above studies the Government has requested
that provision be made in the Phitsanulok loan for financing detailed prep-
aration of other irrigation projects. These proj ects will be selected,
and the scope of studies decided, in consultation with the Government in
the course of a Bank review of Thailand's irrigation program tentatively
scheduLed for October 1975.  Two t.Ajor projects which can readily be identi-
fied as having a high priority for detailed preparation are briefly des-
cribed below:



ANNEX 4
Page 8
3.        Pattani Project.  This project, located in Southern Thailand,
would eomprise a dam on the Pattani River storing about 1000 M13, a powe.c
plant with an installed capacity of 20 nw generating 20 GrWh per year, aniJ
a diversion dam and irrigation system serving about 50,000 ha. Financin,
for the dam and power plant is currently being sought by EGAT and its cc :l
suitants are now in the process of preparintg contract documents. RID wiThes
to retain consultants to up-date a 1968 feaisibility report for the irrigatiou
development, to revise the design of the irrigation canals (unlined can.a.Ls
are to be adopted instead of the concrete-lined canals originally propos d),
and to review the design of the diversion dam. The project has priority
in line with Government's policy of more equitable development of the
regions.  Early development of the irrigation system would also tend to
maximize the benefits of investments in the storage works.
4.        Meklolj& Project.  At full development this project, located to
the west of Bangkok, iwould irrigate about 400,000 ha.  Constructlin of a
canal system for Stage I serving about 170,000 ha was completed in 1971 tjith
assistance from Loan 394--TH.  Canals to serve about 40,000 ha of the 230 000
ha Stage II are now under construction. The Stage I works were designed
primarily to provide supplementary irrigation for the wet season rice cr:op.
However, by 1979 there wi]Ll be a considerable increase in dry season flo.s
through the completioni of the Ban Chao Nen multipurpose reservoir on the
Quae Yai (Loan 977-TI), a tributary of the Meklong. Thus, the potential
exists for considerab:Le intensification of irrigated.agriculture in StagEi I
and in areas to be developed in Stage II.  In order to realize this pote:l-
tial, RID wishes to retain consultants to assist in preparing detailed
designs, cost estimates and implementation schedules.  Among the more
important items for wiich consultants are required are:
(a)  design of improvement in on-farm works in selected areas
presently served by the Stage I and Stage II canals;
(b)  design of vmdification to existing canal system to
ensure water control at low canal.discharges in the dry
season; and
(c) designs, cost estimates, and ecorLomic analyses for
further expansion of the Stage II development.
&



ANNEX 5
THAILAND
PHITSANULOK IRRIGATION PROJECT
Water Supply, Quality and Demand
Water Supply andQuality
1.        The water supply for crop production in the project is derived
from two main sources (a) rainfall; and (b) the regulated flow of the
Nan River, which would be distributed through a network of canals originating
at the Phitsanulok Diversion Dam. Analyses of the quality of water in the
Nan River show it to be suitable for sustained irrigation.
Water Demand
2.        Average water requirements have been calculated for the proposed
cropping patterns on the basis of experimental data on consumptive use from
the Samchook Water Use Experiment Station. Appropriate allowances were made
for water requirements for land preparation and nurseries. Assumptions
regarding effective rainfall and field efficiencies reflect the high percent-
age of rice in the cropping pattern. Rain falling in the period November
through March would be insufficient to cause a change in irrigation releases
and hence none is considered to be effective. An accurate estimate of
effective rainfall in the monsoon period requires a detailed study of daily
rainfall over a period of years. A study carried out by USBR for the
Northeast Region of Thailand, which has a similar rainfall pattern to the
project area, shows that 85% of the average monthly rainfall is effective.
Losses from deep percolation and from the fields are relatively low when
large contiguous blocks of paddy land are irrigated, therefore a field
efficiency of 75% has been used. Canal and tertiary losses are taken as 30%
of the diverted flow, thus the overall project efficiency is 52%.
3.        Detailed calculations of irrigation requirements are presented in
Table 1. Gross annual diversion requirements are estimated at 1,200 Mm3.
The peak gross diversion requirement would occur during February and is
estimated at 250 Mm3 or 98 m3/s. The main canals and laterals would be
designed with a margin of additional capacity to allow flexibility in the
choice of cropping patterns.
0



THAILAND
PHITSANILOK IRRIGATION PROJECT
Water Demand
Month                  J       F      M      A       M      J      J       A     S        0      N      D
-------- Monthly IrRigated Area  bo5  ha)-
Broadcast Rice                I    -       -      _       _      10     15     15      15     15      15     15      -
Transplanted Rice             L  28.0   27.0      -      _        -   65.5            _-      -       -      -
T    _     28.0   55[o   <50n  27enK   A65,5   65.5   6               5535.5- --
All Other Crops                I  24.5   13.0   13.0   13.0   14.5  14.5   14.5   14.5   14.5    5.5    5.5   24.5
-- Consumptive Use (mm/month) ---------
Broadcast Rice                I    -       -                    160    160    160    160    180    190    180        -
Transplanted Rice             L   210    210      -      -       -     185     -       -      _      -       _
I    -  2V0    200J   200    ^w     -     10LV    L)FI   LOV 9ov i1-90          -
Other Crops                   I   120    120    120    120    120    120    120    120    120    120    120    120
-- Effective Rainfall (mm) -----
Average Rainfall over
Project Area (1953-68)             9     17     26     59    166    158    175    213    268    124        21       4
Effective Rainfall (%)               0      0      0     85      85     85     85      85     85      85      0       0
Effective Rainfall (mm)              0      0      0      50   1241    134    140    181    228    106        0       0
3                                                                                                Total
Field Requirement (Mm /m nth)    88    130    126       92     18     37      35      6     -       38     34      29   633
Diversion Requirement(Mm /mo.)  169    250,   242    176       34     70     66      1      -       72     77      55 1,222
Diversion Requirement (m3/s)      66     98     95     67      13     27     25       4     -       28     29      21
KEY: I - Irrigation
L = Land preparation (includes provision for                                                                         |
nursery irrigation)
i kplr



ANNEX 6
THAILAND
PHITSANULOK IRRIGATION PROJECT
Construction Schedule
1.        The proposed construction schedule is shown in Figure 1. Cons-
truction will extend over seven working seasons beginning in the 1976-77
season. The project is expected to be completed by June, 1983.
2.        The limiting factor to early utilization of project works is the
planning and implementation of the on-farm works, for which experience in
Thailand is at present limited. The rate of execution of these works must
be carefully geared to the speed at which the necessary organizational
capacity can be developed and personnel recruited and trained. The on-farm
works have thus been scheduled at the most rapid rate consistent with the
expected organizational constraints.
3.        The remaining works, namely the diversion dam and the canal and
drainage systems, have been scheduled so that they would not stand idle while
the more critical on-farm works are being planned and constructed. By this
means, the time elapsed between major investment and the flow of benefits
is minimized and the economic rate of return improved. The canal and
drainage works have been scheduled over six construction seasons, which
is believed to be well within RID's and the contracting industry's capacity.
4.        One of the pilot projects is proposed to be designed and constructed
in 1976, with the remaining three in 1977.
5.        There are also seasonal constraints due to the monsoon climate of
the project area (Annex 2). A construction period of 8 to 9 months has been
asummed for the canal and drainage works, while work on the diversion dam
can proceed year round. On-farm works can only be constructed in the dry
season and cannot begin before January because of the need to complete the
wet season harvest before work can commence.
6.        A critical date in the construction schedule is March, 1979, when
it is projected that closure of the diversion dam would be achieved and
gravity irrigation to parts of the project area made possible.



THAILAND
PHITSANULOK IRRIGATION PROJECT
IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
-         -         -          ~~~~~~CAL ENDAR YEARS  ___
ITEM                  TOTAL    UNIT       74        75       76       77[    781    79            85       81       82        83       84       80        86
AIR PHOTOS                     139    '000 ha                                      ('000 HA COVERED OR SERVED)I
ORTHOPHOTO MAP                 139    '000 ha
TOPOGRAPHIC MAP                 97    '000                          0 5h2. 5       2          9       2
8212                  23  ::2              0
PINAt & 7iTrLE DEEDS         97    '000 h.
STRIP SURVEYS                   64    '000 h.
CANAL & DRAINAGE:                                                                           7A LBIL
PLANNING & DESIGN           97    '0000                                                AVhAa
-   TENDERING                    9 7     '0005 h.                                                                                              I
'0  CONSTRUCTION                 97    '000h,                                                                                                  U
ON-FARM WORKS:                                                                                        I                             0
124                    2        0        15
PLANNING                     95      '000 h.                                              22U   
4   1 2      22       22       20        165
NEGOTIATIONS                 95    '000 ha                                   *        S
CONSTRUCTION                 95    'OOO h.                                          
PILOT PROJECTS: 
SURVEY &NEGOT.                2     '000 ha     ___I
D ES IGN                      7     '0001'h,                                                       L
CONSTRUCTION                  2    '0006h.
TOPOGRAPHIC MAP                 42    '000 ha
CADASTRAL SURVEY: (NIT.         4 2    '000 ha                                                  
FINAL & TITLE DEEDS          42    '0000 hI
PLANNING & DESIGN           20    '0000 h aI
I                                                   I~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
TENDERING                        42    (WOO                                  0 h.<                                                                        I-n
CONSTRUCTION                 42    '0000 h. 
ON-PARM WORKS:                                                                                 II
I ~~~~~~~0            20       2
NEGOTIATIONS                 40    'DOS h.                                                   
jj   1UINO I IU.IUO               4 1 GU I                                   I          ii;              i                   IUUIh.
Wo,Id P,-k 911 00R



ANNEX 7
Tablo 1
THAILAND
PHITSANULOK IRRIGATION PROJECT
Cost Estimates:  aSuao
(mid-1975 pricea)
ItAM                Local   Foreign   Total    Local   Forei       Total   %Foreign
--B         illonnM------ ---                         Ricohange
Diversion Dan (Table 2) f         194.6    129.8    324.4      9.7      6.5       16.2     40
Irrigation System (Table 3)       645-.5   430.4   1075.9    32.3      21.5      =3.8      40
Drainage System (Table 4) 1/       51.2     34.1      85.3     2.6      1.7        4.3     35
Flood Control (Table 4) 1/         29.1     14.7      43.8     1.4      0.8        2.2     35
On-Farm Deovelopment (Table  5)  298.1    243.9   542.0    14.9        12.2      '27.1     45
Telecommunications (Table 6)        2.1      8.4     10.5      O.l       .4        0.5     80
pw  ing Equipnt (Table 6)           2.0      8.o      10.0     o.l      0.4        0.5     80
Buildings (Table6)                 13.1      2.9     16.0      o.6      0.2        o.8     20
Sob-total                  1235.7    872.2   2107.9    61.7       43.7     105.4    la
Bagineering and
Adiami stration (Table 7)       123.0      7.0    130.0      6.2      0*3        6.5      5
Vehicles and Eqtipment (Table 7)  905       53.5      63.0     0.5      2.6        3.1     84
Consultants (Table 7)               9.0     51.0      60.0     0.4      2.6        3.0     85
Studies (Table 8)                  36.0    140.o      76.0     1.8      2.0        3-8     52
Total                      1413.2   1023.7.   2436.9   70.6       51.2     121.8      42
Contingencies - Physical         157.4    113 .37    271.1    7.9       5.7       13.6     42  i.L-
- Price            869.4    622.6    1 .5.74.6                               42  J.1
Grand Total               2,440.0  1,760.Q  4,200.0   122.0       88.0      210.0     42
1/  Estimates in Tables 2 through 4 are in end 1974tprices and have been increased
by 6% to give the mid-1975 costs shown in this table.



ANNEX 7
Table 2
THAILAND
PHITSANULOK IRRIGATION PROJECT
Cost Estimates: Diversion Dan
Item                  Quntity      unit    Rate      Total Cost (B ltl Lon)
B
Land Acquisition               190        ha    9,500                  1.8
Roads, Access and  aMsite       .         .        S                   9.6
Temorary Bri!L                                   L          S         6.9
Main Structtue:
Site Preparation                                          2b,.2
Barrage                                                  101.2
Navigation Look                                          203.7
Head Regulator                                             2.1
Retaining and Ihide Wal                                   60.4
Clomsre Dan                                                6.4
Sub-total                                           398.0
Less: Expected Savings - Foundation &
Navigation Lock 3/ _           107.0
Sub-total                                LS                     291.0
;errcy Silway & Dikss                           LS                      14.0
Sub-total                                                       323.3
Physical Contingencies (10%)                                            32.2
Total: Headworks                                                355.5
Less: Provious Expenditures                                           18.5
Net Total: Headvorkcs                                           337.0
(including physial contingency
,31.0
/ Re-evaluation by consultants of the piled fomadations and
the proposed 120 x 12.5 a navigation lock are expected to
result in cost savings cof this magnitude.



ANNEX 7
Table 3
THAILAND
PHITSANULOK IRRIGATION PROJECT
Cost Estimates: Irrigation System
Item                         Quantity    Unit    Rate      Total Cost
B B    Million
1. Land Acquisition - RMC                2,220      ha      27,750       6i.6
- other canals       4,570      ha     17,300       79.1
Sub-total                                                           140.7
Physical Contingency (5%)                                              7.1      147.8
Sub-total                                                                      147.8
2. Surveys                                 940      kn       7,200        6.8
Physical Contingency (5%)                                              0.3
Sub-total                                                                        7.1
3. Earthwork - excavation                 1.82      Mm,      11.95       21.7
- fill (75% compacted)       5.70      Mm3     20.00       114.0
- fill (90% compacted)      21.00      Mm3     25.20      529.2
Sub-total                                                           66.9
Physical Contingency (15%)                                           99.6
Sub-total
4. Structures - Head Regulator             1        each      LS          8.5
- Other Structures          1,890     each     LS         141.1
Sub-total                                                          149.6
Physical Contingency (10%)                                            15.0
Sub-total                                                                    164.6
5. Concrete Lining                        1.90      km        LS          8.3
Physical Contingency (10%)                                             0.8
Sub-total                                                                      -.1
6. Grassing of Canal Banks                1.88      Mm3      2.78                   5.2
7. Laterite Surfacing
Feeder Roads                           168       km       LS         42.5
0 & M Roads                            705       km       LS         48.1
Sub-total                                                          90.6
Physical Contingency (10%)                                            9.1
Sub-total                                                                     99.7
Total : Irrigation System                                                    1,198.0
(Including: Physical Contingency (11%)                                131.9)
Less     : Previous hxpendLturus                                      53.0
Net Total:  Irrigation System                                                1,145.0
(Including: Physical Contingency                                      130-0)



ANNEX 7
$able t
THAILAND                                                T
PHITSANULOK IRRIGATION PROJECT
Cost Estimates: Drainage and Flood Control
Item                          Quantity      Unit     Rate      Total Cost
B        B Million
A. DRAINAGE SYSTEM
1. Land Acquisition                930          ha     17,300        16.1
Physical Contingency (5%)                                          o.8
Sub-total
2. Surveys                          645         km      7,200         4.6
Physical Contingency (5%)                                          0.2
Sub-total                                                                    4.85
3. Earthwork                                      3
- excavation & partly compacted  4.18        Mm       10.55      44.1
- compacted fill                 0.05        Mm3      18.25       0.9
Sub-total                                                     770
Physical Contingency (T15%)                                        6.8
Sub-total                                                                   51.
4. Structures                        710        each      LS         14.8
Physical Contingency (10%)                                         1.5
Sub-total                                                                   l .3
Total : Drainage System                                                        89.8
(Including: Physical Contingencies                                           9.3)
B.  FLOOD CONTROL (Yom River Dike)
1. Land Acquisition                  250        ha       17,300       4.3
Physical Contingency (5%)                                         0.2
Sub-total                                                                   4- 
2. Surveys                            93        km        7,200       0.7
Physical Contingency (5%)
Sub-total                                                                   0.7
3. Earthwork (75% compasted fill)   2.30        MM3       16.20      37.3
Physical Contingency (15%)                                        5.6
Sub-total                                                                   2.9
Total: Flood Control                                                          48.1
(Including: Physical Contingencies (12%)                                    5.8)



ATNIEBX 7
Table L
THAThANizs
PHTTSANULCK JRTPjG TION PROJECT
Cost Estimates:  On-Far  Develpent (by Development Class)
~~~~~1/
Cost cf' Development 1-
Land                       ,
Clearing   Ditches,                   Survey,
Development                        -Roads &                   Design
Class       Area    Level ng   Drains       Stru clurs r    Titles    Total    Total
(ha)(USn/ba--
I
A        30,000      240          80          30           20         370    11,1CC
B        42,000      120         80           30           20         260    1C0,900
C        15,000       60         80           20                    11 175    2,600
Totals:  97,000                                                              2hL,600
Superision & Admin. 1 0%    2,50o
27,100
Physical Contingencies 15%  4,100
31,200
Note:  Class A - presently under transplanted rice or upland crops, generally
irregular topography and small plots, suitable for doub'.e ropping,
Class B - mostly transplanted but some broadcast at present, larger plots and
generally 1e-ve topogeaphy, suitable for double cropping.
Class C - areas to rem,a n under broadcast rice, requiring ofEy light leve-ling0
1/ Based on 1975 cost data from the Chao Phya Irrigation Improvement Project
(Credit 379-TH).



PNNEX 7
THAIL,AND
PHII'SANULOK IRRI-u-A_IO]J PROJECT
Cost Estimates: Miscellaiaeous W/:Jorks
Item                                Quant:tL    Unit    Rate    Total Coi3t
B      B Millio:
A. TEMECOMMUNICATIONS
Radio                                   4          Set    133,000     0.5
Telephone                             400          km      25,ooo    10.0
Sub-total                                                          T50, 
Physical Contingency (10%')                                            1.0
Total : Telecoxmamnication-,                                                1t.5
B. PUXPING EQUIPMENT
(for Pilot Projects)
Diesel Engine                           5         each    400,000    1L8
Pum                                     5         each   4Lo,oo       2.0
Barge                                   6         each    350,000     1.8
Ancillary Equipment                     .          .        LS         4b4
Sub-total                                                          10,0
Physical Jontingency (13%)                                             1.
Total : Pumping Equipment                                                  11 o
_ Aw
C.  BUILDINGS
Project Headquarters                    1         each      LS
Office, Laboratories and Housing        1         each      LS
at Diversion Dam
Workshop                                 1        each      i's
Houses for 0 & M Personnel            100         each      LS
Project Extension Office                1         each      LS
Extension Field Office                 1,         each      LS
Houses for Extension Personnel         25         each      LS
Total: Buildings                                                           16.0



A1.N-,q 7
Table 7
THAILAND
PITSANULOK IRRIGATION PROJECT
Cost Estimates: Sapervision and ManaemBent
Total Cost
TB =Mllio'n
A. ENCENEING AND ADMINTSTRATION
kagneering - Design and supervision
@ 5% of civil works (excluding on-farm
developwnt)                                        90.0
Administration - Salaries and other costs             7.5
- Extension service during
proJect implementation            32.5
Total:  Engineering and Administration                             130.0
B. VEHICLES AND B.UIMENT
Supervision and Management (Annex 8, Table 3)         960
Operation and Maintenance (Annex 8,, Table 2)        54_o
Total:  Vehicles and Equipment                                      63.0
C. CONSULTANTS
500 man-months @ BL20,000/man-month                                 60.0



-   V    
Tabie C
TA -
P HT,T6iMI,ILCK ~TR TIATICN P'~o ~0ET-I;C
Cost Estimate:  Studies
Amount
(04  00  cuiyalnt
A.  Chac Phya Basin Study
F9irst Phase:  Consultanf         C3G
Surveys and Mapping                 70
Miscellaneous                       30
Basic Studies:  Consultants                    1,150
Surveys and  iappln-            250
MiscellIaneous                  300
Su b - . G ta_                2,200
BD  Admin. & Organization Study
Consultants                                   280
Miscellaneous                                  20
Sub-Total                       300
C. Future Trrigation Projects
Consultants                                   950
Surveys and Mapping                           200
Miscellaneou s                                150
Sub-Total                     1,300
Total                     3,80C
Notes:
1.  Estimated consulting inputs in man-m-onths are:
Local   Expatriate   Total
Chao Phya                 350         200        550
Admin. & Organization    160           20         180
Future Project;s          230         120        350
Total          740         340 
2. Miscellaneous costs inc_ude transportation in Thailand (where not provided
by Gover!rmentX sa -aries of supporting personnel (typists, draftsmen, drivers,
etc.), report, pruparationj computer t:ime, et,.
3.  ConisuItanit cost,s include internjtional tr3vrel arnd sut.s i3te ine irha Iiend,
nr insiirance_



A-NNEX 8
THAILAND
PEITSAn_o.   IRRIGAT IOmN PROJECT
Equipment List
1.        Equipment and vehicles would be purchased under the project for
use by RID and other agencies involved in the project.  Table 1 presents the
projected annual equipment procurement schedule.  The cost of construction
equipment is included under the various civil works items in the project's
cost estimates (Annex 7).
2.        Equipment for RID's force account work would be required only from
1976 onwards. Before inviting bids for the procurement of equipment, RID
would submit Drocurement specifications to the Bank for approval. Requirements
would be based on the state of RID's machine fleet at the time of submission.
Equipment requirements for operation and maintenance (Table 2) are listed
only as a guide to future procurement. As this equipment would be required
on the project only from 1977 onwards, detailed specifications would be
submitted to the Bank by RID in 1976.
3.        Vehicles and equipment for project management and supervision are
listed in Table 3 (see also Annex 7, Table 1). Procurement would take into
consideration the state of the vehicle fleet procured under previous Bank
loans.



THAIIAND
PHITSANUILOK IRRIGATION PROJECT
Equipment List: Yearly Schedule of Procurement 1'
Equipment as
Approximate %    Total          1976           1977        1978            1979
Item                  of Item Cost     --(uS$nu- --                                    -      -
1    irrigation System
Surveys                      10            35            35             -           _
2.  Dyainage Sys-tem
Surveys                      10            25            15            10
Earthwork                    30           780             -             -         780
Structures                   15           120             -             -          120
3,  Yonl River Dike
Earthwork                    30           640             -           640
II   Piot Projiect's--
Engines                      95            95            60           35
Plmns                        95           105            70            35                           -
Barges                       75            75            50            25-
Pipes and Valves             80           195          110            85            -
5,  On-FrmDevelopment21
Desi gn                      20           280           280                         -               -
Construction                 50         9,300            -         3,100        3,100           3,100
6.   Buildings  Housing &             50           690           400           290           -               -
T elecomimunications
7,    ~ Lhteana               .                  2,700           100                         -            2,600
;G   SU,iotl&anaemlent        
Vehicles                                 450           200 250
.T)rn AT 1:,TTFDMPT, M rrQrp              15,__          _ ,320_J* 99n              9,2o            5? 7X I)
7    Equipment specifications to be submitted to Bank for approval before tenders are advertised.
4~~~~n  7                                              _~ -_  ,r -   r  r-e   r,rjr.



ANNEX 8
Table 2
THAILAND
PHITSANULOK IRRIGATION PROJECT
/a
Equipment List: Operation and Maintenance
Item                              Quantity       US$ Million
1.   Field Vehicle, 6,900 lb  GVW               15
2.   Truck, 21,000 lb   GVW                     10
3.  Dump Truck, 21,000 lb  GV                   10
4.  Excavator,   5/8 - 3/4 yd                    4
5.   Bulldozer, 270 hp                           2
60   Grader, 125 hp       3                      3
7.  Concrete Mixer, 7 ft3                        2
8.   Concrete Mixer, 4 ft3                       2
9.  Generating Set, 15 kV                        4
100   Centrifugal Pump, 3"                        4
110   Centrifugal Pump, 2"                        4
0              120   Concrete Vibrator, 1-1/2"t                  4
13.  Power Rammer                                 4
14.  Surveying Equipment                          5 lots
15.  Miscellaneous Equipment                     IS
16.  Spare parts
2.7 /h
/a   To be reviewed by RID and the Consultants.
/b   Estimate
0



ANNEX 8
Table 3
THAILAND
PHITSANULOK IRRrGAT ON PROJECT
Equipment List: Project _&pervision & Management
TJnit
Item                 Quantity    Price      Total
- (US$)  .-----
1. Passenger vehicles                4       4,000       16,000
2.  Field vehicles                  35       6,ooo      210,000
3. Motorcycles b/                   50         600       30,000
40  Office equipment                LS                   15,O0O
5. Survey equipment                 LS                   50,000
6. Photogra=metric equipment        LS                  100,000
Sub-Total                                    421,000
Spare parts                                          29,000
Total                                   45.'000
a/  For RID, Land Departnent & Extension Service.
b/ For RID & Extension Department permanent staff. Farmers
foremen will be given loans to purchase motorcycles. Repay:nent
of loans wil.l be made by monthly deductions from salary; th 3se
motorcycles are not included win project cost.



o ~~~~~~~~. 
THAILAND
PHITSANULOK IRRIGATION PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Expenditure
TOTAl                            FISCAL YEARS (JULY 1-JUNE30)
ITEM                     COST-  1976    1977    1978    1979    1980    1981    1982    1983    1984
------------------------------------US$ Million------------------------------
Diversion Dam                       17.8    0.2      4.3      7.5     5.8
Canal and Drainage System           65.5    0.5      4.0      8.o    14.0    15.4    13.6    10.0         -        _
Flood Control                        2.5      -      0.2      1.0      1.3      --                        -        -
On-Farm Development           2/   31.2    1.0       5.5      4.7     3.5      4.0      4.0     4.0      4.0      0.5
Sub-total      117.0    1.7    14.0    21.2    24.6    71           7         0      4.0      0.5
Iess equipment for force
account construction              11.2      -      2.3      3.7     5.2       --                        -        -
Sub-total      105.8    1.7    11.7    17.5    19F4    1 9.4    T7W7     14.0        4.0    - r
Equipment (force account)           11.2      -      2.3      3.7      5.2      -        -        -        -       _
Vehicles and O&M equipment           3.2      -      0.8      o.8       -      0.8      0.8       -       -        -
Engineering and Admin.               6.5    0.1      o.6      1.0      1.1     1.2      1.1      o.8     0.4      0.2
Consultants                          3.0    0.5      0.7      0.7     0.4      0.4      0.2     0.1       -        -
Miscellaneous                        1.9      -      o.6      0.7      o.6      -        -        -        -       -
Studies                              3.8    0.2      0.6      1.2      1.2     0.6       -        -       -        -
Sub-total      29.6  -57F-   5.6    -.1          8.       3.0     2.1      0.9      0        0.2
Base Cost Estimate                 135.4    2.5    17.3    25.6    27.9    22.4    19.7    14.9          4.4      0.7
Expected Price Increases
Civil Works                       64.9    0.1      2.2      5.8     9.5    12.8    14.6    14.3        4.9      0.7
Equipment & Services                 9.7      -      0.9      2.1      3.0     1.4      1.2      o.6      0.3     0.2
Sub-total      74.6    0.1      3.1      7.9    12.5    14.2    15.8    17.9        5.2      0.9
Total Project Cost                 210.0           2    60.33.5    40.4    36    35.5    29.              9.6     1.6
1/ In mid-1975 prices.
2/ Physical Contingencies included in all construction items (Annex 7).



ANNEX 9
Table 2
THAILAND
PHITSANULOK IRRIGATION PROJECT
Estinated Schedule of Disbursements
IBRD Fiscal Year                                 Accumulated Disbursements
and Semester                                     US$ Million Equivalent
1976
1st                                                0.1
2nd                                                o.6
1977
1st                                                3.5
2nd                                                8.7
1978
1st                                               16.5
2nd                                               25.2 ,7
1979
1st                                               37.3
2nd                                               47.3
1980
1st                                               56.0
2nd                                               64.1'.
1981
lst                                               72.3
2nd                                               79.5
1982
1st                                               86.8
2nd                                               91.9
1983lst                                               95.0



AMEX 9
Table 3
THAILAND
PHITSANULOK IRRIGATION PROJECT
Proposed Allocation of Proceeds of Loan
Cost including... 1/     Amumt of
price increases -        Loan Allocated
--L---US$ Million-----
I.  Civil Works
Diversion Dam                                 22.1
Irrigation & Drainage                         99.2
Flood Control                                  2.2
On-farm development                           17.7
Buildings                                      0.8
142.0                     59
Disbursements will be:
a) 100% of foreign expenditures for mobiUzation, construction equipment and
vehicles for civil works contractors, and b) 43% of total expenditures for
civil works.
II. Equipment & Vehicles
Vehicles and 0 & M equipment                   4.4
Construction equipment                        14.5
Miscellaneous                                  1.1
20.0                     20
Disbursements will be 100% of foreign expenditures or local expenditures
ex-factory, or 65% of total expenditures for imported items procured locally.
III. Consultants
Project Works & Stage II                      4.5
Other Studies                                 5.5
Sub-total         10.0                      9
Disbursements will be 85% of total expenditures or 100% of foreign expenditures.
IV. Unallocated
Physical Contingencies                        10.5                      7
Expenditures not financed
Engineering & Admin.                           7.5
Implementation of 35,000 ha of
on-farm development                         20.0
Totals       210.0                      95
1/ Excluding physical contingencies.
2/ Excluding costs of equipment for force account construction.
3/ US$ 5 million under I(a) and US$ 54 million (43% of US$ 137 million) under I(b).



ANNEX 10
Page 1
THAILAND
PHITSANULOK IRRIGATION PROJECT
Project Management and Coordination
Project Coordination
1.        In 1972 RID was transferred from the Ministry of National DeveLop-
ment to the Ministry of Agriculture, in order to make one ministry responsi-
ble for both the construcition and development stages of irrigation projects.
The Government also established a Central Committee for Irrigated Agriculture
(Table 1). The Commilttee consists of the Under-Secretary of State for
Agriculture (the top civil servant in the Ministry) as Chairman, his Deputy
as Vice-Chairman, the Directors-General of the relevant departments of the
Ministry, as well as representatives of the Ministries of Interior and
Finance. The Committee meets periodically to establish priorities for
irrigated agriculture and coordinate activities of the various departments
in the execution of irrigation projects. For the Phitsanulok Project, in
order to further strengthen interdepartmental coordination, the Deputy
Under Secretary of State for Agriculture would be appointed as Project
Coordinator.
2.        Coordination of project activities at the provincial level wou:ld
be effected through Provincial Coordinating Committees (Table 4) establitihed
in the Phichit, Phitsanulok and Nakhorn Sawan provinces under the chairman-
ship of the Governors.  The Committees would include the senior field
representatives of RII), the Department of Extension and branch managers *:f
BAAC.
3.        In the case of the two on-going Bank-financed irrigation projec:ts
(Chao Phya, Cr. 379-Tnl and Northeast Irrigation, Cr. 461-TH), these coor-
dinating arrangements have led to a distinct improvement in cooperation
between the implementing agencies.  However, RID and other departments
have experienced delays in obtaining decisions on major issues such as
budgets, staffing and procurement of goods and services. Therefore, in
addition to a coordinating body the Government has decided to establish,
for the Phitsanulok proj ect, an Executive Committee (Table 4) with full
authority to render decisions on all major issues. The Committee would 1:e
chaired by the Minister of Agriculture and Cooperatives and would have as
members senior representatives of the implementing agencies and other
government agencies involved in decision-making (e.g. Finance, Budget-
Bureau, Civil Service Commission, etc.).
4.        To facilitate the information flow to the Executives and Coor-
dinating Committees, the consultants appoin"ted for the project would assisl. each
of the departments concernied in the preparation of annual work programs and



ANNEX 10
Page 2
progress reports; the latter would identify any problems being encountered
in project implementation or in coordination between departments and
recommend solutions to such problems.
5.        RID would be responsible for project planning, design and construc-
tion. RID is a large organization with about 3,200 civil service officers,
14,000 permanent employees and 20,000 temporary employees. The Department
is organized into a large number of administrative and technical divisions.
Because of the magnitude of the Phitsanulok Project a separate project
organization would be established in RID. Key technical and administrative
staff would be assigned to the project from their parent divisions. The
project organization will operate essentially as an independent division of
RID but the line divisions would provide specialist technical support in
certain fields (e.g. surveys, on-farm development, operation and maintenance).
A Deputy Director-General of RID would be appointed as Project Director in
which position he would be responsible for overall direction of the project
within RID and coordination with other departments and agenci,es. A Project
Manager would be in charge of RID's construction activities on the project.
6.        Consultants would be engaged to assist RID in planning, design and
construction management. Construction of the diversion dam, main and lateral
canals and part of the drainage and on-farm works would be by contract. RID
has well-established procedures for bid evaluation. The remaining drains
and on-farm works would be constructed by force account.
7.        A unit would be established under the supervision of the Project
Manager to undertake the planning, design and overall construction super-
vision of on-farm works. This unit, through the recently established Land
Consolidation Branch in the Operation and Maintenance Division, would draw
on the experience being gained in the on-going Chao Phya Irrigation Improve-
ment Project (Cr. 379-TH) where RID is working closely with the Land Depart-
ment of the Ministry of the Interior in land consolidation and on-farm
development.
8.        Orthophotomaps are being prepared from 1:15,000 scale aerial
photographs completed in early 1975 by the Royal Thai Survey Department and
would be used as a basis for planning of on-farm works. The Land Department
of the Ministry of Interior would be responsible for cadastral surveys. The
Department would appoint a Project Land Officer to supervise this work.
9.        For command areas where boundary realignment would be needed, the
proposed scheme would be transmitted to the Provincial Committee for Land
Consolidation (Table 3) consisting of the principal provincial officials,
representatSves of the iAinistry of Agriculture and representatives of farmerst
organizations.  The Committee woulQd counene public meetings to Dresent each
proposed scheme to the fazmers, arbitrate disputes over land value and com-
pensation and carry out all other necessary local coordination iunctions.



ANNEX 10
Page 3
10.       A boundary realigmnent scheme would be implemented if approved by
a majority of the farmers affected. Disput:es would be referred first to the
Provincial Committee but in the last analysis would be settled by the coirts.
However, the recently enacted Land Consolidation Law gives Government ths
power to go ahead with the implementation of a boundary realignment schemne
while such disputes are being settled. Upon the completion of on-farm works,
a second cadastral survey would be made by the Land Department as a basis3
for issuing title deeds.



_                                                          'lS\lt~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I;  10
Table 1
THAILAND
PHITSANIULOK IRRIGATION PROJECT
Central Committee for irrigated Agricul.o_re
Under-Secretary of State for Agriculture                    Chairman
and Cooperative3
Deputy Under-Secretary of Sta-&e for Agriculture            Vice-Chairman
and Cooperatives
Director-General of Departn ent of Agriculture
Director-General of Extension Department
Director-General of Cooperatives Departmnent
Director-GeneraJ of Royal Irrigation Department
Director-General of Land Development Department
X  Representative of Rural Administration
Department
Representative of Land Department
Representative of Fiscal Policy Office,
Ministry of Finance
Representative of the Budget Bureau
Representative of National Economic and
Social Development Board
Representative of the Bank for Agriculture
and Agricultural Cooperatives
Inspector-General, Irrigaticn
Inspector-General, Agricultural Research
Irrigation Adviser to Under-Secretary of State
Chief, Projects Division, Office ofn Under-
Secretary of State                                          Secretary
Other members with oro l-ect responsibi lities



ANNEX 1 0
Table 2
THAILAND
PHITSANULOK IRRIGATION PROJECT
Provincial Coordinatiag Committee
Provincial Office
Governor                                              Chairman
Agricultural Office-r
Extension Officer
Cooperative Officer
Nal Amphurs (District Officers)
Director of Rice Experiment Station, Phitsanulok
Director of Sri Samrang Experiment Station
Project Manager
Project Engineer, RID
Director - BAAC Branch
w



0                                                                       AANNEX 10
Table 3
THAILAND
PHITSANULOK TRRIGATION PROJECT
Provincial Committee for Land Consolidation
Provincial Office
Governor                                       Chairman
Deputy Governor
Assistant Governor
Public Prosecutor
Agricultural Officer
Cooperatives Officer
Land Officer                                   Secretary
Land Consolidation Officer /a                  Assistant Secretary
Representative, Royal Irrigation Department
Representative, Land Development Department
Nai Amphurs (District Officers) affected
Five Public Members /b
/a   Provided for under the Land Consolidation Law.
/b   To be appointed by the Minister of Interior from the farmers
in the project area.
0



ANNIEX 10
Table T
THAILAND
]'HITSANNULOK IRRIGATION PROJF,CT
Fxecutive Committee
Minister of Agriculture and Cooperatives                    Chairman
Under-Secretary of State for Agriculture                    Vice-Chairman
Director-General of Royral Irrigation Department
Project Coordinator
Project Director
Representative of I:he Bureau of Budget
Representative of the Ministry of Finance
Representative of the Public Prosecution Office
Representative of Phitsanulok Project Staff                 Secretary
Representative of Projects Division, Office of
Under-Secretary of State                                 Assistant Secxecary
)p



0                                                                       ANNEX 11
Page 1
THAILAND
PHITSANULOK IRRIGATION PROJECT
Consulting Services
1.        In addition to the consultants hired for the special studies
(Annex 4), RID will employ engineering and agricultural consultants to
assist in project implementation. The services to be provided by the
consultants are summarized below and the manpower requirements are estimated
in Table 1.
Main Civil Works
2.        Design Review.  Designs for the diversion dam, main canals and
laterals, and the Yom River dike have been prepared by RID. The consult-
ants will review these designs with particular reference to the following:
3             (a)  the economic justification for the navigation lock
at the site of the diversion dam;
(b) the design of the navigation lock if it is found to
be justified;
(c) the design flood for the diversion dam and its hydraulic
design;
(d) the structural design of the diversion dam with
particular reference to the foundation of the main
structure;
(e) the alignment and hydraulic design of the main canals
and laterals (including sufficient field surveys to
verify the topographic data used in designing the system)
and the location of control structures; and
(f) the design of the Yom River dike taking into account the
costs and benefits of different degrees of flood protection
in the project area, and possible negative effects due to
changes in the flood regime outside of the project area.
3.        The consultants will work closely -with RID's staff in this review
which should be completed within six months of the signing of the consult-
_       ants' contract.  The consultants will issue progress reports on their design
review at monthly intervals summarizing activities during the month and any
significant conclusions reached. Recommendations for any additional data



ANNEX  1
Page  2
collection or field investigations will be promptly communicated to the
management of RID. At the conclusion of thetir review the consultants wilL
collaborate with RID's design staff in the preparation of a Projlect Desiga
Report.  This report will include a technical description of the principalL
features of the project and the basic criteria employed.
4.        Construction Management.  The consultants' assistance to RID in
construction management will include advice on the following:
(a)  the preparation of tender documents, prequalification
of bidders, and evaluation of bids;
(b)  quality control of construction and prompt attention
to any issues likely to result in contractor's claims;
and
(c)  scheduling and coordination of construction activities
with particular emphasis on placirng units in service as
soon as possible after completion of construction.
5.        Temporary Diversions from the Nan River.  Construction of the
Sirikit Dam has had the effect of eliminatiTng seasonal inundation in the
flood plain of the Nan River.  It is reported that, as a result of this,
farmers formerly engaged in flood-dependent rice cultivation have suffered.
RID is investigating ways to relieve this problem.  The consultants will
assist RID in further studies to determine the economic and technical fea-
sibility of temporary measures to offset the lack of beneficial inundatica
until the completion of the project.
On-Farm Development
6.        Topographic Survey.  Aerial photography to a scale of 1:15,000
was obtained for the project area ir. the 1974/75 dry season. Orthophotomaps
to a scale of 1:4,000 will be prepared to provide the planimetric base for
topographic and cadastral surveys to be used in the design of on-farm works.
Ground surface elevations of sufficient density and accuracy for design
purposes will be established on the orthophotomaps by survey crews of RII s
Survey Division. The consultants will provide a survey expert to assist
in the production of the orthophotomaps and ground surveys.
7.        Cadastral Survey2s.  The Land Department will be responsible for
cadastral surveys and, in cooperation with RID and local government offi-
cials, for negotiations with farmers on any boundary realignments which zire
found to be necessary.  The consultants will assist RID and the Land Depar-
ment in programming cadastral surveys to ensure that they are consistent Vith
the implementation schedule for on-farm works.



ANNEX 11
Page 3
8.        Design of On-Farm Works.  RID staff are gaining experience in the
design and implementation of on-farm works.  To meet the needs of the
Phitsanulok project the consultants will assist RID in organizing a planning
and design unit and training additional engineers and technicians. The con-
sultants will also assist RID in the following activities:
(a) map studies and field inspections of the project
area to determine the need for boundary realignment
and/or land shaping taking into consideration land
tenure, topography, land capability and experience
in other irrigated areas in Thailand;
(b) development of systematic procedures for the layout
and design of on-farm works and the preparation of
design standards including the testing of alternative
design criteria and construction methods;
(c) the development of suitable contracting strategies
for on-farm works, the preparation of contract docu-
ments, bid evaluation, and supervision of construc-
tion; and
(d)  the planning and management of construction where
on-farm works are undertaken by RID's own forces.
9.        Pilot Projects.  RID plans to implement four pilot projects of
about 500 ha each within the project area during the early stages of project
implementation. These pilot areas will be used for training and demonstra-
tion purposes, including the training of RID personnel in design and cons-
truction of on-farm works. The consultants will assist RID and the Depart-
ment of Extension in the following:
(a) selection of pilot areas so that they are representa-
tive of the different conditions likely to be encoun-
tered in the project area;
(b) design and construction, including the training of
RID personnel;
(c) establishment of irrigation associations;
(d) establishment of extension services, including
training of progressive farmers as extension workers;
and
(e) monitoring of development in each area and preparation
of progress reports.



ANNEX 11               M
Page  4                w
Operation and Maintenance
10.       Within three months of the signing of the consultants' contra(.t,
the consultants will assist RID in completing a review of the proposed
cropping patterns, c3-op calendars and irrigation water requirements for
the project as a whole (:[39,000 ha). This review will form a basis for
the final design of the rmain canals, laterals, and on-farm works. Any
significant departures from capacities currently adopted for design purI:oses
will be taken into account in the review of designs for the main works.
The study of irrigation requirements will also be used as a basis for estab-
lishing water delivery schedules for each successive phase of project
implementation.
11.       The consultants will also assist RID in:
(a)  establishing irrigation associations responsible
for operation and maintenance of the on-farm works
and in preparing operation and maintenance instruc-
tions for the associations; and
(b)  reviewing the on-going agricultural research programs
to identify crop varieties, cultural practices, etc.,
which are ready for adoption in the project area, and
to recommend further research on. specific agricultural
problems or opportunities identified in the project.
Coordination
12.       The consultants will assist each of the departments concerned in
the implementation of the project in the preparation of coordinated annuial
work programs and in the establishment of effective field organizations,
Progress Reports
13.       The consultant.s will submit to RID a monthly progress report,
briefly describing the consultants' activities during the month, the pr>gress
of the project, and any problems being encountered in project execution
At four-monthly intervals the consultants will prepare a more detailed
report to provide a basis for periodic progress reviews by RID and the
Ministry of Agriculture, and also assist t:he Government in meeting the
reportting requirements of the Bank. These reports should identify any
problems being encountered in project implementation, or in coordinatioii
between the agencies involved in the project, and recommend solutions t
such problems.



ANNEX 1 1
Page  5
Seco-nd Stage Project
14.        Construction of the 42,000 ha second stage of the Phitsanulok
Project is scheduled to begin by October 1980. The consultants will assist
RID in preparing a report on the second stage by October 1978. The report
should present designs, cost estimates and an economic evaluation in suffi-
cient detail to form a basis for applications for financing from external
sources.  The report should also review the effects of various types of on-
farmn development on yields, labor requirements, water, mechanization and
economic rate of return.
Vehicles and Eguipment
15.        The consultants would supply their own vehicles and would procure
survey and drawing office equipment, laboratory and hydrological equipment
for the proiect under the terms of their contract.



ANNTE 1
Table 1           Ao
THAILAND
PHITSANULOK IRRIGATION PROJECT
Consultin    n a er
Manpowaer requirements would be negotiated with the consulting
firm selected for project implementation. However, the following :reak-
down has been us3ed for cost estimatin.g purposes:
Function                              Man-months
Design Review                             30
Projecti Inqplementation
Resident Manager                       72
Construction Engineer                  48
Contract Engineer                      36
On-:rarm Design Engineer              120
On-'arm Construction Engineer          48
Survey Specialist                      18
Etension Specialist                    40
0 & M A(lvisor                         18
Project; Moritoring
Agronomic and Environmental            15
Ecornomic and Social                   15
Project Preiparation - Stage II           25
M.iscellaneous and Contingency
Total                         500



ANNEX 12
Page 1
THAILAND
PHITSANULOK IRRIGATION PROJECT
Supporting Agricultural Services
I. Present Status
1.        Several Government departments are currently dealing with agri-
cultural development and assistance to farmers. The main agencies active
in the project area are:
(a) the Ministry of Agriculture and Cooperatives, represented
by the Departments of Extension, Agriculture, Fisheries
and Livestock;
(b)  the Royal Irrigation Department (RID) and the Departments
of Land Development and Land Cooperatives, formerly oper-
ating under the Ministry of National Development, but
since 1972 under the Ministry of Agriculture;
(c) the Ministry of Interior, operating through the provincial
governors and district officers (Nai Amphurs) who reside in
the area and are administratively responsible for the field
operations of the provincial and district representatives of
all the above Government agencies except RID; and
(d) the Bank for Agriculture and Agricultural Cooperatives.
Better coordination, more personnel and additional funding will be needed
to meet the requirements of the project.
Extension
2.        The Department of Extension in the Ministry of Agriculture was
created in 1968 by consolidating the extension services of the former
Rice and Agricultural Departments. It employs about 3,000 persons, of
whome 260 are university graduates and 1,300 are graduates of agricultural
vocational schools. In each province there are about six extension spe-
cialists and in each district (Amphur) two extension workers, each serving
some 4,000 families. Since most of the extension workers devote half their
timie to administrative duties outside of extension, the actual ratio is
about one to 8,000 families for Thailand as a whole.  Furthermore, no ef-
fective link exists between extension and research.  Extension services
provided by other departments are also limited and of poor quality. Most



ANNEX 12
Page  2                 _
extension workers come from urban areas and lack the status and practical
experience to gain the cornfidence of the farmers. To improve the effec-
tiveness of the Extension Department, the Government has assigned addi-
tional specialists to this Department and has initiated training courses
for extension personnel.
3.        Extension offices conduict some 24 demonstration plots in the
project area and its vicinity. They provide the farmers with better seec',
some fertilizers; and insecticides, and intensive guidance.  Most of these
plots are very successful and yields are considerably higher than those on
the neighboring farms.
AgrLcultural Research
4.        Responsibility f'or agricultural research lies with various Depart:-
ments of the M4inistry of Agriculture, the National Research Council in the
Prime Minister's office, the Tobacco Monopoly and the three national uni-
versities. There are also several research teams from foreign countries,
international organizations and foundations working with the ministries
and universities. Within the Ministry of Agriculture, each Department
conducts its own research program and runs its own field experiment sta-
tions scattered throughout the country.  Liaison between research and the.
extension service depends heavily on meetings between senior personnel irni
Bangkok.
5.        In the early 1960's the Ministry of Agriculture formulated a
program to integrate reseaLrch and extension at the regional level. The
concept included the establishment of one well equipped and well staffed
Research Center in each Region to service all departments. Two such cen-
ters are presently operating, one in the Northeast Region at Tha Prah anc
another in the Central Region at Chainat. The basic weakness of the above
organization is the lack of central direction and coordination; the-spread
of limited resources among numerous researc'h stations of which few are
viable research units. and the poor liaison with the field extension
service.
6.        Research stEttions in or close to the project area include the
Phitsanulok Experiment StaLtion for rice, the Sri Samrang Experiment Sta-
tion near Sukhothai for upland crops and the Tachai Experiment Station
near Uttaradit for fruits and vegetables.  The Chainat Research Station,
located 200 km south of Phitsanulok, is a major center for research on
dry season irrigated cropping and many of t'he research results developed
there could be appliecl to the present project. The Departments of Agri-
culture, Livestock, Fish and Agricultural Economics are represented at
the Chainat Station, which is also assisted by a team of Australian agri-
culturists.  The nearby Samchook Water Use Experiment Station is operatec
by RID to determine water use and this would have some relevance for the
present project.  The results of past research activity are sufficient tc
give an adequate basis for project planning.                                           _



ANNEX 12
Page 3
Fertilizers
7.        The main supply of fertilizers and agro-chemicals in the project
area comes from private dealers with cooperatives supplying the balance.
The dealers have stores and warehouses in the project area, and would be able
to cope with the anticipated increased demand for these inputs. At present
little fertilizer is used, partly because of the high prices of locally pro-
duced nitrogenous fertilizer. The price of urea, for instance, which should
be one of the cheapest sources of nitrogen available, is B 6 per kg (US$300
per ton), compared to a world market price of around US$235 per ton. Other
fertilizers, such as NP and NPK compounds, are reasonably priced but are
expensive as a source of nitrogen alone. Other factors which limit fertilizer
use at present are the risks of droughts and flooding and the lack of exten-
sion advice. Present fertilizer use is probably no more than 15 kg/ha and
then only on crops such as improved varieties of rice and maize (Annex 16,
Table 1).
Seeds
8.        There is no large scale seed multiplication and distribution
system in operation in Thailand and good quality seeds are not generally
available.  In the project area, research centers provide some stock seed to
the extension officers who supply it to selected farmers for multiplication
purposes. Quality control, however, is inadequate and the growers are un-
willing to pay higher prices for this material. So far, seed production
has been a serious constraint to crop production. The seeds sown by the
farmers are usually of a low percentage germination and genetically mixed.
As a result, seed planting rates are higher than would be recommended for
certified seed, full stands of plants in the field are hard to get, and
harvesting is hindered. A proposal for a seed multiplication project is
presently under consideration by the Government. This project would meet
the entire certified seed requirements of the Phitsanulok Project. -
Farmers' Organizations
9.        In order to promote specific programs, such as credit, marketing
and water management, for which concerted action is required, various Gov-
ernment agencies have developed a wide range of farmers' organizations.
The following eight types of organizations are at present operating in the
project area: rice farmers' associations; young farmers' groups; farmers'
associations; irrigation associations; people's irrigation associations;
marketing cooperatives; service cooperatives and multi-purpose cooperatives.
Most of these organizations are still at a developing stage and their present
capabilities are very restricted. Legislation for their consolidation in
more efficient groupings is being considered.  The different organizations
have presently about 24 active associations in the project area. Their main
activity relates to the provision of credit, with occasional involvement in
the supply of inputs and the marketing of produce.  A few associations operate
and maintain small pump irrigation schemes.



ANNEX 12
Page  4
Credit
10.       There are fi've main sources of credit to farmers in the project
area. These are:
(a)  banks, especially the Bank for Agriculture and
Agricultural Cooperatives (BAAC);
(b) cooperatives and farmers' organizations;
(c)  merchants and mi:Ll owners;
(d) money :Lender!3; and
(e)  personal sources - relatives, neighbors, etc.
It is estimated that about half the farmers in the project area use some
form of credit. About 70% of the credit extended is in the form of loans
from personal sources. The main source of institutional credit is BAAC.
The normal rate of interest on BAAC loans is 12% per annum, while other
lenders may charge as inuch as 50%.  BAAC's lending criteria are reasonabl:-.
Its repayment record i,; good with only 4% of the loan portfolio at the en:,
of 1971 in unauthorizedl arrears and, as a result, its financial position ;s
strong. BAAC has branch o:Ffices at Phitsanulok and Phichit and each offi:,e
has about 5,000 registered clients.
II. Improvements Needed for Project Implementation
Extension
11.       In order to ensure that extension activities are given sufficieKit
priority and are fully coordinated with the construction aspects of the pi oj-
ect, the Department of Extension would establish a separate extension secl:ion
for the project. This secition would be headed by a senior extension offii:-er
appointed as Project Extension Officer. He would, in proper coordination
wiith the provinc:ial and district extension services, supervise all personntel
and activities of the extension section.  He would be assisted by two dep.1ties,
who would be responsib:Le for the two branches of extension in the project
area, one in Phichit and the other in Phitsanulok.  In each branch five
experienced extension agenlts would supervise thirty-five extension worker.>
(farmers' foremen).  This amounts to a total of seventy extension workers
in the project area, wh1o would be recruited and trained locally. Several
subject matter specialists would be assigned full-time to the project froi
the Departments of Extension, Agriculture -nd Fisheries.  The Phiitsanulok
Experiment Station for rice, the Sri Samrang Experiment Station at Sukhot 'ai
for upland crops, the Tachai Experiment Station at Uttaradit for horticuli:ure            a
(fruits and vegetables), anad other government agencies concerned with agr:-..-
culture would assist the extension personnel and cooperate with them.



AM EX 12
Page 5
12.       Extension workers would be recruited from the better farmers in the
area. Such people would understand the farmers and their needs better than
highly trained people from the outside and would command the respect and
confidence of their fellow farmers. Thus, those engaged in helping farmers
at the field level need not be trained agronomists or highly skilled agri-
culturists, but should have a basic knowledge in specific farming techniques
in order to induce local farmers to adopt new techniques, better seeds,
fertilizer and insecticides. These workers would still be able to work on
their own farms part-time, and it is assumed that the main work on their
farms will be done by their family members.
13.       After an intensive training session, each extension worker would
be responsible for provision of extension services to six farmers units,
each of which consists of about 40 farmers, making a total of about 240
farmers to one extension worker. The extension workers would visit each
farmers unit once a week on a fixed day. These visits will take up four
days a week, and one day would be devoted to in-service training, other
special duties and also to some office work. The extension workers would
select four to six progressive farmers in each of the farmers units for
regular visits and using their fields as demonstration plots.
14.       Ten extension agents would be stationed through the project area,
each supervising seven extension workers. He will spend four days a week
visiting them, seeing two each day, so that each extension worker will be
visited once a week by the extension agent. These extension agents will be
appointed from the Extension Department's existing staff of about 1,500
extension agents throughout Thailand.
15.       In each brancn extension office, an Agricultural Advisory Committee
would be established, consisting of the extension agents and workers, the
RID zonemen, and the heads of the villages concerned.  The committee would
assist the extension personnel in their day to day work and especially in
their contacts with the farmers. Specialists for rice, upland crops and
plant protection will be assigned to each branch office, with farm machinery,
fisheries, animal husbandry and farm management specialists working from
headquarters. Each branch will also have a training unit responsible for
all in-service training for extension personnel.
16.       Organization and Training.  In the first year of the project, ten
extension agents with experience in rice and the other crops to be grown in
the area, would be assigned to the project by the Department of Extension.
Specialists in the following fields would also be appointed: two for rice,
one for upland crops, two for plant protection, one for farm machinery, and
one for fisheries. The agents and specialists would be stationed in the
project area and would undergo an intensive five to six weeks training
course, The course could be housed in the facilities of the Agricultural
High School near Phitsanulok or in any other suitable place.  It would be
prepared and conducted by the training section of the Department of Extension
with the help of the project consultants.   Assistance would also be given



ANNEX 12                  
Page  6
by the teaching staff from the Katsetsart University near Bangkok and thc
Agricultural High School in Phitsanulok.  It is suggested that the training
course include the fo:LlowiLng:
Hours
Principles of extension and communication                10
Defining extension objectives                            8
Principles of lectur:ing to farmers                      15
Preparation and uise of teaching aids                    15
Training for ind:ividual proficiency                    10
Leading group meetings and discussions                    8
Preparing an agr: cultural competition                    7
Organizing farm tours                                    6
Result and method dermonstrations                       30                           4
Principles of extension program planning                10
Observation plots                                         7
Tours                                                    14
New agrotechnical. methods, irrigation, ferti-
lizers, plant protection, machinery, rice,
corn, soybean and rnungbean production, etc.          80
TOTAL                            220
Time would be allottedI for exercises and practice in addition to the abolie.
17.       Upon complel-ion of their training, some of the extension agents
would be assigned to t:he pilot projects, where they would explain the prcject
to the local farmers and rnake the necessary arrangements for the absorption
of the extension field wor-kers as they graduate from their training courses
(para 18).  Other extension agents would serve as instructors for these  ourses.
18.       At the same time, the Project Extension Officer, aided by his
senior extens1 on personnel, would recruit from within the region about
80 of the better farmers to ensure that, after training, 70 suitable
extension workers wouLd be available.  It is expected that suitable re-
cruits would have had a h'igh school education.  Each of these farmers wot.ld
undergo a four-week training course.  There would be three course cycles,



A3NNEX 12
Page  7
with about 25 men in each cycle. The courses would be prepared and
conducted by the project extension section aided by the training section
in the Department of Extension and the consultants. The program would include:
Hours
Principles of extension and communication              10
Defining extension objectives                           6
Principles of lecturing to farmers                     15
Preparation and use of teaching aids                   15
Training and individual proficiency                    10
Result and method demonstration                        30
New agrotechnical methods, irrigation, ferti-
lizers, plant protection, machinery, rice,
corn, soybean and mungbean production, etc.          80
TOTAL                           166
19.       Upon graduation, the extension workers would move to their areas
and, with the help of extension agents, would set up demonstration plots.
These plots would serve as centers from which the knowhow would spread all
over the project area.
20.       After the initial intensive training, there would be two major
forms of training: long courses of about two weeks duration to be beld once
a year; and one-day refresher sessions to be held every two weeks. All
extension agents and workers would participate in these courses, which would
be conducted by the two training units umder the direction of the Project
Extension Officer. At the one-day refresher session, all extension agents
and workers would gather to discuss the technical problems that arose in
the preceding weeks, listen to lectures, and decide upon and prepare the
plan of work for the coming two weeks. In each such session, only a very
limited number of topics of the highest priority at that time would be
dealt with. These meetings would also include visits to good representative
fields and other relevant field trips. The subject matter specialists,
assisted by research people, would be the lecturers in all the courses and
training sessions.
21.       Trnssportation.  Vceicles would be allocated to the Project
Extensio:in Officer, the training units, Lle two branch extensicn officers and
the sobjiect matter specialists. DMotorbicycles would be allocated to the
extension agents, whlie the extension workers would be able to receive loans
to buy motorbicycles and receive mileage allowances. Payments of loans
would be made by monthly deduction from salaries and allowances.



ANNEX 12
Page  8
22.       Accommodations.  Office space wouLd be provided for the Project:
Extension Officer and the two branch officers. Twelve houses would be
constructed for the two deputies of the project extension officer and each
of the extension agents in a place close to their working areas. One
additional room would serve as an office. Houses for subject matter spe-
cialists would also be constructed if needed.
23.       Vehicles and equipment to be procured under the project and bu:lldings
to be constructed are listed in Annexes 3 and 8. The cost of operating 1:he
extension activities is shLown in Annex 7.
Agricultural Research
24.       While there is presently enough research information available for
initiating the project, there is an.urgent need to strengthen the link b( tween
research and extension personnel and to expand research (both for rice ar.d
upland crops) in applied fields such as:
(a) proper seed bed preparation;
(b)  proper time of planting;
(c)  seed rates;                                                                    0
(d) crop variet~ies and cultivation techniques;
(e)  weed and insect control;
(f)  water requiXements and irrigation practices;
(g)  harvesting, threshing and crop drying;
(h)  crop storage; and
(i)  rate of fertilizer application for various soils.
In order to create adequate communication channels at the field level ani:
focus research to the specific needs of the project, it is proposed that a
Technical Advisory Cotmmittee be established in the project area, consistilng
of the representatives of the research stations, the senior project extension
personnel, the Department of Agriculture, the Agricultural High School in,
Phitsanulok and the farmers' organizations (Table 1).  The Committee wouAd
aeet periodically under the chairmanship o the Project Extension Office
and would be responsible for establishing priorities and formulating pro,rams
of research related to project needs, and for developing extension recom-
mendations to be used in the field.  Coordination between extension and
research activities aad the provision of the necessary research budgets oculd
be the responsibility of the Project Coordi.nator.



ANNEX 12
Page 9
Fertilizers
25.       Annual fertilizer use in the project area would rise from about
1,000 tons at present to 30,000 tons at full development. Existing supply
channels are adequate to meet this increase. The major increase in fer-
tilizer use would occur on rice and on the basis of current Agriculture
Department recommendations, fertilizer demand would be made up of about equal
amounts of nitrogen and phosphate. Granular Ammophos (16:20:0) is the usual
fertilizer for rice in Thailand. However, serious doubts exist as to the
merits of using Ammophos instead of straight nitrogenous fertilizers like
urea and ammonium sulphate in the project area. Ammophos is an expensive
source of nitrogen on soils showing little response to phosphate. Assuming
no value from the phosphate component, nitrogen supplied as Ammophos costs
B 10/kg compared to B 6-7/kg for urea and ammonium sulphate, and to a world
market price of B 4/kg for this nutrient. A study recently completed by an
FAQ team shows that little or no phosphate is required for the soils of the
project area and hence the crop budgets (Annex 16) have been computed on this
basis. The use of ammonium sulphate rather than urea has been assumed for
rice as the former is more efficiently utilized by rice. However, research
programs should be undertaken to examine carefully the need for phosphate on
rice in the project area. For crops other than rice, both nitrogen and
phosphorus would be applied (Annex 16).  Further research is required on the
need for potassium for particular soil/crop combinations in the project area.
Seeds
26.       Assuming that rice, maize, and mungbean seed would be replaced every
five years and that soybean seed would be replaced every year, the projected
seed requirements of the project area at full development are shown below.
Annual
Crop                           Seed Requirement
-----(Tons)
Native Paddy                               200
RD1 Paddy                                  750
Maize                                       50
Mungbean                                    80
Soybean                                    360
The introduction of hybrid maize into the project area appears to be a
distinct possibility and some research is being directed to this end at
the National Corn and Sorghum Research Center in Suwan. Hybrid varieties
would require the use of new seed every year.
27.       The seed requirements of the project area would be met through
the proposed seed multiplication project which is presently under consid-
0         eration by the Government.  Special extension efforts would be directed at
informing the farmers of the advantages of using certified seed.



ANNEX 12
Page  10                  i
Farmers' Organizations
28.       In order to operate and maintain the irrigation facilities within
the tertiary command area, irrigation associations would be formed in eacih
area, numbering about 1,000 in all.  The duties and financial responsibili.ties
of these associations are described in Annex 13.  RID, with the assistancc
of the consultants, would help establish these associations and guide and
assist them in their early years. The Department of Cooperatives would a:.so
foster the formation of multi-purpose cooperatives wherever a need for th:![s
type of organization was felt.
Credit
29.       BAAC would be the main institutional supplier of agricultural c:edit
to the project. It has adequate financial resources and would be able to
expand its lending to 1the project farmers, whose credit requirements are
expected to increase from about B 25 million at present to about B 200 million
at full development, assuming that 40% of all cash inputs are financed through
credit.  BAAC would provide up to B 5,000 to each farmer, who is qualifiedL
under its criteria, wit:hout the need for title deeds as security. This w4::uld
apply to most farmers in the project.  The total amount of short-term (one-year)
and medium-term (three.-year) loans would be up to B 50,000 to a borrower lJho
would be able to secure his loan by a mortgage.  BAAC employs one superviL:or
for every 300 members and intends also to operate a "mobile unit" in the
project area.



ANNEX 12
Table 1
THAILAND
PHITSANULOK IRRIGATION PROJECT
Extension Services: Technical Advisory Committee
Deputy Director General, Department of
Agricultural Extension                                   Chairman
Project Extension Officer
Senior Subject Matter Specialists (4)
Director, Phitsanulok Experiment Station
Director, Sir Samrong Experiment Station
Director, Tachai Experiment Station
Director, Phitsanulok Agricultural Vocational Schools
Agricultural Officer, Phitsanulok Province
Agricultural Officer, Phichit Province
Head, Project Extension and Training Section
Manager, Phitsanulok Branch of BAAC
Manager, Phichit Branch of BAAC
Representatives of cooperatives
Representatives of farmers' organizations



ANNEX 13
Page  1
THAILAND
PHITSANUJLOK IRRIGATION PROJECT
Operation and Maintenance
Organization
1.        The operation and maintenance of the diversion dam, main canal aad.
lateral canals down to the tertiary canal outlet, as well as the main draiiage
and flood protection works, would be the responsibility of RID. The proje:t's
O & M organization would have one unit for the diversion dam and headworks
while the command area would be divided into four sub-project areas of aboit.
25,000 ha for operation and maintenance purposes, and further subdivided into
zones of 1,500 ha each.
2.        Each sub-project 0 & M unit would be headed by an engineer assisted
by two or three water masters. About 20 zone men and 40 gate tenders wouli
control the flow of water to each lateral and tertiary command area, accor1-
ing to irrigation demand.  Maintenance would be carried out with equipment
to be financed under the project or where appropriate by manual Labor.  Suif--
ficient trained staff are available within RI]D to man the operation and main-
tenance organization.
3.        During the construction of the project, each part of the distri-
bution system would be handed over to the operation and maintenance unit cn
its completion. The project manfagement would coordinate closely with the
0 & M unit in scheduling water distribution l_O completed parts oF the project.
4.        Operation and maintenance of the ditches, drains, roads and strtct:ures
within the tertiary conmand area would be the responsibility of the farmers
concerned, organized into irrigation associations for each command area. The
farmers would elect a common irrigator to operate the system, to determinc!
rotational. schedules and to organize maintenance before each irrigation svason.
The 0 & M unit would help establish irrigation associations and also supervise
their performance and advise on problems encountered. RID would also be zib'Le
to carry out major repairs to concrete structures only, if requested and ;:a:id
for by the irrigation associations. In coopieration with local government
officials the 0 & M unit would conduct periodic inspections to ensure adequate
standards of operation and maintenance.



ANNEX 13
0                                                                        Page  2
Cost of Operation and Maintenance
5.        The costs of operating and maintaining the facilities for which
RID would be responsible are shown in Table 1. These amount to B 26.6 mil-
lion (US$1.33 million) per year in 1974 monetary values or US$13.6 per ha.
This figure includes an allowance for depreciation on the 0 & M equipment
to be provided under the project (Annex 8), which would cost about US$1.0
million. This allowance should be adequate to operate and maintain the
project facilities at satisfactory standards and would be met by annual
budgetary appropriations.
6.        The cost of operating and maintaining the on-farm works is esti-
mated at US$3.0 per ha or US$400,000 for the project area. This would be
met by an assessment by the irrigation associations on its members. The
assessment would be independent of that levied by the Government to recover
project costs. The common irrigator would be paid about B 200 per month
for his part-time services. Labor for maintenance, which would involve
mainly hand cleaning of ditches and drains and minor repairs to roads and
structure, would either be donated by the farmers or paid for from the
assessment.
0_.



-.
-~~~~~~~~~~~~~
THAU,,AND
PHITSAN'JLOK TRRi7JATION PROJECT
Cost of Operation an, MaiLiteflance-
a_.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~i
Axrzflal c40st-
Operation
Salaries & wages                                      6.9
OvertiJme, allowances, etc.                           1 9
Office e:x)enses                                      0.3
Radio co-2aunica1;ion                                 0O3
Ep ipment depreciation                                3O6
Sub-Total                                       13.0
Maintenance
Salaries & wages                                      8.6
Materials, fuel1 etc. - headworks                     0.38
- structures                   0.27
canals                       2.30
- drains & levee               03
TWeed control                                         2.1
Road Maintenance       - feeder roads                 i 5
- 0 & M roads                  7.3
Equ ipment depreciation                               2.1
Sub-TotalT
Total                                     B 37q85 Million
US$ 1.89 Million
or US$13.6 per ha
a/  Includes operation and mnaintenance for both stages of the project
(139,000 ha), e.cept1 for the tertiary conw4and areas, at full develi:ip:ent.
b/ Year-end, 1974 mcnetary values.



xANEX 14
Page 1
THAILAND
PHITSANULOK IRRIGATION PROJECT
Present and Projected Cropping Patterns and Production
Present Croppn attern
1.        About 12% of the project area is double cropped in the wet season
and small areas are cropped in the dry season, with irrigation from shallow
dug wells and from pumped river water, giving an overall cropping inten-
sity of about 110% of the present cropped area. (This is an intensity of
96% of the proposed project area.) Local varieties of rice grown on some
67,000 ha (80% of the cropped area) are the dominant wet season crop. Pro-
duction is estimated at about 105,000 tons.1/ Upland crops grown in the
area are mainly maize (17% of the cropped area) and mungbeans (12%). Pro-
duction of upland crops is estimated at 30,000 tons. The present and pro-
jected future cropping patterns and production estimates are given in
*         Table 1.
2.        Wet season rice is grown from May to January.  About 60% of
the wet season rice area is broadcast. In most cases, land preparation
is done by hired tractors and seed is broadcast after the first showers
in May. On the remaining rice area, transplanting is done on prepared
seedbeds between June and August. Transplanting is generally spread over
several weeks to make use of the available family labor.
3.        Most of the farmers grow long strawed, unimproved, native varietiLs.
In a good year, it is estimated that the average yield is about 1.9 ton/ha
for broadcast rice and about 2.3 ton/ha for transplanted rice. Taking into
consideration the frequent damage, either from droughts or from floods, the
Extension Department has estimated that the average yields are 1.4 and 1.8
ton/ha for broadcast and transplanted rice, respectively. Improved native
transplanted rice varieties have been produced by the Rice Division and are
used by some farmers in areas free from flooding.  New high-yielding varieties
are not grown to any significant extent in the project area at present. They
are non-photosensitive and can therefore be grown at any time of the year,
but they require good water control and grain quality is considered to be
slightly inferior to that of the local varieties but experience gained else-
where in Thailand shows that consumer acceptability is not a serious problem.
A few enterprising farmers in the project area grow these varieties in the
dry season, using pumped water and get good yields.
1/   All references to rice yields and production are on a paddy basis.



ANNNE'  4
Page 2
4.        Maize and mungbean are the two main upland crops.  Maize is
planted in rows in April and May after shallow plowing either by tractrs
or buffaloes. Very few farmers use any fertilizers or insecticides, aic
yields are low, about 1.7 ton/ha.  Harvesting is done by hand, in Augu3t
and September and the ears of corn are brought home and dried for abou:
three weeks. Shelling is done by the traders with their own machines.
Mungbean is sown after corn, in September and October as a catch crop
using residual moisture. Farmers broadcaLst the seed after a shallow
plowing, and most of them do not use any fertilizers or insecticides.
The fields are poorLy managed and almost no weeding is practiced. As a
consequence, yields are low at 0.6 ton/ha.
Future Cropping Pattern
5.        Projected changes in the cropping pattern and crop productior  are
presented in Table 1. UTnder the project, the cropped area will be incrieased.
by 14,000 ha through the draining of swamps and the clearing of scattezred
areas of scrubland.  Through the project, the risk of loss due to drought:
for the wet season rice crop would be eliminated and a reliable dry season
water supply made available.  Water would be supplied to and dralined off
the fields through a network of irrigation ditches and drains in each
tertiary command area.  Land leveling and shaping where necessary wo'uld
allow a well regulated water supply to the crop.  The project soils are
reasonably well suited for a diversified, multiple cropping pattern, and
would permit a flexible response by the farmers to changing market condit:ions.
6.        Rice would still remain the dominant crop of the area.  With
better water management and adequate drainage, the major shift would be
from broadcast to transplanted rice, and from native varieties to the new
high yielding varieties (mainly RD1). Areas under broadcast rice would be
reduced from 40% to about 18% of the project area.  Of the transplanted
rice in the wet season, about 55% would be high-yielding varieties and t:he
balance would be traditional varieties. Newly improved, high-yielding var-
ieties like RD5, suitable for wet season cultivation, require a 10 to 1., day
longer growing period bul: yield 10 to 12% more than RD1 and have better re-
sistance against blast. Khao Dawk Mali, a local improved strain, would also
be introduced in the transplanted area in addition to RD1.  In the dry season,
RD1 would be grown onI 40% of the area.
7.        With land leveling and an improved drainage system, maize would
be grown on some 9% cif the project area in the wet season. Maize, and
about 20% of the broadcast and transplanted rice would be followed by a
short-duration mungbean crop, as is already the local practice. Tractors
would be available for quick preparation of the land to enable farmers to
grow larger areas under mungbeans.  Soybeans would be grown in the dry
season on about 8% of the area.  The Department of Agriculture has improved
varieties of soybean but the limitation is the severe shortage of good seed.
With the location of a seed processing plant at Phitsanulok and simultaneous           4P



AiNNEX 14
Page  3
start of the seeds project, these difficulties should be eliminated. Other
cash crops such as vegetables would be grown on some 5% of the cropped area.
Areas under fruit would remain at about 1% of the area.
8.        The project area may also prove suitable for cotton.  Cotton used
to be growrn in the area but farmers abandoned it due to pest problems. The
neighboring province of Sukhothai grows about 15,000 ha of cotton. It is
proposed that further research be undertaken and that the project's exten-
sion personnel develop cotton growing trials in the pilot projects, with
proper pest control, with a view to future expansion.
9.        The proposed cropping pattern is consistent with the overall
national strategy of growing more rice for domestic consumption and ex-
port, while taking advantage of export opportunities for maize and legumes
and reducing Thailand's dependence on imported oilseeds.  The intensity of
cropping would be about 120% in the wet season and 65% in the dry season
giving an overall intensity of about 185%.
Rate of Development
10.       As extension efforts would begin at the same time as project
construction (Annex 12), it is expected that the adoption of new plant
varieties and farm management techniques would be fairly rapid. It has,
therefore, been estimated that full project benefits would be reached in
the fourteenth year afte~r project commencement.
Future Crop Yields
11.       With a reliable water supply and improved extension services
crop yields are expected to increase over the fourteen-year development
period as shown below:
Present Yields   Future Yields
---------    ton/ha     
-'Native Broadcast Paddy                      1.4               2.5
--Native Transplanted Paddy                   1.8                3.5
-High-yielding Paddy (RD1, RD5)
'-\wet season                                                 4.5
High-yielding Paddy (RD1)
dry season                                .                4.5
Maize                                      1.7               3.5
Mungbeans                                  0.6               1.2
Soybeans                                                     2.0
12.       The projected yields are based on thcse presently achieved under
irrigation by a small number of farmers in the project area and by the
average farmer in the Chao Phya Pilot Projects. For wet season rice, in-
creases in yield would be achieved by better land preparation, use of im-
proved native varieties like Khao Dawk Mali 105 and Nohng Mon Sy, increased



ANNEX 14
Page 4
use of hefoicides, pesticides, and fertilizers and better management.  With
on-farm development, large areas would be available for growing high-yielding
rice var,itties like RD1 and RD5 in the wet season and RD1 in the dry sez;son.
Proper cultivation, higler dose-s of fertiliLzers, effective control of weeds,
diseases and pests would contriiute to high levels of performance by these
varieties.  Fertillzer trials hrive shown good responses with the varieties
on farrerst fields in the area.
13.       Increased maize yields would be obtained by proper crop manage-
ment, sowing on ridges in rows, inter-cultivation, and control of pests
and weeds.  Maize improvement research has made available newz hybrid var-
ieties which can produce up to 6 ton/ha.  Is the agrono-mic and marketing
problems of hybrid varieties have not yet been fully investigated in
Thailand, the projectad maaize production is based on improved slynthetic
varieties with a limited area under hybrid varieties.
14.      T1 e introdu2tion of legumes sucti as mungbeans and soybeans on
about 27/ of the cropped area would be an important feature in the crop
rotation.  in addition to their value as cash crops, they would improve
the fertility and texture of the soil and indirectly help to increase the
yields of other crops. The Department of Agriculture has developed im-
proved varieties, and increased yields may be expected from proper plant
population, timely weeding, pest control and managemient.
Development Constraint_s
15.       The project would result in large increases in the demand for
labor, mechanization, drying and storage facilities and pest control
equipment. The more important issues are examined briefly.
16.       Labor Availabilit.  The supply of and demand for labor with and
without the project are examined in detail in Annex 17.
17.       Cropping Calendars.  For efficient soil and water management, ic
is necessary to prepare crop calendars and management practices for recominen-
dation by the extension workers.  Crop calendars must be based on researci
results adapted to local conditions. Broadcast rice would be sown in May
and June and harvested in November to January. Native transplanted rice
would be transplanted in June to August, and after harvesting in November
and December, it would be followed by soybean, and high-yielding rice in
the dry season. In the wel: season, high-yielding rice would be transplanL:ed
in July and August and harvested in October and November. Maize would be
sown in June-July on the lighter soils and would be followed by mungbean,
sown in November-December and harvested in February-March. This calendar
would even out, as far as possible, the demand for water and for labor
throughout the year.
18.      MHechanization.  The high intensity of cropping would require
timely and quick preparation of land because of the limited time available!
between harvesting and sowing of the success:ive crops. Special operations



ANNEX 14
Page 5
like ridging to facilitate better irrigation and drainage would also have
to be carried out for certain crops. All this would require mechanical
power to cope with the increased workload. Tractors are now widely used
in the project area and the required level of mechanization should not
pose any difficulties. It is expected that such tractors would be oper-
ated by contractors, as is the present practice.
19.       Harvesting and Drying.  Paddy is currently harvested by sickle,
left to dry in the fields for a few days, then carried to the house on
shoulder poles and ox-carts and stacked for threshing. Threshing is car-
ried out on an earthen floor using buffaloes or occasionally a tractor.
These methods are labor intensive and time consuming.  Several problems
would arise as dry season cropping is progressively introduced. Competi-
tion for labor would become acute in December to January and April to
August, when the previous crop must be harvested and the next crop planted.
Some harvesting of dry season rice would run into the beginning of the wet
season and with increased humidity it would be difficult, if not impossi-
ble, to thresh and dry the crop on an earthen floor.
20.       The high demands for labor and the wet season threshing problem
could be largely overcome by introducing small mobile threshing machines
capable of threshing rice in the field.  Original research and development
is not required. A comparison of the better threshing machines currently
in use in Japan, Taiwan, the Philippines and India, with a view to select-
ing a suitable machine that can be manufactured locally, would yield quick
results.
21.       Crop drying is a more difficult problem.  It would be hard to
justify the installation of large artificial driers at the mills or other
rice receiving points. They involve relatively high capital costs and re-
quire skilled labor for efficient operation. Their use would be restricted
to a few weeks per year and, with the present price structure, the millers
would find it hard to dry profitably without reducing the farmgate price
of rice. If the Government intervened in this area, it is likely that
it would receive the inferior, high moisture grain and find it even more
difficult to run an economic operation. The problem of synchronizing the
rate of harvesting with the capacity of driers poses a major organizational
problem with centralized facilities. Until cooperative drying by farmers
groups becomes a possibility, the solution to the problem lies at the farm
level.
22.       In the first instance, the problem could be lessened by encour-
aging farmers to stagger ttansplanting and harvest and plant dry season
rice early. However, it is inevitable that some of the rice would be
harvested in the period May to late July. Long-term weather data shows
that maximum temperatures are high, average relative humidity does not
exceed 77% and the number of rainy days rarely exceeds seven days per
month. Under much less favorable conditions in Malaysia, drying rates
of 2.4% moisture per hour have been achieved by placing shallow layers



ANNEX 14
Page  f
of rice on a concrete slab with regular turning.  Taking conservative
drying rates, a mean deplh of 5 cm of paddy and assuming phased plantin,;
and harvesting, a 15 m x 15 m slab of concrete of asphalt placed adjaceUt
to the farmhouse cou:Ld meet the threshing and dryi-g needs of the averag;e
project farm growing dry season rice. Assuming a capital cost of B 6,0A0
and a life of 20 years, annual costs would amount B 700 and the cost
of drying would be about B 30-40/ten of paddy. Some further study is
recommended under the project to determine the optimum size of drying
floors and to compare the cost and efficiency of sun drying with small
artificial driers suitable for farm use.
23.       Storage.  The large increase in -vet season rice production
would present a storage problem.  To put the farmer in a more competi-
tive position in the marketing chain, it iS proposed that the bulk of
increased storage should be provided at the farm level in the first
instance. A program would be initiated to upgrade existing farm
storages and provide for construction of new storage, A concrete
store designed locally and costing about B 700/ton of paddy provides
a sound basis for new construction. The Bank for Agriculture -and Agri-
cultural Cooperatives is already granting credits of up to B 240/ton
for new farm storage and an extension of this program would meet the
needs of the project. Some further study of storage needs at full
development would be carried out by the project management.



ANNEX 1 4
Table 1
0
THAILAND
PHITSANULOK IMRIGATION PROJECT
Summary of Cropping Patterns and Production a!
Production
Cropped Area                         Annual Average -
Present  Future    Present Future    % Incr/(decr)
_- (ha IO0T) --    - (tons '000) -
Wet Season
Native Broadcast Paddy       39.8  15.0        55.8   37.7           (3.0) %
Native Transplant Paddy      27.4  25.0        49.3    87.5           4.5
High Yielding Paddy            -   40.5          -   182.3
Sub-Total - Paddy          67.2  80.5       105.1   307.5           8.8%
Maize                        14.1    9.0       24.0   31.4            2.1%
Sub-Total - Wet Season    81.3   89.5
Intermediate Season
Mungbean                      9.9  19.0         5.9    22.7          10.9%
Dry Season
High Yielding Paddy            -   55.0          -    247.2
Soyabean                       -    7.5          _    15.4
Sub-Total - Dry Season       -   62.5
Perennials
Fruit                         0.4    1.0        ..
Vegetables                    1.3   4.5         0.      00
Sub-Total                   1.7   5.5
TOTAL                    93.0  176.5
CROPPING INTENSTrY           112%  184%
MEMO
Total Paddy              67.2  137.5      105.1   554.7          13.8%
a/ Details in Annex 14, Table 2.
_        b/  Based on cropped area:  present 83,000 ha; future, 97,000 ha.
c!/ Based on 1974-1987.



TI tA I LANID
PIIITSANULQK IROlIGATION PROtJECT
CRQP PRODUCTION
I,ITli PROJECT
NATIVE BROADCAST                         NATIVE TRANSPIANT                    HIGH YIELD VARIETY-WET
AVG YIELD)   PRODUCTION                   AV, YIELD   PRODUCTION                  AVG YIELD      PRODUCTION
iA nno     (TON/HA)    (TONS 000)    IIA 000        (TON/HA)    (TONS 000)   liA 000         (TOtN/H1A)    (TONS 000)
1975         39.8          1,4           55.8         2?7.1t         1,8           49,3          -- -3                       --
1976         440.1         1.14          57.3          27.9          1.8           51.5          --           --             __
1977         40.2          1.5           60.2          28.14         2.0           55.5           .2          3.6             .8
1978         140.0         1.6           62.8          29.8          2.1           62,2           .4          3.7            1.5
1979         39.1,         1.6           64.3          31.9          2.3           72,5           .83         3.8            3.2
1980         38.3          1.7           65.0          32.1          2.5           74.7          14.2         3.7           15.4
1981         36.3          1. 8          614.1         32.5          2.7           82.0          9.2          3,7           34.1
1982         33.6          1.03          61.7          30.5          3.            90.0        17.5           3.8           66.5
1983         24,1          1. )          46.9          30.7          3.2           97.0         25.9          3.9          100.5
19834        13.6          2.2           30.5          31,3          3.3         103.2          314.2         4.0          136.8
1985         15.0          2.3           344.3         25.0          3.11          85.3         40.5          14.1         166.5
1986         15.0          2.11          36.2          25.0          3.5           87.2         40.5          14.3         173.7
1987         15.0          2.5           37.0          25.0          3.5           88g?. 0      40n5          14.14        179.1
1988         15.0          2.5           37.14         25.0r         3.5           88.2         40.5          14.5         181.14
AV',. X iI)Al_ "' I NCf'./(DECP. )
___________________________
1975-1988   (7.,)3;        4I.5%         (3.0)0         (.7)%       5.33           4.65%
0~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 0D 



THAI LAND
PIIITSA.ULO-  TPROIGATIOti PROJECT
CRO" PROD(JCTIONi
_- -  - - -  - - -  - - - _            ___----___----____ __            __ _   
'!ITTN PROJECT
tiAI ,E-IIET                       MUtrJIG13EAN-lliTERMtEL)IAT-E            >il( ci YIELD VARIETV-DRY
AVCG YIEID    PRODUJCTI Ol                A"G VI-LI)   'RODUCTION                    AVG YIELD       PRODouCTrrON
IIA 000    (TONI/HA)       (TONiS 000)    :IA 000      fTON,'/IA)    (TONS  o00)   IHA 000        (TON! IA)    (TONS 000)
1975         i'll          1.?            214.0           9.9           .             5.9          __
1976         141.3         1.7            21.9           '39.'                                     --            --              --
1977         14.4           1.8           26.4             .            .6            6.2           .G            3.4            2.0
1978         114.6         2.!0            29.8           9.3           .7            6.3          1.5            3.3            5.0
1979         j14*3         21              30.6           7.8           .7                         2.6            3.4            3.0
1980         13.2          2.3             30.7           6.9          .<             5.14         7.7            3.5           27.1
1981         11.9          2.6             31.0           6.7           .3            6.0         14.2            3.            51. '3
1982         10.3          2.9             30.1           3.7          1.0            3.7         25.1            3.0           914.2
1983         10.2           3.1            32.0          12.2          1.0           12.7         35.14           3.9          137.3
1984         10.6          3.3             34.7          16.1          1.1           17.1         ll6.s5          4.o          105.9
1985          9.(          3.14            30.5          19.0          1.1           20.9         55.0           14.1          226.1
1986          9.0           3.5            31.3          19.0          1.1           21.8        5s.o             4.3          235.9
1987          9.0          3. '5           31.6          10.0          1.2           22 .4        55.0 o4.14                   243.3
1988          9.0          3.;             31.7          19.0          1.            22 .7        55.0           44.5          246.3
AVG. ANN)UAL S ICR. /(fDECR . )
1975-1988    (3.14),, .5                    2.            5.25         5.4j 14.9



THAI LAND
PlIlTSAtNULOK tRRIGATIOiI PROJECT
CROP PRODUCTION
WITH PROJECT
SOYB[EAN-DRY
AVG YIELI)  PRODUCT I ON
I[A 000    (TON/HA)    (TONlS 000)
1975           --           -
1976           --          __
1977            .1         1.6             .1
1978            .1         1.6             .2
1979            .2         1.6            .3
1980            .9         1.6           -.4
1981           1.8         1.6           2.9
1982           3.3         1.7           5.5
1983           4.83        1.7           8.3
1984           6.3         1.8          11.3
1985           7.5         1.3          13.7
1986           7.5         1.9          14.3
1987           7.5         2.0          11'.7
1988           7.5         2.0          111.9
AVG. ANNUAL S I NCR . /(EC P. )
1975-1988      --          --                                                                                                               >.
r>I
x, r



T- IAI LAID
PHITSANUL01s InRRMATION PROJECT
tROP PRODUCTION
ltITHOUT PROJECT-
-NATIVE BROADCAST                       NATIVE TRANISPLANT                      MAIZF-%IET
AVG YIELD    PRODUCTION                AVG YIELD   PRODUCTION                AVG YIELD    PRODUCTION
-        -IHA 000    (TON/HA)    (TONS 000)    HA 000    (TON/HA)    (TONS 000)   HA 000    (TON/HA)          (TONS 000)
1q75         39.8         1.4         55.8         27.4         1,8          49.3         14.1         1.7           24.0
19T6         39.8        1.4          56.4         27.4         1.8          49.7        14.1          1.7           24.3
1977         39.8        1.4          57.0         27.14        1.8          50,1        14.1         1.7            24.6
1978        39.8         1.4          57.6         27.4         1.8          50.6        114.1        1.8            25.0
1979         39.8        1.5          58.2         27.11        1.9          51.0        14.1         1.8            25.3
1980        39.8         1.5          58.8         27.4         1.9          51.4        14.1          1.8           25.6
1981        39.8         1.5          59.5         27.4         1.9          51.8        14.1         1.8            25.9
1982        39.8         1.5          60.1         27.11        1.9          52.3        14.1         1.9            26.3
1983         39.8        1.5          60.7         27.4         1.9          52.7        114.1         1.9           26.6
1984        39.8         1.5          61.3         27.4         1.9          53.1        14.1         1.9            26.9
1985        39.8         i.6          61,9         27.4         2.0          53.5        14.1          1.9           27.2
1986        39.8         1.6          62.5         27.4         2.0          53.9        14.1          2.0           27.6
1987        39.8         1.6          63.1         27.4         2.0          54.14       14,1         2.0            27.9
1988        39.8         1.6          63.7         27.4         2.0          54.8        14.1         2.0            28.2
AVG. ANNUAL % ItCR./(DECR.)
5-198______ --1%1_______%___
1975-1988    --1.0%                    1.0*         _             .8%           .88       _            1.3%           1.3%



TtiAILAND
PFIITSANULOK IRRIGATION PROJECT
CROP PRODUCTIOFt
WITHOUT PROJECT
MUNG8EAN-INTERMEDIATE
AVG YIELD        PRODUCTION
;iA 000       (TON/HiA)        (TONS 000)
i97T           9.9              6               5.9
9.9             .6               6,1
197?           9.9                              6,2
X478          : 9.9             66 (.4
Y9.9             .7              6.5
-lp       ~~9.9            .7              6.7
t19 1      ~~9.9            .7               6.8
9.9             .7               7.0
9.9             .7               7.1
5.         9.9              .7              7.3
9.9             .8               7.4
1986           9.9             .8               7.6
1987           9.9             .8               7.7
1988           9.9             e8               7.9
AVG. ANNUAL % INCR./CDECR.)
___________________________
1975-1988      --             2.2%              2.2%
dl.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



THAILAND
PHITSANULOK IRRIGATION PROJECT
CROP CALENDAR
PRESENT AND WITHOUT PROJECT
TOTAL
ROTATION          HA            JAN.           FEB.          MARCH          APRIL           MAY           JUNE           JULY           AUG.           SEPT.          OCT           NOV.            DEC.
_____  _____ -_____--------HA 000 UNDER CULTIVATION  -- _____  _____  _____  __                                                                                  _  _         _---
B  1 5    1 5      B
NATIVE BROADCAST-    40.0    L                                                                                       -
H      15 _15         5
H                                                                                                                                                                                -
FALLOW
B      B      6       3       2      2      2
NATIVE TRANSPLANT -   27.50    L
N                                             ~~     ~~     ~~      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4  0    4
4      9       10     4
4    9        10      4
FALLOW
4      B
MAIZE -                9.0    L                                                                                     _
4      5
S                                                                                       4                                                               5
H-
4      B
MUNGBEAN -                    L
5                                                                                                                                                                           4
MAIZE-         5.0    S                                                                                                                                                                                - 
4      5
H 
FALLOW
MAIZE -                5.0    L
5~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
H
FALLOW
1.7                                                        1.7                                                         1.7
VEGETABLES & FRUIT   1.7    X
KEY
KEY                                                             ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Note: Area shown for nursery is hectares for traesplant.
L = LAND PREPARATION    T = TRANSPLANT
B = BROADCAST           H = HARVESTING
N = NURSERY             C = CULTIVATION
S = SOWING              X = ALL ACTIVITIES                                                                                                                                                    World Bank-9153
IN1|



ANIEX 14
Figure 2
THAILAND
PHITSANULOK IRRIGATION PROJECT
CROP CALENDAR
WITH PROJECT - FULL DEVELOPMENT
TOTAL
ROTAT ON         HA             JAN           FED.          MAR            APR,          M             JUNE           JULY            AUG,          SET.           OCT.          N V            DEC
-    -   -in-  w   w   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                               r    W~~~~-                I-
                                                  01   _   __  _ __  -_  ___ . ____ _. _ .__ ___ __ __  _.-HA 'OOUNDERPCULTIVATION
IA-1-OACC-T-  L                                              ~ ~~~~~~~~~5  5
NArIVE 8ROADCAST      10 0O  L                                                     S       Sa
5      5
NATIVE BROADCAST-    lo                                                                     -
MUNGSEAN -            5.0                                                                                                                                                                          - _
-                                                                                                                                                             5~~~~~~~~
FALLOW                 H                        S                                                                                                                                            -  _ 
N   7  7.5                                                                  14 S                                                       ; 4 S~~~~~~~ 7.
NAT-IE T SL7NT5 
4.5
H                                                                                                                                                            -
HUHGYIE0 DAHI 5T-  14.5    L              a
H                                                                                                                                     -~~~~~~~~~~~-
TALLOWH_                                                     _                                           SS                                                                              .__
NATIVE THANSPTLAT _   .S    L
S                                                                             -                                                                                                         0
N                                                                     a
SEVMAUZ-               25                 a                                                                               
- MUNGBEAU                               -.0    L
IAI TRANSPLA    N      1,    1                                                                            5's 2l!                                           
TH                                                              a,
SC= LAN -0         5 5 PEAT ON   SO
14 14 125
14  1~~  '4                                    U
B~~~~~~~                             20 BRACAT H=AVETN
NI  YIL NUR TETY       C 40   CULI aTO
HA        OS
.AlZI -       2,0    S                                                                                     -
Ha
1IUNUDEWN -           2.0    L
V                                                                                                                                       a
H~ ~~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
S.IONOAN              Z .0    L                      2i i
0  2~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Ha 
VAOETAU-   a          7R I     .5    B                                                                                                                                                I
.UNGLAND RHAA  ON0                                                                                         S SOIN
BL  BRANDCASI~T   C.     SOARESING
N  NJSERS             OO ULTIVATION
T THANSPLANT         AX=AULACTIVIT ESA                                                                                                                                                                UU



0
ANNEX 15
Page 1
THAILAND
PHITSANULOK IRRIGATION PROJECT
Marketing and Prices
Marketing Structure
1.        Most of the farm produce in the project area is sold at tne timqe
of harvest to traders who act as the link between the farmer and the re-
gional markets in the larger towns.- After some processing in these regional
centers, the produce is transported by road, rail or water to bangkok, which
is a major consumption center as well as the center for most of the export
trade.
2.        Most paddy is milled in privately-owned rice mills located in
and around the project area. At present, the rice mills in the area have
about 30-50% surplus capacity.  The increased production due to the proj-
ect would enable these mills to utilize fully their existing capacity.
Additional annual capacity of about 400,000 tons of paddy would be needed
by 1985 to accommodate the project's expected increase in paddy production.
No difficulty is foreseen in increasing the existing capacity to the desired
level, as the private sector is enterprising and has adequate access to
sources of capital.
3.        The marketing structure for field crops other than rice is
somewhat less developed as comparatively small amounts of these crops
are grown in the area at present. It is expected, however, that the
existing marketing channels would easily adjust to handle the increased
production of maize, mungbean and soybean. Maize is sold unshelled to
merchants and the major part of production is exported for animal feed.
The mungbeans are used mainly as bean sprouts or as flour for cooking.
Only a small part of the crop is exported and demand is rather inelastic.
4.        The three-fold increase in fruit and vegetable production in the
project area may present some marketing problems. It is expected that the
bulk of this increase would be in less-perishable crops such as chillies,
garlic, onions and coconuts, etc., for which there is a steady demand in
Thailand. Another major crop would be watermelons, long a specialty of
the area. The remainder of the increase in production would be balanced
by population increase and a trend towards greater per capita consunmption
of vegetables, as incomes rise.



ANNEX 15
Page 2
Farm Gate Prices
5.        Wet season paddy is normally harvested in December to Januar,;.
Upon harvesting, the farmer with an average-sized holding sells about
half of his crop immediately.  UTe keeps about-25% of his crop for fami]ly
consumption and seecd ancd selis the remainder gradually between February
and August. With most of the selling concentrated over a short period,
the spread of farm-gate prices is considerable, July/August prices being
higher than February prices by as much as 20%. The introduction of double
cropping and the use of rice varieties with various durations under the
project is expected to reduce this cyclic fluctuation somewhat.
6.        At present there is no significant use of improved or high-yielding
varieties of rice in the project area. Experience in other parts of Thailand
shows that high-yielding varieties, such as RD1, command a slightly low2'-
price because of consumer preference in the local market for native rice -
this difference ranges from 5% to 10%.
7.        Because of severe drought conditions recently experienced by
several rice producing countries, the prevailing world market prices 1/
for rice are unusually high, ranging from B 12,000 (US$600) for the
highest uality to B 9,500 (US$475) for 25-35% brokens per ton.  The
Bank's commodity price projections 2/ forecast lower prices for 1985,
with US$270/ton to U'i$193/ton for the grades just mentioned.  Most rice
to be exported will be in the 5% to 25% broken grades and assumed for
this analysis to be :20% and 80% respectively of production and export.
The projected price structure is indicated in Table 1 of this Annex.
8.        For this analysis, it is assumed that the farmgate price will
decline linearly from 1974-to 1985. The projected variation in f.o.b.
prices between 1974 and 1985 2/ is-accounted for in the economic analysis
by the corresponding variation in the annual adjustment of the economic
rice price (Annex 18).  This method is adopted on the assumption that the
Government will keep local paddy and Bangkok prices at a constant level
through adjustments in the rice premium.
9.        Bank projections 2/ show an decline in world soybean prices by
1985 to US$234 (B 49681) per ton, from a present level of US$303 (B 6,065'
per ton.  For the farm butdget and economic analysis, the current farmgate
price of US$266 (B 5,314) is projected to decline to US$196 (B 3,918).
1/   All prices are in year-end 1974 constant terms (unless indicated).
Bank commodity price projections are therefore increased by 5.9%
to reflect this shift in the base from mid-year to year-end.
2/   IBRD Commodity Forecasts, November 1974.



ANifEX 15
Page 3
10.       For maize, the Bank projection shows a 28% decline between
1974 and 1985; the current farmgate price of US$110 (B 2,200) per ton
is projected to decline to US$68 (B 1,370) per ton by 1985. For maize
and soybean the price variations in the intervening period have been
ignored.
11,       Based on transport and handling cvsts 1/, the price structure
for maize and soybean would be as follows for 1985:
Maize,    Soybean
--- B/ton
Export f.o.b. Bangkok:
- mid-year 1974 basis /a             1,860       4,420
- year-end 1974 basis                1,970       4,681
- transport, handling                  600         763
Farmgate price                             1,370      3,918
/a   IBRD Commodity Forecasts, November 1974.
12.       There is no Bank price projection for mungbean, which will be
consumed locally and in national markets. A slight price decline from
B 4,288 per ton at present to B 3,752 per ton in 1985, is projected,'
corresponding to a rise in supply for a relatively limited demand.
Fertilizer Prices-/
13.       Ammonium sulphate prices have historically averaged about 60% of
the urea price. The forecast price for urea in 1985, f.o.b. Europe;
is US$118/ton.  Based on the British Sulphur Company study 3/, the farm-
gate price is determined as follows:
1/   Source:  Mlarketing Channels and Prices of Agricultural Commodities
in the Upper Region of the Chao Phya River Basin in Thailand, 1969,
Division of Agricultural Economics, Ministry of Agriculture.  Quoted
in IBRD Agricultural Sector Survey - Thailand, 1972, Annex 2, page 8,
29 and adjusted for 1985 price projections.
2/   See footnote 1, page 2, of this Annex.
3/   Thailand National Fertilizer Study, British Sulphur Company, 1972,
adjusted for 1985 price levels, in year-end 1974 constant terms.



ANNEX 15
Page 4
Per Ton
Urea - f.o.b. Europe                             US$118
-Freight, etc.                                  25 (est.)
-c.i.f. Baingkok                           US$143
at B 20 = US$1                          B 2,860
-Transport, handling and middleman
margins                                     810
Urea - farmgate                                  B 3,750
Aimmonium sulphate (60%):                        B 2,250
At present, there is no tax on fertilizer, and it is assumed that this
situation will prevail in 1985.
14.       The projected price for diammonium phosphate (Ammophos) in
1985 is US$136 per ton f.o.b. U.S. Gulf, 16% greater than the urea
price. In the absencie of any other information, the farmgate price
is assumed to be 16% greater than the derived urea price, or B 4,350
per ton.
Iw



AN-E;X 15
Table  1
n,,',TL2STD
PHITSAOULOK IRRIGATION PROJECT
Rice Pricoe
19714                       1985
US/tVon          B/ton       US$/ton       B/tori
Milled rice fob Bangkok:
5% Broken                      600           12,000          285        5,400
25% Broken fob Bangkok         475            9,500          206         4,360
Average (20% of 5% broken
and 80% of 25% broken)         500           10,000          222         4,440
Less:
Milling, transport & handling                     960                       960
Taxes                                           4,1oo                       240
Farmgate Prices:
Milled rice C4vg)                             4,64o                     3,240
P addy (av ) _                                3,060                     2,140
Paddy (native) 3/       /                     3,180                     2,220
Paddy (high yielding) 3                       2,890                     2,020
1/  Expressed in constant end-1974 prices.
2/ Rice to paddy conversion of 0.66.
3/ Derived assuming native varieties account for 60% of production and price
for native varieties is 10% greater than price for high-yielding varieties.
0



ANNEX 16
THAILAND
PHITSANILOK IRRIGATION PROJECT
Crop and Farm Budgets
1.        Annex 14 descr:ibes the present and projected future cropping
patterns and agricultural practices. This annex shows the following:
(a)  crop produztion costs without labor requirements for
eacn crop (Tab:le 1). Current production costs are
based on personal interviews conducted during appraisal
in the pro;ject area. Some improvements in farming prac-
tices are assumed for future "without project" conditions.
The level of inputs for "future with project" conditions
is based on1 results from experimental stations and on
experience with the pilot projects in the Chao Phya Plain;
(b)  labor requi.rements for various crops by type of labor
(Table 2).  It is assumed that, in the future, land
preparationI and threshing would be fully mechanized;
(c)  crop budgets using market prices for each year of the
project development period, and for the same period
without project: (Tables 3 and 4);
(d)  farm budgets for typical family farms between 2 and
10 ha (Table 5). The farm budgets are calculated
strictly on a cash flow basis. Since family labor is
not a cash input, only hired labor has been costed at
the shadow rate applicable for each month (Annex 17).
For each farm size the monthly requirement for hired
labor was calculated by comparing the labor requirements
for the projected cropping pattern (Annex 17) witn the
availabilit:y of a maximum of 75 man-days/month at peak
season and 60 n-an-days/month at other times of the year
and a total of 750 man-days/year of family labor.  As
the future cost recovery charges are not known at this
stage, only a minimum value equivalent to the operation
and maintenance cost of the irrigation project (B325/ha)
together with the average value of the on-farm development
works, amortized over 25 years al: 8% interest (B675/ha)
is deducted as water cnarges.  It: is likely that more
would be recovered from the larger farmers but this
would only be determined by the cost recovery study
(para 5.21).



THAIL
11HTSAMHIJLOI. IRRTIATION  OROJECt
CROP BUDGcETS - COST OF INPUTS  'ER HA
(EXCLUDING LABOR)
------------------------------------
NATIVE B3ROADCAST - '!FT              NATIVE TRAIISOLANT - 'IET                MrCH Y!ELI7 VARIETY - WET
FI)TUPE      FUTURE                     FUJTt)RE     FUTIJRE                    FUTURE        FUTURE
PRESENT      WITHOUT         11ITH    rPRESENT       WIT!iOtJT      l1ITH I      RESEMT    W!ITHOUT          WITH
I NPUTS
CULTIVATION (1)           317          402          1465          592          5)92          794          --            --           794
(P,H)        (P,H)        (P,H)       (P,H,Pu)     (P,H,Pu)     (P,H,Pu)                                 (P H Pu)
SEED (2)                  397          277           222-         190          133 7                                    --             40
- KG/HA       (125)        (125)         (100)         ((0)          (60)         (40)         __            --            (4n)
FERTILIZER (3)
/- AMMOSULF.           --           --            222           45            38          333          --             -           555
- KG/HA        r_ __                     (100)         (12)          (40)        (150)          -                        (250)
- AMMOPHIOS.          __            __           __
- KG/HA        --            --           --           --            --           --           --            --            --
AGROCHEMICALS (4)         --           --            317          __           105           529          __            __           741
(Ins x l)                (Ins x 0-1)  (Ins x 1-2)                              (Ins x 2-3)
(Weed x 0-1)                              (Weed x 1)
HARVESTING (5)            __           __             52          --            --            74          --            --             95
ALL OTHER (6,7)            47            55          150           63            79          254          __            __            317
CD
fIHI
TOTAL CASH INPUTS         762           735        -141           502         1000          2074           --           --          2584
(1)  P:  Ploughing at B200-300/ha                                                    (3)  Ammonium Sulphate: B2250/ton; Ammophos: B4350/ton.
HI: Harrowing at BlO0- 200/ha                                                   (14)  Each spray of insecticide or weedicide: B214/ha
R-I: RIdintectivation at E200/ha                                                (5)  Cost of mechanized threshing.
(2)  It is assumed that under "future with project" fresh seed would be
used about every fifth year for all crops except soybeans and native            (6)  Exclusive of land cultivetiunr equipment.
broadcast rice. Soybean seed would be replaced every year, while no
replacements are ervissged fer nstive broadcast rice.  Cost-is 19714           ,7e "sb"re C'th fl"uiect'' n,n 4-1u'ies the ispute'i
and 1987 farmgate price for present and future, respectively.                       ct of providing a 3mIS  x 15  roicrete drying flo;
respectively,             ~~for each 6 ha holding.



THAILANID
PHITSANULOK IRRIGATION PROJECT
CROP BU1UZTS - OUST UF INPUTS PEfi hi
(EXCLUDING LABOR)
--------------------------------------
BAHT
MAIZE - WET                      HIGH YIElD VARIETY - DRY                  MUNGBEAN - INTERtMEDIATE
FUTURE       FUTURE                      FUTURE        FUJTURE                    FUTURE        FUTURE
PRESENT      WI THOUT        WITH        PRESENT      WITHOUT          WITTH      PRESENT       WITHOUT         WITH
INPUTS
CULTIVATION (1)            465          465          1.006          592           592          794           254           46 H29
(1,H)         (P,H)    (P,Hi,R,I)       (P.,H'Pu)     (P,ft:Pu)    *F)4Pu                        AC r"t,29
SEED (2)                    8            54            34          17?           121            80          193           168            7)
- KG/HA         (40)          (410)        (25)          (60)          (60)         (40)          (1,5)         (415)         (20)
FERTILIZER (3)
- AMMOSULF.            --            --            __           375           277           555           --            --            --
- KG/HA         -            --            --          i(o0)          (125)        (250)          --            --            --
- AMMOPHOS.             91           128           644          __            __            __            __            _-            257
- KG/IA         (10)         (30)         (150)          __            __           __            __            __            (60)
AGROCH1Etl1CALS (41)       --            211          529           317           317           529          __            __            211
(Ins x 1)    (Ins x 1)    (Ins x 1-2)  (Ins x 172)  (Ins x 2-3)                                  (Ins x 1)
(Weed x 0-1)
HARVESTING (5)             126           126          2641           74            711          106          __            __              74
ALL OTHiER (6,7)            63            837         239           158           1583          4 RI 'I7                    117           127
TOTAL CASH INPUTS          926         1075          2717          160?          1l5l2        2502            4o4           682         1275       
(1)  p  Ploughing at B 200-300/ha                                                           (3)  Ammonium Sulphate: B2250/ton; Ammophos: B4350/ton m              rG
H: Harrowing at B 100-200/ha                                                                                                                                  ON
Pu: Puddling at B 100-250/ha                                                           (4)  Each spray of insecticide or weedicide: B2M4/ha
R: Ridging at B100-200/ha
I:  Intercultivation at B 200/ha.                                                      (5)  Cost of mechanical thrcshing.
(2)  It is assuted that under "future with proiect" f'resh seed wou11A h-                         `-z;-        1 o a   cultivation equipment.
useu euuur every riiTn year ror all crops except soybeans and
ujeLive lu-uuduasL rice.  Foybean seed would be replaced every year,                   (7)  "Future with project" also includes the
while no replacements are envisaged for native broadcast rice.                              imputed cost of providing a 15a x 15m
Cost is 1974 and 1987 farmgate price for present and future,                                concrete drying floor for e.ach 6 ha
respectively.                                                                               holding.
i'iX      '                                                  *                                                                           0



PHITSANULOK IRRIGATION PROJECT
CROP BUDGETS - COST OF INPUTS PER HA
(EXCLUDING LABOR)
BAHT
SOYBEAN - DRY                     VEGETABLES - WET + DRY                     FRUIT - PERENNIAL
FUTURE       fUTURE                    FUTURE       FUTURE                     FUTURE       FUTURE
PRESENT     WITI1OUT        VITH       PRESENT      WITHOUT         WITH       PRESENT      WITHOUT         WITH
INPUTS
CULTIVATION (1)           --           --          IO(           635          677         1059           --           --            --
(P,H,R I)     (P,H,R)      (P,H R)      (P,H R)
SEED (2)                  --           --           17?'         522          998          9M1           487          991           991
- KG/HA        --           --           (45)        (100)         (100)        (100)        (100)        (100)         (100)
FERTILIZER (3)
- AMMOStJLF.          --           --             99          6 76         555          833           112           66          133
- KG/HA        --           --           (45)        (180)         (250)        (375)         (30)          (30)         (60)
- AMiOPIiOS.          --           --            257          --           --           --            --           --           --
- KG/HA        -                         (60)          --           --           --           --            --           --
AGROCHEMICALS (4)         --           --           423          211           317          847          211           211          423
(Ins x 2)    (Ins x 1)  (Ins x 1-2)  (Ins x 3-4)   (Ins x 1)    (Ins x 1)    (Ins x 2)
HARVESTING (5)            --           --            95                        --
ALL OTHER (6,7)           --           --           285         1509l(S)     1509(8)        317
TOTAL CASH INPUTS         --           --          235414        rs55       14051          4048          8i1         1269          154P
(1) P: Ploughing at B 200-300/ha                                                 (3) Ammonium Sulphate: B2250/ton; Ammophos: B 4350/ton                  ,3
H: Harrowing at B 100-200/ha
Pu: Puddling at B100-250/ha                                                 (4)  Each spray of insecticide or weedicide: B 214/ha                  CD
R: Ridging at B 100-200/ha
:: Intercultivation at B 200/ha                                             (5)  Cost of m;:achanized threshing.                                       CY
(2) It is assumed that under "future with project" fresh seed would be           (6)  b5clusive of land cultivation equipment.
used about every fifth year for all crops except soybeans and
native broadcast rice. Soybean seed would be replaced every year,           (7)  "Future with project" also includes the
while no replacements are envisaged for native broadcast rice.                   imputed cost of providing a 15m x 15m
Cost is 19714 and 1987 faragate price for present and future,                    concrete drying floor for esch 6 ha holding.
respectively.
(o) Includes cost of pumped water at B 1200/ha



THAILAND
PHITSANULOK IRRIGATION PROJECT
Labor Re ^drmeants
(Man days/ha)
Native Broadcast - Wet      Native TranspLant  Wet            HYV Wet & Dry               Maize - wet
Present      Future         Present      Future          Present       Future         Present       Future
Without j/With 2/           Without   With                Without   With              Without   With
Land clearance
& preparation 3/      -          -       -          5        5        2         5          5         2      -         _         _
Nursery               _          _       _         10       10        8         10        10         8       -        -         -
Planting/Sowing       2          2       3         25       25       30        25         25        30      8         8.       10
Weeding               -          3       3          5       10        8          5         8        15       5       12         5
Management 4/         -          -       7          2        5        7          5         5        10       2        5        10
Harvesting          ,28         30      25         28       30       25        30         32        30      15       20        30
Total Labor Inputs  30          35      38         75       85       80        80         85       100     30       145        55
-                                             _                                        =                  _
Mungbean                     Soybean                   Vegetables                    Fruit
Sowing                1          1       9         -        -        10
Weeding               -          5      27         -         -       38
Management 4/         -          -       4         -        -        11
Harvesting           29         34      40                                                          - -  41
Total Labor Inputs  30          40      80         -        -       100       240         300      420     36        60       120
=-      =     -        -         _           =                 .                    =        - F 
rvH
1/  i'uture witnout project.        j/  Excludes mandays needed to operate mechanized eo-uinment (cost of t_hese mandays is
Future with project.                imputed in Annex 16, Table 1i.
l   Irrigation, plant protection and fertilizer application.
2 sW                                         ~~* 



I~~~~~~~~
THA I LAND
PHiITSAMULOr IPRIGATION PrOJECT
NET VALUE OF PPUOOUCTION
(WIITHOUT lAPOR)
IIITH PPOJFCT
NATIVE BROADCAST                                              NATIVE TRANSPLANT
NET COST OF                                                   NET COST OF
AVG YIELD   FARlrIATE PRICF      PROnDJCTIO0l       NVP       AVG YIFLD   FARMGATE PRICE    PRODUCTION          NVP
(TON/HA)     (BAHT/TON)        (BAHT/HA)       (RAHT/HA)    (TON/HA)        (BAHT/TON)        (BAHT/HA)    (BAHT/HA)
________      ____________    - -- -- - - --- - --  - -- - -- - - - -  -- -- - - - -- -  - -- -- - -- -- - - --  - -- - -- - ---  - - - - - - - - -
1975          1.4             3180               762          38r9           1.8             3180               892         4831
1976          1.4             3092               778          3639           1.8             3092               918         4796
1977          1.5             3005               81P,         36P2           2.0             3005               985         4889
1978          1.6             2918               8R0          3719           2.1             2918              1077         5011
1979          1.6             2830               903          371P           2.3             2830              1215         5212
1980          1.7             27143              950          3703           2.5             2743              1358         5364
1981          1.8             2656               999          386r           2.7             2656              1539         5640
1982          1.8             2569              1049          3670           3.0             2569              1713         5866
1983          1.9             2481              110)          3718           3.2             2481              1841         6000
1984          2.2             23091             1278          4103           3.3             2394              1930         5956
1985          2.3             23n7              1323          4034           3.4             2307              2013         5860
1986          2.4             2220              1377          3976           3.5             2220              2065         5677
1987          2.5             2220              lhil          40fi           3.5             2220              2087         5725
1988          2.5             2220              1427          4106           3.5             2220              2092         5736
AVG. ANNUAL  INCR./(DECP.)
1975-1988    14.55 (2.7)9 4.Wo                                              5 3           (2.7)9             6.8-0         1.3%
W l
01



THAILAND
PHITSAINULOK IRRIGATION PROJECT
NET VALUE OF PRODUCTION
(WITHOUT LABOR)
WITH PROJECT
HIGH YfIELD VARIETY- WET                                                        MAIZE- WET
NET COST OF                                                           NET COST OF
AVr YIELD    FARMCATF PRICE         PRODUCrTION        N"iPr       AVC, YIEL-D    FARM'CATE PPICE         PRODUJCTION          NVP
(TON/HA)       (P,AHT/TON)         (BAHT/HA)      (FAHT/HA)       (TOre/HA)         (F3AHT/TON)          (BAHT/HA)        (BAHT/HA)
1975             --2990                               -                             1.7                2200                   826           2913
1976             --2810                               ----                          1.7                21241                  850           28418
1977    3.6              ~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~2 731  2187695                      1.8                 20ol9                 9 32           28411
1978            3.7                2r.52              2172          75596           2.0                 1973                 1056            2825
1979             3.8               2573               2P22          7500            2.1                 1898                 1251            27941
1980             3. 7              2)19)l             217P          7003            2.3                 1822                 1501            2731
1981             3. 7              2)41l5             2195             77'It        2 . 6               17 47                1829            2727
1982            3.8               233                2 232P         6 r621          2.9                167121577
1983             3.9               2257               22 79          6JIP",         3.1                 1596                 23410           2659
19841            4l.               2-178              2335r 7l                      3.3                 1520                 2 4 75          24l97
1985             41.1              2099               2391           6 236r          3.4               1'445                2601            2298
1986        ~~~~~4.3           2020                if           612             3.5                 1370                 2689            2069
1987             41.4              2020               24 6           6P0             3.5                1370                 2726            2080
1988             '4.5              2020               2 7 4          64"73           3.5                1370                 2736            2083
AVr,. ANNUAL % INCR./(DECR.)
1975-1988  -=          ~~~~~~~~~~(2. 7)1      -                              .8(3.6)                               9.(2.5)%
La '



THAILAND
PHITSANULOK IRRIGATION PROJECT
NET VALUE OF PRODUCTION
(WITHOUT IABO1R) 
WITH PROJECT
MUNGBEA~N - INTERMEDIATE                                    HIGH YIELD VARIETY - DRY
NET COST OF                                                            NJET COST OF
AVG YIELD   FARUIGATE PRICE         PRODUJCTION          NVP         AVG YIETLD    FARMGATE PRICE          PRODUCTION          NVP
(TON/HA)       (RAHT/TON)          (RAHT/HA)        (rPAHT1/A)       (TON/HA)         (RAHT/TON)          (BANT/HA)        (BAHT/HA)
197 5            .6              4290                  424           207 9             -2 890                                --
1976      6                      4240                  5n'           :)090            --2810                                 --              --
1977             .6       ~       4191 l                             2 197     ~     3 .4               2731                 1903           7279
1978             *7              4142                  56C7          2228            3.3                2652                 1886           698 9
1979             *7              11093                 6011          22 73           3*t4               257 3                1932           6893
1980             .8              41444                 716           21447           3.5                2494                 2019           6 820
1981             .9               3995                P876           27041           3.5r               2~415                2082           6721
1982            1.0              39)46               1022            2931            3.~P               23~36                2143           6635
1983            1.0              3R97                in 6 0          2971            3.9                2257                 220 6          6550
1984            1.1               38R8               1100           .3002            4.0                2178                 2263           6443
1985            1.1              3792                liho            3023,           4*i                2099                 2317           6310
1986            1.1               3~750              12012           3086,           4.3                2020                 2402           6261
1987            1.2               3750               12418           31741           it.                2020                 2 406          6469
1988            1.2              3750                126             3 211           4                  20 20                2 492          6554
AVa. ANNUAL 91 INCR./(DECR.)
1975-1988       5.49            1.)                  7. 99           3h~               -              (2.7)9                 -                -



THAILAND
PHITSANULOK IRRIGATION PROJECT
NET VALUE OP PRODUCTION
(WITHOUT LABOR)
WITH PROJECT
SOYBEAN - DRY                                                        FRUIT & VEGETABLES
NET COST OF                                                           NET COST OF
AV1. YIELD     FARMCATE PRICE        PP.ODlJCTION         NVP        AV(, YIELD      FARMGATE PRICE        PRODUCTION           NVP
(TON/HA)         (BAHT/TON)          (RAHT/IHA)       (FAHT/HA)        (TON/HA)        (BAHT/ MA )         (BAHT/HA)         (BAHT/11A)
1975             --                5310                __              __                                5136                2869            2266
1976             --                5183                --              --               --5570                               2925            27334
1977             1.6               5057                1700           6139                               6004                2981            3150
1978             1.6               4930                1725           5942                               6 438               2975            344 6
1979             1.6               14804               1790           5Q19                               6872                2902            3479
1980             1.6               41678               1763           5797 7                             7307                2807            3467
1981             1.6               14551               1792           5(75                               7741                2791            3663
1982             1.7               14125               18P4,          5SP( C                             8175                2798            40614
1983             1.7                l299              :1916           550?              --               8609                2858            4760
1984             1. P               14172              1595           5fl71             --               90143               2869            5402
1985             1. 8               40146              20714          5717                               9478                2869            6171
1986             1.9                3920               2198           5273              -                9912                2869            6878
1987             2.0                3920               2291          5s1 1i                               9912                2869           7000
1988             2.0                3920               2330           517-                                9912                2869           7045
AVG. ANNUAL % INCR./(DECR.)
1975-1988        --              (2.3)                                  --                              5.2                  --              9. 1%
.                                                                 0*  *     0



THAI LAND
PHITSANULOr 1PRICATION PPOJECT
NET VALUE OF PRODUCTION
(WITHOUT LABOR)
1'!1THOUT PROdECT
NATIVE BROADCAST                                                  NATIVE TRANSPLANT
NET COST OF                                                        NET COST OF
AVC, YIELD   FARHOnATE PRICE       PRODUiCTIONI         NIVP       AVO YIELD    FARMGATE PRICE        PRODUCTION         NVP
(TON/HA)      (BAHT/TON)          (RAHT/HA)        (RAHT/HA)      (TON/HA)         (BANIT/TON)       (BAHT/HA)      (BAHT/HA)
--   - -       - -  - - - -      -  - - -  - -      - - -  - -    - - - -  -      - -  - - -  - -     - - -  - -      - -  - -
1975            1.4              3180                7 62           3689           1. P              3180                892           4831
1976            1.4              3106                760            3635           1.8               3106                900           4738
1977           1.4               3032                758            3579           1.8               30 32               908           4 642
1978           i.4               2952                756            3521           1.8               2958                917           454 4
1979           1.5               2884                754            31461          1.9               28 84               925           4444
1980           1.5               2810                752            3398           1.9               2810                933     ~     4341
1981           1.5               2736                750            3334           1.9               2736                9 42          4236
1982            1.5              2663                748            3266           1.9               26'63               950           4129
1983           1.5               2589                746            3197           1.9               2589                958           4020
1984           1.5               2515                74 3           3125           1.9               2515                967           3908
1985           1.6               ?441                V11            3051           2.0               2 441               975           3794
1986           1.6               23,6 7              739            2975           2.0               2 367               983           3678
1987           1.6               2 292               737            2897           2.0               2293                9 92          3560
1988           1.6               22)20               735            2816           2.0               2220               1000           3439
AVr, ANNUJAL   I IN,CP ./DE CRP.
1975-1988      1.0%            (2.7),              (.3)            (2. 1 o-          .,9            (2.7)%              .9%         (2.6)%



THAILAND
PHITSANULOK IRRIGATION PROJECT
NET VALUE OF PRODUCTION
(WITHOUT LABOR)
WITHOUT PROJECT
MAIZE - WET                                                     MUNGBEAN
NET CO T OF                                                            rET CnST OF
AVC YIFLD       FARPIGATE PRICE        PRODUCTIOt4          NVP         AVr7 YIELD    FARMrATE PRICE           Pr*OUCTION            NVP
(TCO/11A)         (RAHT/TON)           C13AHT/HA)        (BAHiT/HA)      (TON/HA)        (RAHT/TON)            (FAHT/MA)          (rAHT/H-1A)
1975   1.7                  2200                  826             2913            .6               4290                  )I 9)            207"
1976   1.7                  2136                  8145            2835            .6                01' (o                                21I05
1977    1.7                 2072                  865             2753 S6                          4206,                  523             2129
1979   1.P                  2008                  98,             2669            .6               '4165                  53PI            2153
1980  12.                   14                    903             2582            .7               4123                   596             2175
1980   1.9           1890~~~L~p            922             2)491           .7               14082                  5r6             21n6
1981   1.                  1816                  941             2398            .7               I4lo4i                 5Q1             2216
1982   1.9                  1753                  960             2302            .7               3999                   595             2 23
1983   1.9                  1759                  979             2203            .7               3957                   610 2C '252 ?
19854   1.9                 1625                  999             2101            .7               3916                   62)1            2267
1985   1.9                  1561                 1018             1996            .8               3874                   229              2
1986   2. 0                 14)97                1037             1888            .8               3 P,365                                 29)
1987   2.0                  1433                 1056             1777            .8               3791                   6(7              2306
1988   2.0                  1370                 1075             1664            A                3750                   6,.              2  7
AVG. ANNUAL % INCR./(DECR.)
1975-1988  1.3O               (3.6>                  2.0%            (4..2)           2.2%              (1.0>                2.5%
ib~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~qS



THAILAND
PHITSANULOK IRRIGATION PROJECT
NET VALUE OF PRODUCTION
(WITHOUT LABOR)
WITHOUT PROJECT '
FRUIT & VEGETABLES
NET COST OF
AVr YIELD      FARtCIATE PRICE      PRODIJCTION          NVP
(TON/MA)        (BAHT/HA 1)        (BAHT/HA)         (BAHT/HA)
1975      --               5135                2869            2266
1976      --               5503                2906            2596
1977      --               5870                2944            2926
1978      --               623p                2981            3256
1979      --               6605                3019            3586
1930      --               6972                3056            3916
1981      --               7340                3093            4246
1982      --               7707                3131            4576
1983      --               8075                3168            4906
1984                       8442                3206            5236
1985      --               8810                32143           5566
1936      --               9177                3280            5896
1987      --               9544                3318            6226
1988      --               9912                3355            6556
AVG. ANNUAL % INCR./(DECR.)
1975-1988                         5.2%              1.29,             8.5%
Ib F3CD
oQS 
(t



ANNEX 1 6
Table 5       
THATLAIND
PHITSAJILK IRRMATION PROJECT
Faru Bidgets
< 2.0 ha Farm)    (4.0 ha Farm)     (6.0 ha Farm)   (10. ^:! ha Farm)
CRL4'S (ha)               Present Future   Present lbture   Present Euture  Pres(lnt Futu:,e
Broadcast Native Rice      0.5      0.4      1.5      0.7      2.5      1.1     5.C
Transplant Na"   Rice      1.0      0.5      1.4      1.0      1.7      1.6      2.5      2.6
Rice HYV (Wet) -            -       0.8       -       1.7       -       2.5       -       4.2
Maize (Wet)                0.4    .0.2      0.6      0.14     0.7      0.6      1.0      0.9'
Mungbeans                  0.3      0.2      0.5      0.8      0.5      1.2      0.5      1.9
Rice YV (Dry)               -       1.1       -       2.3       -       3.4       -       5.7
Soybeans (Dry)              -       0.4       -       0.3       -       0.5       -       0.8
Vegetables -&;;  iits      0.1      0.1      0.2      0.2               0.3      0.3
Total Gropp4o   L        2,.3     3.7      4.2      7.14     5.7     11.2     9.3
Cropp iog D1teAi        115%     185%     105%     185%      95%     186%     93%      185%
Total Paddy Produc-
tion ()I/             2.5    11.4      14.6    23.3       6.6     34.9   11.5    58.2
INCOME STATMNT ()
Gross Vaue of Production 10,730  29,287    19,245  57,721    26,300  87,129   43,1,9 144,91i)
Prochictin Costs .
(excluding labor) 21     2,038   8,1437    3,709  1-6,580    5,107  25,015    7,9'1; 111,1479
Cost of hied fa='
labor                    -        _         _       587       -      4,915      Bi3  13,66'1
Net Value of Production
(before watz charge)    8,692  20,850    15,536  40,554    21,193  57,199   314,3;42  89,761.
ihter Charge -f             -      2,000       -      4,000      -     6,000      -     10,000
Net Crop Income            8,0692  18,850    15,536  36,554    21,193  51,199   34,3L,2  79,76L4
0ff-farm Inom_e Y          3,156   3,617     2,502     317     1,911
Total Fain Dome                23        18 038  36.81      0    1     9    3.3 73,76
1/ Baod on Annex 16, Tables a   and 3.
/ Baed on a maxium  of 75 man-days/month and a total of 750 man-dgys/year of family 1 bor.
3/ Water charges are based on mission estimates and include operation aM maintenance costs
and repauoWt of on-farm works only.
4/ Based on the number of days available to the family for work as hired labor after Ieating
all labor requiremeta on the farm.  It is asumed that enployment -oppertanbies are
availgble tiizuighout the year under "with project" conditions but only in the peak amnths
under p'esant conditiona. Labor rates are in Annex 17, Table 6.



ANNEX 17
Page 1
THAILAND
PHITSANULOK IRRIGATION PROJECT
Farm Labor Analysis
Labor Supply
1.        Based on a sample survey conducted by RID, it is estimated that
at present 16,000 farm families live in the project area. Each family
averages 3.5 members of working age (15 to 65 years). Assuming that a
family needs the equivalent of one full time worker for household work
and family care, the potential farm labor force in the area, at this
time, is estimated at about 40,000 workers. A part of this potential
labor force is, however, not available for manual farm work, as it is
customary in the area for "relatively well-off" farmers (say with a
land holding of 6 ha or more) not to do manual farm work. The propor-
tion of large holdings in the project area, unlike in many other parts
of Thailand, is quite high (para 3.07). It is estimated that about
one-sixth of the potential workers fall in this category, reducing the
actual labor force availability to about 33,500 workers. Assuming a
farm labor growth rate of 2.5% per annum (compared to an expected popu-
lation growth rate of 3% per annum) the labor force actually available
for farm work would increase to about 46,000 workers at full development
in 1985.
2.        Assuming 300 working days per annum per worker, the annual labor
supply is estimated at 10 million man-days or an average of about 800,000
man-days per month. During the peak periods, farmers tend to work longer
hours and also cut down their household activities. The "stressed" labor
supply in peak periods is accordingly estimated to reach 950,000 man-days
per month.
Labor Demand
3.        The labor requirements per crop (Table 1) and the present and
future cropping patterns (Annex 14) give the estimated average and total
monthly labor requirement under present and future conditions as shown
in Tables 2 and 3, respectively. With a present annual requirement of
about 4.3 million man-days, 40% of the available labor is utilized.
Because of the considerable diversification in the cropping pattern,
the labor peaks in the area are not as prominent as in many other parts
of Thailand and the peak labor requirements are well below the "stressed"
labor availability. However, localized areas of labor scarcity exist be-
cause of the poor transportation network in the project area. No major
change from this pattern is foreseen under future "without project" con-
ditions.



ANNEX 17
Page 2
4.        The introduction of improved farm techniques and extensive double
cropping would greatly increase the labor requirement in tne area.  At iull
development, the total annual labor requirement is estimated to be 17 million
man-days compared to 5 million man-days under "without project" conditions
and 4.3 million man-days at present. Assuming 300 working days per year,
this is equivalent to 57,000 full time jobs in 1985 under ttue "with project"
conditions as compared to 14,500 at present. The peak montnly labor require-
ment would also increase from 870,000 man-days at present to 2.2 million
man-days at full development (Table 3).  The vastly increased labor reqi..ire-
ment would clearly out-strip the labor availability in the project area during
the peak periods as well as for the year as a whole (Table 4). The successful
realization of full project benefits would be critically dependent upon the
elimination of this constraint. There are three ways in which the problemn
could be overcome:
(a) Immigration into the Project Area. Over half the
cultivated land in the area consists of holdings
larger than 7 ha. These holdings are too large to
be cultivated by family labor without a high degree
of mechanization. With the provision of water and
on-farm works it is considered likely that the owners
of these holdings would find it profitable to sell or
rent part of their land to farmers moving into the
region from outside the project area. Population
pressure on the available productive land is increas-
ing rapidly in Thailand and prospects for further
expansion oE the cropped area through forest clearing
are diminishing. These conditions apply particularly
to Northeasi: Thailand, which could therefore be the
main source of migration to the project. It is esti-
mated that the project area has the potential for
absorbing about 4,000 to 5,000 families.
(b) Seasonal ancd daily migration from surrounding areas.
Because of t.he long, narrow shape of the project area, 2
a 5 km strip surrounding it encompasses roughly 1,500 km
This area contains about 40,000 farm workers.  Present
conditions in the neighbouring areas are similar to those
in the project area and are not expected to change in the
future, as no major developments are envisaged. It is
likely that, during the dry season, many of these workers
would commute to the project area on a daily basis. l1ow-
ever, less labor would be available during the wet season
planting or harvesting, which are the peak labor demand
periods in the surrounding areas. It is reasonable to
assume that seasonal migration of single workers into the
project from crowded areas such as the Northeast would
also occur mainly during the dry season.  This kind of
migration has been observed elsewhere in Thailand, notably



ANNEX 17
Page 3
in the Mae Klong area. The total casual labor require-
ments, at full development, will be 2.2 million man-
days.
(c) Increased Mechanization. It is possible that the
above two trends would leave the project area short
of some labor during the peak periods, especially
for the wet season harvest. If labor scarcity
persists then selective mechanization of harvesting
on some of the larger holdings may occur, as is
beginning to happen elsewnere in Southeast Asia.
There is good reason to believe that the above three measures would overcome
the problems posed by potential labor shortages. The project organization
would study the potential for such labor movement and would also make recom-
mendations on the appropriate level of farm mechanization and tenancy arrange-
ments.
5.         The labor requirements with and without project and the implications
for migration and casual labor are shown in Tables 4 and 5.
Existing Wage Rates
6.         It is difficult to get reliable data on the existing wage rat:es
for farm labor as much of the labor at present is provided by the family
or obtained on an exchange basis. Where labor is paid it is more likely
to be on piece-work rather than on a daily basis. Surveys by various
Governmental agencies and personal interviews conducted in the project
area indicate that:
(a) despite the seasonality of farm-labor relatively
little monthly fluctuation of the wage rate is
observed. As almost no labor is hired in the
off-peak months, reliable data are available for
the peak months only. However, some opportunities
for off-farm work during slack periods also exist;
(b) wage rates within the project area vary by as much
as 50% in areas within 10 to 15 km of each other.
This may be due to the poor transportation network
as well as the preference of the farmers for seeking
employment close to home. It is likely tnat with
improved accessibility the labor market in the area
would become substantially homogeneous;



ANNEX 17
Page 4
(c) wage rates generally tend to reflect the nature
of the particular farm job.  Harvesting of long
strawed broadcast rice, in low lying lands under
water, for example, can command a premium of as
much as 25% over other activities; and
(d)  the wage rate varies roughly within a range of
B 12 to B 20 per day. For areas with full
employment, the average wage is about B 15/day.
7.        No major change is foreseen from this pattern under future
"without project" conditions.
Pricing of Labor
8.         The proper assessment of the opportunity cost of farm labor
is a complicated issue involving a number of value judgments as well as.
extensive empirical data on off-farm employment opportunities. In the
absence of reliable data, analysis in this annex disregards:
(a)  the value of leisure;
(b) problems of income distribution between the various
segments of thie population; and
(c)  the importance of saving in relation to consumption.
Thus the analysis given hiere deals only with the opportunity cost of oul:put
foregone in non-farm employment.
Off-farm Employment
9.         Empirical dlata on the opportunity for off-farm employment is
very sketchy and often no more than a matter of personal impressions.
It is generally agreesd that during the "non-peak" period farmers can,
and often do, undertake activities like fishing, carpentry, home repair.s,
wood gathering, cottage industries like carpet weaving and basket makin;,
construction work andl other casual labor.  What is unclear, hciwever, is
the magnitude and importance of this kind of employment.
10.       On the bas:Ls of all available information about the project area
and experience from other similar areas, it is postulated that the marg:nal
opportunity cost of 1abor supplied for farm work in the project area car De
represented by an "S-shaped" curve (Figure 1).  The marginal opportunit,
cost of drawiing any labor for farm work from off-farm employment is posi-
tive at all levels and increases as more and more labor is drawn into f. rrm
work.  The increase in opportunity cost is slow initially, reflecting tle
scarcity of productive off-farm employment but it picks up as the full
labor supply is utilized.  At the employment level corresponding to ful!l



ANNEX 17
Is                                                                      Page  5
employment peak periods, the opportunity cost is equal to the observed
market wage rate. If the demand for farm labor were to increase beyond
this level, as would generally happen under the "with project" conditions,
the opportunity cost would continue to rise, though at a slower pace. At
a level of about 30% above full employment it is postulated that the oppor-
tunity cost curve would flatten out - at that cost the available labor pool
would be drastically enlarged, as laborers from many other areas could be
diverted to farm work in the project area. These assumptions reflect the
availability of migrant and casual labor in the project area, and the
seasonal demands of the neighboring areas. In practice it should be reason-
able to approximate the idealized "S-shaped" curve by three straight line
segments as shown in Figure 1. Once such a curve is constructed, it is
easy to estimate the total opportunity cost for any level of farm employment
- it is simply the area under this marginal opportunity cost curve up to the
given level of labor demand.
11.       A simplified curve for the project area is shown in Figure 2.  The
present market rate of B 15/day is taken as the full employment wage (100%),
and points A, B, & C are estimated using the following general criteria:
(a) The value of point A is a function of the benefits
foregone by a change of productive activity, and the
value of the incremental caloric intake demanded by
that change in labor activity.
(b) The value of point B is a function of the size of the
permanent off-farm employment opportunities, the average
farm size in the area, and labor force participation
rates.
(c) Point C is the opportunity cost of alternative labor
outside the immediate area supplying the labor pool,
thereby effectively giving an infinite supply of labor.
12.       Based on the opportunity cost curve estimated above, annual labor
costs and the corresponding marginal daily wage rates, under "with" and
"without project" conditions, were developed as shown in Tables 6 and 7
Table 8 gives the incremental annual labor costs and incremental average
daily wage rates.
13.       Because of data limitations, the estimated opportunity cost curves
(points A & B in Figure 2) are to some extent a matter of judgement. As the
above analysis is unique for each year of the project, the labor cost for
each year beyond 1987 should be calculated. Given the quality of the available
data, such refinement was not warranted, and the simplifying assumption has
been made that the 1987 situation would be unchanged over the remaining project
life.



THAILAND
PHITSANULOK IRRIGATI ON PROJECT
Standard Labr eaqusirement per Ha
TOTAL       1&2 Weeks  3&4 Weeks  5&6 Weeks 7&8 Weeks  9&1 0 Weeks  1 1&I12 Weeks  13&lh4 Weeks  15&1 6 Weeks  1 7&18 Weeks  1 9&20 Weeks  21 &22 Weeks  23&24 Weeks  25&26 Weeks
CROP                p                    Io         WO W  PV WO  W0 W PWO W  PW w    W  P WO  W   P WO  W   P WO  W   P WO  W   P WO  W   P wo  w   p wo  w   pW Wo  
BROADCAST               30 35    38   2   2         3   0 00    0   2   20(   1 1    0)  0   0    00    1                        0011                 0  0    1    0   0  1         0   0   1    0   0   1   28  30  25
Planting               2   2    3   2   2  3
Weeding                -  3      3                                  2  2        1 1
Management             -   -    711                                                                                                                          1
Harvesting           28  30   25                                                                                                                                                                                28  30  25
TRANSPLAN~T             75 85  80    6  67    9  9 5252530  0  00    4   7  5    00  1                                 1   31   3    0  1    2    1   2   2          1   2   2   28  30  25
Land Prepar ati m      5   5    2                  5   5  2
Nursery               10  10)    8   6   6  7   14  14  3
Planting              25  25   30                             25  25 30
Weeding                5 10"    8                                                       147  5                       1   3  3
Maniagement            2   5    7                                                                              1                         1   2    1   2   2    1   2   2
Harvesting           28  30   25                                                                                                                                                 28  30  25
HY'V- WET &DRY          80  55  100   6   6  7   9   9  5  25  25 30  1   1  1   14   7  11   1   1   2    3   3   8                   1   1   3   30  32  30
Land Preparation    5   5    2                     2   2  2
Nursery               10  10    a   6   6  7   14  14  3
Planting             25  25   30                              25  25 30
Weeding                5  815                                                           3   6  10                    2   2   5
Management             5   5   10                                          I   1        1   1   1   1   1   2    1   1   3    1   1   3
Harves ting          30  32   30                                                                                                                  30  32  30
MAIZE                   301455558 8100 0 03 814214 30 1  1 1 1 2  0 1  2  1 2 315  20 30
Sowing                 8   8   10   8   8 10
Weeding                5  12    5                               3   8  3  2   14  2
Managemnet             2   5  10                                        1          1         1   1   1   1   2            1   2    1   2  3
Harwes tirg           15  20   30                                                                                                                  15  20  30
MUNGBEAN                30  140   80   1   1  9   0   3  6   0   2  8  0   0 12    9 9  114  20  25  30
Sowing                 1   1    9   1   1  9
Weeding                -   5   27                      3  5         2  7          10             3
Maniagement            -   -    5                          1            1          2             1
Harvesting            29  314   hO                                                      9   9  10  20  25  30
SOYBEAN                          1 00          10            6            8         10             10           13              13             30
Sowing                          10           10
Weeding                         38                         5            7           8             8           10
Managemenyt                     11                         1            1          2             2             3
Harvesting                     141                                                                                            11             30
KE~Y:  P   Present;        WO   Without this project;           W    With thiis project.



l .
THAI LAND
PHITSANULOK IRRIGATION PROJECT
AVERAGE MONTALY MANPO tER RFOUIREMENTS
BY CROP
----------------------------------
(AVG. tIANDAYS PER HA)
JAN     FEB      MAR      APR     MAY      JUN      JUL      AUG7   SEPT      OCT      NOV      DEC    TOTAL-/
NATIVE BROADCAST
PRESENT                   21       3      --       --      --         0        1        0      --       --      --          3        30
WITHOUT                   22        3     --       --       --         0       1        2        0      --       --         3        35
WITH                     __      __       __                  2        2       1        0        2        2       18        8        37
NATIVE TRANSPLANT
PRESENT                  --      --       --       --         4      20       16        2        1       14       14     --          74
WITHOUT                  __      __       __       __         4       20      17        5        3       17       15     --          84
WITH                     --      --       --       --         1      14       27        4        4        9       20     --          82
HIGH YIELD VARIETY-WET
PRESENT
WITHOUT
WITI                             --       --       --       -          2      10       21       17       15       22       11       102
HIGH YIELD VARIETY-DRY
PRESENT
WITHOUT
WITH                       3       15      24       13       18       23        2     --       --       --       --         0       102
MAIZE-WET
PRESENT                  --      --       --       --       --         2        6       4        1        6       10      --         30
WITHIOUT                 -_      __       __       __       __         2        8       9        2        9       13      --         45
WITH                     __      __       __       __                         10        7        3        5       30      --         55
MUNGBEAN-INTERMEDIATE
PRESENT                    0        4      25      --       --       --      --       --       __       __       __         0        30
WITHOUT                    4        5       30     --       --       --      --                                             0        40
IIITH                     21       35        t     --       --       --      --       --       --       --         3       13        79
SOYBEAN - DRY
PRESENT
WITHOUT
IIITH                     10       14      20       26       30      --      --       --       --       --       --       --        100
FRUIT AND VEGETABLES
PRESENT                   15       15      15       15       15       15       15      15       15       15       15       15       189    P
WITHOUT                   21       21       21      21       21       21       21       21      21       21       21       21       252
WITH                      30       30       30      30       30       30       30       30      30       30       30       30       369
1/ Totals may not add due to rounding.



THAI LAND)
PHITSANULOK IRRIGATION PROdECT
tiOIITIILY MIANPOIEP REOrUIRE!1ENTS
BY CRO0
----------------------------------
(OO0 NiAWDAYS)
iiA 000     JAN      FEB      11AR      APR      MAY      diJN     JUL      AUG    SEPT        OCT      NOV      DEC    TOTAL
NATIVE BROADCAST
PRESENT        40.0      i840      1140     __       __       _          10       69       10      --       __        __       140      1200
WIlTHOUT       40.0       900      150      __       __       __         10       70       9O       30      __        __       150      1400
WITH           15.0       --       --       --       --         30       35       25       10       30        30      270      125        555
NATIVE TRANSPLANT
PRESENT       27.0        -_       __       __       __       129      558       441       70       31      397       396      __       2023
WITHOUT        27.0       -_       __       __       __       129        58      430      142       95      1460      428      __       2293
11ITI          250                 --    __ __                  38      3514     685      1214     105      226       516       _ _  2050
HIGH YIELD VARIETY-WET
PRESENT
WITHOUT
WITH          140.5       --       --       _-       _-       --         90      444      871      727       643      904      451       4131
HIGH YIELD VARIETY-DRY
PRESENT
WITHOUT
lIlTH          55.0       201      838    13140      739    1009       1303      157      _-       __       --        -         21       5610
MAIZE-WET
PRESENT       15.0        --       __       __       __       __         40       95       60       15        90      150      --         450
WITHOUT        15.0       --       --       --       --       --         40      120      145        30      140      200      --         675
WITH            9.0       -_       __       __       __        __       --        90       63        27       45      270      --         495
MUNGBEAN-INTERMEDIATE
PRESENT         9.0         5       36      225               --        --       --       _-       --        --       --          4       270
WITHOUT         9.0        4O       146     270      __        __       __       __       __       __                             4       360
WITH           19.0       4o10     670       90      --        --       --       --       --       --        --        72      259       1501
SOYBEAN - DRY
PRESENT
W I THOUT
WITHA          7.5        75      105      150      195       225                    --           --        --       --       --         750
FRUIT AND VEGETABLES
PRESENJT        1.7        26       26       26       26        20       26       26       2 6       26       26       26        26       321
WIlTITOUT       1.7        35       35       35        35       35       35       35        3r       35       35       35        35       423
WITH            5.5       169      16       1 1f;99 160        169      19       16?      169      1i69      169      169       169      2034
TOTAL MANPOIER REQUIPREHENTS
PRESENT       92.7        371      202      251        26      155      634      623     17  72        rl,                              ; 424I
HI IPIOUT     92.7        975      231      305        35      1614     64 3     706      4213      190      635      663       139      5156
IT=                                   = =    =z===   =====   ===== =1=7=. == =17     ==72=   =12  =1=7=   =1 =1=== =11  =2=== =12  ==== k
II/TiI       176.5 3r' r;   171>2                      ' 4 J;~    1 4 72  1    1F52 15>71    i~p13 l? 111t 220-.' 1025    17126 _ R
L  _-- ---       _  =====      ==                   ==== ====                  === = =    =_ 
^~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-   -----



THAILAND
PHITSANULOK IRRIGATION PROJECT
ANNUAL LABOR REQUIREMENTS AND SUPPLY
WIITH PROJECT
------------------------------------
(000 MANDAYS)
LABOR REQUIREMENTS
MONTHLY
JAN     FEB      MAR      APR     MAY      JUN      JUL      AUG    SEPT      OCT      NOV      DEC    TOTAL       AVG
1975    871      202      251      26      155      634      623     167       72      513      572      170      4264       355
1,976    870     360      401     134      287      766      718     274      171      573      735      256      5550       462
1977    868      518      551     242      419      898      812     381      270      633      898      341      6837       569
1978    866      676      701     349      550    1030      907      488      368      693    1061       427      8123       676
1979    865      834      850     457      682    1161    1002       595      467      753    1224       512      9409       784
1980    863      992    1000      565      814    1293    1097       702      565      813    1387       598    10695        891
1981    862    1150    1150       673      945    1425    1192       81o      664      873    1550       683    11982        998
1982    860    1308    1300       780    1077    1556    1286        917      763      933    1713       769    13268       1105
1983    858    1466    1450       888    1209    1r88    1381    1024         861      994    1876       854    14554       1212
1984    857    1624    1599       996    1340    1820    1476    1131         960    1054    2039        940    15840       1320
1985    855    1782    1749    1104    1472    1952    1571    1238    1059    1114    2202    1025    17126                1427
1986    855    1782    1749    1104    1472    1952    1571    1238    1059    1114    2202    1025    17126                1427
1987    855    1782    1749    1104    11472    1952    1571    1238    1059    1114    2202    1025    17126               1427
1988    855    1782    1749    1104    1472    1952    1571    1238    1059    1114    2202    1025    17126                1427
AVAILABLE LABOR                MIGRATION POTENTIAL
PRESENT      (000    MANDAYS)
FAMILIES   -     -   --------       PERMANENT       CASUAL
(000)     ANNUAL    MONTHLY   (000 FAtMLS.)  (000 M/DAYS)
1975     16        10000        833             0              38
1976     16        10250        854             0              15
1977     16        10506        875             0              45
1978     17        10768        897             0             307
1979     17        11038        919             0             629
1980     18        11314        942             0            1057
1981     18        11596        966             0            1476
1982     19        11886        990             1            1637                                                > D
1983     19        12184       1015             3            1798
1984     19        12488       1040             4            1980                                                m x
1985     20        12800       1066             5            2166
1986     20        13120       1093             5            2166
1987     21        13448       1120             4            2166
1988     22        13785       1148             4            2166



T'I ATI-Ptir
PHITSAMIULOK IPrlATT'I' nrN roT
AN'NUAL LABOr OPFOPIOPF?NF1!T- Ar.r SnIr y
\M1THOI.IT PPCJkFCT
------------------------------------
(000 IIAtTAYS)
P ON T,iLY
JAN      FEF      MAR      APP       JAy      JUN      ?'IL      Al,     Sn' T      CsT     rOV       IFc    TOTAL        AVO,
1975    871       202      251        2k      155      (34      f23      1(,        72      52?      5,2       170      42f4        855
1976     8P2      2n0      257        27      5r0       35      t'1      191        ?4      525      592       172      435 3       32
1977    892       20i     :2k2       2P       1 7       66      64(0      21f       gr      5 ?       590      174      4443        370
1978    902       211      2.0 7      20      15P      f?7      (42 2!nO    108             550       600      176      4532        377
1979     913      214      273         0      1590     6sP      656       2r5      119      5(2       f09      178       4621       385
1980    923       2]7      272t       31      1(0n     fin7     ((4       290      131      574       61S      100       4710       392
1981    934       220      ?24        32      1(2      (40n     (7?       3it    243       50,9     627       1P2       4800       400
1982    914       223,     20         3       1k2      Cll      (Pi        9       15(      59s       636      184       4889       407
1983     954      225      294       ?9       103      .!12     ( PO      2(3     1J7       (122      (5       1P5      )1978       41'4
1984     965     ?2P      ?30n        ?       2) 04    1!2      fa       329     179     6('        (54      2I7       5067       422
1985    975       231      3n5        ?1j    3(1)      ()       7n6       42?      .r1      (or-      ((9      189       5156        429
1986    975       231      05       35      1(4i     (        700       13 I                 5 (     c ((3   109       5156        429
1987     975      231      305        3        r4 (42           7n6 4r3            190      (r        ((3      1P,9      5156        429
1988    975      2P31      305        3       1.04    c(I4      70n       413      19 0     6irj      63       189       5156       429
AVlAILARI-F LA3(IP                flICTATInp) PCTFMTT!l[
OPPSOIIT     (000    MtANPAYS)
"ANIL IFS   --------__-------- PFP!A1FtT                C[OrrAI.
(000n)     AYNNUAL    t10)T! ilY  (000  "AfULS.) 2(r0   M/OAVS
1975      .1        1  0no       P8 33             0
1976      lf        20250         25lI             0               23
:1977     1         20500         975              0               17
1978      2.7       n07(r         897              0                '3
1979      17        21. 3         91] 9            0                n
1980      20        12934         94 li            0
1981      j        IT5           0 (r             0                0
1982      20
0.                         ly ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1d 3  1:  I I2  1      n I 1 ran
L9-  4    20         224         1015n             0
1985      22        7.220        10(7 0                                                                                 ,
1986      20        23120        100               0                0                                                   
1987      hl        291II        112               0
0                0
199  34   '' ^'i  lnlin   n           n                                                 -.t.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I
.. * * -0



THAILAND  *                                                              0
PHilTSANULOK IRRIGATION PROJECT
TOTAL LABOR COST lI-TH PROJECT
WITH SHADOW PRICING BY MONTH
______________________________
MONTHiLY LABOR COST
JAN      FEB     MAR      APR      MAY      JUN      JUL      AUG      SEP      OCT      NOV      DEC      TOTAL    AVG
--------------------------------------------BAHT MILLION)--------___________________________________________
1975         7.9      1.0      1.3      .1        .7      4.6     4.5        .8       .3      3.4      4.0       .8        29      2.5
1976         7.7      2.1      2.4       .6      1.5      6.2      5.6      1.4       .8      3.9      5.8      1.3        39      3.3
1977         7.6      3.3      3.6      1.2     2.5       8.o     6.8       2.2     1.4       4.5      8.0      1.9        51      4.3
1978         7.4      4.9      5.2      1.9      3.6    10.0       8.0      3.0     2.1       5.1    10.5       2.5        64      5.4
1979         7.3      6.8      7.1      2.7     4.9    12.1        9.3     4.0      2.8       5.8    13.3       3.2        79      6.6
1980         7.1      9.0      9.1      3.6      6.4    14.4    10.7        5.1      3.7      6.4     16.3      4.0        95      8.0
1981         6.8    11.2    11.2        4.6      8.0    16.4    11.9        6.2     4.5       7.0     18.9      4.7       111      9.3
1982         6.4    13.0    12.8        5.5      9.3    17.7    12.6        7.1     5.3       7.3    20.8       5.3       123    10.3
1983         6.o    14.8    14.5        6.4    10.6    19.0    13.3         8.0     6.1       7.6    22.8       6.0       135    11.3
1984         5.7    16.6    16.2        7.3    11.9    20.4    14.0         8.9     6.8       7.9    24.8       6.6       147    12.3
1935         5.5    18.4    17.8        8.2    13.2    21.7    14.7        9.8      7.6       8.3    26.7       7.3       159    13.3
1986         5.5    18.4    17.8        8.2    13.2    21.7    14.7        9.8      7.6       8.3    26.7       7.3       159    13.3
1987         5.5    18.4    17.8        8.2    13.2    21.7    14.7        9.8       7.6      8.3    26.7       7.3       159    13.3
1988         5.5    18.4    17.8        8.2    13.2    21.7    14.7         9.8      7.6      8.3    26.7       7.3       159    13.3
AVERAGE WAGE RATE - BAHT/MANDAY
1975         9        4        5        4        4        7        7        4        41       6        6        4        --         6
1976         8        5        5        4        5        8        7        5        4        6        7         5        --        7
1977         8        6        6        5        5        8        8        5        5        7         8        5        --        7
1978         8        7        7        5        6        9        8        6        5        7         9        5        --        7
1979          8        8       8        5        7       10        9        5        6         7       10        6        __        8
1980          8        9       9        6        7       11        9        7        6         7       11        6        __        8
1981          7        9       9        6        8       11        9        7        6         7       12        6        __        9
1982          7        9        9        7        8      11         9       7         6        7       12        6        __        9
1983          7       10        9        7        8       11        9        7        7        7       12        6        __        9
1984          6       10       10        7        8       11        9        7        7        7       12        7                  9
1985          6       10       10        7        8       11        9        7        7        7       12        7        __        9
1986          6       10       10        7        8       11        9        7        7        7       12        7        --        9
1987          6       10       10        7        8       11        9        7        7        7       12        7        __         9
1988          6       10       10        7        8       11        9        7        7        7       12        7        --         9
>I
D Z
r ml
aj H



THAILAND
PHITSANULOK IRRIGATION PROJECT
TOTAL LABOR COST WITHOUT PROJECT
WITH SHlADOW PRICING BY MONTH
MONTHLY LABOR COST
JAN      FEB      MAR       APR      MAY      JUN       JUL      AUG       SEP      OCT       NOV      DEC       TOTAL      AVG
---------------------------------------(BAHT MILLION)-------------------------------------------------
1975         7.9       1.0      1.3        .1       .7      4.6       4.5        .8       .3      3.4       4.0       .8         29       2.5
1976         7.9       1.0      1.3        .1       .7      4.6      41.5        .9       .4      3.4       4.0       .8         29       2.5
1977         7.9       1.0      1.4        .1       .7      4.5       4.6      1.1        .4      3.5       4.o        .8        'O       2.5
1978         7.9       1.0      1.4        .1       .7      4.5       4.6      1.2        .5      3.6       4.1       .8         30       2.5
1979         8.0       1.1      1.4        .1       .7      4.4       4.6      1.4        .5      3.7       4.1       .9         30       2.6
1980         8.0       1.1      1.4        .1       .8      4.4       4.7      1.5        .6      3.7       4.2       .9         31       2.6
1981         8.0       1.1      1.5        .1       .8      4.3       4.7      1.7        .7      3.8       4.2        .9        31       2.6
1982         8.0       1.1      1.5        .1       .8      4.3       4.7      1.8        .7      3.9       4.2        .9        32       2.7
1983         8.0       1.1      1.5        .1       .8      4.2       4.7      2.0        .8      3.9       4.3        .9        32       2.7
1984          8.0      1.1      1.5        .1       .8      4.2       4.8      2.1        .8      4.0       4.3        .9        32       2.7
1985          8.0      1.1      1.6        .1       .8      4.2       4.8      2.3        .9      4.1       4.4       .9         33       2.8
1986         7.9       1.1      1.6        .1       .8      4.1       4.7      2.3        .9      4.0       4.3        .9        32       2.7
1987         7.8       1.1      1.6        .1       .8      4.1      14.7      2.3        .9      4.0       4.3        .9        32       2.7
1988         7.6       1.1      1.5        .1       .8      4.0       4.6      2.2        .9      4.o       4.2        .9        32       2.7
AVERAGE WAGE RATE - BAHT/MANDAY
1975           9        4         5        4        4         7        7         4        4         6        6         4        --         6
1976           8        4         5        4        4         7        7         4        4         6        6         4        --         6
1977           8        4         5        4        4         7        7         4        4         6        6         4        --         6
1978           8        4         5        4        4         7        7         5        4         6        6         4        --         6
1979           8        4         5        4        4         6        7         5        4         6        6         4        --         6
1980           8        4         5        4        4         6        7         5        4         6        6         4        --         6
1981           8        4         5        41       4         6        6         5        4         6        6         4        --         6
1982           8        4         5        4        4         6        6         5        4         6        6         4        --         6
1983           8        4         5        4        4         6        6         5        4         6        6         4         --        6
1984           8        4         5        4        4         6        6         5        4         6        6         4         --        6
1985           8        4         5        4        4         6        6         5        4         6        6         4         __        6
1985           8        4         5        4        4         6        6         5        4         6        6         4         --         6
1987           7        4         5        IX       4         6        6         5        14        6        6         4         --        6
19&d           /        4         5        4        4         t)        )        5        4         6        6         4         --         6
I4>
> z
coZ
rn 
MIX
rr X
,*                               .                                                                  .~~~~~~



THAILAND
PHITSANULOK IRRIGATION PROJECT
INCREMIENTAL LABOR COST
WITH AVERAGE SHADOW WIAGE RATE BY MONTH
INCREMENTAL LABOR COST
__ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _-                                                          -
JAN      FEB      MAR      APR      MAY      JUN      JUL      AUG      SEP      OCT       NOV      DEC      TOTAL    AVG
-----------------------------------------(BAHT MILLION).-----------------------------.-.-----------------
1975           -        -       - -      --       --       - _--                       --       --       --       --        --       --
1976         (.2)    1.0       1.0       .5       .8       1.6     1.0        .5       .5       .5      1.8       .5          9       .8
1977         (.4)    2.3       2.3      1.1      1.7      3.5       2.2      1.1      1.0      1.0      4.0      1.1         20      1.7
1978         (.5)     3.9      3.8      1.8      2.8      5.5      3.4       1.8      1.6      1.5      6.14     1.7         33      2.8
1979         (.7)    5.8       5.6      2.6      4.2      7.7      4.7       2.6      2.3      2.1      9.2      2.4         48      4.0
1980         (.9)    7.9       7.7      3.5      5.7    10.0       6.1       3.6      3.1      2.7    12.1       3.1         64      5.4
1981        (1.2)   10.1       9.7      4.5      7.2    12.0       7.2       4.5      3.9      3.2    14.7       3.8         79      6.6
1982        (1.6)   11.9    11.3        5.3      8.5    13.4       7.9       5.2     44.6      3.14    16.6      4.5         91      7.6
1983        (2.0)   13.7    13.0        6.2      9.8    14.8       8.6       6.0      5.3      3.7    18.5       5.1        102      8.6
1984        (2.3)   15.5    14.6        7.1     11.1    16.2       9.3       6.8      6.0      3.9    20.4       5.7        114      9.5
1985        (2.5)   17.3    16.3        8.0    12.4    17.5    10.0          7.5      6.7      4.2    22.4       6.4        126    10.5
1986        (2.4)   17.3    16.3        8.0    12.4    17.6    10.0          7.6      6.7     44.2    22.4       6.14       126     10.5
1987        (2.2)   17.3    16.3        8.0    12.4    17.6    10.1          7.6      6.7      4.3    22.5       6.4        126     10.6
1988        (2.1)   17.3    16.3        8.0    12.4    17.7    10.1          7.6      6.7      4.3    22.5       6.14       127     10.6
AVERAGE INCREMENTAL WIAGE RATE - BAHT/MANDAY
1975                   --       --       -        --       --  --  --             --       --        --       --       --            --
1976          --       6        7        4        6       12        12        6        5       10       11         6        __        8
1977          --       7        7        5        6       13        12        6        5       10       12         6        __        8
1978          --       8        8        5        7       14        13        7        6       10       13         6        __        9
1979          --       9        9        6         7      14        13        7        6       11       14         7        __       10
19g           __      10       10        6        8       15        14        8        7       11       15         7        --       10
1931          __      10       11        6        9       15        13        9        7       11       15         7        --       11
1982          --      10       11        7        9       14        13        9        7       10       15         7        --       10
1983          --      11       11        7         9      14        12        9        7        9       15         7        --       10
1984          --      11       11        7         9      13        11        9        7        9       14         7        --       10
1935          __      11       11        7        9       13        11        9        7        8       14         7        --       10
1986          --      11       11        7         9       13       11        9        7        8       14         7        --       10
1987          --      11       11        7         9       13       11        9        7        8       14         7        --       10
1938          __      11       11        7         9      13        11        9        7        9       14         7                 10            >
>Izr



THAILAND
PHITSANULOK IRRIGATION PROJECT
Typical Opportunity Cost Curves for Farm Labor
1  /   \   IDEALIZED CURVE
I 7MAHKET WAGE RATE
0
z
O                                  / 
0-
0~
APPROXIMATE CURVE
FULL EMPLOYMENT
FARM LABOR REQUIREMENTM
I1u
- I
Wn*  *                  .
0                                     0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~F



F.~~~
THAILAND
PHITSANULOK IRRIGATION PROJECT
OPPORTUNITY COST CURVES FOR FARM LABOR
0520
PRESENT MARKET RATE
d 15
I-
U
F-
0
0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
<  1
0
U          5         0         5        0%       16  3%10           7%       20
F-~ ~ ~ MNHYFR LBRDMN  S%PTETA  ULEPOMN
z~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~VrdBn-37R



ANNEX 18
Page  1
THAILAND
PRITSANULOK IRRIGATION PROJECT
Economic Analysis
1.        The followinig assumptions were made in evaluating the project's
economic rate of return:
(a)  Benefits--Financial
The expected yields, prices, gross returns, production costs
and net returns per ha, for various crops are shown for the
"with project" and "without project" situations in Annex 16,
Tables 3 and 4 respectively. The economic farm-gate price for
paddy (Annex 15, Table 1) was used; for all other crops
the farm-gate prices and production costs used are those
presented in Annex 15. All production costs and benefits
are presented in end-1974 constant prices. The incremental
benefits from crop production are given in Table 2.
(b)  Rice Premium
Taxes and premiums are levied on rice production and exports.
To reflect these benefits, all rice produced by the project is
valued at the border price less milling, transport and handling
costs (B 930,/ton).  Table 3 shows the border price, the farmgate
price and the rice premium per year, using the Bank's projected
border prices, which declines non-linearly from the present
$550 to $270 in 1980. The annual economic farm gate price
used in (a) above is assumed to be a linear decline from the
1974 to 1985 price. The rice premium is used to account for
the non-linear decline given by the commodity price forecast.
(c)  Investment Costs
The investment costs used in the analysis were adjusted to
end-1974 price levels and exclude the provision for
expected price increases or the costs of the studies
(B 76 million) and duties (B 25 million) on imported equipment.
No cost has been included for providing housing and services
to the immigrant families, as it was assumed that equivalent
services would be required whether they moved to forest areas
or to the project area. Therefore, this cost is not relevant
to the investment decision.
1.



ANNEX 18
Page  2
(d) Development Period
It has been assumed that full project benefits would be
realized by 1988, Each part of the project area which
receives irrigation water and on-farm development is
assumed to develop over a 5-year period to full yields.
(e)  Pricing of Labor
A critical assumption is that used to compute the opportunity
cost of farm labor, the bulk of which is family labor with
only a limited opportunity for off-farm employment.  This
has been analyzed in detail in Annex 17.
2.        Using the above assumptions and discounting project costs and
benefits over the 50 year evaluation period, the economic rate of return
is estimated to be 20%O (Table 1).
Analysis of Uncertainty
3.        Various assumptions are used in estimating the costs and benefits
of the project. While these are based on sound professional judgment, there
is an element of uncertainty in each one.  Therefore, tests were made to
determine the sensitivity of the rate of return to various alternative
assumptions. The more important of these are discussed below.
4.        Construction costs, cost of inputs and labor were each varied in
the range -20% to +20% of the base case assumptions. Table 4 shows the
results in detail.  In summary, the rates of return vary from 17% to 24%.
5.        As the major product of the project is rice, variations in the
projected world market price may significantly affect the benefit stream.
To test this sensitivity, the projected 1985 border price was varied between
-20% and +20%, giving a range in the rates of return from 14% to 24% as
shown in Table 4.
6.        The economic analysis assumes sustained Extension Department inputs
from 1975. To test the sensitivity of the benefits to:
(a) slower farmer response than assumed; and
(b) less Extension effort than assumed;
the benefit stream was delayed by 3 years, resulting in a 14% rate of return.
Economic Evaluation of Stage 2
7.        Table 5 shows the cost and benefit stream for Stage 2 alone,
_          evaluated on the same basis as Stage 1.  Alone it has an internal rate of



ANNEX 18
Page 3
return of 32%. However,, these benefits are dependent on the construct::.on
of the diversion damn, which has been fully charged to Stage 1, An
evaluation of both stages as one project gives an internal rate of ret,Lirn
of 21%.



THAILAND
PHITSANULOK IRRIGATION PROJECT
ECONOMIC COST AND BENEFIT STREAMS
---------------------------------
BAHT MILLION
COST                                        INCREMENTAL PRODUCTION BENEFIT
OPERATION +
CONSTRUCTION    MAINTENANCE    SUB-TOTAL             GROSS       PRODUCTION      LABOR         RICE         BENEFIT
COSTS (1)          COSTS            COST       INCOME (2)         COSTS        COSTS       PREMIUM    SUB-TOTAL   NET BENEFIT
1975           0                0               0               0               0           0             0             0              0
1976         (78)               0             (78)              8              (2)         (9)            5             2           (75)
1977        (238)               0            (238)             35              (9)        (20)           17            22          (215)
1978        (284)               0            (284)             71             (19)        (33)           22            40          (243)
1979        (480)              (4)           (484)            112             (32)        (48)           15            47          (436)
1980        (436)              (8)           (444)            209             (60)        (64)           10            95          (348)
1981        (484)             (14)           (498)            343             (97)        (79)           20           186          (311)
1932        (380)             (20)           (400)            536           (149)         (91)           31           327           (72)
1983        (142)             (26)           (168)            716            (199)       (102)           42           456           288
1984         (98)             (26)           (124)            901            (254)       (114)           514          586           1462
1965           0              (26)            (26)           1011           (289)        (126)           62           658           632
1906           0              (26)            (26)           1023            (302)       (126)           65           660           634
1937           0              (26)            (26)           1066            (310)       (126)           68           696           670
1983           0              (26)            (26)           1087            (313)       (127)           68           715           689
INTERNAL RATE OF RETURN =       .7%
(1) COST STREAM ADJUSTED FOR PHASING OF ON FARM DEVELOPMENT ON
SCHEDULE OF HECTARES COVERED. ANNEX9 TABLEI SHiOW1S FINANCING STREAM.
(2) RICE PRICE ADJUSTED TO BORDER PRICE LESS TRANSPORT,HANDLING
AND MILLING AND THE RICE PREMIUM



THIA I LAND
PHITSANULOK IPRICATION PPO,fFCT
NFT VALUF OF PPODUCTION
(W/ITIHOUT LAROP)
IfNCRF FNTAL
W/ITH PRoUECT - RAHT MIL                  WITHOUT PPO.lFCT - BAHT MIL                    INCREMENTAL - B^AT MIL
GROSS      PRODUJCTION     NFT VALUE        CRP.OSS     PRODUCTION      NFT VALUE        CROSS       PPRODtUCTION    NET VALUE
INCOME (1)        COST       PRODIJCTION    INCOtMF (1)       COST        PPODPUCTION    INCOME (1)         COST       PRODUCTION
1975               387             74            323            3P7             7)4           313          --              __             __
1976               393             76            316            385             74            ?10              7              2              5
1977               416             84            331            392             75            306             33              8             24
1973               448             95            353            379             76            302             69             19             50
1979               485            l09            375            375             77           298             lo9             32             76
1930               575            138            4?7            372             77            294            203             60            143
1931               703            176            527            369             78            290            334             97            236
1932               890            229            661            365             79           286             525            149            375
1933             1,068            2Ro            788            361             80            281            706            200            506
1934             1,252            335            016            ?57             80            276            894            254            640
1985             1,364            371            993            353             81            271         1,010             289            721
1936             1,380            384            095            348             82            266         1,031             302            728
1937             1,416            393         1,022             11 4            82            261         1,072             310            761
1933             1,431            397         1,033             3?9             83            255         1,091             313            778
AVG. ANNUAL 4 INCR./(DECR.)
1975-1988        1o.6%         1  8s          q.6r          (1.O).            *91         (1.6.54-
(1) RICE PRICE An,JUSTED TO POPDER PRICE LESS TPANSPORT,IANDl Irc AND
MILLING AND RICE PRFMI?JM
ID Z
cnZ
1-0
Al kw'



l >>.T
PHITSANULOX IRRIGATION PROJECT
RICE PREMIUM
(1)          (2)         (3)     (4)         (5)             (6)           (7)                (8)
Total      Increment                        Milling                       Economic             Total
Paddy     Milled Rice                      Transport           Rice      Farm Gate             Rice
Production   Production   Border Pri          & Handling       Premium b/   Price               Premium c!
-tons '000 --              MU       (7 -------------Baht/Ton                                 ---B Mil---
1975          105                       449 a/ 9,972 a/      930 a/         4,,4o0 /     4P1642  a/'
1976          109            1.8        430    8,599         930            3,260       41,409               5.8
1977          119            7.5        374    7,477         930            2,371        4,176              17.8
1978          132           15.5        315    6.303         930            1,430        3,943              22.1
1979          149           26.1        262    5,244         930              604        3,710              15.8
1980          186           50.1        231    4,617         930              210        3,477              10.5
1981          238           83.6        221   41,414         930              240        3,244              20.0
1982          312          132.0        221    4,414         930              240        3,244              31.7
1983          382          177.1        221    4,414         930              240        3,2414             42.3
1984          456          225.8        221   41,414         930              240        3,244              54.1
1985          512          262.2        221 a/ 4,,414  a/   930 a/            240   /   3,244               62.9
1986          533          274.9        221    4,414         930              24i0       3,244              65.0
1987          547          283.8        221    4,414         930              240        3,2)44             68.1
1988          553          287. 0       221    4,414         930              240        3,244              68.8
a/ From Annex 15 Table 1
b/  (6)   (4) - (5) - (7)
c/  (8) = (6) x (2)
; ? >



ANBEX 18
TabIe Zt
T?hILAIAND
PHITSANULOK IRaIGATION PROJECT
Sensitivity Tests--Variation in Internal Rate of Return
Favorable % Change in               Unfavorable % Change in
_Co/Benefit Stream                   Cost/Benefit Strcam
Z-O%      LO-%$      Base       L,                 ,'
BENEFITS
Changes in Border
Rice Price               4 -          22.0%       19.7%     17.0%
COSTS
Construction Costs         23.5%         21.5%       19.7%     18.2%          17.C%
Labor Shadow Rate          20.6%         20.2%       19.7%     19.3%          18.2%           X
Farm Inputs                21.2%         20.5%       19.7%     18.9%          18.2k



THAILAND
PHITSANULOK IRRIGATION PROJECT
Economic Benefits - Stage 2
(Constant 1974 B Million)
Costs                               Tncren  tal Benefits
Operation &
Construction   Maintenance   Sub-Total:  Net Value    Labor    Rice             Sub-Total:   Net ?e;:;w
Cost            Cost         Cost       Production   CQq_   Premium           Benefits      F.-e;.I
1975 - 1979               0               0             0             0         (0)        0               0
1980                  (2)              0            (2)            0         (0)        0               0            (2)
1981                 (64)              0           (64)           12         (1)        1              12           (52)
1982                (248)             (6)         (254)           38         (8)        2              32          '2227
1983                (210)             (8)         (218)           89        (17)        5              77          (11 }4"
1934                (140)            (10)         (150)          143        (32)      11              122           (20)
1985                (132)            (10)         (142)          250        (h8)       20             222           (80)
1986                  -              (10)          (10)          297        (1X8)      22             271           261
1987                                 (10)          (10)          316        (48)       25             293           283
1988                  _              (10)          (10)          329        (48)       25             306           296
1939 - 20241                            (10)          (10)          326        (48)       25             303           293
Internal Rate of Return - Stage 2 only = 32%
- Stage 1 and Stage 2   21%



ik                   0*                     0



IBRD-10202R1
AUGUST 1974
100      /                            0                               1020                            103
LAMPANG                                                                            THAILAND
PHITSANULOK IRRIGATION PROJECT
I Phitsanulok Irrigation Project Area
Yonhee           /                                                                   Chao Phya Irrigation Improvement Project
Rgeservoi'                    U TTARAIT  /4 t           SRKIT D                      Northern Chao Phya Area
-I3~ $   <   Southern Choo Phya Area                170-
V11D  Other Project Areas
BH  \\PH                                         UTTARADIT IRRIGATION                 2 Uttaradit Irrigation Project (Proposed)
DAM                                             PROJECT (Proposed)                -     Dams
SUKHOFHAI             DIVERSION DAM                            Highways
-4---I---+--+Railways
TAK                                                                             3 Rivers
International Boundaries
PHIC                          ~~~~~~0 20    40   60   80   10016
160                                                                                    ___ __ __ ___ __ __ __  I__ _N
Kilometers
\\   Jt, R      \                              Z ~~~~~~~CHAYAP HUM
NAKORNSAWAN         -       gBurw.ioranhet                                              t r         h
-~~~~P    --\ \f\ %t                               Pako, ~f                          r /\  j.Y~
/   ATAKLI                                               J /   /i\  ,
15.~~                           CHAINA                                                                                          15'-DM      \/
\       ~CHAO   HY      . \\    ..,                                                    (u
\  4        C~~~RRIGATION IMRMn         \\     <         
K     ~~PROJECT
D\AM CHOMJ                                                                                           SO IA
\ 9 \ < 2V)9O~~~~~~~~~~~~~~NG  PRIEW  PROJECT                                          7h, b-xnd.Zei" sh-,"  ................................. ;/ l.imap d,z ,,,It
a  i)\   \   \/ .     .NfiJJi tVv4g t A  ps                          /    ~~~~~~~~~implv ,&-mrriewr .r aeprl bi, thle
\   k    cO o  /;x      ( >(\    1       4     >                          g    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IV,,rld Bank and its affiliates.
W    ~    ~~~ HG e                                                                            7-     Zclo  
100 ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ P                                                                      HAILAND j   01.%   02    5~
14'DM                              l                           rlt/   <YI






BrA C7'0  JC/O,5N
PHITSAN ULOK
~~~~~~~~~~IIIO  'AM_!t
--IDAM
-1-1;(00 
WON  .~~~~~~~~~~.I  >t / 7'                                    <                                      rod~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1'
WATo DOT
-16  Bi 3AND MAKAMif                                                                                                                     J '  OAN ;     '  _ -B/G.AXA'M
CHANGWAT
PHITSANULOK                                                              $           i            -
\' /' a a > 1 \ ~~-  Nr r Y
: NGAM  -          w-                                          g
-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~16'30  \/__X''-T ''''':1 0
THAILAND - ;.   
PHITSANULOK IRRIGATION PROJECT--,j-                                                     'lu'/,PH,HT=>-o*  
PROJECT AREA                                       z   ,-n     
4,' ,  ;- .~^.'Iv \  >            CHANGWAT
MA N CANALS                                    ,_ ODA  D                                                PHICHIT
- -A' IRRIGATION CANALS                       '           '
DRAINAGE CANALS
R iVERS ,,/9 !SEj\ 
,_ ;SVWAMPS                                                     _         ,,,,_@-;             - . 
BOUNDAR R  GA THE PROJECNT A   PEA                          -    .
STAGE ONE AREA i
AEXlSTING MAON ROADS
RNAILWNAYSNALD
PROVINCIAL OUNDARIED _li_*                                                /         I    /5_
I                                51  8K                          RAHA  KI
0   2        4  6   8   10  12  14  16  1B  20                               /
KILOMETERS                                    t                           ,t
100-0D a X {1~)                                        /           Th            I 
'7~NDTV Nd
c  ,    o t8. .                         POTHALE  N               A                        ''
- ,  iIX 'A _L'  L A  
>    .                                        \: >,;rpb   s                    ~~~~~~~CHANGWAT
_                 /    /NrJLr  y'-IRT2EsNAL    .. r b t   r  a    SLMSAENG  NA  KHORN  SAWAN
N DLYI '                                                      ;D                                                    103      2
fALOVAID                                             IDD~lO'  '                                             0020' A A






OLD  SITUATION                                                                                 NEW    SITUATION
PHITSANULOK IRRIGATION PROJECT
Typical layout for On Farm Development with
Boundary Realignment
-   FARM ROADS
LATERAL CANALS
This diagram represents the layout actually           NEW TERTIARY CANALS
implemetited for a block of 160 ha. in the            OLD TERTIARY DITCHES
Northern Chao Phya Plain.           I                 DRAINAGE CANALS
El   CONSTANT HEAD OFFICE                         C
U HOUSES                                          D
O  Oil  Qj2  O;3 0*4    5                  FAR HOLDINGS                               COw
KILOMETERS                                                                      to4  A
_~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~. -v= 



