CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 1149 TH
Loan Agreement
(Phitsanulok Irrigation Project)
BETWEEN
KINGDOM OF THAILAND
AND
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
DATED JULY 25, 1975


﻿CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 1149 TH
Loan Agreement
(Phitsanulok Irrigation Project)
BETWEEN
KINGDOM OF THAILAND
AND
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
DATED JULY 25, 1975


﻿LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated July 25, 1975, between KINGDOM OF THAILAND
(hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called the Bank).
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the provisions of the
General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agreements of the Bank,
dated March 15, 1974, with the same force and effect as if they were fully set
forth herein (said General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agreements
of the Bank being hereinafter called the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise
requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions have the respective
meanings therein set forth and the term   "Project Area" means an area of
approximately 150,000 ha located along the West bank of the Nan River in the
provinces of Phitsanulok, Phichit and Nakhorn Sawan.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and
conditions in the Loan Agreement set forth or referred to, an amount in various
currencies equivalent to ninety-five million dollars ($95,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as
such Schedule may be amended from time to time, for expenditures made (or,
if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods
and services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the works and services
(other than consultants' services) for the Project to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan, shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 4
to this Agreement.


﻿4
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1983 or such other date
as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such
later date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge
at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal
amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to time.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest at the rate of eight and one-half
per cent (8-1/2%) per annum on the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn
and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable semi-annually on
June 1 and December 1 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan
in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this
Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Borrower shall carry out the Project with due diligence
and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate agricultural, engineering,
economic and financial practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds,
facilities, services and other resources required for the purpose.
Section 3.02. In order to assist the Borrower in (i) the preparation of final
designs and contract documents, evaluation of bids, supervision of construction,
establishment of maintenance procedures, organization of extension services, and
in the implementation of Project works; and (ii) the carrying out of Part D of
the Project, the Borrower shall employ consultants acceptable to the Bank upon
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank.
Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or make adequate
provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan against hazards incident to the acquisition, transportation
and delivery thereof to the place of use or installation, and for such insurance
any indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the Borrower to
replace or repair such goods.


﻿5
(b)   Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall cause
all goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Loan to be used
exclusively for the Project until its completion.
Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank, promptly upon
their preparation, the plans, specifications, reports, contract documents and
construction and procurement schedules for the Project, and any material
modifications thereof or additions thereto, in such detail as the Bank shall
reasonably request.
(b)   The Borrower: (i) shall maintain records adequate to record the
progress of the Project (including the cost thereof) and to identify the goods and
services financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, and to disclose the use thereof
in the Project; (ii) shall enable the Bank's accredited representatives to visit the
facilities and construction sites included in the Project and to examine the goods
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan and any relevant records and documents;
and (iii) shall furnish to the Bank all such information as the Bank shall reasonably
request concerning the Project, the expenditure of the proceeds of the Loan and
the goods and services financed out of such proceeds.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall take or cause to be taken all such action
as shall be necessary to acquire as and when needed all such land and rights in
respect of land as shall be required for the construction (and operation) of the
facilities included in the Project and shall furnish to the Bank, promptly after
such acquisition, evidence satisfactory to the Bank that such land and rights in
respect of land are available for purposes related to the Project.
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall:
(a)   establish  a project organization  acceptable to  the Bank    to  be
responsible for the execution and operation of the Project including a Project
Executive Committee, having the Minister of Agriculture and Cooperatives as its
Chairman, with authority to make decisions required for Project implementation
and to supervise the overall administration of the Project; and
(b)   appoint within three months of the date of this Agreement or such
other date as the Borrower and the Bank shall agree, and continue to employ
during the implementation of the Project, a Project Coordinator, a Project Director,
a Project Manager, a Project Extension Officer and a Project Land Officer, each
with qualifications, powers and responsibilities acceptable to the Bank.


﻿6
Section 3.07. The Borrower shall:
(a)   establish within three months of the date of this Agreement or such
other date as the Borrower and the Bank shall agree, Provincial Coordinating
Committees in the Provinces of Phitsanulok, Phichit and Nakhorn Sawan, acceptable
to the Bank, to coordinate Project activities at the Provincial level;
(b)   establish within six months of the date of this Agreement or such
other date as the Borrower and the Bank shall agree, a Technical Advisory
Committee acceptable to the Bank, to determine priorities and programs of
agricultural research in the Project Area; and
(c)   establish within three months of the date of this Agreement or such
other date as the Borrower and the Bank shall agree, a Project Monitoring Unit
under terms of reference acceptable to the Bank, which shall undertake an
agro-economic base survey of the Project Area within one year of the date of
this Agreement or such other date as the Borrower and the Bank shall agree, and
prepare periodic reports on the social and economic impact of the Project.
Section 3.08. The Borrower shall:
(a)   prepare and submit a national seed multiplication program satisfactory
to the Bank within one year from the date of this Agreement or such other date
as the Borrower and the Bank shall agree, providing for priority to be given to
the requirements of the Project, and take measures to ensure an adequate supply
of high quality seeds for the Project; and
(b)   undertake annual surveys in the Project Area, commencing within one
year from the date of this Agreement or such other date as the Borrower and
the Bank shall agree, to monitor the incidence of water-associated diseases and
take appropriate action to halt the spread of any such diseases.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.0 1. (a) It is the policy of the Bank, in making loans to, or with
the guarantee of, its members not to seek, in normal circumstances, special security
from the member concerned but to ensure that no other external debt shall have
priority over its loans in the allocation, realization or distribution of foreign
exchange held under the control or for the benefit of such member. To that end,
if any lien shall be created on any public assets (as hereinafter defined), as security


﻿7
for any external debt, which will or might result in a priority for the benefit
of the creditor of such external debt in the allocation, realization or distribution
of foreign exchange, such lien shall, unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, ipso
facto and at no cost to the Bank, equally and ratably secure the principal of,
and interest and other charges on, the Loan, and the Borrower, in creating or
permitting the creation of such lien, shall make express provision to that effect;
provided, however, that, if for any constitutional or other legal reason such
provision cannot be made with respect to any lien created on assets of any of
its political or administrative subdivisions, the Borrower shall promptly and at no
cost to the Bank secure the principal of, and interest and other charges on, the
Loan by an equivalent lien on other public assets satisfactory to the Bank.
(b)   The foregoing undertaking shall not apply to: (i) any lien created on
property, at the time of purchase thereof, solely as security for payment of the
purchase price of such property; and (ii) any lien arising in the ordinary course
of banking transactions and securing a debt maturing not more than one year after
its date.
(c)   As used in this Section, the term  "public assets" means assets of the
Borrower, of any political or administrative subdivision thereof and of any entity
owned or controlled by, or operating for the account or benefit of, the Borrower
or any such subdivision, including gold and other foreign exchange assets held by
any institution performing the functions of a central bank or exchange stabilization
fund, or similar functions, for the Borrower.
Section 4.02. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained
records adequate to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained sound
accounting practices the operations, resources and expenditures, in respect of the
Project, of the departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying
out the Project or any part thereof.
(b)   The Borrower shall: (i) cause all Project accounts (including those of
Project management services and operation and maintenance costs) to be
consolidated under the Ministry of Agriculture; (ii) have such accounts and financial
statements related thereto for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with sound
auditing principles consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the
Bank; (iii) furnish to the Bank for its review as soon as available, but in any case
not later than four months after the end of each such year, (A) certified copies
of such financial statements for such year as so audited and (B) the report of
such audit by such auditors, of such scope and in such detail, as the Bank shall
have reasonably requested; and (iv) furnish to the Bank such other information
concerning such accounts and financial statements and the audit thereof as the
Bank shall from time to time reasonably request.


﻿8
Section 4.03. (a) The Borrower shall, not later than June 1976, or such
other date as the Borrower and the Bank shall agree, complete the capital cost
recovery study initiated pursuant to Section 3.08 of Development Credit Agreement
(Chao Phya Irrigation Improvement Project) No. 379-TH, dated May 9, 1973,
between the Borrower and the Association, and, on the basis of such study, prepare
and submit to the Bank not later than June 1977, or such other date as the
Borrower and the Bank shall agree, proposals for the establishment of appropriate
levels of charges and collection procedures applicable to beneficiaries of the Project
for the purposes set forth in paragraph (b)(ii) of this Section, and for the periodic
review of said levels of charges in the light of price changes and other relevant
factors.
(b)   The Borrower shall, pursuant to the Borrower's Land Consolidation
Act (1974) and such further legislation or amendments of existing legislation as
may be required and enacted for the purpose, promptly take all measures necessary
to impose and collect, as soon as possible but not later than three years after
the completion of the works under Part A.5 of the Project, in each area of about
1,000 ha served by a secondary canal in which the beneficiaries are located: (i)
charges at levels sufficient to enable the Borrower to recover on a current basis,
upon completion of all Project works, the costs of operating and maintaining said
works; and (ii) an annual charge sufficient to recover the capital costs of the works
under Part A.5 of the Project and a reasonable proportion of the capital cost of
the other Project works, on terms and under procedures satisfactory to the Bank,
taking into account farmers' incentives and capacity to pay.
Section 4.04. The Borrower shall operate and maintain all facilities
constructed under the Project in accordance with standards acceptable to the Bank
and shall provide promptly as needed the funds needed for that purpose.
Section 4.05. The Borrower shall cause its Bank for Agriculture and
Agricultural Cooperatives (i) to increase its trained branch office staff in
Phitsanulok, Phichit and Nakhorn Sawan, (ii) to ensure that such staff shall
cooperate closely with the Project extension services, and (iii) to make available
such funds, both short-term and long-term, as shall be needed to meet adequately
the credit requirements of the farmers served by the Project.
ARTICLE V
Termination
Section 5.01. The date October 23, 1975, is hereby specified for the purposes
of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.


﻿9
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General
Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of
Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Minister of Finance
Ministry of Finance
Bangkok, Thailand
Cable address:
MINANCE
Bangkok
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INTBAFRAD
Washington, D.C.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed


﻿10
in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of America,
as of the day and year first above written.
KINGDOM OF THAILAND
By /s / Sudhee Prasasvinitchai
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s / Gregory B. Votaw
Director, Country Programs Department
East Asia and Pacific
Regional Office


﻿11
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each
Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each
Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated              % of
(Expressed in          Expenditures
Category                  Dollar Equivalent)      to be Financed
(1)  Civil works                   59,000,000
(a)   mobilization                                100% of foreign
and construc-                               expenditures
tion equipment
and vehicles
for civil works
contractors
(b)   other civil                                 43%
works expendi-
tures
(2)  Consultants'                    9,000,000          100% of foreign
services                                          expenditures or
85%
(3)   Vehicles and                 20,000,000
Equipment
(a)   Directly                                    100% of foreign
imported                                    expenditures
(b)  Manufactured                                 100% of local
locally                                     expenditures
(ex-factory)
(c)   Imported but                                65%
procured
locally
(4)   Unallocated                   7,000,000
TOTAL        95,000,000


﻿12
2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)   the term  "foreign expenditures" means expenditures for goods or
services supplied from, the territory, and in the currency, of any country other
than the Borrower; and
(b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of
the Borrower, and for goods or services supplied from, the territory of the Borrower.
3.    The disbursement percentages have been calculated in compliance with the
policy of the Bank that no proceeds of the Loan shall be disbursed on account
of payments for taxes levied by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on goods
or services, or on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof;
to that end, if any event occurs which shall affect the amount of any such taxes
included in the cost of any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan,
the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower, correspondingly adjust the disbursement
percentage then applicable to such item.
4.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph I above:
(a)   no withdrawals shall be made in respect of expenditures prior to the
date of this Agreement; and
(b)   withdrawals under Category(1) on account of expenditures incurred
with respect to Part A.5 of the Project shall be limited to expenditures incurred
in respect of the first 62,000 ha to be developed under that Part of the Project.
5.    Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Loan or the disbursement
percentages set forth in the table in paragraph I above, if the Bank has reasonably
estimated that the amount of the Loan then allocated to any Category will be
insufficient to finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures in that Category,
the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower: (i) reallocate to such Category to the
extent required to meet the estimated shortfall proceeds of the Loan which are
then allocated to another Category and which in the opinion of the Bank are
not needed to meet other expenditures, and (ii) if such reallocation cannot fully
meet the estimated shortfall, reduce the disbursement percentage then applicable
to such expenditures in order that further withdrawals under such Category may
continue until all expenditures thereunder shall have been made.
6.    If the Bank shall have reasonably determined that the procurement of any
item in any Category is inconsistent with the procedures set forth or referred to


﻿13
in this Agreement, no expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan and the Bank may, without in any way restricting or limiting
any other right, power or remedy of the Bank under the Loan Agreement, by
notice to the Borrower, cancel such amount of the Loan as in the Bank's reasonable
opinion, represents the amount of such expenditures which would otherwise have
been eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Loan.


﻿14
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project is part of the Borrower's program to provide irrigation facilities
and supporting services to farmers in the Prcj,ct Area and includes also technical
assistance in related fields.
The Project consists of the following parts:
A.    1.    Construction of a diversion dam    on the Nan River, about 30 kms.
from the city of Phitsanulok.
2.    Construction of a main, lateral and sub-lateral canal system, and a
service road system to serve a net irrigable area of about 97,000 ha.
3.    Construction of flood control works and drains, and the improvement
of existing drains.
4.    Establishment of pilot projects to develop techniques of on-farm
development for demonstration and for training of extension personnel.
5.    On-farm   development on a net irrigable area of about 97,000 ha
consisting of the planning and construction of irrigation and drainage
ditches, farm roads, land levelling and the realignment of farm
boundaries where required, and the issuance of land titles.
B.    Provision of necessary agricultural supporting services to farmers, including
extension, research, seed multiplication, credit, a fisheries development
scheme and annual surveys of the incidence of water associated diseases.
C.    Provision of buildings, equipment and vehicles required for the Project.
D.    1.    Water resources studies of the Chao Phya and Meklong Basins.
2.    Administration and organization studies to improve the planning and
implementation of irrigation programs.
3.    A  feasibility study for a second stage project in an area of about
65,000 ha on the east bank of the Nan River in the provinces of
Phitsanulok and Phichit.
4.    The preparation of further irrigation projects.
The Project is expected to be completed by September 30, 1984.


﻿15
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                                 (expressed in dollars)*
December 1 1982                                          700,000
June 1, 1983                                             730,000
December 1 1983                                          760,000
June 1, 1984                                             790000
December 1 1984                                          825,000
June 1, 1985                                             860,000
December 1, 1985                                         895,000
June 1, 1986                                             935,000
December 1 1986                                          975,000
June 1, 1987                                             015,000
December 1 1987                                           060,000
June 1, 19 8                                            1,105,000
December 1, 1988                                         150,000
June 1, 1989                                            1200,000
December 1, 1989                                        1250,000
June 1, 1990                                             305,000
December 1 1990                                           60,000
June 1, 191                                              415000
December 1 1991                                         1,475,000
June 1, 192                                               540,000
December 1, 1992                                          05,000
June 1 1993                                             1675,000
December 1 1993                                          745,000
June 1 1994                                             1820,000
December 1, 1994                                        1,895,000
June 1, 1995                                            1,975,000
December 1, 1995                                        2,060,000
June 1, 1996                                            2,45,0
December 1, 1996                                        2,240,000
June 1, 1997                                            2,335,0
December 1, 1997                                        2,435,000
June 1, 1998                                            2,535,000
December 1, 1998                                        2,645,000
June 1, 1999                                            2,755,000
December 1, 1999                                        2,875,000
June 1, 2000                                            2,995
December 1, 2000                                        3,125,000
June 1, 2001                                            3,255,000
December 1, 2001                                        3,395,000
June 1, 2002                                            3,540,000
December 1, 2002                                        3  0,000
June 1, 2003                                            3845,0
December 1 2003                                          010000
June 1, 2004                                            4,180,000
December 1, 2004                                        4,355,000
June 1, 2005                                            4,525,000
*  To the extent that any portion of the Loan is repayable in a currency other
than dollars (see General Conditions, Section 4.02), the figures in this column
represent dollar equivalents determined as for purposes of withdrawal.


﻿16
Premiums on Prepayment
The following percentages are specified as the premiums payable on
repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of the principal amount of the
Loan pursuant to Section 3.05(b) of the General Conditions:
Time of Prepayment                                 Premium
Not more than four years                                 1%
before maturity
More than four years but not                         2-1/4%
more than eight years
before maturity
More than eight years but not                            4%
more than fourteen years
before maturity
More than fourteen years but not                     5-1/2%
more than twenty years
before maturity
More than twenty years but not                       7-1/4%
more than twenty-six years
before maturity
More than twenty-six years but                           8%
not more than twenty-eight
years before maturity
More than twenty-eight years                         8-1/2%
before maturity


﻿17
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement
A.    General Procedures
1.    Contracts shall be let under procedures consistent with those set forth in
the "Guidelines for Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in April 1972, as revised in October 1972 (hereinafter called
the Guidelines), on the basis of international competitive bidding.
2.    Before inviting bids, the Borrower shall submit to the Bank for its approval,
lists of all equipment items required for the Project.
3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A.1 above:
(a)   contracts for equipment, materials and supplies not exceeding the
equivalent of $10,000, may be let in accordance with the Borrower's normal
procurement practices, provided that the aggregate expenditure for items so
procured shall not exceed the equivalent of $500,000; and
(b)   the Borrower may award contracts on the basis of competitive bidding
advertised locally and in accordance with local procedures for the following:
(i)         contracts for works under Part A.5 of the Project and not
covered by the provisions of Part C hereunder; and
(ii)        contracts for buildings under Part C of the Project.
B.    Evaluation and Comparison of Bids for Goods; Preference for Domestic
Manufacturers
1.    For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for the supply of
goods: (i) bidders shall be required to state in their bids the c.i.f. (port of entry)
price for imported goods, or the ex-factory price for domestically-manufactured
goods; (ii) customs duties and other import taxes on imported goods, and sales
and similar taxes on domestically-supplied goods, shall be excluded; and (iii) the
cost to the Borrower of inland freight and other expenditures incidental to the
delivery of goods to the place of their use or installation shall be included.
2.    Goods manufactured in Thailand may be granted a margin of preference
in accordance with, and subject to, the following provisions:


﻿18
(a)   All bidding documents for the procurement of goods shall clearly
indicate any preference which will be granted, the information required to establish
the, eligibility of a bid for such preference and the following methods and stages
that will be followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
(b)   After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified in one of the
following three groups:
(1)   Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in Thailand if the
bidder shall have established to the satisfaction of the Borrower
and the Bank that the manufacturing cost of such goods includes
a value added in Thailand equal to at least 20% of the ex-factory
bid price of such goods.
(2)   Group B: all other bids offering goods manufactured in Thailand.
(3)   Group C: bids offering any other goods.
(c)   All evaluated bids in each group shall be first compared among
themselves, excluding any customs duties and other import taxes on goods to be
imported and any sales or similar taxes on goods to be supplied domestically, to
determine the lowest evaluated bid of each group. The lowest evaluated bid of
each group shall then be compared with each other, and if, as a result of this
comparison, a bid from group A or group B is the lowest, it shall be selected
for the award.
(d)   If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph (c) above, the lowest
bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids shall be further compared with the
lowest evaluated bid from group A after adding to the c.i.f. bid price of the
imported goods offered in each group C bid, for the purpose of this further
comparison only, an amount equal to (i) the amount of customs duties and other
import taxes which a non-exempt importer would have to pay for the importation
of the goods offered in such group C bid, or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of
such goods if said customs duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price. If the group
A bid in such further comparison is the lowest, it shall be selected for the award;
if not, the lowest evaluated bid from group C shall be selected.
C.    Procurement Without Contracting
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A.1 above, the Borrower may carry
out under force account: (i) the works under Parts A.3 and A.4 of the Project,
and (ii) up to three-fourths of the works under Part A.5 of the Project.


﻿19
D.    Review of Procurement Decisions by Bank
1.    Review of prequalification. If prequalification is required, the Borrower shall,
before qualification is invited, inform the Bank in detail of the procedure to be
followed and shall introduce such modifications in said procedure as the Bank
shall reasonably request. The list of prequalified bidders, together with a statement
of their qualifications and of the reasons for the exclusion of any applicant for
prequalification shall be furnished by the Borrower to the Bank for its comments
before the applicants are notified, and the Borrower shall make such additions
to, deletions from, or modifications in, the said list as the Bank shall reasonably
request.
2.    Review of invitation to bid and of proposed awards and final contracts:
With respect to all contracts for civil works estimated to cost the equivalent
of $300,000 or more and all contracts for vehicles and equipment estimated to
cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more:
(a)   Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank, for
its comments, the text of the invitations to bid and the specifications and other
bidding documents, together with a description of the advertising procedures to
be followed for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said
documents or procedures as the Bank shall reasonably request. Any further
modification to the bidding documents shall require the Bank's concurrence before
it is issued to the prospective bidders.
(b)   Promptly after the bids have been received, the Borrower shall inform
the Bank of the names of the bidders and the respective amounts of the bids
and send copies of the three lowest bids to the Bank.
(c)   After bids have been received and evaluated, the Borrower shall, before
a final decision on the award is made, inform the Bank of the name of the bidder
to which it intends to award the contract and the reasons for the intended award
and shall furnish to the Bank, in sufficient time for its review, a detailed report,
by the consultants referred to in Section 3.02 of this Agreement, on the evaluation
and comparison of the bids received, together with the recommendation for award
of the said consultants and such other information as the Bank shall reasonably
request. The Bank shall, if it determines that the intended award would be
inconsistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower
and state the reasons for such determination.


﻿20
(d)   The terms and conditions of the contract shall not, without the Bank's
concurrence, materially differ from those on which bids were asked or
prequalification invited.
(e)   Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished to the Bank
promptly after its execution and prior to the submission to the Bank of the first
application for withdrawal of funds from the Loan Account in respect of such
contract.
3.    With respect to each contract to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Loan and not governed by the preceding paragraph, the Borrower shall furnish
to the Bank, promptly after its execution and prior to the submission to the Bank
of the first application for withdrawal of funds from the Loan Account in respect
of such contract, two conformed copies of such contract, together with the analysis
of bids, recommendations for award and such other information as the Bank shall
reasonably request. The Bank shall, if it determines that the award of the contract
was not consistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform the
Borrower and state the reasons for such determination.


