Report No. PID7177
Project Name                     Brazil-FUNDESCOLA II-Second School...
Improvement Project
Region                           Latin America and the Caribbean
Sector                           Education
Project ID                       BRPE50763
Borrower                         Federative Republic of Brazil
Implementing Agency              Ministry of Education and Sports (MEC)
Direrao Geral do Projeto Fundescola
Via Ni Leste, Pavilhao das Metas,
70150-900, BrasUlia - D.F.
Brazil
Tel:    011.55.61.316.2908
Fax:    011.55.61.316.2910
Date PID Prepared                December 15, 1998
Appraisal                        December 20, 1998 (scheduled)
Board Date                       N/A
Background
1.      Country and Sector Background
Improved quality and access of basic education are at the center of social
policies in Brazil. The government introduced major reforms aimed at helping
to ensure that by 2007 every Brazilian child will complete his or her primary
education at an acceptable level of academic achievement. In spite of
substantial progress and political and societal commitment, there is still
much to be done to attain levels of efficiency and performance capable of
ensuring quality education for all. The following sector issues pose a
particular challenge for reform in the North, Northeast, and Center-West
regions.
Low enrollment rates: Even though states in the North, Center-West and
especially the Northeast regions made dramatic improvements in the last two
years, many municipalities continue to suffer from relatively low levels of
primary school enrollment, particularly for the poor. The North, Northeast,
and Center-West regions (excluding the federal district) continue to suffer
from below average enrollment rates. The percentage of children aged seven to
fourteen not in school -- 11 percent in the North; 12 percent in the
Northeast, and 9.1 percent in the Center-West regions -- indicates the size of
the gap in education services. Low levels of primary school enrollment and
completion have two main roots: (a) an inadequate or ill-distributed supply of
school places; and (b) uneven demand by parents and children for beginning or
additional schooling. Supply of school places is severely affected by the lack
of facilities, the inefficient use of existing schools, and poor planning
strategies. Weak demand by parents correlates with poverty-related factors and
can be stimulated by increasing school quality and relevance, reducing
repetition (especially in the initial school years), and increasing community
involvement.



High repetition and age-grade distortion: Despite a doubling in national
primary school completion rates between 1980 and 1996, aggregate repetition
rates in the North (over 40 percent), Northeast (approximately 42 percent),
and Center-West (over 31 percent) regions remain extremely high -- especially
in comparison with the South (approximately 20 percent). To the extent that
evidence from Bank-supported sector work and other studies in Brazil confirm
that students are more likely to repeat again and to drop out after having
repeated a grade level, low completion rates become inevitable. Finally, over
60 percent of primary students are older than they should be for their
respective grade level nationwide, with this rate reaching 81 percent in the
North, 83 percent in the Northeast, and 69 percent in the Center-West. Age-
grade distortion is the cumulative result of late-entry to school (especially
in rural areas) and a chronic grade repetition syndrome across the Brazilian
system. As a result, students spend 11.2 years, on average, to complete the
mandatory eight-year primary education cycle.
Low student achievement level: According to the Brazilian Ministry of
Education and Sports (mec)-managed 1995 National System for Basic Education
Evaluation (saeb), the average achievement level (measuring the probability of
correct answer to curricular items on a scale of zero to one hundred) of
fourth graders in Portuguese is 44.4 percent for the North, 46.4 percent for
the Northeast, and 50.7 percent for the Center-West against 51.5 percent for
the Southeast. Regional disparities are especially noteworthy for eighth
graders in Portuguese, which varies between 57.2 percent in the Northeast,
61.4 percent in the North, and 66.4 percent in the Center-West compared with a
69.3 percent in the Southeast. The most recent saeb mathematics assessment
demonstrated that 49 percent of children who complete fourth grade in the
Northeast are unable to perform at the minimum expected level. These children
are unable to solve concrete problems, add fractions with the same
denominator, or identify the graphic representation of simple fractions. The
same proportion of eighth graders in the Northeast does not perform at the
expected level of mathematics mastery. For instance, 49 percent of eighth
graders from the Northeast are incapable of solving simple problems involving
the four operations, ordering fractions with different denominators, or
solving simple problems involving fractions. For Brazil as a whole, these
figures are 35 percent and 26 percent, respectively.
Poorly qualified teachers: In the North, Northeast, and Center-West regions,
out of a total of 380,730 primary school teachers, 57,000 primary school
teachers have not completed primary school, and about 129,000 have an
incomplete secondary school education or are not duly certified as teachers.
Over 30 percent (or 29,410) of teachers in the North and 16 percent (or
11,325) in the Center-West are considered "lay teachers." Almost all of
these teachers are in rural areas, where most of the schools belong to
municipal school systems that have lower financial capacity. Municipal and
state schools compete for unqualified teachers who are underpaid and who often
work two or three shifts. The lack of an attractive career plan, with salaries
adequate to attract and maintain adequately qualified and educated teachers,
affects the entire system.
Poverty-related factors: In 1990, at least 40 percent of Brazilian children
below the age of fifteen were living in poor families (defined as families
whose aggregate annual income is less than US$60 per person). This widespread
poverty directly affects the ability of children to go to school, because
their parents compare the benefits of an additional income earner and
- 2 -



household support against future gains from additional schooling. A 1996
publication by unicef and the Brazilian Census Bureau (ibge) showed that,
relative to children aged ten to fourteen, 20 percent in the North, 20 percent
in the Northeast, and 27 percent in the Center-West work outside the home more
than forty hours per week. In Brazil, about 4.6 million children between the
ages of ten and seventeen work and attend school, while 2.7 million work
rather than go to school. These indicators demonstrate the effect of perceived
low benefits from an education system that is marked by high repetition, low
achievement, and low completion rates.
Low parental and community participation: There is a strong relationship
between student performance and the establishment of a school council or
similar school-linked associations with parental participation. School
performance is higher in schools that routinely inform parents about their
children's progress. Communities with a greater concentration of adults with
higher levels of schooling have greater expectations regarding education, know
the mechanisms of the educational system better, and are better able to apply
pressure to obtain quality schooling for their children. Active school
councils or associations have not traditionally been part of the education
tradition, particularly in the North and Center-West, where school authorities
do not routinely seek community involvement and views.
Lack of focus on the school: Many municipal and state secretariats do not see
the school as their primary client, but tend to serve other political agencies
(such as the mayor, governor, or local legislators). The notion of
accountability to the school community is alien to most mayors' and local
politicians' experience. This lack of focus on the school is in part due to
expanded numbers of schools and students, which has stretched the supervisory
resources of state and municipal secretaries beyond their limits; in part due
to sluggish education planning and scarce information on local needs; and in
part due to the consequence of a patriarchal tradition. High turnover rates in
the state and municipal education secretariats reduce continuity of personnel
and commitment of education management staff to improving educational quality
and student performance at the school level. In addition, there is little
incentive for long-term planning or collaboration among the municipal and
state system.
Weak municipal-state system coordination: The presence of a state education
system and hundreds of municipal education systems within the states,
functioning in parallel but without coordination, makes the administration of
public schooling complex. The overlapping of administrative systems makes it
difficult to optimize resources, engenders inequality of opportunities, and
may pave the way for political patronage. One particularly critical point is
the lack of clear regulations regarding the interaction of the agents
participating in this complex two-system web. Until recently there has been
little incentive for long-term planning or collaboration among the municipal
and state systems. In addition, unlike seasoned state bureaucrats, the
newcomers to the municipal systems find themselves at a loss when faced with
increased legal requirements and documentation.
Government Strategy: The launching of fundescola occurs at a propitious moment
for improving primary education in Brazil (see below, "Key policy and
institutional reforms to be sought"). The federal government has given top
priority to primary education, initiating a number of significant reforms
including: (a) amendment of the constitution and approval of a law redefining
- 3-



the roles and responsibilities of each government level to ensure a minimum
per student expenditure through the redistribution of revenues between states
and municipalities and the federal provision to targeted regions of any
shortfall in educational expenditures; (b) direct transfer of funds to the
schools, in an effort to increase school autonomy and effectiveness; and
(c) improvement of education quality, through a national assessment system
(saeb), a national distance teacher education program, a textbook quality and
distribution improvement program, and national standards for curriculum
development. These reforms, designed to decentralize the funding of primary
education, diminish regional disparities, and increase coordination among the
various systems, should have a profound impact on school quality, particularly
to the degree that states, municipalities, and schools effectively use these
resources, and to the degree that the public has efficient mechanisms to
monitor the application of these finances. The fundescola Program has been
designed to help implement these reforms.
2.      Objectives
FUNDESCOLA II is the second in a series of projects designed to strengthen
primary schools and the public institutions responsible for them in order to
improve the educational outcomes of children in the three poorest regions of
Brazil-- the North (N), Northeast (NE), and the Center-West (CW). The overall
FUNDESCOLA Program has been agreed to in principle by the World Bank (Bank)
and the government of Brazil (Borrower) , and will be financed through a
series of loans. Like its sister projects, FUNDESCOLA II will contribute to
achieving the overall sector goal of ensuring that children from the poorest
regions of Brazil successfully complete a basic eight-grade education. This
will help guarantee that these children are better prepared to participate as
active and productive citizens in a democratic society; and will aid in
reducing the stark inter-regional disparities in educational achievement.
A. Development objective and performance indicators
The development objective of FUNDESCOLA II is to improve the performance of
the public elementary education system in targeted areas of the North (N),
Northeast (NE) and Center-West (CW) regions of Brazil.
Key performance indicators. For this development objective (to be achieved by
June 2004), the key performance indicators are:
increase the proportion of primary school graduates meeting acceptable
learning standards from 459 in 1998 to 65t in 2007 in the Project's targeted
areas; and
increase by 70t the number of students completing primary school in targeted
areas by 2007 (in comparison with 1999).
Leading Performance Indicator. Because FUNDESCOLA II will be completed before
its results as judged by these indicators can be fully assessed, project
monitoring will rely on a leading indicator (to be achieved by June 30, 2002):
increase by 15t the rate of children promoted between grades in targeted
areas.
3.      Project Benefits
The direct beneficiary of fundescola i is the primary school-age population
currently in school or entering school in the near future (about 3.3 million
students) in the North, Northeast, and Center-West capital microregions and
the second most populous microregions in the North and Center-West states.
These children will benefit from an education system endowed with an greater
school autonomy, adequate learning materials, certified and well-paid
teachers, committed parents, and effective management at all levels.
- 4 -



The most important stakeholder group for the fundescola program are the
education decisionmakers, teachers, and other education specialists who manage
and direct the primary education schools and system. In the context of
decentralization, it is important that education managers at all levels be
qualified in managing the education process and making effective and informed
decisions across a wide range of issues. By providing management tools and
training in such areas as teacher career planning, school mapping, and
architectural plans, the System Planning and Monitoring System (spa),
subproject procedures in the school and system, and the school development
process, the project will provide a large number of education professionals
with the managerial capabilities they need to run a more autonomous local
system.
4.      Project Risks
Risk                                     Risk Rating      Risk Minimization
Measure
Lack of political commitment and
technical support of state and           N                Social Marketing fosters
municipal education secretariats.                         community pressure for
change.
Low level of cooperation among the       M                Microregional forum and
state and municipal systems in                            required cooperation.
operationalizing resources.
Lack of commitment of the school         M                Fostering community
team and low community                                    support through various
participation.                                            media.
Failure to implement the Fund for        M                Understanding on the
Maintenance and Development of                            part of secretariats
Primary Education and Valorization                        of the re-distributive
of Teachers.                                              value of the Fund.
Lack of community and political           M               Social Marketing
commitment for reform including
demand for quality services, social
mobilization, and monitoring.
Low commitment for improving the           M               Fostering of social
educational experience as a means of                       awareness through
poverty reduction and national                             publication of success
development.                                               of project.
Overall Risk Rating                         M
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N
(Negligible or Low Risk)
5.      Description
A.      Program Approach and Operational Mechanisms
- 5 -



Fundamentals of School-Based Development
The FUNDESCOLA program starts from the premise that children's educational
performance is determined by the quality of the schools they attend. More
specifically, it is a function of: (a) the knowledge, practices, and
commitment of the school's principal and staff; (b) the school's learning
conditions; and (c) parent and community support for education and schooling.
A second and related proposition is that these quality characteristics are
dynamic and can be improved by secretariats of education and other
facilitating institutions that make schools their principal client and school
improvement their key institutional objective. In order to improve the
performance of the public elementary education system within the North,
Northeast, and Center-West regions of Brazil, therefore, the FUNDESCOLA
program will work at both the level of the school and the level of the several
institutions (state, municipal and federal) that support the school.
FUNDESCOLA'S School-Based Development Strategy
School improvement is grounded in the notion of a school-based development
strategy. The principal objective of FUNDESCOLA's school-based development
strategy is to transform thousands of poorly performing schools, which enroll
the overwhelming majority of children in the project's targeted regions, into
effective, high quality institutions in which student learning is prioritized
and the elusive goal of success for all students is pursued. This strategy is
based upon the proposition that school reform can and does take place when the
school principal and staff are given greater responsibility for school
improvement, are offered well structured guidance in the process of self-
diagnosis and strategic planning, and are supported by a reliable program of
regular technical assistance and followup. In addition, the institutional and
local political environment must support these types of changes.
FUNDESCOLA's school-based development strategy is designed to be phased in
over time for two reasons.    First, this type of transformation requires
fundamental changes in the knowledge, attitudes, and behaviors of the school
principal, teachers, parents, as well the staff and management of the
secretariat of education.
It takes time for these stakeholders to recognize their responsibilities,
capabilities, and power to make school reform happen. Second, experience and
research demonstrate that it is not possible to motivate and support school
reform simultaneously in a large number of schools. Consequently, whereas all
schools in the region will immediately benefit from the initial step of the
process, diminishing numbers of schools will benefit directly from subsequent
steps.
Step 1: Schools given own resources to manage
The first step in the school-based development strategy is that schools must
be given some autonomy over financial resources. This autonomy helps the
school staff and community make decisions that materially affect the school,
and helps them recognize greater responsibility for results. Under the
FUNDESCOLA program, therefore, all schools in the Northeast, North, and
Center-West regions will receive a small discretionary budget (about US$10 per
student on a yearly basis) through direct transfer from the federal
government. The school will receive these funds into a school bank account
managed by the school council, which is composed of parents and the school
principal. This council will be responsible for making decisions about how to
spend the funds, comparison shopping, ordering and receiving the goods and
services, and keeping the accounting records up-to-date.
- 6 -



-Step 2: Helping Schools Attain Minimal Operational Standards.
A second step in the school-based development strategy is that, in order to
improve educational outcomes, schools must be capable of functioning at least
at a minimally acceptable level. Within the three target regions, there are
many schools where teaching-learning conditions are so poor that they cannot
be properly termed "schools." Consequently, the second step in the school
development strategy is to improve conditions in these schools such that they
can function at least at a minimal level. The primary mechanism for
identifying these "sub-standard" schools and putting them on the path to
quality is the use of minimum operational standards for schools.
The minimum operational standards model is an operational instrument --
structured as a checklist -- that specifies the essential package of inputs
and services a school needs in order to function at a minimal level that will
facilitate acceptable student learning. Each school is visited by trained
staff from their responsible secretariat of education, examined carefully, and
categorized by size and type, (which determines the corresponding inputs and
staff requirements for that school). Schools that are found to be incomplete
in any one of the essential elements, from qualified teachers to furniture or
equipment, are considered below standard - that is, they are unable to provide
children with the opportunity to learn. In addition to helping states and
municipalities carry out the minimal operational standards survey, FUNDESCOLA
will support the institutional responsibility and actions of these
jurisdictions in specifying the support that below-standard schools will need
to meet the minimal operational standard, and will help finance these inputs
and services
Step 3: Schools prepare own "School Development Plan"
Once schools have attained a minimum operational level - they have certified
teachers, a physical environment that is adequate to learning, books and
materials, and sufficient discretionary funds to meet their operational needs
- the FUNDESCOLA strategy assumes that they have the conditions necessary to
begin improving educational outcomes.    Importantly, however, the strategy
also recognizes that having these minimal conditions alone will not lead to
improved educational outcomes in all schools. Within a subset of schools
meeting minimal operational standards, therefore, FUNDESCOLA will support an
intensive school-based institutional development process culminating in a
school development plan.
The school development plan is both the result of one process (diagnosis and
strategy formulation) and the starting point of another (school improvement
implementation and monitoring). With respect to the diagnosis and strategy
process, the school and its community of parents, teachers, and local leaders
meet to identify and prioritize the problems at the school, establish specific
school improvement objectives, and to agree on an action plan. The expression
of this overall diagnosis and agreement on actions and targets is the school
development plan. One of the most important outcomes of the school
development plan is the process of collaboration, participation, and teamwork
among parents and teachers at every stage of project development, the value
that each stakeholder will derive from the experience, and, in the end, the
learning dividends of the students.    FUNDESCOLA will support a variety of
school development plans, from the simplest -- which may be little more than
an agreement on the part of the school staff and parents to seek specified
educational outcome targets (such as reduction of repetition or drop-out) -
to the more fully developed school development plan based on strategic
planning or quality management approach.
- 7-



Step 4: Schools receive financing for their own "School Improvement
Project"
The school development plan includes a section called the school improvement
project (PME). This is a specification of an action plan the school and
community stakeholders have identified as necessary for the school to achieve
its agreed targets. It also estimates the financial support the school needs
to carry out their school improvement project. Schools use their school
improvement projects to inform municipal and state education authorities on
which inputs or training they need to help them attain their objectives.
FUNDESCOLA will finance these school improvement projects, and will promote
their financial sustainability. In addition, after the first round of school
improvement projects is completed, FUNDESCOLA will finance, through a
competition, additional rounds of school improvement projects from the same
schools that elaborated school development plans during the first year.
The FUNDESCOLA project will also offer a matching fund to promote the
expansion of the process to other schools in the microregion and the state.
Those states or municipalities which possess better conditions and greater
commitment to the school-based development process can match their own
resources to those of this fund to finance school development projects
developed by schools not included in the project's initial selection.
Step 5: Schools adapt and implant teaching/learning designs.
The final step in the strategy is based on the proposition that even when
schools have some autonomy over their budgets, have attained minimal
operational standards, have gone through the process of creating a school
development plan, and are implementing school improvement projects in a
sustainable way, efforts to improve educational outcomes may be hampered by a
lack of knowledge of effective pedagogical and managerial strategies.
Accordingly, FUNDESCOLA will support the further development and pilot testing
of a range of pedagogical and managerial models that have been used
successfully in Brazil and other countries.
Institutional Support for School Based Development
While a major focus of the FUNDESCOLA strategy is on improving conditions at
the level of the school, the approach also recognizes that schools do not
exist within an institutional vacuum, but in fact depend on other entities for
guidance and resources. Vastly complicating the educational picture in Brazil,
however, is the fact that there are no single education systems operating in
any state. Instead, each state contains a state education system and hundreds
of municipal education systems, functioning in parallel and competing for
resources. The result is an aggregation of educational activities, patched
together by a jumble of agreements and conflicting interests, without
sufficient regulations regarding the interaction of the participating agents,
and without either level of government taking the total responsibility for
assuring quality education for all. Faced with this situation, most previous
educational projects and programs in Brazil have chosen one of two strategies:
(a) work with both state and municipal systems, usually trying to influence
the municipal level indirectly through the state; or (b) work with only the
state or municipal system. Neither approach thus far has proven particularly
effective in addressing issues of competition and overlapping areas of
responsibility.
The FUNDESCOLA program is distinct in its approach to these institutional
issues. Rather than choosing between state and municipal systems, the program
is working directly with both state and municipal secretariats of education
- 8 -



within a limited geographic area, defined through use of a microregional
planning model. The microregions are defined by the Brazilian Census Bureau's
microregion grouping, and consist of several adjacent municipalities that
share many socio-economic interests and characteristics. While the
microregion does not constitute an administrative division, it provides a
focus for planning and negotiation among several municipal governments and the
state government. Thus rather than working with all 1800 municipalities
forming part of the Northeast, North and Center-West regions, FUNDESCOLA II
will continue coverage of the capital microregions of the North, and Center-
West states, and extend to the second largest microregions in these states and
the capital microregion in the Northeast states (altogether covering 200
municipalities).
While some of the FUNDESCOLA program's activities will take place state-wide
and involve all municipalities (promoting school autonomy through direct
resource transfer to schools, and introducing the concept and use of minimum
operating standards for schools, for example), most program activities will be
directed to selected microregions, and are designed to support the school-
based development strategy described above. Within the boundaries of the
microregion, for example, the state and municipal secretariats of education
will have the opportunity to collaborate in the implementation of a survey and
planning process to raise a subset of schools (both state and municipal) to
minimum operating standards. Administrators from both the state and municipal
systems within the microregion will also be trained to support the initiation
of school development plans in these schools. Social mobilization activities
within the microregion are designed to create interest in and demand for the
school-based development approach. By forcing states and clusters of
municipalities to work together, the program seeks to increase cross-
accountability and transparency in the use of resources, as well as facilitate
dialogue and learning regarding student results and the school development
process.
B.      Project Components and Subcomponents
1.      Minimum Operational Standards
a. Qualifying Uncertified Teachers
b. Providing Basic Classroom Furniture and Equipment
c. Financing for Basic Operational Needs
d. Physical rehabilitation of schools
e. "New" School Construction
2. School Development Process
a. Design and Implementation of School Development Plans
b. Financing of School Improvement Projects
c. Development and Testing of Pedagogical Models
3.      Promoting Social Mobilization and Communication
a. Social Mobilization Campaigns
b. FUNDESCOLA Program Dissemination
4.      Strengthening National Education Information Systems and Programs
a. Improving Educational Assessment
b. Improving and Disseminating Educational Information
c. Development of Project-related studies and research
5.      Management and Institutional Development of Education Systems
-9-



a. Promoting Institutional Development of Schools and Secretariats of
Education
b. Implementation of Microplanning
c. Financing for Project Management
C.      Differences between Fundescola I and II.
FUNDESCOLA II is the second project within a medium-range and more
comprehensive program designed to support primary education in the nineteen
states of the North, Northeast, and Center-West regions of Brazil. Whereas
FUNDESCOLA I is financing start-up activities in the ten capital microregions
of the North and Center-West, FUNDESCOLA II will initiate project activities
in the nine capital microregions of the Northeast, and an additional 18
microregions in the North and Center-West. FUNDESCOLA II will also provide
continued financing for ongoing activities undertaken as part of FUNDESCOLA I.
All of the FUNDESCOLA projects will pursue the same development objective,
namely: to improve the performance of the public elementary education system
in selected areas of the North, Northeast, and Center-West regions of Brazil,
as measured by increases in primary school promotion and graduation rates, as
well as achievement levels of children in these regions. The projects
comprise many of the same activities and adopt the same overall strategy and
decisionmaking process. Apart from geographic emphasis and timing, the main
differences between FUNDESCOLA I and II include:
Greater understanding of school development process.    FUNDESCOLA II reflects a
deeper understanding of the school development process and sharpened overall
program strategy, gained from experience under FUNDESCOLA I.
Component organization. Activities in FUNDESCOLA II have been re-grouped to
better reflect the overall program strategy;
Development of pedagogic models. FUNDESCOLA II includes the development and
piloting of pedagogic approaches to improving the teaching-learning process;
Greater emphasis on social mobilization. A lesson from FUNDESCOLA I is that
more needs to be done to encourage changes in existing educational culture.
FUNDESCOLA II therefore includes more emphasis on social mobilization and
program dissemination, as well as the inclusion of additional incentives for
schools, municipalities and states to adopt new working arrangements;
Limited financing for construction. FUNDESCOLA I includes preliminary
planning activities, but no financing for construction. FUNDESCOLA II
includes financing for rehabilitation and replacement of schools in all
microregions covered by the two projects;
Financing for teacher certification. FUNDESCOLA I is financing the
development of certification training programs; FUNDESCOLA II will finance
implementation in all three regions;
Expanded program and project evaluation. FUNDESCOLA II will finance a program
of research and studies in education, with particular emphasis on the
evaluation of project implementation and impact.
6.      Financing
Component       Category         Cost Incl.       % of    Bank-           % of
Contingencies   Total    financing       Bank-
(US$M)                   (US$M)          financing
1.  Minimum      Institution     250             62.5%    125             62.59
operational     building
standards       and
- 10 -



physical
2. School        Institution      60               15%     30             15%
Development      Building
Process
3. Social        Institution      20              5%      10              5%
Mobilization & building
Communication
4. Strengthening   Institution    30             7.5%     15              7.5%
National           building
Education
Information
Systems
and Programs
5. Strengthening    Institution    40           10%        20             10%
education           building
management          Project
management
Total              400          100%      200             100%
6.      Implementation
a. Executing agencies: Much of the success of fundescola i will hinge on the
willingness and capacity of the state and municipal secretaries to cooperate
within the environment of the microregion forum. In assessing the capacity of
the municipal and state secretaries to coordinate with one another, the
project's experience in training and collaboration in a number of fundescola
instruments has been very telling. In many cases the discussions generated
among the state and municipal secretaries were among the first recorded by
either party. The microregion forum provided an historic opportunity for state
and municipal coordination, with fundescola and the imminent fvm as
incentives. The collective ability of the group of secretaries in terms of
planning, monitoring, procurement, and management is much greater than that of
any one municipal secretary, operating independently. The range of experience,
education, and abilities that each secretary brings to the forum will enrich
both the experience of the forum members and the product of their efforts, the
microregional action plan.
b. Project management: The Project Coordination Unit has more than five years
of experience in managing the disbursement of resources of the Northeast Basic
Education Project, and one year of experience in managing the fundescola i
project.
7.      Sustainability
Financial Sustainability. Financial sustainability of the first project is
assured by both the external context and internal composition of FUNDESCOLA.
- 11 -



The most important issue of financial sustainability in terms of the external
context of FUNDESCOLA is assured by its relationship to the Fundef.
FUNDESCOLA will operate hand-in-hand with the Constitution-based and Fundef),
which will provide resources to solve stagnant problems such as the
availability of basic instructional materials and an adequate salary for the
teacher. With regard to internal composition, financial sustainability is
assured by the phasing mechanism of FUNDESCOLA. For school construction,
typically the largest fraction of total project expenditures, FUNDESCOLA
requires that microplanning and architectural plans be approved prior to
school construction, which occurs in the second phase. The School Based
Development Process encourages the school to manage its own affairs as well as
to look to community and state resources for support, through the School
Development Plan, which must indicate sources of funding (FUNDESCOLA or
otherwise) for current and planned projects.
Institutional Sustainability. The fact that FUNDESCOLA was designed to work in
synergy with other major national primary education programs shows that the
project is not an exception in the Government's strategy to eliminate regional
disparities and promote quality education throughout the country. Several
initiatives adopted by the Government have made the institutional framework
more conducive to sustainability. In addition, Project I has been designed as
a prospective operation with a clear-cut preparatory role. Its strategies and
components aim to serve as a building block and to create medium- and long-
term institutional conditions and instruments for more ambitious subsequent
projects to unfold under the FUNDESCOLA Program. These strategies include (i)
the definition and establishment of Minimum Operational Standards as a
permanent yardstick to gauge the several elements of school quality; (ii) the
managerial and change-oriented skills, including microplanning and evaluation,
to be incorporated into the municipal and state education secretariats; (iii)
the focus on school and community participation, including the School Council,
the School Development Plan, the School Projects, and Direct School Funding
Program, all pointing out to grassroots identity, local ownership and expected
continuity and increased demand for education services and their quality; and
(iv) the decentralization of education authority and resources to the
municipality level brings crucial decision elements to local instance, closer
to real school context. Its first consequence is the strengthening of the
Municipal Education Secretariats, possibly the most decisive step toward local
school affirmation and continuity; and (vi) the participatory and vigorous
scheme maintained by the National Council of State Secretaries (CONSED) and
the National Union of Municipal Education Managers (UNDIME) assures
institutional conditions for permanence.
Additional mechanisms that the Project Management itself will undertake to
ensure sustainability vary by each component. Minimum Operational Standards
will be defined in accordance with those proposed by MEC in the ten year plan
for education. In addition the Project Management will initiate a national
campaign to identify and rank top schools according to criteria such as
Minimum Operational Standards, approval, repetition, and drop-out rates, level
of teacher and school director education, existence of a school council, etc.
School Development Plans and their accompanying School Projects will benefit
from coordination between the existing Direct School Transfer Program, such
that the mechanisms for FNDE are used as per MEC regulation. Furthermore,
experience in Mato Grosso has shown that once a school and its community
become involved in the PDE process they are much more likely to continue.
With respect to the management component, the creation of a certification and
- 12 -



training culture, such that school councils will demand certified, experienced
school directors and municipal secretaries of education, will promote
sustainability beyond the life of the project.
8.      Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
Following the lessons learned from the design and implementation process of
the Northeast Basic Education Project (nebe ii, FY 1993, Loan 3604-BR and nebe
III, FY1994, Loan 3663-BR), and prior Bank experience in Brazil (including
edurural), FY1980, Loan 1867-BR), as well as the initial implementation of the
fundescola i project (Loan 4311-BR), fundescola ii will incorporate those
project aspects that were successful in achieving their intended objectives,
avoiding those aspects that, upon evaluation, were deemed incomplete or
unattainable. These lessons primarily include (a) a fund design concept for
project disbursement; (b) development of specialized training modules for
targeted areas, with emphasis on the school; (c) the National Textbook Program
(pnld) evaluation and distribution processes; and (d) institutional
development programs for education managers. The focus on primary education is
in line with the shift in overall World Bank policy, under which Bank
education lending increasingly supports the development or reform of primary
education.
The design of fundescola ii was heavily influenced by the fund design of the
Northeast Basic Education Project, which allows for more efficient
institutions to draw upon the available resources. This process was found to
be very effective in reducing waste, promoting effective resource management,
and ensuring the arrival of funds to those using them to the greatest
advantage. As proved in the experience of the Northeast Basic Education
Project, each state, municipality, and school will be accountable to and
coordinate with existing systems managers to ensure successful implementation
of the project.
International project experience has also influenced the formation of the
fundescola program, including (a) the lessons from Chile, Uruguay, and other
Latin American countries in promoting school subprojects for the procurement
of context-appropriate materials and increasing stakeholder input; and (b) the
Colombian Escuela Nueva program, which achieved effective results in the
modular use of textbooks, capacity-building of teachers, student-centered
learning, evaluation of student attainment, and community participation for
multi-grade schools.
The current nationwide evaluation process of textbooks (pnld) was adopted and
developed by mec based on the previous experience of the nebe i and ii, which
introduced innovative procurement procedures. The purchase of textbooks is now
made through the teachers' choice based on a guide containing titles
recommended by education specialists and teachers. This guide classifies the
books according to content and pedagogical quality, promoting improvement by
the publishers.
Textbook distribution for the entire country has improved significantly since
the first delivery made under the Northeast Basic Education projects. The
books now arrive at the start of the school year, their arrival in the school
is being monitored through a special operation introduced by mec, and a new
delivery system is being implemented by the post office.
To promote effective personnel management of basic education, the project
- 13 -



derives lessons from the positive experience of the Northeast Basic Education
Project in the training and capacity-building of municipal and state
secretaries in the Northeast (Municipal Education Secretariats Support Program
[prasem]). The project coordination unit will continue to build upon the
success of the Northeast Basic Education Project, especially in terms of
effective management techniques and built-in accountability requirements.
9.      Poverty Category
Program of Targeted Interventions
10.     Environmental Aspects
The project will have no significant environmental impacts. (C)
11.     Program Objective Categories
Poverty Reduction and Human Resource Development
12.     Contact Point:           The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone No. (202)458 5454
Fax No. (202) 522 1500
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain activities and/or
components may not be included in the final project.
Processed by the InfoShop week ending December 18, 1998.
ibid.
See Annex 4 for additional information on the effect of repetition on costs.
World Bank. Brazil Poverty Report.
"A Call to Action."
Ibid.
- 14 -



