Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 19228-BR
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ONA
PROPOSED LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$202.03 MILLION EQUIVALENT TO THE
FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL
FOR THE
SECOND SCHOOL IMPROVEMENT PROJECT - FUNDESCOLA II
JUNE 8, 1999
Human and Social Development Group
Brazil Country Department
Latin American and the Caribbean Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective 312/1999)
Currency Unit = Real
R$1.71 =US$ 1.00
FISCAL YEAR (FY)                                                   SCHOOL YEAR (SY)
January 1-December 31                                              February-December
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
COEP        State-based Project Executive Coordination (Coordena,do Estadual Executiva do Projeto)
CONSED    National Council of State Education Secretaries (Conselho Nacional de Secretdrios Estaduais de Educaqdo)
CW          Center-West region of Brazil, Comprising the states of Goias (GO), Mato Grosso (MT), and Mato Grosso do
Sul (MS), but excluding the Federal District
DGP         Central Project Coordination Unit (Dire,do Geral do Projeto)
FNDE        National Education Development Fund (Fundo Nacional de Desenvolvimento da Educa,cdo)
FUNDESCOLA School Improvement Program (Programa Fundo de Fortalecimento da Escola)
FUNDEF      Fund for the Development and Maintenance of Basic Education and Teacher Valorization (Fundo de
Desenvolvimento e Manutenrdo do Ensino Fundamental e ValorizaMao do Magisterio)
GDE         School Development Group (Grupo de Desenvolvimento Escolar)
GT          Technical Group (Grupo Tecnico)
IBGE        Brazilian Census Bureau (Instituto Brasileiro de Geografia'e Estatistica)
ICB         International Competitive Bidding
ICR         Implementation Completion Report
INEP        National Institute for Educational Research and Studies, a MEC-based agency (Instituto Nacional de Estudos e
Pesquisas Educacionais).
LDB         National Education Law (Lei de Diretrizes e Bases de Educacao Nacional)
MEC         Brazilian Ministry of Education
MOS         Minimum Operational Standards
MOIP        Project Operations and Implementation Manual (Manual de Opera,coes e Implementa,do do Projeto)
N          North region of Brazil, comprising the states of Acre (AC), Amazonas (AM), Amapa (AP), Para (PA),
Rond6nia (RO), Roraima (RR), and Tocantins (TO)
NCB         National Competitive Bidding
NE          Northeast region of Brazil, comprising the states of Alagoas (AL), Bahia (BA), Ceara (CE), Maranhao (MA),
Pemambuco (PB), Parafba (PE), Piaui (PI), Rio Grande do Norte (RN), and Sergipe (SE)
NEBE        Northeast Basic Education Project (I and II)
OECD        Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development
PAE         State Action Program (Programa de A ,do do Estado)
PAM         Municipal Action Program (Programa de A,co Municipal)
PAZ         Microregion Action Plan (Programa de AqJo Zonal)
PDE         School Development Plan (Projeto de Desenvolvimento Escolar)
PGS         Secretariat Business and Management Plan (Plano de Gestao da Secretaria)
PME         School Improvement Project (Projeto de Melhoria da Escola) initiated under PDE
PNLD        National Textbook Program (Programa Nacional do Livro Dideitico)
PPO         Research and Operationalization Program of Education Policies (Programa de Pesquisa e Operacionliza,do)
PRASEM    Municipal Education Secretariats Support Program (Program de Apoio aos Secretarias Municipais de
Educa,co)
PTA         Annual Work Plan (Plano de Trabalho Anual)
SAEB        National System for Basic Education Evaluation (Sistema Nacional de Avalia,do da Educa,do Bdsica)
SEED        Secretariat of Distance Education (Secretaria de Educa,co a Distdncia)
SIED        Integrated Education Information System (Sistema Integrado de Infoma,coes Educacionais)
SPA         Planning and Monitoring System (Sistema de Planejamento e Acompanamento)
SEF         Secretariat of Fundamental Education (Secretaria de Educa,do Fundamental)
SEE         State Education Secretariat (Secretaria Estadual de Educacao)
SME         Municipal Education Secretariat (Secretaria Municipal de Educa,do)
UE          School Council (Unidade Executora)
UNDIME    National Association of Municipal Education Managers (Unido Nacional dos Dirigentes Municipais de
Educa,do)
Vice President: S. Javed Burki
Country Manager/Director: Gobind T. Nankani
Sector Manager/Director: Xavier Coll
Task Team Leader: Robin S. Horn



Federative Republic of Brazil
Second School Improvement Project-FUNDESCOLA II
Table of Contents
I.       PROJECT DEVELOPMENT OBJECTIVES ..................................................2
II.      STRATEGIC CONTEXT ..................................................3
A.   SECTOR-RELATED COUNTRY ASSISTANCE STRATEGY (CAS) GOAL .........................................3........3
B.    MAIN SECTOR ISSUES .................................................3
1. Repetition ..................................................4
2. Student achievement .................................................4
3. Teacher skills, qualifications and perceptions ..................................................4
4. Poverty-relatedfactors ..................................................5
5. Parent and community participation .................................................5
6. Lack offocus on the school ..................................................6
7. Weak municipal-state system coordination ..................................................6
C. GOVERNMENT STRATEGY                                                 .6
D.  KEY POLICY AND INSTITUTIONAL REFORMS SUPPORTED BY THE PROJECT                              .7
III. PROJECT DESCRIPTION SUMMARY                                                   .8
A.   STRATEGY FOR STRENGTHENING SCHOOLS, SECRETARIATS AND PUBLIC PARTICIPATION                         .      8
1. School-Based Development - the First Level of Intervention                         .8
2. Institutional Support for School Development: the Second Level of Intervention .11
3. Social Mobilization and Public Accountability: the Third Level of Intervention .12
B. PROJECT COMPONENTS.                                                                                       1 4
C. PROJECT COST SUMMARY                                               .17
D. BENEFITS AND TARGET POPULATION .18
E.  INSTITUTIONAL AND IMPLEMENTATION ARRANGEMENTS:.                                                          1 8
1. Central level coordination .18
2. State level coordination .19
3. Microregion level coordination .19
4. Municipal level coordination .19
S. School level coordination .20
IV. PROJECT RATIONALE .20
A.  PROJECT ALTERNATIVES CONSIDERED AND REASONS FOR REJECTION .20
1. Alternatives to working in Microregions .20
2. Alternative project designs .21
3. Alternative education levels .22
B.   MAJOR RELATED PROJECTS FINANCED BY THE BANK OR OTHER DEVELOPMENT AGENCIES
(COMPLETED, ONGOING, AND PLANNED) ............................................                       23
C.   LESSONS LEARNED AND REFLECTED IN THE PROJECT DESIGN ............................................       24
D.   INDICATIONS OF BORROWER COMMITMENT AND OWNERSHIP ............................................          25
E.    VALUE ADDED OF BANK SUPPORT ............................................                              26
V.       SUMMARY PROJECT ANALYSIS ............................................                                 27
A.   ECONOMIC ASSESSMENT ............................................                                       27
B.   FINANCIAL ASSESSMENT ............................................                                      28
C.   TECHNICAL ASSESSMENT ............................................                                      28
D.   INSTITUTIONAL ASSESSMENT ............................................ 29
E.    SOCIAL ASSESSMENT ............................................                                        30
F.    ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT ............................................                                 32
G.   PARTICIPATORY APPROACH ............................................ 32
Identification/Preparation ............................................ .                                32



V      I. SUSTAINABILITY AND RISKS ...............................                   33
A.  SUSTAINABILITY ...............................                                33
B.  CRITICAL RISKS .....................................                          34
VII.   MAIN LOAN CONDITIONS ...............................                          35
A.  EFFECTIVENESS CONDITIONS ...............................                      35
VIII.  READINESS FOR IMPLEMENTATION ...............................                  36
IX.    COMPLIANCE WITH BANK POLICIES ...............................                 36
X.    ANNEXES
ANNEX 1 PROJECT LOGFRAME                                                      37
ANNEX 2 DETAILED PROJECT DESCRIPTION                                          41
ANNEX 3 PROJECT COSTS                                                         57
ANNEX 4 ECONOMIC ANALYSIS                                                     58
ANNEX 5 FINANCIAL ANALYSIS                                                    69
ANNEX 6 PROCUREMENT, DISBURSEMENT AND FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT    73
ARRANGEMENTS
ANNEX 7 POVERTY ANALYSIS                                                       81
ANNEX 8 SOCIAL AND BENEFICIARY ASSESSMENT                                     91
ANNEX 9 TECHNICAL ANNEX                                                       99
ANNEX 10 INSTITUTIONAL ANNEX                                                  105
ANNEX 11 PROJECT PROCESSING BUDGET AND SCHEDULE                              111
ANNEX 12 DOCUMENTS IN THE PROJECT FILES                                      112
-ANNEX 13 STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN BRAZIL                           113
ANNEX 14 BRAZIL AT A GLANCE                                                   115



Document of
The World Bank
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
Latin American and the Caribbean Regional Office
Country Department 5
Project Appraisal Document
Federative Republic of Brazil
Second School Improvement Project -- FUNDESCOLA II
Date:      June 8, 1999                  Task Team Leader: Robin S. Horn
Country Director: Gobind T. Nankani      Sector Director: Xavier Coll
Project ID: 50763   | Sector: Education    Program Objective Category: Poverty Reduction
Lending Instrument: Specific Investment Loan Program of Targeted Intervention:  [X] Yes []No
Project Financing Data  [X] Loan  []Credit    [ Guarantee    []Other [Specify]
For Loans:
Amount: US$202.03 million
Proposed terms:             [X]  Multicurrency         [ ]  Single currency, US Dollar
Grace period (years):   5   [X]   Standard Variable    [ ] Fixed           []  LIBOR-based
Years to maturity:   15
Commitment fee:      0.75%
Front end fee:       1.0%
Financing plan (US$m):
Source                                   Local            Foreign           Total
Government of Brazil                     200.00             0.0             200.00
IBRD                                     140.00            62.03            202.03
Total                                    340.00            62.03            402.03
Borrower: Federative Republic of Brazil
Guarantor: n.a.
Implementing Agency: Ministry of Education (MEC)
Estimated disbursements--Bank FY/US$M   2000        2001     2002    2003        2004
Annual                                    32.03     50.00    60.00    50.00        10.00
Cumulative                                32.03     82.03    142.03   192.03     202.03
Project Implementation Period            July 1999 - June 2004
Expected effectiveness date: August 15, 1999  Closing date: December 31, 2004
1



FUNDESCOLA II                                                     Project Appraisal Document
I.   Project Development Objectives
FUNDESCOLA II is the second in a series of projects designed to improve the
perforrnance of public primary' education in selected areas of the North (N), Northeast (NE)
and Center-West (CW) regions. The overall FUNDESCOLA Program2 has been agreed to in
principle by the World Bank (Bank) and the Government of Brazil (Borrower),3 and will be
financed through a series of loans. Like its sister projects, FUNDESCOLA II will contribute to
achieving the overall sector goal of ensuring that children from the poorest regions of Brazil
successfully complete a basic eight-grade education. This will help guarantee that these
children are better prepared to participate as active and productive citizens in a democratic
society, and will aid in reducing the stark inter-regional disparities in educational
achievement.
A. Project mission, development objective, andperformance indicators
The Project mission is to improve the performance of the public education systems in
the poorest regions of Brazil by strengthening primary schools4 and the public institutions
responsible for them in a coordinated management framework. FUNDESCOLA II's
development objective is to improve the educational outcomes of children enrolled in public
primary schools in the Project's targeted areas, as measured by promotion and achievement
rates.
Key performance indicators for this development objective (to be achieved by June
2007) are to:
* increase the proportion of fourth grade students meeting acceptable learning standards
from 28.3% (N), 32.8% (NE) and 36.7% (CW) in 1997 to 50% in 2007 in the Project's
targeted areas';
e increase the proportion of eighth grade students meeting acceptable learning standards
from 43.6% (N), 43.8% (NE) and 54.9% (CW) in 1997 to 60% in 2007 in the Project's
targeted areas.
Leading performance indicator. The key performance indicators will be tracked and
analyzed on an ongoing basis. Because FUNDESCOLA II will be completed before its results as
judged by these indicators can be fully assessed, project monitoring will rely on a leading
indicator (to be achieved by June 2004):
* increase the average promotion rates in primary school from 64.2% (N), 64.7% (NE)
and 71.5% (CW) in 1997 to 85% in 2003 in the Project's targeted areas.
1"Primary education" throughout this document is defined as grades one through eight of basic
education, for children aged 7-14 years, and referred to as educacao fundamental regular in Brazil.
2 From this point forward, reference to "FUNDESCOLA" refers to the program as a whole, wh.le
reference to the "Project" or "FUNDESCOLA II " refers to the project appraised in this document.
FUNDESCOLA I was approved by the Board on April 2, 1998.
3 See Project Concept Document dated October 16, 1997 (for FUNDESCOLA I), and December 4,
1998 (for FUNDESCOLA 11).
4 A "primary school" provides "primary education" in grades 1 - 8, or any combination thereof
5 The "acceptable learning standards" are defined by the National System for Basic Education
Evaluation. (SAEB). These percentages are for Portuguese only as comparable indicators for mathematics
are unavailable.
2



FUNDESCOLA II                                                 Project Appraisal Document
In addition to these overall measures of system performance, the effectiveness of
individual activities and reforms supported under FUNDESCOLA I and II will be monitored and
evaluated under the research component.
FUNDESCOLA I and II share the same overall approach and structure, and will finance many
of the same activities.6 The primary difference between the two projects is one of time and
geography. Whereas FUNDESCOLA I funded the start-up of program activities in ten capital-city
microregions in the North and Center-West, FuNDESCOLA II will initiate activities in the nine
capital microregions of the Northeast and eight additional microregions in the North and Center-
West. It will also continue financing activities begun in the first group of microregions under
FUNDESCOLA I.7 Although all of the 16.5 million public primary school children in the three
regions served by the project will benefit from several of the components, project activities will
be primarily directed toward 4.7 million children, enrolled in 13,500 schools in 247
municipalities located in 27 microregions. (For further discussion of the microregion concept,
see IIIA and fVA below as well as Annex 7; for a summary of differences between FUNDESCOLA
I and II see Annex 2.)
II.   Strategic Context
A. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal
CAS document number: 16852-BR. Date of latest CAS discussion: June 2, 1998
The education sector goal of the CAS is to provide the opportunity for all children to
complete the eight-year fundamental schooling cycle by 2007, and to improve educational
attainment and academic performance in basic subjects, particularly Portuguese and mathematics.
FUNDESCOLA will directly contribute to attain these goals by improving primary school quality
and educational outcomes, and by monitoring progress toward obtaining these goals through
project performance indicators. By targeting the three poorest regions of Brazil, and by reducing
regional disparities in student achievement, FUNDESCOLA will also contribute to achieving the
overall objective of poverty reduction as stated in the CAS. Given the extensive coverage of this
project (target population comprises approximately 29 percent of total sector beneficiaries) as
well as the ongoing fiscal crisis in Brazil, it is likely that without the successful implementation
of FUNDESCOLA, the education sector goal of the CAS would not be within reach. FUNDESCOLA,
now more than ever, represents the cornerstone of federal efforts in education.
B. Main sector issues
Since 1995, improved education system performance has been the central social policy
objective in Brazil. The government has introduced major reforms aimed at helping to ensure that
by 2007 every Brazilian child will complete his or her primary education at an acceptable level of
academic achievement.
These system performance gains can best be seen over the last decade in which Brazil
demonstrated impressive improvements in system efficiency (as indicated by promotion rates)
and coverage (as measured by enrollment rates). The primary school promotion rate has increased
by 10 percentage points (from 57 to 67 percent) over the past ten years. The improvement in
6 For a description of the differences between FUNDESCOLA I and FUNDESCOLA 1i, see Table 1
("Project Components"), and Annex 2 ("Detailed Project Description").
7For a listing of microregions covered by the project, please see Annex 7.
3



FUNDESCOLA 11                                                   Project Appraisal Document
coverage is even more striking: while the net primary school enrollment rate increased by 15
percent nationally, a significant gain in itself, the poorer Northeast states experienced a gain of 30
percent. Consequently, today only eight percent of children aged 7 - 14 years are out of school in
the Northeast and North regions, and 6 percent of 7 - 14 year olds are out of school in the Center-
West states.
Despite this substantial progress and the political and societal commitment shown to
education during the past ten years, previous decades of inequality in funding and low priority
given to education mean that these gains have been made from a relatively low base. Current
indicators reflect the need for continuing attention to the sector. The sector issues outlined below
pose a particular challenge for reform in the North, Northeast and Center-West regions.
1. Repetition
Brazil has some of the highest repetition rates in Latin America, presenting a formidable
challenge to education reformers. Even though primary school completion rates doubled
nationally between 1985 and 1997, and significant improvements in aggregate repetition rates
were achieved, the failure rates in the North (over 42 percent), Northeast (approximately 45
percent) and Center-West (over 35 percent) regions remain extremely high - especially in
comparison with the South (approximately 25 percent). The main consequences of these poor
indicators are twofold: first, enormous resources are spent in producing one eighth grade
graduate, some 18 years on average; and second, faced with the prospect of having to repeat the
same grade level over and over, many children choose to drop out.
2. Student achievement
According to the Brazil's National System for Basic Education Evaluation (SAEB),
student achievement in the North, Northeast and Center-West states falls below the national
average and substantially below that of wealthier states in the South and Southeast. MEC's state-
of-the-art SAEB assessment system classifies learning achievement with respect to a uniform
scale of proficiency. The 1997 SAEB assessment results find that less than 25 percent of fourth-
grade pupils in the Project's three regions surpass the lowest performance level on the scale. This
means that in mathematics, three out of four children are unable to demonstrate understanding of
place value, multiply and divide numbers, add fractions with the same denominator, or solve
problems that require more than one step. In terms of literacy, this means they are unable to
recognize that authors use language to express different emotions, or that context can be used to
analyze meanings of words in a text passage. In the sciences, these children have no
comprehension of basic natural science concepts such as gravity and the transport of oxygen by
the blood; they are also unfamiliar with the use of scientific language to describe phenomena.
3. Teacher skills, qualifications and perceptions
In the North, Northeast and Center-West regions, out of a total of 572 thousand primary
school teachers, approximately 41,000 have not completed primary school and about 96,000 have
an incomplete secondary school education or are not certified. Municipal and state schools
compete for uncertified teachers who are underpaid and who often work two or three shifts. The
lack of an attractive career plan, with salaries adequate to attract and maintain qualified and
educated teachers, affects the entire system. Low content knowledge and poor teaching skills are
important contributing factors to high repetition and dropout rates and low student achievement.
Equally important is the lack of focus on student leaming achievement. Few teachers
interviewed as part of a beneficiary assessment study evaluated their own performance in terms of
4



FUNDESCOLA II                                                     Project Appraisal Document
student leaming and most attributed student failure to the students themselves. A 1990 study
found that a majority of school principals placed student learning in fourth place in order of
importance, behind: (1) the relationship between school teachers and other employees; (2)
administrative performance; and (3) teacher performance. The items considered least important
were: (1) dropping out; (2) repeating; and (3) passing to the next grade. The same study also
found that student achievement was higher in those schools where it was ranked higher in priority
by school principals.8
4. Poverty-related factors
In 1996, at least 23 percent of all Brazilians were poor, where the poor are defined as
individuals living in households with per capita monthly incomes below R$65.07.9 The
Northeast, North and, to a lesser extent Center-West are the poorest of Brazil's five geographic
regions, with poverty headcount ratios of 30, 48 and 16 percent, respectively. Using a higher
poverty line of R$131.97 (which allows for the non-food expenditures made by people whose
incomes just allow them to purchase the minimum food basket) results in a poverty headcount
index of 45 percent for Brazil as a whole, and regional poverty rates calculated at 60, 75 and 45
percent, respectively, for the North, Northeast and Center-West.
Poverty affects children's chances of successfully completing an eight-grade education.
Studies have shown that parents' demand for schooling for their children depends in part on their
own level of education. Since low education level of the household head is strongly correlated
with poverty, and most poor households are headed by someone with less than four years of
schooling,'0 it follows that poor children are at a disadvantage: they are less likely to live in a
family that values education highly. Moreover, parents' lack of experience with the school system
hinders their ability to participate in their children's education and to advocate on behalf of their
children with teachers and other school authorities. Finally, poor children generally have access
to poorer quality schools than others, whether quality is measured by the adequacy of the facility
itself, availability of textbooks and other learning materials, or teacher qualifications. Poor school
quality is linked with both repetition rates and non-attendance, particularly low attendance among
older children. One of the consequences of low quality schooling is that about one in four poor 7
to 14 year olds (and 40 percent of poor 15 to 17 year olds) who are out of school report that "lack
of interest" is their main reason for not attending school.
5. Parent and community participation
There is a strong relationship between student performance and the establishment of a
school council or similar school-linked associations with parental participation."1 School
performance is higher in schools that routinely inform parents about their children's progress.
Active school councils or associations have not traditionally been part of the education tradition,
particularly in the North, Northeast and Center-West, where school authorities do not routinely
seek community involvement and views.
' 1990 SAEB study.
9 The poverty rates provided here were calculated by Ferreira, Lanjouw and Neri from the 1996
PNAD, for the Brazil Urban Poverty Strategy Paper (in process). R$65.07 is an "indigence line" equal to
the cost of a "minimum food basket."
10 ibid.
"A Call to Action."
5



FUNDESCOLA 11                                                     Project Appraisal Document
6. Lack of focus on the school
Most medium or large-sized municipal and state secretariats have archaic or bureaucratic
structures that do not treat the school as their primary client.12 Consequently, they have great
difficulty in supporting school autonomy, establishing school accountability systems, or
promoting and supervising school improvement programs. This lack of focus on the school has
three main causes: a very large number of schools and students that have stretched the
supervisory resources of these secretariat offices beyond their limits; poor education planning and
scarce information on local needs; and historical patterns, including patronage relationships
which run parallel to (and often at odds with) actual educational needs.
7. Weak municipal-state system coordination
The presence of a state education system and hundreds of municipal education systems
within the states, functioning in parallel but without coordination, makes the administration of
public schooling complex.13 The result is an aggregation of educational activities, patched
together by a jumble of agreements and conflicting interests, without sufficient regulation
regarding the interaction of the participating agents, and without either level of government
taking full responsibility for assuring quality education for all. The overlapping of administrative
systems makes it difficult to optimize resources, engenders inequality of opportunity and paves
the way for political patronage.
C. Government strategy
FUNDESCOLA implementation occurs at a propitious moment for improving primary
education in Brazil. The federal government has given highest priority to primary education,
initiating a number of significant reforms including: (a) amendment of the constitution and
approval of a law redefining the roles and responsibilities of each government level to ensure a
minimum per student expenditure; (b) direct transfer of funds to the schools, in an effort to
increase school autonomy and effectiveness; and (c) improvement of education quality, through a
national assessment system (SAEB), a textbook quality and distribution improvement program,
and national standards for curriculum development. These reforms, designed to decentralize the
funding of primary education, diminish regional disparities, and increase coordination among the
various systems, should have a profound impact on school quality, particularly to the degree that
states, municipalities and schools effectively use these resources, and to the degree that the public
has efficient mechanisms to monitor the application of these finances.
The Government's strategies and goals for the education sector are further outlined in the
Ministry of Education's adoption of the National Education Council's "1998 National Plan for
Education."14 The National Education Council's initiatives for the primary education sector
specify a number of goals that FUNDESCOLA II will support, including: increasing the number of
graduates by 70 percent, which will require an annual 5 percent reduction in repetition and
dropout rates, increased student performance as measured by the national assessment system
(SAEB); elimination of the category of uncertified teacher; definition of minimum operational
standards; a guarantee that new schools meet these minimum operational standards; an increase
12ibid.
13 Ibid
14 The National Education Council is an association of education leaders from municipal, state,
and national governments, universities, labor groups, and other non-government organizations. The Council
has statutory responsibilities for the formulation of education policy under mandates in the constitution and
specific legislation.
6



FUNDESCOLA II                                                 Project Appraisal Document
in the community's participation in education; and the promotion of school autonomy. In short,
those issues which are at the heart of the design of FUNDESCOLA have been taken up as the
standard of the federal government, in its efforts as champion of educational improvement.
D. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project
FUNDEF. With the objective of reducing the disparities in the financing of primary
education across states and municipalities, Congress approved Constitutional Amendment No.
14/96 on December 9, 1996. This amendment, along with Federal Law No. 9.424/96 of
December 24, 1996, established the Fund for the Development and Maintenance of Basic
Education and Teacher Valorization (FUNDEF), requiring that fifteen percent of total municipal
and state revenues be used to finance an education fund in each state. This fund guarantees that
every primary school student, whether enrolled in a state or municipal school, benefits from a
spending floor of R$300 (raised to R$315 for calendar year 1998). Amendment No. 14/96 also
requires that the federal government top up with federal funds any state's FUNDEF that falls
below the spending floor.
FUNDESCOLA II supports FUNDEF in two major ways. First, FUNDESCOLA will promote
local accountability by: (i) training municipal secretaries of education and members of the
legally-mandated municipal FUNDEF council in the project's targeted areas; and (ii) by
collecting and analyzing local financial data and by publishing information on FUNDEF revenues
and expenditures in each municipality and state participating in the FUNDEScOLA II project.
Second, FUNDESCOLA will develop tools and programs for municipal and state governments to
use to meet several of FUNDEF's mandates including: (i) guidelines and software for municipal
govemments to create cost-efficient and quality-promoting career systems for their teaching
force; (ii) instruments and software for systematic monitoring of educational finance; and (iii) the
development and financing of the PROFORMACAO distance education program for training and
certifying teachers (described below).
School Autonomy. The National Education Development Fund (FNDE)-sponsored "Money
Direct to the School Program," which was designed to increase school autonomy and reduce
inequalities, has expanded rapidly since its inception in 1995, transferring resources on the basis
of school size and community participation."5  FUNDESCOLA's design, promoting the
development of school-based planning skills, should help ensure that these new resources are
used to the greatest advantage.
The 1996 National Education Law (LDB) stimulates innovation and initiative on the part of
educational agents in order to avoid excessive bureaucratization, give priority to primary
education and strengthen the role of the municipality in the provision of grades one through eight.
The LDB also guarantees that every public school in Brazil must meet acceptable minimum
operational standards. Still needed, however, is an operational definition of minimum operational
standards and its incorporation into the daily life and culture of school and system management.
FUNDESCOLA'S activities in this area are a direct attempt to meet this need.
" On January 13 1999, Congress approved a provisional law (Medida Provisoria 1784-1) to
institutionalize this federal transfer of resources to schools.
7



FUNDESCOLA II                                                   Project Appraisal Document
III. Project Description Summary
A. Strategy for strengthening schools, secretariats and public participation
The FUNDESCOLA program starts from the premise that children's educational
performance is largely determined by the quality of the schools they attend. At the school level it
is a function of three sets of interrelated factors: (a) the knowledge, practices and commitment of
the school's principal and staff; (b) the school's learning conditions; and (c) parent support for
schooling and their own children's learning. A second and related proposition is that these factors
are dynamic and can be affected by government policy and programs. Finally, public
understanding of and support for school-based development is an essential ingredient in assuring
the political climate and resource base to sustain and expand the education development process.
Consequently, in order to improve children's learning performance in the public elementary
education system within the North, Northeast and Center-West regions of Brazil, the
FUNDESCOLA program will work at three levels of intervention: the school, the education
secretariat and the broader public.
FUNDESCOLA STRATEGY
2  : a~~~~~~~~~ ~ ~~~~~~. .... ... ... ....   ..i
SO;A MOAb;11BILZATION, COMMUNIC:ATIO3N AND PUBIC ACCONTABILIY(Level 3)
IN900STITUTIONA  SUPPORT  lO  ChO  flEV)LOPMEN  (Leel 2)i  000903}ji 
1. School-Based Development - the First Level of Intervention
School improvement is grounded in the notion of a school-based development strategy.
The ultimate objective of this strategy is to transform thousands of poorly performing schools,
which enroll the majority of children in the project's targeted regions, into effective, high quality
institutions in which student learning is prioritized and the elusive goal of success for all students
8



FUNDESCOLA 11                                                  Project Appraisal Document
is increasingly within reach. This strategy is based upon the proposition that school reform can
and does take place when the school principal and staff are given greater responsibility for school
improvement, offered well-structured guidance in the process of self-diagnosis and strategic
planning, and are supported by a regular technical assistance and follow-up program. In addition,
the institutional and local political environment must be rest--uctured to support these types of
changes.
FUNDESCOLA's school-based development strategy is designed to be phased in over time
for two reasons.  First, this type of transformation requires fundamental changes in the
knowledge, attitudes, and behaviors of school principals, teachers and parents, as well the staff
and management of the secretariat of education. It takes time for these stakeholders to recognize
their responsibility and ability to make school reform happen. Second, experience and research
demonstrate that it is not possible to motivate and support school reform simultaneously in a large
number of schools. Consequently, whereas all schools in the region will immediately benefit from
the direct transfer of resources, fewer schools will undertake a development plan or continue with
the strategic planning process (please see also Section IVA, Project Rationale, and Annex 2 for
more detailed information on inputs and school selection criteria).
Step 1: Schools given resources to manage
The first step in the school-based development strategy is that schools must be given
some autonomy over financial resources. This autonomy helps the school staff and community
make decisions that materially affect the school and helps them assume greater responsibility for
results. Under the FUNDESCOLA program, therefore, all municipal and state schools in the
Northeast, North and Center-West Regions will receive a small discretionary budget (enough, for
example, to purchase two books per student) through direct transfer from the federal government.
The project will deposit these funds into a school bank account managed by the school executing
unit or council, composed of parents and school staff. This council will be responsible for making
decisions about how to spend the funds, carrying out comparison shopping, ordering and
receiving the goods and services, and keeping the accounting records up-to-date.
Step 2: Helaing schools attain Minimum ODerational Standards.
In order to improve educational outcomes, schools must be capable of functioning at least
at a minimally acceptable level. Within the three target regions, decades of inadequate education
financing have yielded thousands of schools in which teaching-learning conditions are so poor
that they cannot be properly termed "schools." In addition, because state and municipal
governments have consistently allocated system resources without planning or targeting the
worse-off schools, nearly every municipality in the targeted area suffers from tremendous
differences in learning conditions across schools and neighborhoods.
The second step in the school development strategy is to improve conditions in these
schools so that all children have the opportunity to learn. The minimum operational standards
model is a checklist that specifies the essential inputs and human resources needed for schools to
function and offer children the opportunity to learn. Each and every school in the targeted
microregions is visited and examined by local education secretariat staff trained in the application
of the minimum operational standards instruments. Schools found to be incomplete in any one of
the essential elements, from qualified teachers to basic educational materials, are considered
below standard. The investments needed to bring each school up to standard are carefully
specified and costed out. This information is then used in the development of municipal and state
strategies to bring all schools up to standard within an agreed timeframe. In addition to helping
these secretariats of education identify substandard schools and develop an investment strategy,
9



FUNDESCOLA 11                                                 Project Appraisal Document
FUNDESCOLA will finance the classroom module of minimum operational standards for 25
percent of schools (serving approximately 1,120,000 students) in the targeted areas. FuNDESCOLA
will also finance PROFORMAQAO, a distance-education teacher qualification program to train and
certify teachers in the 19 states served by the project (see section V(C)).
Step 3: Schools prepare own "School Develovment Plan "
The FUNDESCOLA strategy recognizes that once schools are on the road to attaining
minimum operational standards, the school team can more effectively focus on its primary
mission -- improving student learning. Importantly, the strategy accounts for the fact that having
these minimum conditions alone will not lead to improved educational outcomes. Within a subset
of schools receiving the classroom module for minimum operational standards, therefore,
FUNDESCOLA will support an intensive school-based institutional development and strategic
planning process culminating in a school development plan.
The school development plan is both the result of one process (diagnosis and strategy
formulation) and the starting point of another (school improvement implementation and
monitoring). School principals initially undergo an intense training program in strategic planning,
addressing such issues as community mobilization, resource management, and teacher career
planning. These skills are immediately applied in the design of their own school development
plans. The entire school community (including parents, teachers, and school staff) meets to
identify, analyze and prioritize the problems at the school, establish and quantify specific school
improvement objectives, and agree on an action plan. The expression of this overall diagnosis and
agreement on actions and targets is the school development plan. Equally important is the
process of cooperation, in which students, parents, teachers and school directors work together at
every stage of the plan's development to reach concrete goals for their school. Initial experiences
have shown that this participatory process not only results in increased loyalty and support to the
school on the part of parents and staff, but serves as a rich and highly practical professional
development program for the school principal.
Step 4: Schools receive financing to execute their School ImDrovement Project
The school development plan includes a section called the school improvement project
(PME). This is a specification of an action plan the school stakeholders have identified as
necessary for the school to achieve its agreed targets. It also estimates the financial support the
school needs to carry out their school improvement project. Schools use their school
improvement projects to inform municipal and state education authorities on which inputs or
training they need help in financing. Schools then purchase services and activities that they
determine are important for achieving their school development plan goals, i.e. upgrading library
or lab equipment, or improving teacher practice in math. FUNDESCOLA will finance these school
improvement projects and will promote their financial sustainability. In addition, after the first
round of school improvement projects is completed, FUNDESCOLA II will finance, through a
competition, additional rounds of school improvement projects from the same schools that
elaborated school development plans during the first year. Finally, to promote the expansion of
the process to other schools in the microregion, FUNDESCOLA II will also offer a matching fund:
municipalities or states will be able to match their own resources to those of this fund to finance
school improvement projects developed by schools not included in the project's initial selection.
Step 5: Schools adapt and implant teachi,w/learning models and desions.
The final step in the strategy is based on the proposition that even when schools have
some autonomy over their budgets, have attained minimum operational standards, have gone
10



FUNDESCOLA II                                                 Project Appraisal Document
through the process of creating a school development plan, and are implementing school
improvement projects in a sustainable way, efforts to improve educational outcomes may be
hampered by a lack of knowledge of effective pedagogical and managerial strategies.
Accordingly, FUNDESCOLA will support the further development and pilot testing of a range of
pedagogical and managerial models that have been used successfully in Brazil and other
countries. One of these designs, Escola Ativa, was developed and pilot-tested by the Second and
Third Northeast Basic Education Projects as an innovative whole-school design for rural multi-
grade (1st through 4h grade) schools. It is currently being implemented by 178 schools under
FUNDESCOLA I financing and will be expanded, under FUNDESCOLA II, to over 1,200 schools.
FUNDESCOLA II will develop, test, and disseminate other models that schools or school systems
may adopt in order to improve classroom instruction, content knowledge, and content-related
pedagogy. This may include: (a) intensive professional development models centered around the
recently approved National Curriculum Parameters; and (b) models designed around the
classroom application of learning assessment tools coupled with a targeted teacher development
and support program.
2. Institutional Support for School Development: the Second Level of Intervention
While the major emphasis of the FUNDESCOLA design is to improve conditions at the
school in order to raise student attainment and achievement, the approach also recognizes that
schools do not exist within an institutional vacuum, but in fact depend on other entities for
guidance and resources. These are the state or municipal secretariats of education responsible for
managing the schools under their administration. In order for the school-based development
strategy to be effective and self-sustaining, local education managers and their institutions need to
understand and accept the rationale behind the strategy and command the know-how to support
and promote school-based development. Consequently, the project design includes a program of
secretariat-based institutional strengthening. This program centers around two elements: (a) a
management instrument-the Secretariat Management and Business Plan; and (b) software and
databases for resource planning-the Microplanning Geographic Information System and the
Integrated Management Information System.
(a) Helping Secretariats Develop Management and Business Plans
FUNDESCOLA II will help secretariats of education, both at the municipal and state level,
integrate the key elements of the FUNDESCOLA program into their administrative structure
through the use of a new instrument, the Management and Business Plan (PGS). In partnership
with FUNDESCOLA, Secretariats of Education will develop a management plan to re-orient their
programs and organizational structure to focus on schools-promoting equity, effectiveness, and
efficiency within their systems. For example they will develop their own investment strategy to
use the minimum operational standards both to target the least endowed schools and to
systematically coordinate the delivery of complete packages of inputs and teacher certification
support to assure that all children have an equal opportunity to learn. The Plan will also help the
secretariat enhance their supervisory function, making it both technically competent and oriented
to support schools' efforts to prepare and implement school development plans and school
improvement projects. In addition, secretariats will be able to access information on revenues and
expenditures, both from FUNDEF and other sources in order to budget effectively. They will
acquire the legal instruments needed to transfer their own resources to schools. Finally, they will
use the Management and Business Plan to design and institutionalize a career plan for education
professionals emphasizing continuous improvement and incentives for better classroom
performance of teachers. Finally, FUNDESCOLA I will promote transparency, joint planning, and
integrated commitment for municipal and state governments to coordinate their delivery of
11



FUNDESCOLA 11                                                 Project Appraisal Document
education in every municipality and to assure that all children have access to school. (see also
Annex 10)
(b) Usinz New Software and Databases for Planning and Monitorin'
Under the Northeast Basic Education Projects and FUNDESCOLA I, two new information
systems have been developed for use by Education Secretariats: the Education Microplanning
Geographic Information System and the Integrated Management Information System. These are
highly sophisticated computer applications, developed for and fully tested in the Brazilian
education context, designed to help secretariats of education undertake school system planning,
resource allocation, personnel management and promote accountability. Under FUNDESCOLA II,
these software applications will be incorporated into the Secretariat Management and Business
Plan so that installation, training and utilization of the instruments can be integrated into a single
institutional development program.
3. Social Mobilization and Public Accountability: the Third Level of Intervention
Turning education development upside-down in Brazil by putting the school rather than
the government in the driver's seat will require a substantial shift in perceptions, attitudes, and
behavior on the part of politicians, administrators, teachers, principals and parents. Influencing
these attitudes, encouraging participation, and disseminating the results of these changes are
crucial to FUNDESCOLA project implementation success as well as the institutional sustainability
and expansion of these new approaches across the region.
(a) Communication and Social Mobilization
To generate widespread support for the school-based development process, therefore,
FUNDESCOLA II will undertake a major social marketing campaign to: (a) generate understanding
and support among parents, teachers, students, politicians and the community at large of the
importance of schooling for personal and social growth and economic development; (b) stimulate
support for the school-based development strategy among these stakeholders and beneficiaries;
and (c) encourage specific behaviors, such as participation by parents and community members in
school councils and holding schools accountable for educating and promoting all children.
(b) Accountability
In addition, a final element of the FUNDESCOLA strategy is ensuring that stakeholders
have sufficient information to be able to set educational goals and be held accountable for their
part in achieving them. This will be done largely through support to existing national-level efforts
to improve the reliability and availability of educational information. National assessment results
will be categorized by school characteristics and disseminated to schools and school systems;
performance indicators from each school will be reported to each school and system in the same
year; standardized criterion-referenced test packages will be developed and made available to
school systems, and the results of FUNDESCOLA implementation and impact studies will be
disseminated. Under FUNDESCOLA II, much attention will be focused on: (a) the effective
dissemination of relevant information to different education system actors for use in educational
planning; and (b) the process of institutionalization of the National Institute for Educational
Research. This institute is in charge of the management of the National Education Information
System and the National System for Basic Education Evaluation (SAEB). As these systems are
12



FUNDESCOLA II                                                   Project Appraisal Document
relatively new, it is imperative to mainstream procedures and support strategic development in
order to guarantee sustainability.
(c) Research. piloting, analysis, and dissemination
In collaboration with World Bank technical staff and other national and international
experts, FUNDESCOLA n1 will undertake a longitudinal study of project implementation and
impact, with a special focus on the school-based development strategy. The design of this study
will incorporate random assignment, multiple data sources and methodologies, and state of the art
analytic approaches. Results of this study will be widely disseminated in Brazil to stimulate the
expansion of project activities and increase the potential impact of the project.
13



FUNDESCOLA II                                                Project Appraisal Document
B. Project components'6
Components and      Description          Level/Focus of       Relation to
Sub-components                           Activity             FUNDESCOLA I
I. Raising Schools to  Ensuring schools have  Statewide and
Minimum             conditions minimally   microregions
Operational         adequate for learning
Standards
A. Promoting School  Direct provision of    All schools statewide   FUNDESCOLA II will
Autonomy            funds to schools for    will receive financing  finance NE region,
minor school repair,                     and continue
as well as purchase of,                  financing of N and
inter alia, supplies,                    CW begun under
instructional material                   FUNDESCOLA I
& equipment
B. Educating and    Training for         All schools with     FUNDESCOLA I is
Certifying Teachers   approximately 69,000  uncertified teachers,   funding program
uncertified teachers in  statewide.      development;
grades 1-4 through                       FUNDESCOLA II will
support for national                     fund implementation
distance learning                        in all three regions
programs
C. Supplying Basic    Purchase of school    Within selected   FUNDESCOLA II will
Furniture and       furniture and        microregions, only    fund capital
Equipment           equipment necessary  those schools with   microregions in NE
to bring schools up to  physical conditions    states and 8 new
minimum operating    adequate to receive    microregions in N and
standards           these inputs         CW
D. Financing School-  Major renovation for   Within selected  FUNDESCOLA II will
Managed Physical    schools in too poor of  microregions, those    fund capital
Rehabilitation       shape to receive    schools with more    microregions in NE
Projects            furniture and        than 100 students in   states and 8 new
materials           need of major        microregions in N and
rehabilitation to be  CW
brought up to
minimum standards
E. Implementing the   Construction of new    Within selected  FUNDESCOLA I does
Model School        model primary        microregions, those    not cover
Program             schools. Priority    schools proposed by   construction;
given to replacing  the Forum and        FUNDESCOLA II will
school that are unsafe, approved by DGP as   cover construction in
unsalvageable, or   per microplanning    N, NE and CW
incapable of meeting   technical
demand as identified   specifications and
by microplanning    priorities.
priorities
16 See Annex 2 for a detailed description.
14



FUNDESCOLA II                                                 Project Appraisal Document
Components and      Description          Level/Focus of        Relation to
Sub-components                           Activity              FUNDESCOLA I
II. Establishing a   School-based         Those schools within
School Development  initiative to improve   microregions that
Process              school quality and   approach minimum
student learning    operating standards
A. Designing and     Consensus-building    All schools that    FUNDESCOLA II will
Implementing School  process on part of   approach minimum     finance capital
Development Plans    school and           operating standards    microregions in NE;
(PDE)                community focussing   with more than 200  18 additional
on school            students in selected    microregions in N and
improvement         microregions          CW
B. Financing School   School Development   Phase 1: All schools   FUNDESCOLA II will
Improvement Projects  Plans will include  with completed school cover Phase I in N,
(PME)                specific proposal for   development plans;    NE and CW; as well
financing school    Phase 2: For          as Phase 2 in N and
improvement         participating schools'  CW
2nd year, 2/3 of Plans
will be financed on a
competitive basis.
Phase 3: Incentives
for jurisdictions to
expand to additional
numbers of schools
C. Developing,       Pilot different      A subset of schools    New to FUNDESCOLA
Testing and          approaches and       having completed a    II
Implementing         materials aimed at   School Development
Pedagogic Models    improving pedagogy   Plan
and student learning
III. Promoting       Efforts to stimulate    National/state/
Communication and   demand and support   Microregions
Social Mobilization   for the school-based
development approach
and disseminate
results
A. Supporting        Dissemination of     National/State/      New to the
FUNDESCOLA through  strategy and results of  Microregions      FUNDESCOLA II
Communication and    FUNDESCOLA                                project
Dissemination        program
B. Carrying out Social Building a network of  States/          Some activities
Mobilization         social communicators  Microregions        included under
Campaigns            to mobilize the public                    FUNDESCOLA I; higher
around FUNDESCOLA                         priority in
objectives                                FUNDESCOLA II
15



FUNDESCOLA II                                                Project Appraisal Document
Components and      Description          Level/Focus of      Relation to
Sub-components                           Activity            FuNDESCOLA I
IV. Strengthening   Support for existing    Primarily national, but Continued financing
National Education   efforts to improve  with state and school   under FUNDESCOLA II
Information Systems  reliability of and  linkages            with additional
and Programs        access to information                    activities
A. Improving        Efforts to improve   Primarily national, but Continued financing
Educational         national assessment   with state and school   under FUNDESCOLA II
Assessment          and integrate national  linkages         with additional
and international best                   activities
practice
B. Improving and    Support for Integrated  Primarily national, but Continued financing
Disseminating       Education Information  with state and school   under FUNDESCOLA II
Educational         System (SIED),      linkages             with additional
Information         school census and                        activities
other activities
C. Developing Studies Evaluation studies for  Primarily national, but Continued financing
and Research in     FUNDESCOLA, as well  with state, school and  under FUNDESCOLA II
Education           as other issues      project linkages    with additional
activities
V. Management and   Support for various    State/Microregions    Continued financing
Institutional       institutions involved                    under FUNDESCOLA II
Development of      in supporting schools                    with additional
Education Systems   and program                              activities
im lementation
A. Strengthening    Training, workshops,  State/Microregions    Increased emphasis
State and Municipal   and programs to                        under FUNDESCOLA II
Collaboration       promote transparency,                    with additional
commitment, and                          activities
integration of
planning for state &
municipal government
B. Institutional    Developing new       States/Municipalities   FUNDESCOLA II will
Development for     management models                        introduce this new
Secretariats of     for state & municipal                    subcomponent
Education           Secretariats of
Education to promote
equity, efficiency, and
effectiveness
C. Implementing     Development of       Microregions/       FUNDESCOLA II will
Microplanning       surveys & geographic  Municipalities     finance NE capital
information database                     microregions and 8
to increase ability of                   new microregions in
Education Secretariats                   N, CW
to promote access,
equity and quality
C. Project                               National/State      Continued financing
Management & Pilot                                           under FUNDESCOLA 11
Activities
16



FUNDESCOLA II                                                Project Appraisal Document
C. Project Cost Summary
Component                              Category    Costs- % of  Bank-  % of Bank
includes Total financing Financing
Contin-       (US$M)
gencies
W (US$M) W                          l
1. Raising Schools to Minimum         Physical &    355.5  88%    165      82%
Operational Standards                 Institution
Building
a. Promoting School Autonomy
b. Educating and Certifying Teachers
c. Supplying Basic Furniture & Equipment
d. Financing School-Managed Physical
Rehabilitation Projects
e. Implementing the Model School
Program
2. Establishing a School Development  Institution   17   4.3%     9.5      5%
Process                                Building
a. Designing and Implementing School
Development Plans (PDE)
b. Financing School Improvement Projects
(PME)
c. Developing, Testing and Implementing
Pedagogic Models
3. Promoting Communication and      Communication   4    1%        4       2%
Social Mobilization                  & Community
Strengthening
a. Supporting FUNDESCOLA through
Communication and Dissemination
b. Carrying Out Social Mobilization
Campaigns                           _
4. Strengthening National Education   Institution   10   2.5%      8       4%
Information Systems and Programs       Building
a. Improving Educational Assessment
b. Improving and Disseminating
Educational Information
c. Developing Studies and Research in
Education
5. Management and Institutional       Institution    13.5  3.4%    13.5    7%
Development of Education Systems       Building
a. Strengthening State and Municipal
Collaboration
b. Institutional Development for
Secretariats of Education
c. Implementing Microplanning
d. Financing Project Management and     Project
Pilot Activities                      Management
Bank Administrative Fee                            2.03   0.5%    2.03     0.9%
TOTAL                        _              402.03  100%   202.03    100%
17



FUNDESCOLA II                                                 Project Appraisal Document
D. Benefits and target population
The direct beneficiary of FUNDESCOLA II is the primary school-age population currently
enrolled in public primary education or entering school in the near future in the 19 states served
by the project in the North, Northeast and Center-West (a total of 16.5 million children). Within
the 27 microregions, program activities will be targeted, to varying degrees, toward 4.7 million
school children enrolled in 13,500 public primary schools. While the project does not specifically
target benefits to poor children, its geographic focus, concentration of inputs to worse-off schools,
and emphasis on addressing many of the systemic causes of school failure should
disproportionately benefit poor children (who suffer disproportionately from low quality schools,
high dropout and failure rates). Please see Annex 7 for additional poverty targeting information.
The most important stakeholders for the FUNDESCOLA program are the education
decision-makers, teachers, and other education specialists who manage and direct the primary
education schools and system. In the context of decentralization, it is important that education
managers at all levels be qualified in managing the education process and making effective and
informed decisions across a wide range of issues. By providing management tools and training in
such areas as school development processes, minimum operational standards, secretariat
management and business plans, teacher career planning, and school mapping, the project will
provide a large number of education professionals with the managerial capabilities they need to
run a more autonomous local system (see Summary of Social Assessment, below).
E. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
Implementation period: 5 years, July 1999 through June 2004
ExecutingAgency. Brazilian Ministry of Education and Sports (MEC)
FUNDESCOLA II is expected to be implemented over a five year period. A Midterm
Evaluation of the FUNDESCOLA program as a whole will be carried out when 50 percent of the
loan is disbursed. This is expected to occur on or about March 2001, which would be 18 months
into the implementation of FUNDESCOLA II and near the completion of FUNDESCOLA I. A detailed
project Operational Manual is already in use under FUNDESCOLA I and will be adapted under
FUNDESCOLA II. Project management arrangements are described below.
1. Centrai level coordination
At the federal level, the Central Project Coordination Unit (DGP) within the Federal
Ministry of Education has been responsible for the preparation and will be charged with the
administration of FUNDESCOLA II. The DGP has already demonstrated, through its capable
performance of similar duties under FUNDESCOLA I, that it is institutionally and technically ready
to: (a) serve as principal project counterpart to the World Bank and key government and
international agencies; (b) rely on the state-based Project Executive Coordination (COEP) and on
monitors/supervisors hired to support project implementation at the microregion level; (c) analyze
and approve state, intra-state, and microregion projects and annual work plans; (d) establish and
sign agreements with states, municipalities, and other government and international agencies;
(e) determine, together with the states, the definition of minimum operational standards;
(f) elaborate the annual implementation program based on the microregion programs; (g) conduct
project-related regional, state, and micro-planning studies; (h) analyze and submit to the World
Bank the relevant documentation for the acquisition of goods and services and expenditure
receipts; (i) update FUNDESCOLA's Project Operational and Implementation Manual (MOIP); and
18



FUNDESCOLA 11                                                 Project Appraisal Document
(j) prepare the progress reports and participate in the mid-term and final review according to
World Bank procedures.
2. State level coordination
At the state level, FUNDESCOLA operates by means of the Project Executive Coordination
Unit (COEP) within each state education secretariat, which: (a) serves as the key administrative
project unit at the state level; (b) prepares the Annual Work Plan with the participation of the
municipalities in that state and submits this plan to DGP for approval and registration in the SPA;
(c) coordinates project execution across municipalities and state school systems; (d) houses the
DGP monitors and supervisors; (e) coordinates communication and cooperation among the local
government agencies involved in project-related activities; (f) coordinates teacher certification
programs; (g) procures goods and services according to the guidelines of the World Bank;
(h) records and certifies expenditures; (i) prepares progress reports; and () monitors and
evaluates the outputs and outcomes of FUNDESCOLA in each state. As an executive agency COEP
will be established and its members selected and trained at the initiation of the project
implementation period (states with participating microregions under FUNDESCOLA I already have
their COEPs in place).
3. Microregion level coordination
At the microregion level, FUNDESCOLA has adopted the IBGE microregion as the best
way to promote collaboration and coordination between municipal and state education
management personnel in each of the municipalities involved, and to maximize efforts and
resources within a microregion. The mayors, or their representatives, in conjunction with the state
secretary of education and the state president of National Association of Municipal Education
Managers (UNDIME) are members of the microregion forum which operates as a local planning
instance of the project to: (a) negotiate the priorities within and across the municipal and the state
education systems in the microregion; (b) agree on the consolidation of the various municipal
action programs into a single, prioritized microregion action program (PAZ), (c) agree on
common targets for the microregion action program; (d) plan and monitor the implementation of
the microregion action program; and (e) and propose the annual implementation program to be
approved by the federal project coordination unit (DGP) and financed by FUNDESCOLA. The
microregion forum is assisted and advised by a technical group, whose role is to complete the
requisite surveys, the preliminary microregion action program, its implementation schedule, and
other technical documents. The microregion forums have undergone extensive training by the
federal project coordination unit (DGP) and are well established in each of the project states.
4. Municipal level coordination
At the municipal level, each municipality already participating in the microregion forum
is responsible for: (a) designing the municipal action program and schedule, and the municipal
annual implementation schedule; (b) assisting schools in designing their own school development
plan and school improvement projects; (c) fostering the operation of school councils and
community participation; (d) actively participating in their microregion forums; (e) developing
inter-municipal cooperation within the microregion; and (f) monitoring the delivery of goods and
services procured by the state Project Executive Coordination Units (COEP). Finally, guidance
and training for school leadership in the creation of a school development plan and school
improvement project will be offered through municipal-based School Development Teams
(GDE). These teams will be composed of municipal education professionals who will themselves
be trained by the federal (DGP) and state (COEP) level coordination units.
19



FUNDESCOLA 11                                                 Project Appraisal Document
5. School level coordination
At the school level, a leadership team composed of the principal and the pedagogical
coordinator or other lead staff at the school will be responsible for: (a) participating in
FUNDESCOLA's school development training program; (b) involving the entire staff of the school
as well as parents in the creation and implementation of a school development plan and
corresponding school improvement projects; (c) accepting visits and technical assistance from
DGP-contracted monitor/supervisors; (d) taking advantage of the ongoing school development
support offered by the school's respective GDE or COEP; (e) managing the use of FUNDESCOLA-
transferred funds for implementing the school improvement project, including purchasing goods
and services, maintaining accounting records for these purchases, and providing accounting
information to DGP during routine audits and review. A more detailed description of the
implementation arrangements, as well as indicators and targets for each subcomponent, can be
found in the Project Operations and Implementation Manual (MOIP).
IV. Project Rationale
A. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection
A number of alternatives associated with primary education quality, access, and
management as well as other education levels were considered. The program strategy,
components, and implementation arrangements chosen are those believed to be the most suited to
maximize project effectiveness, educational impact, and sustainability.
1. Alternatives to working in Microregions
Vastly complicating the educational picture in Brazil is the fact that there is no single
education system operating in any state or municipality. Instead each state is home to a state
education system and hundreds of municipal-run education systems, functioning in parallel in the
vast majority of towns and cities, but without coordination or cooperation, and competing for
limited resources. Faced with this situation, most previous education projects and programs in
Brazil, whether supported by the World Bank or otherwise, have chosen one of four strategies: (a)
projects for municipal education systems, executed by one or more of the 5500 or so
municipalities, either directly or with the Federal Government as coordinator (e.g., the First
Northeast Basic Education Project-EDURURAL); (b) projects for state education systems,
executed by one or more state governments, either directly or with the coordination of the Federal
Government (e.g., Proqualidade in Minas Gerais); (c) working directly with state governments to
execute projects for state and municipal systems, with obligations and expectations that the state
government would assist or influence municipal education systems (e.g., multi-state projects such
as the Second Northeast Basic Education Project); and finally (d) projects executed by Non
Government Organizations, including the private sector, to assist an extremely limited clientele,
but without the involvement of government execution (e.g., UNICEF projects, American
Chamber of Commerce's education quality projects, and Bradesco Bank projects). None of these
approaches thus far has proven particularly effective in addressing issues of competition and
overlapping areas of responsibility.
The FUNDESCOLA program is distinct in its approach to these institutional issues. Rather
than choosing between state and municipal systems, the program works directly with both state
and municipal secretariats of education within a limited geographic area, defined through use of a
20



FUNDESCOLA 1I                                                  Project Appraisal Document
microregion planning model. While some of the FUNDESCOLA program activities will be state-
wide and involve all municipalities (for example, resource transfer to schools to promote
autonomy, or the PROFORMAQAO program to qualify all uncertified teachers), most program
activities will be directed to selected microregions, and are designed to support the school-based
development strategy described in section III.A. 1, above. The microregions are defined by the
Brazilian Census Bureau's (IBGE's) microregion grouping, and consist of from about five to as
many as 20 or more adjacent municipalities that share many socio-economic interests and
characteristics.
While the microregion does not constitute an administrative division, it provides a focus
for planning and negotiation among several municipal governments and the state government.
Within the boundaries of the microregion, for example, the state and municipal secretariats of
education will need to collaborate in the implementation of a survey and planning process to raise
a subset of schools (both state and municipal) to minimum operational standards. Administrators
from both the state and municipal systems within the microregion will also be trained to support
the initiation of school development plans in these schools. Social mobilization activities within
the microregion are designed to create interest in and demand for the school-based development
approach. By encouraging states and clusters of municipalities to work together, the program
seeks to increase accountability and transparency in the use of resources, as well as facilitate
dialogue and learning regarding student results and the school development process.
Also central to the FUNDESCOLA strategy is the decision to concentrate efforts in selected,
rather than all microregions. Thus rather than work with all 2,682 municipalities forming part of
the Northeast, North and Center-West regions, FUNDESCOLA II will work primarily in the 19
capital-city microregions of the North, Northeast and Center-West states (covering 146
municipalities), and 18 additional microregions in the North and Center-West states (covering an
additional 101 municipalities). The decision to limit the number of microregions, municipalities
and schools was a pragmatic one: given the project's emphasis on in-depth support for school-
level reform, to take on more would seriously strain current implementation capacity.
With regard to the choice of microregions, the inclusion of the capital city microregions
was based on three factors: (a) these regions have the highest concentration of poor families
within each state, the greatest degrees of inequality, and levels of extreme poverty comparable to
any other microregion; (b) physical proximity between state and municipal education secretariat
teams is likely to facilitate collaboration (and project supervision) efforts; and (c) municipal
education secretariats within the capital cities tend to be better organized than many others,
giving the project the opportunity to experiment with reforms within a range of institutional
settings, including some which from the outset are considered "easier." Although the capital city
and additional microregions selected under the project include both rural and urban areas, the
project's geographic targeting means it is not specifically aimed at solving the problems of the
regions' poorest rural schools. Lessons learned from the implementation of the FUNDESCOLA
program, however, may help address some of these problems in the future. For more information
regarding the use of the microregion concept and program poverty targeting, please see Annex 7.
2. Alternative project designs
Top-down versus bottom-up design. Alternatives for improving the quality of primary
schooling included: (a) implementation of an entirely top-down model in order to ensure greater
consistency across schools and more effective control at the national level; and (b) establishment
of a completely bottom-up school-driven method for determining needs and resources. The first
alternative was discarded as prior project experience and education sector evaluations have
demonstrated that local interests need to be considered in order to ensure effective
21



FUNDESCOLA 11                                                   Project Appraisal Document
implementation and greater sustainability. Time and time again, top-down, input-oriented
strategies have failed to substantially affect the teaching-learning process in the classroom. Such a
top-down strategy would also have run counter to recent government commitment to
decentralization through such programs as direct school transfer programs, school lunch programs
and textbook selection.
The fully bottom-up alternative was rejected based on the evaluation of capacity at the
school level that indicated that school principals are not yet politically or technically capable of
adequately expressing and rapidly attaining their needs for school inputs within the structure of
the current system. Moreover, without appropriate public demand and accountability, municipal
education secretariats have not assumed their responsibility for strengthening schools and
supporting quality improvements. In addition, the slow pace of a fully bottom-up approach would
dampen political support for the project in particular and increased school autonomy in general.
Furthermore, project components such as coordination of teacher certification and quality
assurance of selected inputs were found to be more cost-effective if carried out at a higher level
than the school. For these reasons, a more integrated form of project implementation that includes
both top-down and bottom-up methods was selected.
With regard to demand for schooling, an approach similar to the federally funded Bolsa
Escola program, which gives a minimum salary to needy families provided that they enroll and
maintain their children in school, was considered. However further analysis demonstrates that this
type of program has better chances of success in high quality school systems. Beneficiary
assessment analysis and classroom observation studies (carried out under the "Call to Action"
program) demonstrated that children's persistence in school and their parents' expectations about
educational attainment are low when they believe that the school offers a low quality education.
Consequently, this alternative was rejected in favor of a project that attacks the supply-based
problems of the project's participating microregions, namely the lack of planning, low school
quality and insufficient school places.
3. Alternative education levels
Preschool programs. The option of including preschool education in the project was
rejected as it would have diverted scarce resources and diluted the impact on primary education.
The importance of preschool education programs and their impact on future student success has
been examined in Brazil and other countries. Preschool education is currently under investigation
by the government as an area for future investment.
Secondary Education: Rates of return to primary education were found to be high, with
an average of 13 percent for each additional year of primary school completed. While rates of
return to secondary education in Brazil are also very high (in excess of 20 percent), the main
problem plaguing Brazilian education, particularly in the project's targeted regions, continues to
be how few students manage to satisfactorily complete primary education and move on to the
secondary level. On the other hand, investment in secondary education is being pursued by a
number of state governments, as well as by the federal government, since expansion and
improvement of secondary school places may well serve as an extra incentive for students to
finish the final years of primary school. Given that low completion rates are particularly marked
in the Northeast, North and Center-West regions, investment in primary education is still
considered to be the most equitable or cost-effective investment.
22



FUNDESCOLA II                                                Project Appraisal Document
B. Major relatedprojects financed by the Bank or other development
agencies (completed, ongoing, and planned)
Latest Supervision
Sector issue                      Project              (Form 590) Ratings
(Bank-financed proects only)
Implementation    Development
Bank-financed        -                                 Progress (IP)    Objective (DO)
Primary education access and quality   Northeast Basic  Completed       completed
Education
Primary education quality         Urban Basic Education  Completed      completed
Project, "Monhangara"
Primary education access and quality   Northeast Basic  Completed       completed
Education II
Primary education quality         Northeast Basic      S                 S
Education III
Primary education quality        Innovations in Basic    Completed      completed
Education
Primary education quality         Parana Education     S                 S
Quality
Primary education quality         Minas Gerais Pro-    S                 S
quality
Primary education quality         FUNDESCOLA I         S                 S
Primary education quality         Bahia Basic Education  In preparation
Primary education quality         Ceara Integrated     In preparation
Education
Early Childhood Development       Rio Early Childhood   In preparation
_  Development
Economic & Sector Work --primary    Primary Education in   Completed 1997
education                        the Northeast
Economic & Sector Work - early    Early Childhood      In preparation
childhood education               Development
Economic & Sector Work-secondary  Secondary Education   In preparation
education
Economic & Sector Work --teacher    Teacher Development  In preparation
training and remuneration
Economic & Sector Work - higher    Higher Education    In preparation
education                        I
Sector Issue                      Activities                        Status
Other development agencies
UNICEF                            Complementary to Bank Projects;
Child Rights focus Support to non-
govermnent sector
Ford Foundation                   Ceara Early Child Development     not started
Project
IDB                               Parana Secondary Education        Just started
Professional Education            Just started
Secondary Education               not started
Notes: IP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory),
HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)
23



FUNDESCOLA 11                                                 Project Appraisal Document
C Lessons learned and reflected in the project design
Following the lessons learned from the design and implementation process of
FUNDESCOLA I (FY1998, Loan 4311-BR)the Northeast Basic Education Project (NEBE ii, FY
1993, Loan 3604-BR and NEBE III, FY1994, Loan 3663-BR), and prior Bank experience in
Brazil (including EDURURAL), FY1980, Loan 1867-BR), FUNDESCOLA II will incorporate those
project aspects that were successful in achieving their intended objectives, avoiding those aspects
that, upon evaluation, were deemed incomplete or unattainable. These lessons primarily include:
(a) a fund design concept for project disbursement; (b) development of specialized training
modules for targeted areas, with emphasis on the school; (c) the National Textbook Program
(PNLD) evaluation and distribution processes; (d) training programs for education managers; and
(e) increased emphasis on communication and social mobilization and the use of incentives to
support project objectives.
The design of FUNDESCOLA was heavily influenced by the fund design of the Northeast
Basic Education Project, which allows for more efficient institutions to draw upon available
resources. This process was found to be very effective in reducing waste, promoting effective
resource management, and ensuring the arrival of funds to those using them to the greatest
advantage. As proved in the experience of the Northeast Basic Education Project, each state,
municipality, and school will be accountable to and coordinate with existing systems managers to
ensure successful implementation of the project.
International project experience has also influenced the formation of the FUNDESCOLA
program, including (a) the lessons from Chile, Uruguay, and other Latin American countries in
promoting school improvement projects (PME) for the procurement of context-appropriate
materials and increasing stakeholder input; and (b) the Colombian Escuela Nueva program, which
achieved effective results in the modular use of textbooks, capacity-building of teachers, student-
centered learning, evaluation of student attainment, and community participation for multi-grade
schools.
The current nationwide evaluation process of textbooks (PNLD) was adopted and
developed by MEC based on the previous experience of the NEBE II and III, which introduced
innovative procurement procedures. The purchase of textbooks is now made through the teachers'
choice based on a guide containing titles recommended by education specialists and teachers.
This guide classifies the books according to content and pedagogical quality, promoting
improvement by the publishers. Textbook distribution for the entire country has improved
significantly since the first delivery made under the Northeast Basic Education projects. The
books now arrive at the start of the school year, their arrival in the school is being monitored
through a special operation introduced by MEC, and a new delivery system is being implemented
by the post office. The selection and delivery of basic school supplies to schools under the
FUNDESCOLA projects is modeled after this successful example of local selection combined with
central procurement and oversight.
To promote effective personnel management in basic education, the project derives
lessons from the positive experience of the Northeast Basic Education Project in the training and
capacity-building of municipal and state secretaries in the Northeast (Municipal Education
Secretaries Support Program [PRASEM]). The project coordination unit will continue to build
upon the success of the Northeast Basic Education Project, especially in termns of effective
management techniques and built-in accountability requirements.
24



FUNDESCOLA II                                                 Project Appraisal Document
Finally, the design of FUNDESCOLA II has benefited from the implementation experience
of its sister project, FUNDESCOLA I. Lessons include the need to give higher priority to social
mobilization and communication efforts in promoting the school-based development approach;
the benefits to funding a second group of school improvement projects, providing an incentive for
schools to stay focussed on the issue of quality improvement and practice the planning skills they
have learned; and providing incentives for municipalities to expand the school-based
development approach to additional schools.
D. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership
Government commitment to the FUNDESCOLA program is manifest in: (a) the origins,
context and content of the project design; (b) the very good implementation record of
FUNDESCOLA I; and (c) the state of preparedness of FUNDESCOLA II.
The FUNDESCOLA program has its origins in a series of 13 studies of the causes of school
failure in the Northeast region of Brazil which formed the basis for the sector study, "Brazil: A
Call to Action" published in 1997. The process of conducting and reviewing both the research
and recommendations for this study was a broadly collaborative one, involving the federal
government, the World Bank, UNICEF, representatives from federal universities in the Northeast,
representatives from political groups concerned with education, including the National
Association of Municipal Education Managers (UNDIME), and state Secretaries of Education.
The recommendations contained in the report were widely discussed and agreed, and they form
the basis of the design of many of the FUNDESCOLA activities and strategies. As discussed earlier
(see key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project), the FUNDESCOLA program
also directly supports the implementation of a number of important recent changes in the legal,
financial and operational framework governing the education sector. Government commitment to
the policy reforms supported through the FUNDESCOLA program has already been demonstrated.
FUNDESCOLA II implementation will benefit directly from the advanced execution of the
FUNDESCOLA I project. The fact that 50 percent of the loan has already been disbursed from the
FUNDESCOLA I loan demonstrates clearly the high implementation capacity of the project team
and the local executing agencies. More specifically, all of the schools selected to prepare School
Development Plans have completed their analysis, established their targets, and detailed their
School Improvement Projects. All ten microregion forums have prepared detailed planning and
programming documents. Detailed classroom-by-classroom school surveys have been completed
by the local secretariats of education for all of the schools in the ten microregions of the
FUNDESCOLA I project, and the information from these surveys has already been encoded in the
education microplanning geographic information system. The project management infrastructure
at the state and central level is already in place and fully trained. And finally, bidding documents
for minimum operational standards for the classroom modules have been published
internationally.
The status of preparation of FUNDESCOLA II is well advanced. In preparation for
FUNDESCOLA II, the DGP has already: (a) discussed the project's proposed design through several
meetings with state and municipal education staff from all of the capital-city microregions in the
nine Northeast states; (b) conducted training for state and municipal govemment staff in the
application of key instruments for the program; (c) held at least thirty meetings with state and
municipal representatives to discuss the project's framework and reach agreements on: the
participation of executors, the creation of the microregion forum, the naming of the project team
in each state, and the time-frame for project execution. In addition FUNDESCOLA was formally
presented and discussed by participating municipal and state secretaries in the three regions
25



FUNDESCOLA II                                                   Project Appraisal Document
through Municipal Education Secretariat's Support Program (PRASEM) seminars, as well as
meetings with the National Council of State Education Secretaries (CONSED).
E. Value Added of Bank Support
Informed Cooperation: As the chief external financing institution in the area of basic
education over the past ten years, the Bank has had the opportunity to develop a well-informed
and close familiarity with the key education challenges in Brazil and has come to recognize
windows of opportunity. More importantly, over the last few years it has built up a fluent
dialogue with the leading education authorities and institutions of Brazil. This dialogue has grown
despite the presence of ideological differences between a number of the key actors, and across
changes in the political landscape. "A Call the Action" and the "PRASEM" workshops are
excellent examples of the Bank's ability to facilitate dialogue and generate consensus around
critical issues in the sector. The Bank has also been actively promoting, for Brazilian Ministry,
State, and Municipal education leaders and technical staff, the sharing and exchange of ideas on
international education sector experience. Consequently, the Bank has been able to play the role
of the "honest broker" in policy dialogue, has provided continuity, has promoted the exchange of
international experience, and has served as a critical friend in supporting the implementation of
development projects and policy reform.
The recent cooperation and exchanges developed with Brazil's major national professional
associations of education managers, the National Council of State Education Secretaries
(CONSED) and the National Association of Municipal Education Managers (UTNDIME), have
also provided the Bank with detailed information and analytical perception of local, state and
regional needs and demands. Especially important is the Bank's ability to use global knowledge
to create local solutions in the areas of education evaluation and assessment, governance reforms
and management restructuring, teacher certification and professional development programs.
Derived from experience gathered from supporting basic education projects in other countries,
particularly with regard to the school development process, and assembled from the Bank staff's
analysis of education systems and school reform in England, Scotland, Australia, and the United
States, the Bank is able to share its technical know-how with its clients in Brazil.
Poverty Focus: The World Bank's Brazil-specific project experience and sector work on
education and poverty have made the institution well prepared to incorporate poverty targeting
into an education project. In particular, lessons from the EDURURAL project (completed in 1990),
studies and instruments prepared under the ongoing Northeast Basic Education Project, the 1995
poverty assessment, analysis of social spending at the state level, and the urban poverty strategy
report (in process) have facilitated the identification of key poverty and regional imbalance issues
associated with the education sector. This knowledge base has informed the strategic choices
made in the design of FUNDESCOLA. The project focuses on Brazil's three poorest regions, the
North, Northeast and Center-West. However, in the realization that directing resources to poor
regions is not sufficient to assure adequate poverty targeting, the project focuses its efforts within
the three geographic regions on communities where the poor are concentrated. In addition, within
these microregions, schools with greater needs receive the most project resources. Students
attending low quality schools are generally those from poorer households. The project's focus on
raising all schools to a certain standard and compensating for past inequalities differs from
Brazil's historical approach to equity in spending, which has, at best, centered on providing the
same resources to all.
26



FUNDESCOLA 11                                                  Project Appraisal Document
Innovation: Although World Bank-financed projects in Brazil differ from one another
tremendously, all have generated innovation. During the preparation and implementation of this
program, the Bank will leverage the success and experience gathered from these innovations,
including textbook development and student performance evaluation from the Northeast Basic
Education Projects, school strengthening in the Minas Gerais project, teacher development and
accelerated learning in Sao Paulo, and municipalization in Parana.
V.  Summary Project Analysis17
A. Economic Assessment'"
The starting point of FUNDESCOLA II's economic analysis is the fact that high repetition
rates have clogged the flow of students in such a way that both academic achievement and per
student costs depend primarily on increasing approval rates. The high cost of primary education is
related to the fact that 19.26 years of enrollment are necessary to produce one eighth grade
graduate,19 instead of the eight that would be necessary if the flow of students were perfect.
FUNDESCOLA'S main weapon against high repetition is the School Development Process. The two
variables that will determine how much repetition drops are: (i) the percentage of schools
undertaking PDEs, which depends on the number of schools raised up to Minimum Operating
Standards and (ii) the average effectiveness of each PDE, based on a pilot experience in Mato
Grosso.
The cost-benefit analysis of FUNDESCOLA was undertaken in the following manner: (i) a
flow model was estimated for each participating microregion; (ii) a historical trend was applied to
project how the flow of students would look without the project; (iii) the impact of the project on
this flow was estimated using the two key variables described above; (iv) the difference between
the two flows was taken; (v) given this difference, the savings in enrollment and increases in
academic achievement were calculated ; (vi) these savings and increases were converted into two
monetary flows up to the year 2012 using per student cost and private rate of return to education;
and finally (vii) the internal rates of return for each of the two flows were calculated for five to
ten and 15 years of project life.
The IRR results are as follows:
Scenario                            Worst      Middle    Middle   Best
Poor       Good
Social IRR after 10 years           1.01%      12.54%     24.26%    39.37%
Social IRR after 15 years           9.26%      19.08%     29.23%   42.66%
Even under the most unfortunate and bleak of scenarios, the social rate of return after 15
years is quite satisfactory. The reasons for these impressive results is dismal state of the flow of
students in Northeast, North and Center-Western schools. High repetition rates make each student
cost two to three times what he might under a perfect flow. The consequence is that even small
increases in approval rates can have large effects.
17 Detailed assessments are in the project file; see Annex 9.
18 See Annex 4.
'9 The figures refer to 1996 educational census. This does not mean that the average 8g grade
graduate takes 19 years to finish school, as enrollment years pertaining to those who drop out before 8t are
also counted.
27



FUNDESCOLA II                                                   Project Appraisal Document
B. FinancialAssessment0
Three issues are important in analyzing FUNDESCOLA'S financial impact: (i) whether it
places an excessive burden upon the Federal treasury; (ii) whether it is financially sustainable,
and (iii) what its role will be given the present fiscal crisis. Annex 5 shows that, even when fully
disbursed, the entire FUNDESCOLA program will amount to less than 0.5% of net public debt and
less than 0.8% of outstanding Federal debt. Counterpart funds will amount to, at most, one
percent of mandated Federal education expenditures. Sustainability is discussed in Annex 4.
FUNDESCOLA will create little or no new expenditure as expansion of the existing school system
is not among its objectives. On the contrary, if its goals are achieved, FUNDESCOLA will lead to a
much more efficient school system and thus save resources.
The present fiscal crisis will, however, have an impact on both FUNDESCOLA II's
financing and its relation with other educational investments. The international financial crisis has
transformed a chronic imbalance in public finances into an acute fiscal crisis. This means that all
government, including social, expenditure must be cut. FUNDESCOLA II itself has seen its first-
year budget reduced from R$ 386 to R$ 199 million. It has been agreed with project management
that if funds are insufficient to meet yearly project targets, first construction and then furniture
purchases would be deliberately delayed.
On the other hand, given the present context of reduction in social expenditure, the issue of
efficiency resurfaces with great importance as increased efficiency may offset some of the
negative impact of budget reductions. FUNDESCOLA II's objectives are exactly to increase the
efficiency of educational expenditure.
C. Technical Assessmentl
[X] Summarize issues below (for example, appropriate technology, costing)
[ ] To be defined (indicate how issues will be identified) [] None
During the last three years, curriculum parameters for all lower primary grades were
revised and thoroughly updated and detailed by MEC for use by all schools in the country. These
parameters cover pedagogical content for all eight grades of primary school. The FUNDESCOLA
teacher and staff development programs, and the education materials to be acquired with
FUNDESCOLA support, will be evaluated by education experts during project preparation and
implementation to ensure that they are consistent with these curricular parameters.
The decision to use a combined top-down (centralized definition of guidelines and
provision of materials, pedagogical tools) with a bottom-up approach (school selection of
materials, development of independent school plans and funding proposals) to improving school
quality is discussed at greater length in Section IV(A) - Project Rationale. The choice of the
school development plan as a primary means for improving school quality and management is
based on positive experiences in other countries, pilot projects in several Northeast states, and
preliminary experience with FUNDESCOLA I.
Teacher Development. Teacher training under the FUNDESCOLA II project will be
supported in three very different ways. First, FUNDESCOLA II will launch the most ambitious
certification program for uncertified or "lay" teachers that Brazil has ever seen-PROFORMACAO.
20 See also Annex 5.
21 See also Annex 9.
28



FUNDESCOLA II                                                 Project Appraisal Document
Second, specific staff development needs will be identified in School Development Plans, and
training activities will be included in the School Improvement Projects. Third, pedagogical
models, incorporated as the final step of the school-based development process, require intense
training and reorientation of the entire school staff around the basic philosophy of the design, and
on the implementation of the design by the schools selecting it.
PROFORMAJA2O. At a time when the distance education is commonly confused with the
application of advanced communication technologies in otherwise unchanged organizations,
PROFORMAqcAO will demonstrate one of the most recent innovations in systematic distance
education. FUNDESCOLA's PROFORMACAO program will qualify and provide teaching skills to up
to 69,000 uncertified but practicing teachers in a model distance learning program. Designed to
initiate a significant number of school teachers in the value of participating in the self-directed
process of being learners-at-a-distance,. this virtual system uses content experts, technology
specialists, instruction and learner support, and monitoring and evaluation from a dozen
contributing organizations. Managed by a very small administrative unit at MEC which
coordinates scheduling and distribution of materials, the proposed system is more cost-efficient
than organizations like the Open University (which employs their content, design, and
instructional resource personnel as well as large administrative staff).
Teacher training in School Development Plans. Implementation of the FUNDESCOLA I
project has demonstrated that specific teacher training is of highest priority to schools. In the
majority of the 400 School Improvement Projects under FUNDESCOLA I, school teams were
willing to spend their entire school improvement project budget on teacher improvement. To meet
this demand, private-school teachers or university professors are often contracted to provide
specific in-school instruction to practicing teachers in areas such as: "teaching initial reading,"
"how to teach 2nd grade mathematics." FUNDESCOLA 11 will support an additional 1400 school
improvement projects, many if not most of which are likely to include teacher development
investments.
Design-based teacher training. Pedagogical models and designs, such as "Escola Ativa,"
require that all school staff participate in intensive training and technical support workshops on
the organizational and pedagogical aspects of the design. As these designs are developed and
implemented by schools, FUNDESCOLA II will support the provision of the specific training
associated with them.
D. Institutional Assessment22
[X] Summarize issues below (for example, project management, monitoring and
evaluation capacity, administrative regulations)
(a) Executing agencies: Much of the success of FUNDESCOLA II will hinge on the
willingness and capacity of the state and municipal secretaries to cooperate within the
environment of the microregion forum. In assessing the capacity of the municipal and state
secretaries to coordinate with one another, the experience of the first FUNDESCOLA project is very
telling. The microregion forum has provided an historic opportunity for state and municipal
coordination, with FUNDESCOLA and FUNDEF as incentives. The collective ability of the group
of secretaries in terms of planning, monitoring, procurement and management is much greater
than that of any one municipal secretary operating independently. The range of experience,
education and abilities that each secretary brings to theforum will enrich both the experience of
22 See also Annex 10.
29



FUNDESCOLA 1I                                                   Project Appraisal Document
the forum members and the product of their efforts, the microregion action plan. Issues of
institutional sustainability are addressed below.
(b) Project management: The federal Project Coordination Unit (DGP) has experience
in managing the implementation of the Northeast Basic Education Project, and has also been
successfully managing FUNDESCOLA I. An outstanding issue is how much of this managerial
experience at the federal and state level can be eventually absorbed by the parent institutions
(MEC and the State Secretariats of Education).  This issue is addressed below  under
Sustainability and Risks.
(c) Monitoring and Evaluation: Monitoring and evaluation activities are stronger under
FUNDESCOLA II than FUNDESCOLA I. While in most cases the project supports the improvement of
existing educational monitoring and assessment efforts, specific studies of project implementation
and impact have also been included.
(d) The role of UNDP in institutional support. The Ministry of Education will require
high levels of technical support in order to effectively carry out its coordination role in Project
management. Likewise, effective transformation of the COEPs and the GDE's into institutions
capable of effectively executing this project will require significant levels specialized
management support. FUNDESCOLA II will rely upon the support of the United Nation's
Development Program (UNDP).  UNDP's contribution to MEC under the FUNDESCOLA II
Project will involve technical assistance to Ministry staff through, inter alia, the contracting of
consultants and specialized consulting firms in the areas of strategic planning, design and delivery
of, and support for, project implementation and monitoring systems, the development of the
SAEB and national student census database and dissemination systems, and technical assistance
and intensive support services for dissemination and communication programs. With regard to
state and municipal institutional project implementation capacity, UNDP consultants will be used
in the development and support for the Integrated Computerized Information System (SIIG) for
state governments, the design and implementation of the state/municipal microplanning systems,
the delivery of training services and support for the PDE and PME for over 247 municipal
secretariats of education and 1,200 schools, and FUNDESCOLA II's institutional development
efforts for state and municipal secretaries of education (PRASEM). Through several years of
collaboration, the Ministry of Education and all of State Secretariats of Education involved in
FUNDESCOLA II Project have established close working relationships with the UNDP. This high
degree of trust and cooperation has led the Ministry of Education to seek continued support from
this international agency.
E. Social Assessment23
FUNDESCOLA II's ability to achieve its educational goals as an equity oriented project
may be affected, both positively and negatively, by various social factors. Three of the most
positive factors at play are the solid and increasing political support provided by the government
to basic education, the brand-new and many-faceted national consensus for and commitment to
education, and parents' continuing demand for educational services for their children in spite of
serious economic constraints.
Studies exploring stakeholder perspectives reveal that there is a widespread belief in the
value of education, and a general belief among most stakeholders that the quality of primary
education needs to be, and can be, improved. Available evidence also suggests that although
economic pressures on poor families and limited access to higher levels of primary education
23 See also Annex 8.
30



FUNDESCOLA 11                                                  Project Appraisal Document
continue to be problems, poor quality education is the primary reason behind school failure and
dropout. For example, 1996 LSMS data indicates that 23 percent of poor 7-14 year olds and 41
percent of poor 15-17 years olds who were out of school cited "lack of interest" as their main
reason for not attending, though less than 1 percent of the same group felt they had already
attained the desired level of schooling.
There is also a fair degree of overlap in opinions regarding what needs to be changed.
Better physical conditions for schools, more and better material and equipment, a more relevant
curriculum, and better qualified teachers are mentioned again and again in interviews across a
range of stakeholders. The design of the FUNDESCOLA program takes these perspectives into
account, while also attempting to address some of the root causes of the problems identified.
Thus, for example, repair of school buildings and equipping of classrooms are included in the
project, within a larger framework of promoting the use of minimum operating standards and
state and municipal cooperation in microregional planning. Teacher training is also included in
the project as described in the technical annex above.
Attitudes and perspectives that present a challenge for the project include: (1) a sense of
disconnection and lack of shared perspectives between schools and their communities; (2) the
lack of a common view among teachers and principals that student learning is their main priority;
(3) teacher misperceptions about repetition and literacy teaching; (4) lack of clarity about the role
of the school; (5) the personalization of school failure; and (6) a fairly widespread
"disempowerment syndrome" whereby everyone complains about the system, but few (be they
parents or municipal secretaries of education) assume the responsibility for change.
FUNDESCOLA's main mechanism for working at the level of the school and community (where
many of these attitudes prevail) is the school development plan. Conceived as a joint school-
community exercise, the school development plan is also the most likely entry point to begin to
address many of the'issues outlined above. Messages and activities developed under the project's
social mobilization and communication component should also help reinforce altemative
perspectives. As a concrete incentive for schools to participate in the school development process,
FUNDESCOLA II includes financing for school improvement projects developed as part of the
overall school plan.
At the state and municipal level, the project represents a fairly radical departure from the
status quo and will doubtless entail a range of attitude and behavioral shifts. By encouraging
states and municipalities to cooperate rather than compete for resources, the project will help to
clarify responsibilities and raise issues of accountability that have hitherto been obscured. This
process is likely to have its politically uncomfortable aspects. The challenge for the project will
be to demonstrate to both states and municipalities, that they can "do well by doing right" in the
educational arena. Here again, social mobilization and communications activities included under
the project should be helpful, both in maintaining pressure on political figures to do the right
thing, and in helping to publicize the successes of those that do. Training for state and municipal
education staff should give them a technical basis for decisions that in the past have tended to be
ruled by politics. Concrete incentives for municipalities to "buy in to" and expand project
approaches have also been included in FUNDESCOLA II- for example, a fund to support municipal
efforts to expand the school development process outside those schools selected by the project.
31



FUNDESCOLA 11                                                Project Appraisal Document
F. EnvironmentalAssessment
Environmental Category     [JA   [X] B  [f C
Component 1 of the FUNDESCOLA project includes school rehabilitation and new
school construction. These are the only two areas that could have potential negative
environmental impacts. School rehabilitation will take place on the existing site and the Project
Management Unit (DGP) already has written a manual for contractors on rehabilitation projects.
New schools will only be financed when indicated by the Microplanning and Geographic
Information System. If the existing school is in too poor shape to be rehabilitated, a new school
may be constructed on the same site, after razing the existing building, or on a new site may be
specified if demand for schooling is higher in another area. To address the potential impacts of
new school construction, the DGP has compiled a manual on site selection, based on its
experience in the Northeast Basic Education projects, and is in the process of compiling a manual
for contractors. All of the manuals mentioned here will be reviewed by the Bank at negotiations
to ensure that acceptable standards and environmental norms are followed. Finally, the DGP has
commissioned a team of architects to design standard school models for both urban and rural
areas. Municipalities building new schools will choose a model from this set of designs and must
adhere to its specifications. These architectural models will be approved by the Bank as well.
G. Participatory approach24
a. Primary beneficiaries and other affected groups:
Stakeholders        Identification/Preparation  Implementation        Operation
State Secretaries of            IS + CON                IS + CON        IS + CON + COL
Education
CONSED                          IS + CON                IS + CON        IS + CON + COL
UNDIME                           IS + CON               IS + CON        IS + CON + COL
Municipal Secretaries of        IS + CON                IS + CON        IS + CON + COL
Education
b. Other key stakeholders:
Beneficiaries       Identification/Preparation    Implementation     Operation
Students                           IS                      IS              IS + CON
Teachers                        IS + CON                IS + CON           IS + CON
Parent and Community            IS + CON                IS + CON        IS + CON+COL
Organizations                                      I                 I
(IS, Information Sharing; CON, Consultation; COL, Collaboration)
As mentioned above, the FUNDESCOLA program has been prepared adopting a wide and
detailed participatory strategy. In each of the microregions involved in FUNDESCOLA I and II, the
active involvement of key stakeholders (municipal and state education secretariats, UNDIME,
CONSED, and universities, among others) has been channeled to FUNDESCOLA through the
following activities: (a) discussion and elaboration of conceptual framework, or a log frame, as a
disciplined way to organize and mobilize the project preparation team around a conceptual and
operational instrument; (b) involvement of mayors and the municipal and state secretaries of
education in consultation meetings; (c) design of Municipal Education Plans by the municipal
education secretaries in view of the upcoming project; (d) development, by municipal and state
24 Key stakeholders, how involved, and what they have influenced.
32



FUNDESCOLA II                                                 Project Appraisal Document
education secretariats, of a thorough assessment of their schools as compared to the agreed
minimum operational standards checklist; and (e) participation in beneficiary assessments carried
out or planned for in all three target regions.
VI. Sustainability and Risks
A. Sustainability
Financial Sustainability: Financial sustainability of the first project is ensured by both the
external context and internal composition of FUNDESCOLA. The external context of FUNDESCOLA
is ensured by its relationship to the FUNDEF. FUNDESCOLA will operate concurrently with the
FUNDEF, which automatically transfers resources within each state to assure a minimum per-
student expenditure of R$3 15 (1998). With regard to internal composition, financial sustainability
is ensured by the phasing mechanism of FUNDESCOLA. For school construction FUNDESCOLA II
requires that the FORUM demonstrate a need for the school through microplanning as well as the
fiscal capacity of the jurisdiction to maintain the school and staff. The school development
process encourages the school to manage its own affairs as well as to look to community and
state resources for support, through the school development plan, which must indicate sources of
funding (FUNDESCOLA or otherwise) for current and planned projects.
Institutional Sustainability: The strongest argument for the institutional sustainability of
the FUNDESCOLA program rests in the program's close links to other major national education
programs and initiatives. Many of FUNDESCOLA's core activities involve training, including
programs for municipal and state secretariats of education in support of decentralization; training
for schools in support of quality improvement goals and school autonomy, as well as key features
of national education policy. While the training and capacity-building activities are time-bound, it
is expected that their results will be sustainable and reinforced through links to wider education
policy and requirements.
At the level of the school, it is still unclear how much outside support and incentives will
be required for the school development process to "take" - that is for a focus on school quality
and student results to become a part of school culture. Experience in Mato Grosso and elsewhere
has shown that once a school and its community become involved in the school development
process that they are likely to continue. Nevertheless, concerns regarding the sustainability of
changes at the school level have prompted the decision to incorporate a second round of funding
for school improvement projects into FUNDESCOLA II. Increased emphasis on social
communication and mobilization in support of the school development process should also help
ensure the sustainability of school-level reforms.
A second question is whether the benefits of the project's microregion approach (among
them greater state/municipal cooperation and financial transparency) can be sustained after the
project's close, given that the microregion itself is not an administrative entity. While there are
obviously no guarantees, it is reasonable to expect that cooperation under FUNDESCOLA may
foster a more collaborative and informed culture than has existed in the past. The project's
deliberate and systematic inclusion of educational actors such as the National Association of
Municipal Education Managers (UNDIME), the Council of State Secretaries (CONSED) and the
university community in project development has helped focus a range of disparate perspectives
on improving system performance. Support for the project among these more permanent entities
should also help sustain project momentum in the face of political changes at the local level, as
should the existence of the microregion forum itself.
33



FUNDESCOLA II                                                     Project Appraisal Document
Finally, there is the question of project management, which will be handled by project
coordination units at the federal and state levels. While the location of project coordination units
inside executing agencies (the Ministry of Education and State Secretariats of Education) charts a
middle course between the pitfalls of an outside Project Implementation Unit (PIU) and the
danger of losing a project within the existing bureaucracies of line ministries and secretariats,
there is still the risk of parent institutions "losing" valuable experience once project coordination
units are disbanded. To minimize this risk, the FUNDESCOLA design emphasizes the coordination
rather than execution role of these units - line ministry and secretariat personnel will be the
primary executors of the project. The fact that state-level and municipal-level personnel will be
both the recipients of training and involved as trainers themselves (under the school development
process) should help ensure that knowledge gained under the project is institutionalized.
B. Critical Risks'5
The FUNDESCOLA program is undeniably an ambitious one. Critical risks to the project
include the assumption that the current political commitment to improving primary education on
the part of the federal government and many state governments will hold, despite Brazil's having
entered another period of economic and perhaps political instability. A long period of economic
hardship is likely to shift families' evaluation of the costs and benefits of additional schooling,
and perhaps also divert energies and attention away from efforts to improve school quality, Tight
budgets are also likely to delay progress on improving teacher salaries. Abandonment of the
FUNDEF in the face of federal and state financial disputes would also seriously compromise
project implementation.
Beyond the multiple risks associated with economic instability, resistance to increased
school autonomy is likely to surface at both the state and municipal levels. And even if political
commitment at the leadership level is strong, commitment and technical skills at all levels (within
schools and education secretariats) may be insufficient to effect dramatic changes. Difficulties in
supplying good-quality teacher training may also prove to be a bottleneck to improving
educational outcomes. Although the project design has attempted to compensate for these risks as
much as possible, they will need to be monitored throughout project implementation, and
modifications made to the project design as necessary. The main risks are summarized below:
25 Reflecting assumptions in the fourth column of Annex 1.
34



FUNDESCOLA II                                                 Project Appraisal Document
Risk                      Risk Rating   Risk Minimization Measure
Lack of political commitment and technical support  N      Social Marketing fosters
of state and municipal education secretariats.             community pressure for change.
Low level of cooperation among the state and      M        Microregion forum and required
municipal systems.                                         cooperation.
Lack of commitment of the school team and low     M        Fostering community support
community participation.                                   through various media.
End of decentralization efforts on the part of federal  N  Political awareness of success at
government.                                               local level.
Failure to implement the FUNDEF.                  M        Understanding on the part of
secretariats of the re-distributive
value of the Fund.
Lack of community and political commitment for    M        Social Marketing.
reform including demand for quality services, social
mobilization, and monitoring.
Low commitment for improving the educational      M        Fostering of social awareness
experience as a means of poverty reduction and             through publication of success
national development.                                      of project.
Overall Risk Rating                        M
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N (Negligible or
Low Risk)
VII. Main Loan Conditions
A. Effectiveness Conditions
The following four items are the loan effectiveness conditions:
(a)   that at least two Participation Agreements with Participating States and
Municipalities located in the Center-West Region comprising three Participating
Microregions have been entered into among the relevant parties;
(b)   that at least four Participation Agreements with Participating States and
Municipalities located in the North Region comprising five Participating Microregions
have been entered into among the relevant parties;
(c)   that at least five Participation Agreements with Participating States and
Municipalities located in the Northeast Region comprising five Participating
Microregions have been entered into among the relevant parties; and
(d)   that the MOIP has been furnished to the Bank.
35



FUNDESCOLA II                                                  Project Appraisal Document
VIII. Readiness for Implementation
[ ] The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready
for the start of project implementation. [X] Not applicable.
[]The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for
the start of project implementation.
[X] The Project Operations and Implementation Manual has been appraised and found to
be realistic and of satisfactory quality.
IX. Compliance with Bank Policies
This project complies with all applicable Bank policies, especially those indicated below:
]   Indigenous peoples                     [    Riparian water rights
]   Cultural property                      [    Financial management
[x]   Environmental impacts                  [ ]  Financing of recurrent costs
[ ]   Natural habitats                      [x]  Local cost sharing
[x]   Gender issues                         [x]  Cost-sharing above country three-year average
[ ]   Involuntary resettlement               [x]  Retroactive financing above normal limit
[ ]   NGO involvement                        [ ]  Disputed territory
[x]  Other (provide necessary details)
Task Team Leader: Robin S. Horn, LCSHD
Sector Manager/Director: Xavier Coll, LCSHD
Country Manager/Director: Gobind T. Nankani, LCC5C
36



FUNDESCOLA 11                                                                            Annex 1
Project Logframe
Annex 1
FUNDESCOLA II
Project Logframe
Narative  Smy03Cts_
NartieSnmaiy     Key Per$oruac indicators   Monitoringmad Evaluation  Critical Aswumptions
Sector-related CAS Goal:                                                (from Goal to Bank Mission)
Achieve universal primary  Increased average years of  IBGE and IPEA reports.  Significant commitment on
education by 2007 and    schooling for economically                     the part of the population
improve academic        active population in                            and Govermnent to pursue
performance in basic    targeted regions.                               targeted educational efforts
subjects, particularly                                                  that will contribute to
Portuguese and           Increased percentage of                        improving educational
mathematics.             youth that have completed                      access, completion, and
primary school in the labor                    quality outcomes for the
market in targeted regions.                    poor.
Higher standard of living
for youth in targeted
regions.
Development Objective:   (Key Performance                                (from Development
Indicators, by June 2007)                      Objectives to CAS Goal):
Improved educational     Increase the proportion of   INEP-SAEB and ENEM   Economic Stability
outcomes of children     fourth grade students   reports, and annual
enrolled in public schools   meeting acceptable learning  report on school  Availability of employment
in the targeted areas of the   standards in Portuguese  indicators from INEP.   for primary school
North, Northeast, and    from 28.3% (N), 32.8%                           graduates.
Center West regions.     (NE) and 36.7% (CW) in
1997 to 50% in 2007 in the                     Availability of adequate
Project's targeted areas;                      number of quality secondary.
school places.
Increase the proportion of   INEP School census.
eighth grade students    DGP's SPA             Understanding by parents of
meeting acceptable learning  Reports from CGE and   the social and economic
standards in Portuguese  CPE of INEP.          importance of primary
from 43.6% (N), 43.8%                          education and the
(NE) and 54.9% (CW) in                         importance of ensuring that
1997 to 60% in 2007 in the                     their children learn enough
Project's targeted areas.                      to be promoted each year.
(Leading perfornance                           Recognition by politicians,
indicator, by June 2004)                       business, and the general
population of the importance
Increase the average                           of stimulating the education
promotion rates in primary                     profile of the young.
school from 64.2% (N),
64.7% (NE) and 71.5%                           Municipal secretaries with
(CW) in 1997 to 85% in                         technical, administrative,
2003 in the Project's                          and financial conditions to
targeted areas.                                operate systems, programs,
and methods used by project.
37



FUNDESCOLA 11                                                                               Annex I
Project Logframe
NFrrati~S~um~aiy _       _       n~i_dc*tor~  ~mit~rliig ae77
Output:
1. School quality raised  1.1 All schools with more   INEP School census.  Schools willing and able to
towards operational      than 20 students in N, NE                        adopt effective methods and
standards in targeted areas.  and CW in receipt of direct  DGP's SPA.     educational designs to
school transfer funds.                          improve educational results.
COEP reports from OE
1.2 15,000 classrooms    LSE compiled by CPE.   Increased demand by the
rehabilitated in the targeted                   public for higher quality
microregions.            CIE/DGP reports.       schooling and greater
learning.
1.3 15,000 classrooms
meeting minimum                                 Adoption of career plans by
operational standards.                          state and municipal
secretariats.
1.4 Number of uncertified
teachers in classrooms                          Integration of state and
reduced by 75%.                                 municipal secretariats to
supply better schools.
2. School-based          2.1 1,150 schools with PDE
Development Process      implemented.                                     Availability of financial
implemented in targeted                                                   resources and political will
areas.                   2.2 1,350 schools with                           from state and municipal
PME implemented.                                education secretariats to
grant autonomy to schools
2.3 2,000 rural schools with
pedagogic models                                Municipal secretaries with
implemented.                                    technical, administrative,
and financial conditions to
3. Social Mobilization   3.1 Social mobilization                          operate systems, programs,
campaign implemented.    campaign in targeted areas                       and methods used by project.
reaching 75% of population
by 2002.                                        Availability of institutions in
target areas who can supply
3.2 Three workshops held                        teaching/learning
w/each microregion forum                        improvement programs.
to establish agreements &
disseminate objectives and
methods of FUNDESCOLA
Program.
4. National education    4.1 60% of students in
information system       targeted regions enrolled in
established and operational.  schools that receive annual
education indicator reports
4.2. At least 1 Kit w/
standardized student
achievement tests
developed and tested.
38



FUNDESCOLA 11                                                                             Annex I
Project Logframe
Narrative SumrKy PerformanceIniators   Monitorg and Evaluation           Critial Assumptions
4.3 Recommendations of
applied research
disseminated to DGP &
incorporated in
FUNDESCOLA III design.
5. Management of schools  5.1 Secretariat Management
and education system     and Business Plan
improved.                implemented in two
secretariats of education.
5.2 Microplanning and
Geographic Information
System implemented in
targeted areas.
5.3 70% of secretaries of
education directors in
targeted areas trained.
5.4 25% of school directors
who have adopted PDE
trained in school
management.
Components and
Subcomponents:
1. Raising Schools to    355.5 million
Minimum Operational
Standards
A. Promoting School
Autonomy
B. Educating and
Certifying Teachers
C. Supplying Basic
Fumiture and
Equipment
D. Financing School-
Managed Physical
Rehabilitation Projects
E. Implementing the
Model School Program
2. Establishing a School  17.0 million
Development Process
A. Designing and
Implementing School
Development Plans
(PDE)
39



FUNDESCOLA II                                                                            Annex 1
Project Logframe
B. Financing School
Improvement Projects
(PME)
C. Developing, Testing,
and Implementing
Pedagogic Models
3. Promoting            4.0 million
Communication and Social
Mobilization
A. Supporting
FUNDESCOLA through
Communication and
Dissemination
B. Carrying Out Social
Mobilization
Campaigns
4. Strengthening National   10 million
Education Information
Systems and Progrars
A. Improving Educational
Assessment
B. Improving and
Disseminating
Educational
Information
C. Developing Studies and
Research in Education
5. Management and       13.5 million
Institutional Development
of Education Systems
A. Strengthening State and
Municipal
Collaboration
B. Institutional
Development for
Secretariats of
Education
C. Implementing
Microplanning
D. Project Administration
and Pilot Activities
40



FUNDESCOLA II                                                              Annex 2
Detailed Project Description
Annex 2
FUNDESCOLAII
Detailed Project Description
FUNDESCOLA PROGRAMAND PROJECTS
FUNDESCOLA II is the second project within a medium-range and more comprehensive
program designed to support primary education in the nineteen states of the North, Northeast, and
Center-West regions of Brazil. Whereas FUNDESCOLA I finances start-up activities in the ten
capital microregions of the North and Center-West, FUNDESCOLA II will initiate project activities
in the nine capital microregions of the Northeast, and an additional eight microregions in the
North and Center-West. FUNDESCOLA II will also provide continued financing for ongoing
activities undertaken as part of FUNDESCOLA I (for a discussion of the microregion concept, see
below, as well as Section I1 (A) of the main text and Annex 7).
All of the FUNDESCOLA projects will pursue the same development objective, namely: to
improve the educational outcomes of children enrolled in primary schools in selected areas of the
North, Northeast, and Center-West regions of Brazil, as measured by increases in primary school
promotion rates, as well as achievement levels of children in these regions. The projects comprise
many of the same activities and adopt the same overall strategy and decision-making process, as
described below. Apart from geographic emphasis and timing, the main differences between
FUNDESCOLA I and II include:
*  Component organization. Activities in FUNDESCOLA II have been re-grouped to better
reflect the overall program strategy, provide a sustainable foundation, and link the first and
third projects;
*  Greater understanding of school development process. FUNDESCOLA II reflects a deeper
understanding of the school development process and sharpened overall program strategy,
gained from experience under FUNDESCOLA I;
*  Implementation of pedagogic models. FUNDESCOLA II includes the implementation of
pedagogic approaches already tested under FUNDESCOLA I, and the development and
dissemination of new approaches to improve the teaching-learning process at the school
level;
*  Building institutional capacity. FUNDESCOLA II expands the program of secretariat-based
institutional development initiated in FUNDESCOLA I. In partnership with selected secretariats
of education, the Project will help these institutions to integrate key elements of the
FUNDESCOLA program into their administrative structures, technical procedures and decision-
making processes, and give top priority to school strengthening.
*  Greater emphasis on social mobilization. A lesson from FUNDESCOLA I is that more needs
to be done to encourage changes in existing educational culture. FUNDESCOLA II therefore
includes more emphasis on social communication and mobilization, including the
development of new materials for program dissemination and the promotion of a network of
agents to mobilize the main stakeholders towards the strategies of the program;
*  Financing for construction. FUNDESCOLA I includes preliminary planning activities and
development of architectural plans, but no financing for construction. FUNDESCOLA II
includes financing for construction of new schools, with priority given to substitution and
replacement of unsalvageable schools in all microregions covered by the two projects;
41



FUNDESCOLA II                                                              Annex 2
Detailed Project Description
*  Financing for teacher certification. FUNDESCOLA I iS financing the development of
certification training programs; FUNDESCOLA II will finance implementation in all three
regions;
*  Expanded program and project evaluation. FUNDESCOLA II will finance a program of
research and studies in education, with particular emphasis on the evaluation of project
implementation and impact.
FUNDESCOLA STRATEGY
The FUNDESCOLA program starts from the premise that children's educational
performance is determnined by the quality of the schools they attend. More specifically, it is a
function of: (a) the knowledge, practices and commitment of the school's principal and staff; (b)
the school's learning conditions; (c) information on educational results made available to parents
and the public; (d) parent and community support for education and schooling; and (e) the
support given to the schools by the respective Education Secretariat. In order to improve the
performance of the public elementary education system within the North, Northeast and Center-
West regions of Brazil, therefore, the FUNDESCOLA program works at both the level of the school
and the level of the several institutions (state, municipal and federal) that support the school. The
Project's design is a hybrid of both top-down and bottom-up approaches to improving school
quality: bottom-up in promoting greater school autonomy and involvement in solving quality-
related problems; top-down in establishing a baseline for school operation, providing inputs to
reduce inequalities among them, and involving supporting institutions in FUNDESCOLA's school-
based development strategy.
The principal objective of the school-based development strategy is to transform
thousands of poorly performing schools into high quality, effective institutions in which student
learning is prioritized and the elusive goal of success for all students is pursued. There are five
parts to this strategy, which will be phased in over time.
As a first step toward increasing school autonomy, all schools with more than 20 students
in the project regions will receive a small discretionary budget through a direct transfer from the
federal government. Second, the strategy will address the poor conditions in many schools
through support to states and municipalities in establishing "minimum operational standards" for
schools - a checklist of very basic items a school must have in order to function. The Project will
also provide teacher certification, furniture, equipment, rehabilitation and construction support for
a limited number of schools to bring them closer to minimum operational standards. Third, the
Project will work with selected schools to create school development plans. This is an intensive,
institutional development process at the school level, involving the entire school community,
including parents and students. Fourth, the Project will finance school improvement projects
arising out of the individual school development plans. Finally, the Project will finance the
development and implementation of a number of pedagogical and organizational models designed
to improve the teaching-learning process, as even those schools with the required resources,
physical conditions, and commitment to improving educational outcomes may lack the technical
knowledge and skills to do so.
Given the geographic breadth of the Project, project activities will be undertaken
selectively. While some project activities will be statewide, involving all municipalities and
schools, the bulk of project activities and inputs will be directed to selected microregions. A
microregion consists of a grouping of neighboring municipalities with similar socio-economic
profiles and interests, as defined by the IBGE.
42



FUNDESCOLA II                                                                                              Annex 2
Detailed Project Description
GRAPHIC 2.1 FUNDESCOLA I INPUTS AND SERVICES
STATE LEVEL
' All schools get direct funding
t All unqualified teachers get qualification
M Mobilization campaign to expand
FUNDESCOLAstrategy
t Educational assessment (representative
Sample of Schools)
All schools receive report cards on
education indicators                     STATE                      Capital
/               / ~~~~Micro-|
Region I
Micro            Micro/
Region It1       Region 1                  MICROREGION I          Key:
El State School
A Munidpai School
MICROREGION LEVEL                                                a
* Furniture and equipment                                   E        El A 
* School-managed physical rehabilitation                      A      AMunicipaity
-Substitution of substandard schools                     A                        ICapital city)
- Training & support for School Development           j                 El
Plans (PDE)
* Training & support for School Improvement Projects  A       El/   A              Municipality
* Communication to support FUNDESCOLA Program             A       El                    B
* Research studies on sample of schools                     A   A EA
A        s      N /Municipality
C
MUNICIPAL LEVEL
All schools receive direct financing               MUNICIPALITY C
Support for PDE and school
improvement prolect
Fumiture, equipment, teacher qualification
'Escola Ativa'
Fumiture, equipment, and funding for rehabilitation
Support for PDE and school
improvement project only                                      Construction of new school, based on microplanning
Pilots school-based pedagogic models and designs
43



FUNDESCOLA II                                                              Annex 2
Detailed Project Description
While not an administrative entity, the Microregion provides a basis for planning and
negotiation among municipal governments and the state government. The FUNDESCOLA projects
work with all municipalities within the selected microregions, as well as with both municipal and
state schools. Here again, there will be a selection process. All schools within the microregion
will receive some benefit from the Project, but not all will receive the same inputs. What schools
receive, whether physical upgrading, materials, and/or assistance in developing a school plan, will
depend upon the results of the schoolfacilities survey (LSE).
Graphic 2.1 portrays schematically how the benefits of the FUNDESCOLA components are
distributed to schools and education professionals in the states, microregions, and municipalities
served by the Project. The top figure (representing a typical state in the FUNDESCOLA region)
shows that all schools in the state (both municipal- and state-run) will benefit from direct
financial transfers (Component IA) and that all uncertified teachers will have access to the
PROFORMAQAO distance teacher qualification program (1B). In addition, social mobilization
activities (3B) designed to promote the strategy of school-based development and training for
municipal Secretaries of Education (5A) will be provided to every municipality in the state.
Finally, the entire state will participate in educational assessment, school census, and
dissemination of school performance data (4).
The middle figure represents a typical FUNDESCOLA-targeted microregion. State and
municipal schools from all of the municipalities in the targeted microregion will receive furniture
and equipment (1C). Schools from across the microregion that need to be rehabilitated will
receive funding for this purpose and technical support for contracting these services (ID).
Unsalvageable schools in the microregion will be substituted by new schools (1E) when
microplanning indicates a need to do so, and when the Microregion Fcrum (see below) endorses
such an action. In the microregion, all municipal secretariats of education will receive training
and support to help schools design and implement school development plans (2A) and school
improvement projects (2B).
The third figure shows how, in any given municipality, different schools receive different
benefits from the Project. For example, rural schools may adopt the "Escola Ativa" design.
Schools with a damaged roof or other severe physical problems would receive finances to
undertake repairs. Some schools will receive direct support from the Project in developing and
implementing School Development Plans and School Improvement Projects. Decisions about
which schools receive what kinds of benefits will be based on two main factors: (a) a technical
analysis and ranking of schools based on the data collected in the Minimum Operations Standards
school survey (the LSE); and (b) recommendations from the collective review processes of the
Microregion Forum.
FUNDESCOLA H COMPONENTS
COMPONENT I: RAISING SCHOOLS TO MINIMUM OPERA TIONAL STANDARDS
Objective
This component will provide inputs and services to bring schools in each participating
municipality closer to meeting minimum operational standards. The minimum operational
standards model is an input-based framework for improving educational equity with respect to
the basic prerequisites of schooling. It is also a starting place for the improvement of educational
quality. The rationale for this approach is based on the tremendous intra-municipal and
microregional disparities in school quality. Although all of the microregions are home to some
adequate quality schools, large numbers of children attend class in buildings that simply should
44



FUNDESCOLA II                                                                   Annex 2
Detailed Project Description
not be called schools as they do not provide even the most minimal conditions for teaching and
learning.
The minimum operational standards model is designed to operationalize the concept of a
functioning school. It consists of an agreed-upon, pre-deterrnined set of essential staffing
requirements, inputs and conditions needed for a school to be considered "operational." The key
instrument for implementing this model is a simple checklist of the teaching requirements, inputs
and services needed for a school to carry out its basic functions. The items included in the
checklist vary with the size of the school. For example, a very small school can operate without a
main office or a school library, whereas a large school would need these facilities in order to
function properly. The checklist is the basis for the school facilities survey (LSE), which
determines if the school meets or falls short of the minimum operational standard.
A school operating at the minimum operational standard is one that is considered
minimally capable of providing satisfactory conditions for student learning. The model assumes
that a school must have all of the minimum inputs and services present in order to achieve the
minimum operational standards status. Although schools and their secretariats can and should
seek to provide improvements above these thresholds in order to enrich the learning environment,
schools unable to offer these essential factors simply cannot provide an adequate opportunity for
children to learn. The overall objective of the component therefore is to bring schools closer to
meeting these minimum thresholds.
Definition of Minimum Operational Standards
FUNDESCOLA defines a school operating at the minimum operational standard as one
characterized by the following conditions:
*  the school staff and community are familiar with the minimum operational standards model
and checklist, and understand the equity considerations associated with this model;
*  all students have access to basic textbooks and reading books, and all teachers have access to
teaching guides;2
X  all teachers are minimally qualified under the law;
* all classrooms have a minimum set of furniture and equipment,
*  all classrooms have access to basic teaching materials;
*  the school offers the minimum physical conditions to permit it to receive or maintain the
inputs and services indicated above.
States and municipalities are encouraged to develop their own minimum operating standards. Care will be
taken, however, to ensure that these are in conformity with federal guidelines prepared by the Ministry of
Education.
2 The Ministry of Education regularly delivers these teaching inputs which therefore have not been included
in the FUNDESCOLA I and II projects.
45



FUNDESCOLA 11                                                              Annex 2
Detailed Project Description
Subcomponent A: Promoting School Autonomy
With the objective of promoting greater school autonomy, this subcomponent will
provide a small discretionary budget, based on school enrollment, (approximately US$7.00 per
student on a yearly basis) to all schools with more than 20 students in the Northeast, North, and
Center-West regions through direct transfer from the federal government. This procedure is
regulated by federal legislation that establishes the criteria, conditions and processes for financing
the schools directly ("Medida Provis6ria 1748-1 de 13/01/99" and "Resolu,co do FNDE de
21/01/99"). Having some autonomy over budgets is considered a crucial step towards making
schools increasingly accountable to educational results, and in giving schools the means to
continue to work towards meeting minimum operational standards. Normally, schools will
receive these funds directly into a school bank account managed by their school council.
Composed of parents and the school principal, the council will be responsible for making
decisions about how to spend the funds, comparison shopping, ordering and receiving the goods
and services, and keeping the accounting records up-to-date. If a school does not have a bank
account, funds designated for the school's exclusive use will be received by the relevant Mayor's
Office on the school's behalf. Funds will be used, inter-alia, for the purchase of instructional
materials and supplies, as well as for minor repair and maintenance. Acceptable purchases are
recommended by the legislation, while those schools within the project microregions are advised
to procure services and goods which will help them to attain the minimum operational standards.
The project will provide each school with recommendations on what to purchase. Specifically,
each school will receive a personalized letter from the Minister of Education, along with a school-
customized version of the minimum operational standards checklist.
Subcomponent B: Educating and Certifying Teachers
At the end of the year 2001, it will be illegal under the National Education Law for states
or municipalities to have individuals employed as classroom teachers if they have not been
certified. In the Project's three regions there are today 96,000 uncertified teachers (pre-school to
grade four); comprising 91 percent of all primary uncertified in Brazil. Although state and
municipal initiatives to address this issue are being undertaken using FUNDEF funds, the federal
government is preparing a more comprehensive program for attending to the deficiencies in
educational background of large numbers of these uncertified teachers. This subcomponent will
support the implementation of the PROFORMAQ(AO certification program (designed and tested
under FUNDESCOLA I) for teachers who do not meet the minimum legal requirements to teach
grades one through four. The program will be offered to all 19 states, however participation will
depend upon states' interest and commitment to implementing the program.
The program, conceived and coordinated by MEC, is being developed based on a
distance education modality with the support of decentralized structures at the state and municipal
level. A set of tailor-made standard self-instructional materials will promote a practical approach
and critical thinking about pedagogical actions. At the federal level, the Ministry of Education
Secretary of Distance Education - SEED, the Secretary of Elementary Education - SEF and the
Central Coordination Unit - DGP are responsible for the overall proposal and strategy,
preparation and development of the instructional materials, and institutional coordination,
monitoring and evaluation. At the state level, the Coordination Unit at the state secretariat of
education, and implementing agencies, primarily Normal Schools, will house tutors and
participants and support program activities. Also at the state level, a Committee for Teacher
Certification, composed of representatives of the state secretariat of education, the state education
council, UNDIME and education municipal units (OME) will monitor and coordinate program
activities. At the municipal level a local Coordination Unit will coordinate the education
municipal units (OME), school and tutors.
46



FUNDESCOLA 11                                                                Annex 2
Detailed Project Description
As part of the FUNDESCOLA I, the materials are being prepared and developed by MEC and
a pilot project is being implemented in two Center-West states, with the support of consultants
and specialists. The monitoring and evaluation of this first initiative: the strategy, instruments and
management structure, will be validated and made available to other states and municipalities that
can participate in the program, under FUNDESCOLA II, as long as they have interest and are
eligible according to the criteria and management conditions defined. The states and
municipalities that participate in the program will become Implementing Agents of this
Subcomponent under the coordination of SEED. In addition to Proformacao, this subcomponent
will provide support for the production of videotapes and related material for SEED's School-TV
(TV-Escola) distance teacher education program.
Subcomponent C: Supplying Basic Furniture and Equipment
This subcomponent will support the acquisition of basic furniture and equipment, as
defined in the minimum operational standards checklist, to allow classrooms to function in a
satisfactory manner. Classroom items include, inter alia, chalkboards, student desks and chairs,
teacher desks and chairs, bookshelves, and storage closets. Particular attention will be given to
durability and ergonomic specifications, as well as the flexible use of chairs, desks, and tables in
the classroom, and possible mobility of the chalkboard. The provision of furniture and equipment
will be limited to schools that are below minimum operational standards, enroll more than 20
students, and count on the support of a Unidade Executora, and meet the physical conditions for
receiving these inputs. Schools that do not posses the minimum physical infrastructure to receive
these inputs, but meet all other criteria, will benefit from classroom rehabilitation (described
below). These conditions, as well as the need for inputs, will be verified by the schoolfacilities
survey (LSE), undertaken in all schools in the targeted microregions. This subcomponent will
serve schools located in the 17 FUNDESCOLA II targeted microregions only. Approximately 20
percent of the schools and 70 percent of the students in the targeted microregions will benefit
from these investments.
Subcomponent D: Financing School-Managed Physical Rehabilitation Projects
This subcomponent will provide both financing and engineering support to schools in
need of renovation in order to help them attain minimum operational standards. Schools that
enroll more than 20 students within the targeted microregions, maintain a Unidade Executora,
and are below the minimum operational standards are eligible for rehabilitation. Prioritization and
selection of schools will be conducted as part of the microregion planning process, with the direct
involvement of the State Secretary of Education and the mayors from all of the microregion's
municipalities. Schools themselves will receive the financing and will be responsible for
contracting and managing the rehabilitation services (using the same participatory and
management arrangements described in Subcomponent 1(A), above). All renovations will be
subject to supervision by the DGP. This subcomponent will serve schools located in the 17
targeted microregions only. Approximately 10 percent of the schools and 25 percent of the
students in the targeted microregions will benefit from these investments.
Subcomponent E: Implementing the Model School Program
The overall objective of this subcomponent is to help states and municipalities in each
microregion rationalize the allocation of students across the existing public school network. With
this objective in mind, the Project may identify the need to replace some existing schools or to
construct a limited number of new schools. All such decisions will be technically justified on the
basis of results from the School Survey (LSE) and the Microplanning process The Project will
make every effort to: a) substitute schools that would not be cost-effective to repair; b) correct
47



FUNDESCOLA II                                                               Annex 2
Detailed Project Description
distortions by reorganizing supply to better attend to demand; and c) expand system access in
areas Where the school-age population is not attending school at all.
A Participation Agreement between the local jurisdiction and the DGP will demonstrate
that each new or replacement school to be constructed: (a) is included in the relevant multi-year
plan based on the school network microplanning inforrnation system and in the Microregion
Action Program; (b) will be established with the agreement of the relevant Forum and the DGP;
(c) will be built using a standardized architectural plan; (d) has a specified jurisdictional authority
(State or Municipality) that can demonstrate adequate fiscal capacity to absorb the costs of
running the school and has the land and rights in respect to the land required for the construction
of the new school; and (e) will be staffed by certified teachers and will meet all other minimum
operational standards.
COMPONENT 2: ESTABLISHING A SCHOOL DEVELOPMENT PROCESS
Objective
This component will promote the development of a school-centered planning and
decision-making process for school improvement. The primary tool in this process will be the
creation of a school development plan or PDE. It is expected that a majority, though not all of the
schools in adequate condition to have received furniture and materials under the Project will
develop a PDE. As part of the PDE, schools will propose a school improvement project (PME),
which will be initially financed under the FUNDESCOLA program. This component will also
support the development of instruments (i.e., manuals and training materials), and skills for
school teams and for state and municipal education secretariats to manage the entire process.
Finally, with the rationale that even schools newly focussed on improving teaching and leaming
may lack the knowledge and skills to do so, the Project will support the development and
dissemination of new teaching-learning designs to help schools improve student learning.
The main objectives of this component are to: (a) develop within schools a process of
educational planning and local empowerment to improve school quality and efficiency; (b) to
prepare both state and municipal education secretariats to guide, evaluate, facilitate and supervise
the design and implementation of the school development plans and school improvement
projects; and (c) to implement new teaching-learning designs to help school staff improve student
achievement.
Subcomponent A: Designing and Implementing School Development Plans (PDE)
The school development plan (PDE) is a quality-oriented, multi-year school-developed
strategic plan aimed at improving student outcomes and school quality. Through the use of
FUNDESCOLA'S school development plan, the school defines its own values, mission, goals,
strategies, educational targets and responsibilities, with the participation of the parent community.
It also defines the conditions and resources, including financial and staff, needed to meet the
school-specified targets. The PDE is the culmination of one process-diagnosis and strategy
formulation, and the guide for a subsequent process-school improvement. Once agreed upon,
the PDE serves as a step-by-step guide to the implementation of the school improvement strategy
and the school improvement projects (PMEs) (see below).
This subcomponent will train state and municipal education secretariat staff from all of the
jurisdictions in each of the 17 new microregions. In addition, school principals from at least 1000
schools distributed across these microregions will participate in intensive PDE training
workshops.
48



FUNDESCOLAII                                                               Annex 2
Detailed Project Description
Subcomponent B: Financing School Improvement Projects (PME)
The school improvement project (PME) is a section of the school development plan that
the school can use to apply for financing from FUNDESCOLA in order to implement selected
actions. The school uses the PME to indicate the project inputs, services, or training activities it
needs to achieve the school development plan targets. While the minimum operational standards
model is designed to equalize the school environment, the school improvement project aims to
individualize the school by responding to school-specific initiatives in order to improve student
learning and school quality.
Financing of school improvement projects will take place in two phases. In the first
phase, all schools submitting school improvement projects will receive project financing,
providing the proposals observe basic program guidelines. In the second phase schools will
undergo a competitive selection process. FUNDESCOLA II will finance Phase I school improvement
projects in the Northeast region, and in the eight additional microregions in the North and Center-
West, and Phase II school improvement projects in the original ten microregions covered under
FUNDESCOLA I. For Phase II schools, the Microregion Forum will rank the quality of school
improvement projects, following FUNDESCOLA guidelines, in terms of consistency with project
objectives and procedures, coherency with the school development plan, focus on student
achievement and performance, and anticipated speed of implementation. Then the 50 percent top-
ranked school improvement projects will receive full funding. School improvement projects are
meant to be executed in one year. It is expected that no project will exceed US$8,000 annually in
total cost. Only those schools with more than 200 students, a school council and a bank account
are entitled to receive FUNDESCOLA II financing for school improvement projects.
Subcomponent C: Developing, Testing and Implementing Pedagogical Models
Bringing schools closer to minimum operational standards and focussing attention on
quality by means of a school development plan and school improvement projects are the building
blocks of the FUNDESCOLA school improvement strategy. Nonetheless, even when a school is
adequately supplied with basic materials and is committed to improving educational outcomes,
teachers and principals may still lack the requisite knowledge to improve actual classroom
instruction, and hence children's learning. For instance, teachers may be either out of touch with,
or inadequately familiar with, the content they are teaching or with content-specific pedagogical
techniques. Given the generally limited educational background of many teachers in the three
project regions, this lack of technical knowledge and skills is a likely barrier to improved
children's learning and success in school, even with the best of intentions and the highest of
expectations and commitment.
Consequently, this subcomponent will support the elaboration, testing, dissemination, and
in some cases implementation of a variety of pedagogical models for improving student
achievement through changes in school organization, curriculum and instruction. All of the
models developed under this subcomponent will be made available on an optional basis to
schools and secretariats of education. The ultimate objective is to develop a menu of proven
approaches that would allow schools to choose a model that best fits with their own philosophy
and interests.
Although they will vary from one another, all models will include certain common elements.
For instance, each model should:
*  focus on school improvement as measured by student learning achievement or promotion
rates;
*  set high learning standards for all students in all grade levels,
*  incorporate an operational version of the National Curriculum Parameters developed by the
49



FUNDESCOLA II                                                              Annex 2
Detailed Project Description
Ministry of Education;
*  include regular diagnostic student assessment linked to the National Curriculum Parameters,
developed by INEP;
*  be supported by a program of assistance and professional development for teachers and staff
oriented to both design implementation and teaching content; and
*  include guidelines for using resources more effectively to achieve results.
At least three models will be developed or implemented under FUNDESCOLA II:
1. Escola Ativa (Active School) is a good example of one such school design. The model
was developed under the Second and Third Northeast Basic Education Projects, pilot
tested in several hundred schools with financing from FUNDESCOLA I, and will move into
wide-scale expansion under FUNDESCOLA II. Escola Ativa is a whole-school design for
small, multi-grade and rural schools.
2. Classes de Aceleraqdo (Accelerated Classes) is a pedagogical approach developed by the
Ministry of Education designed to reduce age-grade distortion in grades 1-4. This
approach will be expanded and made available by FUNDESCOLA I to selected schools
within the microregions.
3. Parametros Curriculares Nacionais (National Curriculum Parameters) are the national
standards for elementary education. These standards will be deployed in FUNDESCOLA II
as an operational classroom tool. The standards contain a list of recommended materials
(videos, books, magazines, etc) that support teachers in a more effective teaching process.
Once the school has completed its school development plan and identified the
pedagogical problems teachers are facing, it will be able to choose the specific teacher
training that is needed. FUNDESCOLA II will also pilot the professional development
program linked with these parameters carried out by the Secretary of Elementary
Education-MEC in the three project regions.
Given the particular characteristics of the project regions, models developed will also take
into account common problems faced by schools and teachers and will be made available as an
operational tool to address and solve them. Other models with these characteristics may be
elaborated during FUNDESCOLA I for implementation under future projects.
COMPONENT 3: PROMOTING COMMUNICATION AND SOCIAL MOBILIZATION
Objective
Both the effective implementation and the longer term sustainability of the FUNDESCOLA
program will require significant changes in the perceptions, attitudes, and behaviors of the
beneficiaries and stakeholders in the Project's targeted regions. Parents should be able to
recognize and demand quality schooling for their children, and to understand the importance of
their participatory role in the school development process. Teachers will need to accept their
responsibility in assuring that all children achieve at high levels and will need to collaborate with
their pupils, parents, other teachers in the school and the school principal to relentlessly pursue
this goal. The principal should be able to gamer support and resources to bring the school up to
minimum operational standards and to lead the school staff and community in developing and
successfully implementing school development plans and school improvement projects. The
principal should also understand his role in modeling the educational values of the school and
leading the staff in pursuit of the school's mission. Municipal and state education managers will
need to recognize their obligation to assure that all children in their jurisdictions have an equal
50



FUNDESCOLA II                                                              Annex 2
Detailed Project Description
educational opportunity and endeavor to attain this objective. They should also make sure that
each of the schools they are responsible for: (i) have adequate resources to pursue and meet
minimum operational standards; (ii) are teaching to clearly defined learning standards for all
children; and (iii) are being held accountable for student results. These managers will also need to
work with their central office staff to restructure their organization to focus on schools, and to
promote continuous professional development of teachers and principals.
This component will promote a structured process of social mobilization and
communication directed toward primary school beneficiaries and stakeholders in the North,
Northeast and Center-West regions of Brazil. In order to contribute to the sustainable
achievement of the Program's results, this process will promote and build consensus around the
main principles, strategies and objectives of the FUNDESCOLA Program. The social mobilization
process will employ a variety of media, including radio, television, newspapers, and selected
magazines, incorporating several initiatives already supported by FUNDESCOLA I. In addition, this
component will involve greater articulation with other institutions and foster the development of
leadership networks to replicate and disseminate the main features of the FUNDESCOLA Program
design. The whole process will be assessed in terms of its contribution to the achievement of the
overall project objectives. This component is divided in two subcomponents:
Subcomponent A: Supporting FUNDESCOLA through Communication and Dissemination
The objective of this subcomponent is to disseminate FUNDESCOLA's principles,
objectives, strategies, procedures and results to the Project's principal beneficiaries and
stakeholders. These activities will help assure that direct and indirect beneficiaries are informed
not only about FUNDESCOLA's design and implementation arrangements, but especially about its
philosophy of educational change and its strategic design.
The new Operational Communication Plan will describe the materials, audience and
communication media as well as define the monitoring and evaluation indicators. These will be
used to assess the relevance of materials produced in building project ownership. Several
initiatives supported by FUNDESCOLA I, such as the Boletim Tecnico newsletter, Escola Brasil
radio program, FUNDESCOLA World Wide Web site and other existing dissemination programs
will be improved, updated and adapted, along with new instruments that will be created in
connection with FUNDESCOLA II 's objectives.
In addition, this subcomponent will coordinate monitoring activities with Subcomponent
4(c) (Developing Studies and Research in Education) to update the knowledge of the project
managers about the values, perceptions and expectations of the beneficiaries. This ongoing
beneficiary assessment will help assure effective design and implementation of the
communication strategies. Finally, these studies will help the Project build adequate standards of
communication, establish a photographic database, and develop a common language for the
Project's social marketing campaigns.
Subcomponent B: Carrying Out Social Mobilization Campaigns
The mobilization of project stakeholders is a complementary, but decidedly more
complex process than the social communication program presented above as it promotes a more
permanent cultural change in support of improved schools and better educational outcomes. The
main challenge of this subcomponent is to build a vision relevant to all potential project
beneficiaries. Once this vision is defined, the social mobilization program will be put into
operation, beginning with selection of the main actors and actions, and definition of an
assessment strategy to monitor the progress and success of the initiatives.
51



FUNDESCOLA I                                                               Annex 2
Detailed Project Description
This subcomponent will identify, mobilize and train leadership to create a network of
community liaison/social activists. The project will organize workshops and training activities at
the federal, state and municipal levels to replicate and disseminate the shared visions and goals of
the FUNDESCOLA program. FUNDESCOLA will work closely with the Microregion Forum to
encourage their involvement in the process of social change. Where appropriate, the Microregion
Forum and school principals may identify a key communicator to act as a community
liaison/social activist for generating local discussion around education reform.
Workshops will be created and adapted from ongoing FUNDESCOLA I initiatives to train
local communicators including radio announcers, journalists and others. Finally, a network of
local organizations and institutions working in related fields will be identified and trained to
create a partnership for disseminating the principles, strategies and instruments of the program. It
is therefore expected that some NGOs may help support the implementation of FUNDESCOLA
activities, along with the social and/or economic activities for which they are responsible.
COMPONENT 4: STRENGTHENING NATIONAL EDUCATION INFORMATION
SYSTEMS AND PROGRAMS
Objective
FUNDESCOLA II will support existing and emerging national MEC-sponsored programs
designed to improve school quality. The objective of this component is to provide timely, relevant
information for educational planning at the school, municipal, state and national levels.
Three main lines of action will be financed by FUNDESCOLA II: (a) education evaluation
(assessment) which includes the National System for Basic Education Evaluation (SAEB), the
National Databank (BNI); and initiatives to integrate national and international best practice in
educational evaluation; (b) the Integrated Education Information System (SIED), the school
census, and activities associated with data collection and analysis of educational statistics; and (c)
the development of research and studies in education, including an impact evaluation of the
FUNDESCOLA project. The National Institute for Educational Research (INEP), a semi-
autonomous institute funded by the Ministry of Education (MEC), represents the principal
implementing agency for this component.
Subcomponent A: Improving Educational Assessment
Financed by the Northeast Basic Education II project as well as under FUNDESCOLA I,
SAEB will continue to receive assistance and support from FUNDESCOLA II. SAEB's reports and
recommendations, used by education managers, administrators, researchers and teachers, have
provided states and municipalities with information to identify and address problems and improve
educational practice. New activities financed under FUNDESCOLA II include the development of:
(a) a four-year strategic and operational plan; (b) a comprehensive item bank of tested and scaled
items for all assessment purposes; and (c) SAEB-linked standardized test packages for use by
state and municipal governments. These would include national curriculum-based test booklets
and answer forms, administration manuals and optical scanning guidelines, instructional and
administration video tapes, suggestions for developing and including local modules in the test,
and guides for analysis, dissemination, and use of results in teacher training programs.
Subcomponent B: Improving and Disseminating Educational Information
The activities to be financed under this subcomponent fall into four main areas: (a)
improving the operation of the existing Integrated Education Information System (SIED); (b)
52



FUNDESCOLA II                                                               Annex 2
Detailed Project Description
improving the quality of the school census; (c) supporting the implementation of school-based
information systems; and (d) improving the integrated dissemination of SIED/SAEB indicators.
The Integrated Education Information System (STED) is an information system that
connects schools, municipalities, and states with the Ministry of Education (MEC) and enables
the collection of information to ensure planning and continuous monitoring of the education
system. An integral part of MEC, SIED also offers society, administrators, and researchers an
accurate and detailed look at education at the local, state, and national levels. Under FUNDESCOLA
II, SIED will be made more reliable, rapid and secure through further development of its software,
computer systems and network hardware.
Activities to improve the quality of the school census under FUNDESCOLA II will include:
(a) encouraging cross-accountability of stakeholders; (b) establishing routine quality control and
error analysis systems; and (c) defining rules and legal parameters for when and how to audit
state and municipal census results. The project will also support the further development of a
school based information system, which will be tested in a sample of schools in the Project's
three target regions. Finally, FUNDESCOLA II will support the integrated dissemination of
SIED/SAEB indicators through the development of a standardized Annual Education Indicators
Report program, Annual School Census reports (for all schools, municipal governments, and state
governments), and SEED modules for use at the state, regional, municipal and school levels.
Subcomponent C: Developing Studies and Research in Education
This subcomponent will support the continuation of an extremely positive and useful
program of research begun under the Northeast Basic Education projects, as well as evaluation
studies for the FUNDESCOLA program itself. These include assessment of implementation
processes, a 5 to 6 year longitudinal and panel multivariate impact study, and assessment of the
Project impact on various groups of beneficiaries, including rural and urban poor.
COMPONENT 5: MANAGEMENT AND INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT OF
EDUCATION SYSTEMS
Objective
This component seeks to raise the quality of management of the institutions that are
responsible for schools so that they can better guide, support, assess and provide effective
conditions for providing equal access and quality education to the children of the selected
microregions of the Northeast, North and Center-West regions. Planning, administration,
monitoring, analysis and evaluation capacities of each level of the system will be developed at
each level, from the school to the Secretariat. Institutional strengthening for project coordination
and implementation are also included. The three subcomponents are described as follows:
Subcomponent A: Strengthening State and Municipal Collaboration
The Project will work with State and Municipal education leadership to develop three
principles considered essential to the development of primary education in the 19 project states,
with special emphasis on the targeted microregions. These principles are: state/municipal
integration in the decisions regarding their network of schools and elements of their education
needs; transparency in the definition and allocation of financial resources and needs; and
commitment toward the objectives and targets of FUNDESCOLA. The principals are operationalized
via the meetings of the Microregion Forum, and the production, execution, and evaluation of the
Municipal Action Program, State Action Program, and Microregion Action Program. Under. this
subcomponent, the Project will finance a Program of Support for Municipal Education Secretaries
(PRASEM), meetings of the Microregion Forum in each microregion, meetings of the
53



FUNDESCOLA II                                                               Annex 2
Detailed Project Description
Microregion Forum technical team, and a variety of other seminars, workshops and training
activities designed to support these three principles.
Subcomponent B: Institutional Development for Secretariats of Education
Under this subcomponent, with the technical support of the Project, the education
managers and technical body of the secretariats will complete a Secretariat Management and
Business Plan (PGS-Plano de Gestao da Secretaria) in order to rationalize decision-making and
execution of strategic actions. The PGS is founded on the principles of effectiveness, equity, and
efficiency.
The project will partner with at least two secretariats of education to develop a package of
tools and services. These partner secretariats will commit to implementing the components of
FUNDESCOLA throughout their jurisdictions. This partnering is critical to the success of this
subcomponent. The testing and refinement of tools in real environments is also critical to their
quality and viability. The ultimate objective is the development of a program approach to support
a large number of municipalities or even states in system-wide school improvement. This
ambitious objective can only be initiated in FUNDESCOLA's third project.
Subcomponent C: Implementing Microplanning
The Microplanning model adopted by FUNDESCOLA is a combination of School Mapping
and the Geographic Information Systems that support decision-makers on the rationalization of
the urban school network at the municipal level. This is the most important technical instrument
that the Project has to promote cooperation between the state and municipal governments on the
issues of school location and size, and to improve the equity of school quality.
Under the first FUNDESCOLA project the DGP developed the instruments, system and
digital maps of the capital microregions in the North and Center-West regions. Currently,
adjustment and piloting of the program is underway with state and municipal secretariats of
education. The next step will be to install the school network microplanning information system
in the secretariats and provide training for technical staff. Once the secretariats' teams master the
system they will be able to support school construction decisions made by the Forum.
FUNDESCOLA II operates on the assumption that all school construction decisions, throughout the
implementation period, will be based upon the school network microplanning information
system, including construction activities financed exclusively by states and municipalities. To
promote this approach, Microplanning results comprise an integral part of the Microregion Action
Program.
Subcomponent D: Project Administration and Pilot Activities
To effectively reach all the beneficiaries at school, municipal and microregion levels,
FUNDESCOLA management will rely mainly on federal (DGP) and state (COEP) coordination
units (see also below). Created by WEC to help manage education projects for the poorest regions
of Brazil, the DGP has played a principal role in the implementation of FUNDESCOLA I and the
preparation of FUNDESCOLA II. Its primary responsibilities include administration of financial
resources of the Project, and operating as the World Bank counterpart in the preparation,
discussion, and negotiation process.
The DGP will further be responsible for the development and carrying out of pilot
activities in areas of extreme poverty or severe social needs, such as training, school construction
and renovation, all aimed at improving the implementation, increasing the impact, and supporting
the expansion of the FUNDESCOLA Program.
54



FUNDESCOLA II                                                              Annex 2
Detailed Project Description
PROJECTIMPLEMENTA TIONARRANGEMENTS
As with FUNDESCOLA l, FUNDESCOLA II is expected to be implemented over a five year
period. A Midterm Evaluation of the FUNDESCOLA program as a whole will take place once 50
percent of the loan is disbursed. This is expected to occur on or about March 2001, which would
be 18 months into the implementation of FUNDESCOLA II and near the completion of
FUNDESCOLA I. A detailed project Operational Manual is already in use under FUNDESCOLA I and
will be adapted under FUNDESCOLA II. Project management arrangements are described below.
At the federal level, the Central Project Coordination Unit (DGP) within the Federal
Ministry of Education has been responsible for the preparation and will be charged with the
administration of FUNDESCOLA II. The DGP has already demonstrated, through its capable
performance of similar duties under FUNDESCOLA I, that it is institutionally and technically ready
to: (a) serve as principal project counterpart to the World Bank and key government and
international agencies; (b) rely on the state-based Project Executive Coordination (COEP) and on
monitors/supervisors especially hired to support the project implementation at the microregion
level; (c) analyze and approve state, intra-state, and microregion projects and annual work plans;
(d) establish or sign agreements with states, municipalities, and other government and
international agencies; (e) determine, together with the states, the definition of minimum
operational standards; (f) elaborate the annual implementation program based on the
microregion programs; (g) conduct project-related regional, state, and micro-planning studies;
(h) analyze and submit to the World Bank the relevant documentation for the acquisition of goods
and services and expenditure receipts; (i) update FUNDESCOLA's Project Operational and
Implementation Manual (MOIP); and (j) prepare the progress reports and participate in the mid-
term and final review according to World Bank procedures.
At the state level, FUNDESCOLA operates by means of the Project Executive Coordination
Unit (COEP) within each state education secretariat, which: (a) serves as the key administrative
project unit at the state level; (b) prepares the Annual Work Plan with the participation of the
municipalities in that state and submits this plan to DGP for approval and registration in the SPA;
(c) coordinates project execution across municipalities and state school systems; (d) houses the
DGP monitors and supervisors; (e) coordinates communication and cooperation among the local
government agencies involved in project-related activities; (f) coordinates teacher certification
programs; (g) procures goods and services according to the guidelines of the World Bank;
(h) records and certifies expenditures; (i) prepares progress reports; and (j) monitors and
evaluates the outputs and outcomes of FUNDESCOLA in each state. As an executive agency COEP
will be established and its members selected and trained at the initiation of the project
implementation period (states with participating microregions under FUNDESCOLA I already have
their COEPs in place).
At the microregion level, FUNDESCOLA has adopted the IBGE-designed concept of the
microregion as the best way to promote collaboration and coordination between municipal and
state education management personnel in each of the municipalities involved, and to maximize
efforts and resources within a microregion. The mayors, or their representatives, in conjunction
with the state secretary of education and the state president of National Association of Municipal
Education Managers (UNDIME) are members of the microregion forum which operates as a local
planning instance of the project to: (a) negotiate the priorities within and across the municipal and
the state education systems in the microregion; (b) agree on the consolidation of the various
municipal action programs into a single, prioritized microregion action program (PAZ), (c) agree
on common targets for the microregion action program; (d) plan and monitor the implementation
of the microregion action program; and (e) and propose the annual implementation program to
be approved by the federal project coordination unit (DGP) and financed by FUNDESCOLA. The
microregion forum is assisted and advised by a technical group, whose role is to complete the
requisite surveys, the preliminary microregion action program, its implementation schedule, and
55



FUNDESCOLA II                                                             Annex 2
Detailed Project Description
other technical documents. The microregion forums have undergone extensive training by the
federal project coordination unit (DGP) and are well established in each of the project states.
At the municipal level, each municipality already participating in the microregion forum is
responsible for: (a) designing the municipal action program and schedule, and the municipal
annual implementation schedule; (b) assisting schools in designing their own school development
plan and school improvement projects; (c) fostering the operation of school councils and
community participation; (d) actively participating in their microregion forums; (e) developing
inter-municipal cooperation within the microregion; and (f) monitoring the delivery of goods and
services procured by the state Project Executive Coordination Units (COEP). Finally, guidance
and training for school leadership in the creation of a school development plan and school
improvement project will be offered through municipal-based School Development Teams
(GDE). These teams will be composed of municipal education professionals who will themselves
be trained by the federal (DGP) and state (COEP) level coordination units.
PROJECT FINANCING ARRANGEMENTS
FUNDESCOLA I project financial resources both from the loan and federal counterpart will
be administered by FNDE (National Education Development Fund), a semi-autonomous federal
institution linked to the Ministry of Education. FNDE is responsible for collecting, managing and
disbursing education salary fund revenues, including the federal "share" of this fund.
FUNDESCOLA counterpart funds are financed out of this federal share.
Counterpart financing amounts are budgeted annually by the Ministry of Education and
codified in the Projeto de Lei Orcamentaria, approved each year by congress. Once the budget is
approved, FNDE has the authority to execute the funds. FNDE transfers these budgeted resources
directly to schools, municipalities, states, and ministry of education units through convenios
(public contracts) agreed between these executing agents (secretariats of education, etc.) and
FNDE. As a requisite condition to signing these convenios the executing agent must submit an
annual work plan (PTA) for approval. FNDE has delegated legal responsibility for reviewing and
approving all FUNDESCOLA related convenios. This legal responsibility is codified in Portaria-
MEC No. 172 de 3/4/98. Procedures for transfer of resources, monitoring and evaluation vary
between each project executor. Further information regarding these financial arrangements can be
found in the Project Operations and Implementation Manual (MOIP).
56



FUNDESCOLA 11                                                                     Annex 3
Project Costs
Annex 3
FUNDESCOLA II
Table 3.1: Estimated Project Costs
Component                                      Local       Foreign    Total   % Total
Base
Cost
1. Raising Schools to Minimum Operational           327.1        8.4     335.5     88%
Standards
A. Promoting School Autonomy                         145.0         0       145      38%
B. Educating and Certifying Teachers                   6.0         0         6       2%
C. Supplying Basic Furniture                          47.6       8.4        56      15%
and Equipment
D. Financing School-Managed Physical                  25.0         0        25       7%
Rehabilitation Projects
E. Implementing the Model School Program             103.5         0      103.5     27%
2. Establishing a School                              17.0                  17       4%
Development Process
A. Designing and Implementing School                   1.6         0        1.6    0.4%
Development Plans (PDE)
B. Financing School Improvement Projects              15.0         0        15       4%
(PME)
C. Developing, Testing, and Implementing               0.4         0        0.4    0.1%
Pedagogical Models
3. Promoting Communication and Social                  4.0         0         4       1%
Mobilization
A. Supporting FUNDESCOLA through                       1.0         0         1     0.3%
Communication and Dissemination
B. Carrying Out Social Mobilization Campaigns          3.0         0         3      0.8%
4. Strengthening National Education                   10.0         0        10       3%
Information Systems and Programs
A. Improving Educational Assessment                    4.0         0         4       1%
B. Improving and Disseminating Educational             1.8         0        1.8    0.5%
Information                                _
C. Developing Studies and Research in                  4.2         0       4.2       1%
Education
5. Management and Institutional                       11.5         2       13.5      4%
Development of Education Systems
A. Strengthening State and Municipal                     1         0         1      0.3%
Collaboration
B. Institutional Development for Secretariats of         1         0         1      0.3%
Education
C. Implementing Microplanning                           2          0         2     0.5%
D. Financing Project Management and Pilot              7.5         2        9.5      2%
Activities
6. Bank Administrative Fee                              0          2         2     1.0%
Total Base Costs                                     369.6      12.4       382    100%
A. Price Contingencies                                 20          0        20       5%
B. Physical Contingencies
Total Project Costs                                  389.6      12.4       4021
N.B: Foreign Costs Are For Purchase of Computer Equipment
Taxes Included In Project Proposals Submitted to The Project Unit
57



FUNDESCOLA I                                                                   Annex 4
Economic Analysis
Annex 4
FUNDESCOLAII
Economic Analysis
EXECUTIVE SUMMARY
Given the project's objective - to improve educational outcomes through improvement in
school quality and an ensuing reduction in repetition - the analysis of the project's impact can be
calculated through the calculation of two student flows, with and without FUNDESCOLA II. Each
flow will result from an initial situation and a series of approval rates that will be directly increased
by two of the project's components. The project's five components are not easy to separate, given
that the system management and mobilization components are expected to strengthen the context
for better school management and ultimately, higher quality schools, resulting from the two direct
school-level interventions. In this analysis, the costs of system-wide improvements were counted,
but their benefits were supposed limited exclusively to permitting better PDE implementation by
schools.
The direct fiscal negative impact is the further indebtedness of the Federal government and
the cost in counterpart funds. This is not a negligible effect in a country already as far in debt as
Brazil. Indirectly, however, there will be a positive fiscal impact as the flow improves and each
child stays a shorter period in school, making his or her education cheaper. This same reason makes
the project inherently sustainable.
The winners with the FUNDESCOLA II project will be those students in schools that will
become better as a result of its interventions. State and municipal governments will also win due to
savings in their school systems. There are no losers, except, in a diffuse way, taxpayers and the
Federal government that could have spent its resources on other projects.
The project is risky in that, dealing with fallible human institutions and complex politics, its
interventions may be more or less successful. This analysis shows, however, that even if marginally
successful, its interventions will yield significant results.
PART I: PROJECT CONTEXTAND DESCRIPTION
FUNDESCOLA II is the second in the three project FUNDESCOLA Program. An economic
analysis of FUNDESCOLA II must therefore be at once an analysis of the Program thus far and of the
value added by this second project. This should not be too difficult as both projects apply the same
instruments, although in two different geographical areas. While it is still too early to analyze the
results of FUNDESCOLA I as only next year (1999) are any measurable results expected, the
investments made in that project should be considered in this analysis.
Both the main components of FUNDESCOLA II and their underlying logic will be much the
same as those of the first project. Small corrections and changes in emphasis will occur, but the
spirit is the same. The analysis methodology will therefore also be analogous and will base itself
upon the fact that high repetition rates have clogged up the flow in such a way that that both per
student cost and academic achievement depend heavily on approval rates. In 1998, some 18 years
of enrollment were necessary to produce each primary school graduate instead of the eight that
58



FUNDESCOLA II                                                                  Annex 4
Economic Analysis
would have been had the flow of students been perfect'. This means that the cost of one primary
school graduate is more than twice that under perfect flow. More dramatic, of course, is that low
educational outcomes themselves, and all the ensuing dire consequences to the future lives of
individuals, are highly related to high repetition. Therefore, a student flow model will form the
basis for the calculation of the project's internal rates of return.
Of course not everything is identical. There are differences in the structure and emphasis of
FUNDESCOLA I and 11, but the most important change is in the context in which each is executed.
The most striking difference to the casual observer is that Brazil is today in a situation of deep fiscal
crisis (see Annex 5). This crisis will have strong effects on both project finances and other
educational funds complementary to the project. The effect of the fiscal crisis will be better
discussed in Annex 5, but it is important to keep in mind that FUNDESCOLA II will be implemented
in a context of strong fiscal restraint.
Equally important is that FUNDESCOLA II will be implemented with the National Education
Development and Maintenance Fund (FUNDEF) already in effect. This means that the logic of
basic education financing has already changed with various already observed consequences such as
a dramatic increase in the demand for teacher's training courses (magisterio), a battle for students
between state and municipal systems, an increase in enrollment levels across the board, and a
reduction in resources for other levels of education (such as pre-school) in some systems. While
there can be little doubt that the implementation of the FUNDEF has been very positive for
education in Brazil, it does place new demands on school systems.
One of the functions of FUNDESCOLA is to prepare schools for the FUNDEF and one of the
former' s advantages is that it is being implemented under the context of the latter. That the two
follow the same logic can be seen from at least four points of view:
i. While the FUNDEF attempts to focus on the student (including by making him worth money),
the spirit of the FUNDESCOLA is to focus the school system on the school and the school on the
student. The whole School Development Plan revolves around the student (foco no aluno).
ii. FUNDESCOLA's microregional framework for execution, where all schools are worked with
irrespective of the school system they belong to, follows the same logic as the FUNDEF
providing identical per student financing to all schools within each state.
iii. FUNDESCOLA has placed strong emphasis on both human resources and material minimum
operating standards. This is coherent with FUlNDEF, where minimum standards are expected
to follow minimum levels of financing provided by the Fund.
iv. Finally, both make mobilization and accountability a centerpiece of their operational strategy.
The synergy between FUNDEF and FUNDESCOLA is important in that the latter is expected to act
as a guide to improving schools under the context of the former. In this economic analysis we will
suppose that FUNDESCOLA's innovations will be adopted by some of the other schools in the
participating microregions. The percentage of schools adopting these innovations and their average
effectiveness will be the key variables in this analysis. But before explaining the methodology in
detail a brief description of the project is in order.
' This does not mean that the average 8h grade graduate takes 17.81 years to complete school, as enrollment
of children who drop out before finishing is also counted.
59



FUNDESCOLA 11                                                                  Annex 4
Economic Analysis
The FUNDESCOLA II project is divided into the following areas:
1. Minimum Operational Standards
2. School Development Process (PDE)
3. Social Mobilization and Communication
4. National Education Information System
5. Management and Institutional Development of Education Systems
The last three components, while very important, have effects that are too diffuse to quantify and
thus will be considered "lost money" in this analysis (their cost will be counted but no direct
positive effects will be attributed to them). The first two components will provide the key
parameters for estimating student flow and thus rates of return - the greater the number of schools
achieving minimum operational standards, the greater the number undertaking PDEs and the greater
the number of those undertaking PDEs the larger the increase in approval rates.
The baseline will be a pilot project in the municipality of Rondon6polis in Mato Grosso where
the FUNDESCOLA School Development Methodology was used with great and measurable success: a
reduction in repetition of 6% in the first year of implementation and of 20% in the second year.
In addition, three benchmarks for achieving project indicators are as follows:
o  Proportion of primary school graduate meeting SAEB to increase from 33 to 50%.
O  Number of primary school graduates to increase by 70%.
o  Promotion rates to increase by 15%.
The first benchmark, while fundamental to ensure that a better flow does not come at the
expense of lower quality, cannot be modeled given Educational Census data.2  The second
benchmark is easily modeled and will be included. The third is the fundamental parameter of
interest that will determine project success or failure. In addition, we will also model an indicator
of poor flow, which is the number of enrollment-years necessary to make one eighth grade graduate,
today at 17.813.
PARTII: ANALYSIS METHODOLOGY
As stated before, the methodology to be followed is the same as that used in the economic
analysis of the FUNDESCOLA I Project : the flow of students from grade to grade. Once again there
will be no new school construction so the entire impact of the project should be reflected in
approval, drop-out and repetition rates.4 While the main project components - Minimum Operating
Standards, PDE, and system management - are the same as in the first project, their weights have
2SAEB data could in principle be used to model test scores but would require an educational production
function beyond the scope of this analysis.
3 This does not mean that children dropping out before 8th grade derive no benefit from their schooling; it is
merely an indicator of good flow.
4One improvement will be that the 1997, 1998, and 1998 educational census ask how many students enrolled
this year were not approved last year. This means that real repetition and drop-out rates can be calculated
year, school by school.
60



FUNDESCOLA II                                                                Annex 4
Economic Analysis
changed and new microregions have been added, making it necessary to recalculate the costs and
benefits. This cost-benefit analysis will undertaken in the following manner:
a) A flow model will be estimated for each participating microregion using the educational
Census;
b) A historical trend will be applied to the flow in order to project the result without FUNDESCOLA;
c) The impact of FUNDESCOLA on the flow will be calculated using Rondon6polis data;
d) The difference between the two flows will be taken;
e) Given this difference, savings in enrollment and increases in academic achievement will be
calculated
f) These savings and increases will be converted into monetary flows using per student cost and
private rates of return to education;
g) The internal rates of return for each flow will be calculated given various time horizons.
Those having read the FUNDESCOLA I economic analysis will recognize the above methodology
as identical to that used in that first project. There will, of course, be some improvements and
updates:
(i)    enrollment and approval rates will be estimated using the 1998 Educational Census
undertaken after the implementation of the FUNDEF and thus measuring the incentives
provided by that Fund's existence;
(ii)   private rates of return on education will be estimated using the 1996 PNAD household
survey; and
(iii)  the FIINDEF will be better projected using a trend on VAT collection and Constitutional
Transfers.
The accuracy of the rates of return depends on the estimation of various parameters: those
characterizing student flow, those characterizing per student cost and those characterizing labor
market returns to education. A total of 15 critical parameters will be estimated making sensitivity
analysis for each one an impossible task. We will thus maintain the two fundamental variables
affecting approval rates by microregion: the number of schools undertaking PDEs and the average
effectiveness of each PDE.
PART III: ESTIMATION
Student Flow Model
A complete description of existing educational configurations is very difficult due to the
bewildering multitude of all possible combinations of grade level, age-grade lag (or age), and
calendar year. The underlying logic is, however, quite simple. If a given child is in a given grade
level N in a given year t, then the following diagram describes all possible outcomes:
61



FUNDESCOLA 11                                                                       Annex 4
Economic Analysis
c      GradeN+l,yeart+1
a   Promotion
1-c    Drop-outs with grade N
Grade N, year t
r      Grade N, year t+1
1-a Retention
1-r    Drop-outs with grade N-1
As much of the high drop-out rate observed is actually veiled repetition, only a is directly
observable using the educational census.5 This is because children who believe they have little
chance of being approved will often leave school before the end of the year, often encouraged by
teachers. Various flow models using chain-linked data or auxiliary data have estimated a, c, and r.
They disagree to some extent over the exact value of c and r, but all agree that they are relatively
constant once a has been determined.
We will use those studies whose assumptions on student behavior are the weakest: Barros
and Mendon,a (1996) and Schiefelbein and Heikkinen (1992) (reproduced in Gomes Neto (1992)).
The numbers shown below are the rounded averages of Barros and Mendonca' s and Schiefelbein
and Heikkinen's estimates. The last column on the table shows the trend on promotion rates, A a,
calculated by Barros and Mendonca and from 1988 to 1993.
Table 4.1 - Estimation of Student Flow Parameters
Grade        r     c        a
1st         0.88 0.98      0.0092
2nd          0.85 0.96      0.0063
3rd          0.88 0.96      0.0065
4th          0.88 0.93      0.0112
5th          0.90 0.96       0.008
6th          0.90 0.96       0.008
7th          0.90  0.96     0.008
8th         0.90 0.96       0.008
Source: Barros and Mendonqa (1996) and
Gomes Neto (1992)
We will suppose that the observed trend will continue into the future. This is both
optimistic and realistic given the positive changes that have been occurring in education in Brazil.
One important shortcoming of our model is that no allowance will be made for demographic
changes - the number of new students entering the system will be supposed constant and equal to
the number that entered first grade in 1998.
Given the above model and coefficients, we need only estimate a and the initial enrollment,
both by grade level, for each participating microregion. This information is available in the
educational census.
5 The quality of the edcuational census is far from ideal; while there is no coherent bias, approval and
enrollment numbers are measured with high error rates.
62



FUNDESCOLA II                                                                  Annex 4
Economic Analysis
Per Student Cost
The conversion of student flows into costs or savings in reais (R$) requires an estimate of
marginal cost. The National Education Development and Maintenance Fund, or FUNDEF, which
has come into effect nationwide as of January I' 1998, has made this quite simple. The Fund
provides two minima for educational expenses in any given state: the first is 15% of VAT tax
collection and Constitutional Transfers and the second R$ 315 per student per year. In those states
where 15% of VAT and transfers amounts to less than R$ 315 per student, the Federal Government
will complement the Fund until it reaches that amount.
From the point of view of per student cost, states and municipalities fall into two categories:
those whose lower limit to educational expenditure is R$ 315 and those whose lower limit is higher
- 15% of revenues. In those systems where students are worth R$ 315, a better flow will translate
directly into savings for the Federal Government. In those systems where 15% tax collection and
Constitutional Transfers are greater than R$ 315 per student, a better flow will not save any money
but may be interpreted as freeing resources from quantity to better quality of education through
higher teacher wages or better inputs. We will calculate both income streams and their rates of
return.
Tax collection can be estimated using a simple trend on historical series of Value Added
Tax (VAT) collection and Constitutional Transfers (CT). The logarithm of VAT and Transfers was
regressed on time from 1991 to 1997. The estimated coefficients were used to project both source
of revenue into the future. Evidently, this methodology loses its accuracy quite quickly as Value
Added, Industrial Products, and Income Tax collection6 all depend on a plethora of economic and
political conditions, none of which can be foreseen with great accuracy. We cannot, however, think
of a more accurate method, so we will content ourselves to point out this one's shortcomings. The
composition and growth rate of the FUNDEF for each of the states in the project are shown in the
table 4.2.
Some states in the North have been experiencing very high growth rates in VAT collection
and projecting this would lead to absurdly high per capita collection in about five years, so we
capped per student projected values at R$ 1,000.
One remaining issue is whether students in different grade levels have different marginal
costs. Federal Education Council norms do not stipulate any a priori reason for differences in costs:
teachers are expected to have similar qualification levels and teaching materials are not expected to
be markedly different. There is however a de facto difference: while much of first to fourth
enrollment is in small schools providing only first to fourth education, almost of fifth to eighth
enrollment is in larger schools thought to be both of better quality and more expensive to run. We
cannot, without more detailed information on school costs, estimate whether students in different
grade levels have different marginal costs.7
6The FUNDEF is composed of 15% of two sources: VAT, collected by the states, and 45% of Income and
Industrial Products Taxes, which form the basis of Constitutional Transfers from Federal Government to
states and municipalities.
7This information is being compiled by an FNDE survey to monitor the implemenation of the FUJNDEF, but
it will be available only at the end of 1999.
63



FUNDESCOLA I1                                                                   Annex 4
Economic Analysis
Table 4.2 - FUNDEF Composition and VAT and Constitutional Transfer Growth Rates
Composition     Growth Rates
State             VAT   CT    VAT    CT  Average
Acre               12%   88%   8.2%   3.8%   4.3%
Amazonas           75%   25%  11.1%   3.9%   9.3%
Para               38%   62%   3.1%   7.0%   5.5%
Rondonia          49%   51%   6.8%   3.8%   5.3%
Roraima            16%   84%   6.6%   3.8%   4.3%
Amapa              13%   87%   6.7%   3.8%   4.2%
Tocantins          21%   79%   5.3%   3.7%   4.1%
Maranhao           25%   75%   3.0%   4.2%   3.9%
Piaui              31%   69%   7.1%   3.8%   4.8%
Ceara              50%   50%   6.3%   3.9%   5.1%
Rio Grande do Norte   41%   59%  10.2%   3.8%   6.4%
Paraiba            38%   62%   8.1%   3.8%   5.4%
Pemambuco          57%   43%   4.4%   3.7%   4.1%
Alagoas            36%   64%   4.8%   4.1%   4.4%
Sergipe           40%   60%   5.9%   3.9%   4.7%
Bahia              55%   45%   3.5%   5.7%   4.5%
Goias              70%   30%   3.7%   4.3%   3.9%
Mato Grosso        64%   36%   6.8%   7.0%   6.9%
Mato Grosso do Sul    64%   36%   1.1%   7.1%   3.3%
Brazil             49%   51%   3.7%   5.9%   4.8%
Source: Bulletin of the Central Bank of Brazil.
Labor Market Returns
Finally, private rates of return to education can be easily calculated using the standard
Mincerian wage equation. In this case, we have exceptionally good and up to date data from
Brazil's yearly household surveys, the PNADs (Pesquisa Nacional por Amostragem de Domicilios).
In the PNADs since 1992, both income and educational level are well measured with structured and
cross-referenced questions.
The standard equation is:
log Y = E fij di + y, Age + y2 Age2 + a
where Y is the hourly wage received in all occupations the week before the survey and di is a
dummy having value 1 if the individual has completed the i-th grade level of education and 0
otherwise so that a person having completed fourth grade will have:
d1=d2=d3=d4=1  and    d5 = d6 ... d12 = 0-
In other words, the coefficient A shows the marginal log rate of return to the i-th grade level of
education. The equation was estimated for those between 16 and 65 years receiving positive
income during the week before the survey and living in urban areas.
64



FUNDESCOLA 11                                                                                Annex 4
Economic Analysis
The educational census does not provide us with information on enrollment by gender and
so there is no point to estimating the equation separately for men and women. This is unfortunate as
the rates of return for men and women are quite different8. The coefficients for all of Brazil, the
North, the Center-West and the Northeast are all shown below (t-values are in smaller print).
Table 4.3 - Private (log) Rates of Return to Education
Brazil        North        Northeast    Center-West
N             103,331          7,994        26,367         10,967
R 2            0.2955         0.2679        0.2368         0.3176
dl         0.1684         0.0532         0.1715        0.1245
7.13          0.70           4.13          1.93
d2         0.0892         0.0928         0.0845        0.0025
3.43          1.09           1.75          0.04
d3         0.0619         0.0593         0.0141        0.0730
3.23          0.93           0.35          1.37
d4         0.1867         0.1082         0.0811        0.1074
12.91         2.07           2.34           2.55
d5         0.0270         0.0642         0.1472        0.0302
2.00          1.28           4.40          0.77
d6         0.1202         0.0203         0.1004        0.0720
6.83          0.33           2.29          1.50
d7         0.0421         0.0571         0.0283        0.0866
2.18          0.86           0.59          1.63
d8         0.1474         0.1838         0.1091        0.1758
9.14          3.25           2.69          3.78
Source: 1996 PNAD microdata.
It is interesting to note that the private rates of return are consistently lower in the North and
Center-West than in the Northeast or in Brazil as a whole. It is important to note that both are
regions of high immigration and under fast economic transformation.
There is an obvious selection bias because we are observing only those individuals choosing
to work and because the choice between home work or leisure and wage work is not independent of
the wage offered in each sector. Thus, the equation was estimated using a two-stage Heckman
correction term. This procedure is inefficient but unbiased and given the large sample size, it
should be equivalent to full maximum likelihood estimation.
s The average is the same, but women's rates are more constant while men's vary considerably according to
grade level.
65



FUNDESCOLA 11                                                                              Annex 4
Economic Analysis
Table 4.4 - Private (log) Rates of Return to Education with Heckman Correction for Selection Bias
Brazil        North       Northeast  Center-West
N             103,331         7,994        26,367         10,967
R2             0.3168        0.2883        0.2605         0.3428
dl         0.1659        0.0586        0.1720         0.0930
7.13         0.79           4.20          1.47
d2         0.0974        0.0818        0.1095         0.0460
3.80         0.97           2.30          0.66
d3         0.0655        0.0861        0.0285         0.0563
3.47         1.38          0.71           1.07
d4         0.1795        0.0932        0.0698         0.1057
12.60         1.81          2.05          2.56
d5         0.0141        0.0683        0.1436         0.0218
1.06         1.38          4.36           0.56
d6         0.0973        -0.0031       0.0715         0.0622
5.61         -0.05          1.65          1.32
d7         0.0255        0.0355        0.0139         0.0618
1.34         0.54          0.29           1.19
d8         0.1238        0.1589        0.0666         0.1518
7.80         2.85           1.67          3.32
Source: 1996 PNAD microdata.
The Heckman correction slightly lowers the coefficients to education but the picture is
much the same. Once again, the North and Center-West have lower rates of return than the
Northeast or Brazil as a whole. A slightly aberrant coefficient is the one for six years of schooling in
the North - it is negative, though not significantly so. This may be due to the effects of migration
or other decisions that may be picked up by the Heckman correction term. We will take as our
coefficients those estimated using the Heckman correction and negative coefficients will be rounded
to zero.
PARTIV: INTERNAL RATES OFRETURN
With the model clear and once in possession of the parameters characterizing student flow, per
student cost, and labor market returns to education, calculation the various income flows and their
rates of return is simple. The flow model will provide two flows of students - with and without the
project - and their difference will provide FUNDESCOLA's impact in terms of education. Each of
these flows will be translated into three income flows:
i. Savings to the Federal Government resulting from better student flow;
ii. Savings / improvements in quality to all level of government;
iii. Expected additional income to students resulting from higher educational levels.
66



FUNDESCOLA II                                                                         Annex 4
Economic Analysis
Three scenarios will be calculated based on the results of a pilot program in four schools in the
municipality of Rondon6plis in Mato Grosso. The three are:
Table 4.5 - Scenarios
Scenario    Percent of Schools   Average Increase in
Undertaking PDE           Approval
First year  Second Year
Best     At least 75%           3,96%       13,2%
Middle   At least 50%             3%         10%
Worst    Only those financed     2.4%         8%
by FUNDESCOLA
Finally we calculated the internal rates of return of the various income flows for several
time horizons. This was done for both the FUNDESCOLA Program thus far and for the FUNDESCOLA
II project.
Table 4.6- Internal Rates of Return FUNDESCOLA Program
Income Flow           Best       Middle      Worst
Government 15 year   6,90%       -0,11%
Social 6 years      -4,99%
Social 10 years      28,06%      12,97%
Social 15 years      36,58%      24,55%      8,11%
Table 4.7 - Internal Rates of Return FUNDESCOLA 11 Project
Income Flow           Best       Middle      Worst
Government 15 year   5,66%       -0,82%
Social 5 years       8,66%
Social 10 years      31,67%      18,21%      2,37%
Social 15 years      35,27%      23,36%      9,38%
It is no surprise that even for the worst of scenarios both project and program  have
reasonable internal rates of return. While some of this is due to the high expected effectiveness of
the PDE methodology, it is mostly due to the terribly clogged up state of the flow.
There are various possible sources of underestimation of these rates:
O  No allowance was made for continued schooling. The fact that individuals finishing eighth
grade may continue and achieve much higher rates of return after secondary and higher
education is not counted.
O  The effects of all three management subcomponents, apart from making possible the PDE, are
ignored. Their cost, however, is included.
O  No spillover effects of the PDE outside the microregion are considered.
Finally, there are various shortcomings to this analysis, which may under or over-estimate the
true rates of return. Among these are:
O  That there is no demographic model while birth rates have taken a plunge - and are still falling -
during the last 15 years in Brazil.
O  The poor prediction of tax collection forming a basis of per student cost.
67



FUNDESCOLA II                                                                Annex 4
Economic Analysis
o  The lack of information on how the cost is distributed by grade level.
o  The poor quality of Educational Census data and thus poor quality of approval, promotion, and
repetition information.
None of them, however, invalidate the basic message: high repetition has created distorted
situation that is both costly to public finances and terrible for student motivation. Even small
improvements in approval rates will lead to both large savings in useless repetition enrollment and
improvements in educational achievement.
68



FUNDESCOLA II                                                                    Annex 5
Financial Analysis
Annex 5
FUNDESCOLA II
Financial Analysis
Overview
The 1994 Real Plan achieved price stabilization and brought about many positive changes
in the economy and in the lives of ordinary citizens. These changes ranged from the end of the
inflation tax to increased productivity in industry. However, monetary stabilization abruptly
eliminated the main mechanism previously used by the public sector, and indeed by much of
Brazilian society, to deal with distributive conflict: inflation. While the private sector responded by
adjusting, reorganizing, or simply goihg out of business, the public sector responded by going into
debt. Table 5.1 indicates the projected project cost and financing of the project.
Table 5.1 Project Cost and Financing
1999     2000      2001      2002      Total
Project Financing       160.0    103.5    113.0        23.5      402
IBRD                     82.5      59.1      48.3      12.1      202
Government               77.5      44.4      64.7      13.4      200
(See Annex 6 for greater detail about project cost and financing.)
Furthermore, since the seriousness of the situation was recognized neither by the
govermnent nor by the various groups involved in the distributive conflict - public employees,
taxpayers, congressmen - scarce attention was given to how public sector borrowing requirements
were met. Consequently, much of this borrowing was in the form of short term debt, which is
sensitive to changes in international interest rates. The positive international context at that time
made this easy to do, and the result was that net public sector debt doubled from US$ 150 billion in
1993 to US$ 302 billion in 1998. Public sector borrowing needs rose from essentially zero percent
of GDP in 1993 to 7.0% in 1998.
Table 5.2 Public Sector Borrowing Requirements
Operational borrowing requirements as a percentage of GDP, both calculated as 12 month flows at end of
period (December) prices
1991   1992   1993   1994*   1995   1996   1997  1998**
Total Public Sector          -1.4%    2.0%   -0.2%   -0.3%    4.8%    3.9%    4.3%    7.0%
Federal Government and     -0.3%    0.7%    0.0%   -1.2%    1.6%    1.7%    1.8%   3.6%
Central Bank
State and municipal        -1.1%   0.7%   -0.2%    0.6%    2.3%.  1.9%   2.2%    2.7%
governments
Parastatals                 0.1%   0.6%    0.0%    0.3%    0.8%    0.3%    0.3%    0.7%
* 1994 data should be read with care as that year's flows involved two different currencies
**August 97 to August 98
Deflator: IGP-DI Centrado
Source: Bulletin of the Central Bank of Brazil.
69



FUNDESCOLA II                                                                        Annex 5
Financial Analysis
Table 5.3 Net Public Sector Debt
(in US$ millions in December)
1991   1992   1993   1994   1995   1996   1997   1998**
Total Public Sector           144 286  150543  150247  184 103 214 558 259189 276467 302356
Federal Govermment and       48 335  49 194  43 896  75 536  93 097  123 641  150 360  167 909
Central Bank
State and municipal          27319.  37419  42175  63388  74 619  89869  103 883  109 047
governments
Parastatals                  68 632  63 930  64 176  45 179  46 842  45 679  22 224  25 399
Exchange rate CR$-R$fUS$     1,0690  12,3870 54,3350         0,9715  1,0386  1,1561  1,1626
** August 1998
Source: Bulletin of the Central Bank of Brazil.
Note: Part of the debt explosion (in US$) is due to internal debt in R$ and an appreciating real exchange rate.
The international financial crisis which began in 1997 and was aggravated by the Russian
crisis of October 1998 brought an abrupt end to the use of internationally financed short term debt
to make ends meet and Brazil is now faced with an acute fiscal crisis. Although Brazil suffers from
none of the structural problems faced by East Asian and Russian economies in their private sectors,
particularly the financial sector, the public sector is in need of strong and urgent adjustment.
Fortunately, there is now a clear awareness on the part of both government and the various social
groups involved in the distributive conflict of the gravity of the situation. Nevertheless, the task of
adjusting public finances will not be easily accomplished as none of the internal conflicts for the
public sector cake have disappeared and none of the groups vying for their piece is willing to bear
the brunt of the adjustment.
Fiscal crisis and social expenditure
Given the above context of fiscal crisis, it is inevitable that spending will be cut across all
sectors. Furthermore, the political power of various groups, such as public employees and
taxpayers, has been such that they have been able to pressure Congress to refrain from "saddling"
them with what they see as an unfair share of the burden. The increase in the personal income tax
proposed in 1997 met so much resistance that it was shelved even before being voted on in the
House. Moreover, most of the proposed legislation to reduce public employee pensions or increase
the contribution of those still working was defeated in the House. The end result is that less
organized or less powerful social groups, such as the beneficiaries of public health and education
services, are unable to defend their piece of the cake and may end up bearing the brunt of
adjustment.
Although the Federal Government has publicly committed itself to preserving from cuts the
most critical social sectors, such as education and health, two reasons fundamentally limit its
margins of maneuver:
(i)    The gravity of the crisis, the size of the necessary adjustment, and the political power of
other social groups mean that there may simply be no option to cutting in social sectors. For
example, the 1999 revised budget proposal contained substantial reductions in real spending
for education.
70



FUNDESCOLAII                                                                   Annex 5
Financial Analysis
(ii)    A large part of social spending is made by heavily indebted' state and municipal
governments, suffering from Federal pressure to keep spending down but whose
commitment to preserve social spending at the expense of other areas may not be as great as
that of the Federal Government.
The fact that social expenditure will be curtailed means that the old issue of efficiency
resurfaces once again. The efficiency of social spending in general, and education spending in
particular is below government expectations. This makes optimization of spending more critical
than ever before and presents both a challenge and an opportunity. The challenge is to cut spending
with as small a loss in quantity and quality of social services as possible; the opportunity is to
concentrate attention on efficiency and thus achieve even better results once the crisis is over and
expenditures regain their previous levels. If efficiency-enhancing programs are implemented during
the duration of the crisis, then perhaps future expansion of social sector outlays will lead to better
social programs than before.
Fiscal crisis and FUNDESCOLA
Much of FUNDESCOLA is designed to enhance the efficiency of educational expenditure.
The innovations in educational management such as the School Development Plan, Microplanning
of new construction, and Strengthening National Educational Information Systems are expected to
have as one of their main results an increase in the efficiency of the school system. In other words,
if FUNDESCOLA succeeds in achieving its aims, the dollar efficiency of other educational outlays
should be greater. In conclusion, Brazil's fiscal crisis has increased FUNDESCOLA's importance due
to its role in enhancing efficiency of other sources of expenditure.
Also important is that FUNDESCOLA 11 will be implemented with the National Education
Development and Maintenance Fund (FUNDEF) already in effect. The complementarity between
the two, discussed in Annex 4, means that FUNDESCOLA should have a special efficiency enhancing
role for the five billion or so reais that the FUNDEF is expected to reserve every year for the states
of the North, Northeast, and Center-West.
The effect of the project on public finances is small. Notwithstanding the fact that it is a
very large education project, FUNDESCOLA is too small and spread out over time to have any
relevant effect on public sector finances in Brazil. The data on Table 5.3 can be used to show that
the entire FUNDESCOLA program (US$ 1.3 billion comprising all three loans and including
counterpart funds) amounts to a less than 0.5% of net public debt and less than 0.8% of Federal
debt. Constitutionally mandated Federal educational expenditures are expected to amount to more
than R$ 10 billion, making the 1999 counterpart funds of R$ 99 million amount to less than 1% of
Federal educational expenditures. FUNDESCOLA will be a drop in the public sector bucket.
The opposite, however, is not true. The fiscal crisis will also have an unfortunate impact on
FUNDESCOLA itself. Although its counterpart funds come from the Salario-Educa9ao,2 making them
protected from budget cuts, the project's external financing is not so protected and Bank financing
of FUNDESCOLA in 1999 was reduced from the original R$ 193 millions to R$ 40 millions3. The
1 Tables 5.2 and 5.3 show that state and municipal governments are responsible for over 36% of net public
debt and 38% of public sector borrowing requirements.
2 The salario-educacao is a 2,5% payroll tax legally mandated to be spent on primary education.
3 The Bank disbursement schedule and Brazil's budget items should not be confused. Spending more than the
budgeted R$ 40 million in Bank financing on Bank-financed items presents no budgetary problems as the
IBRD disbursement will become credit that can be used as long as the project is being implemented.
71



FUNDESCOLA II                                                                Annex 5
Financial Analysis
consequent reduction in FUNDESCOLA's pace of implementation resulted in a cut of counterpart
funds from R$ 193 to R$ 159 millions. While the budget reductions will not compromise the
project's efficiency enhancing objectives, they will reduce its implementation pace and thus its
impact. In conclusion, although FUNDESCOLA will have a negligible effect on public finances, it
should play an important role in dealing with the present fiscal crisis in the education sector.
72



FUNDESCOLA II                                                                       Annex 6
Procurement, Disbursement, and Financial Management
Annex 6
FUNDESCOLA II
Procurement, Disbursement and Financial Management Arrangements
Procurement
Il.    The procurement methods applicable to the various expenditures categories are summarized in
Table A, below.
Procedures
2.    The Project will be financed with World Bank and Government funds. The DGP will be
responsible for assuring that procurement is carried out in accordance with procedures acceptable
to the Bank. Procurement of Civil Works and Goods under the project will be carried out in
accordance with World Bank Guidelines Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits
(January 1995, revised January and August 1996 and September 1997). Recruitment of
consultants' services (consulting firms or individuals consultants) for technical studies, training
and audits, will be carried out in accordance with the Bank Guidelines on Selection and
Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers (January 1997, revised September 1997 and
January 1999).
3.    Civil Works: ICB procedures for the procurement of civil works will not be utilized because school
construction contracts will be numerous, small, and scattered, and no foreign contractors are
expected to be interested in these types of works. NCB procedures will be used for contracts
estimated to cost less than US$5 million. Smaller contracts for works, estimated to cost below
US$350,000, up to an aggregate amount of US$10 million, will be procured using three quotation
procedures acceptable to the Bank.
4.    Goods: ICB procedures will be used for all goods grouped into packages by state secretariats of
education and other executing agencies into contracts of more than US$350,000 (approximately
US$49.5 million, or 12.37% of total project costs). NCB procedures will be used for goods
contracts that cannot be grouped into packages of at least US$ 350,000, up to an aggregate amount
of US$10 million. National Shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs
3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines will be used for goods estimated to cost less than US$100,000
equivalent per contract.
5.    School Grants: For procurement under this category, contracts of small rehabilitation works,
estimated to cost less than US$50,000, will be procured by obtaining quotations from qualified
contractors, with community participation, or through other local arrangements acceptable to the
Bank and included in the MOIP. Contracts for goods to improve school quality, consisting of, inter
alia, educational materials, school and classroom equipment, school supplies, and materials for
physical maintenance, will be grouped into small packages estimated to cost less than US$15,000,
and procured following local shopping procedures acceptable to the Bank and described in the
MOIP. This category will also finance the hiring of services for school or educational support,
such services to be selected on the basis of the qualifications of the individuals, estimated to cost
less than US$15,000 per school per year, in accordance with the procedures described in the MOIP.
These contracts will be procured at the school level, with a total aggregate cost of US$ 185.0
million.
73



FUNDESCOLA II                                                                                            Annex 6
Procurement, Disbursement, and Financial Management
Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements a/
(In US$ million equivalent)
Expenditure Category                               Procurement Method                   Total Cost
ICB      NCB         Other        N.B1.F       (including
contingencies)
1. Works (except those financed by School Grants)                 75.0       28.5 b/                      103.5
(26.67)     (9.33)                      (36.0)
2. Goods (except those financed by School Grants)
(a) For the Borrowere!                               46.5       9.5                                    56.0
(23.25)    (4.75)                                 (28.0)
(b) For participating states & municipalitiesd/       3.0                                               3.0
(3.0)                                             (3.0)
3. School Grantse/
(a) School Improvement                                                    160.0 f                     160.0
(70.0)                     (70.0)
(b) School Rehabilitation                                                 25.0 9'                      25.0
(12.5)                     (12.5)
4. Training & Consultants (except by school grants)
(a) For the Borrower                                                      4.0                          4.0
(2.0)                      (2.0)
(b) For participating states & municipalities/                            25.6 j/                      25.6
(25.6)                     (25.6)
5. Operational expenses k/                                                     2.0                         2.0
(2.0)                      (2.0)
6. UNDP administrative fee                                                                  0.9           0.9
(0.0)          (0.0)
7. Bank front-end fee                                                         2.03                        2.0
(2.03)                      (2.0)
Total                                                   49.5       84.5      247.13         0.9              382
(26.25)   (31.42)    (123.46)       (0.0)          (181.13)
i Figures in parenthesis indicate Bank financing.
b/ Three Quotations.
C/ Equipment and furniture mainly for schools and administration (to be acquired by the participating states within North, Northeast
and Center-West regions and other executing agencies).
"u Equipment and Furniture related to the National Program. This sub-category will be implemented with the technical assistance of
the United Nations Development Program (UNDP), through a Project Document (PRODOC) to be agreed between such
Organization and the Borrower, and approved by the Bank. The UNDP's fee will be financed by the Borrower. The Borrower will
be responsible for monitoring and evaluating UNDP's performance, as well assuring UNDP's compliance with Bank's procedures.
e/ This category will finance school improvement projects, allotments for schools to meet minimum operational standards, and
yearly allotments for schools to maintain minimum operational standards. The maximum allotment would be US$15,000 per school
for sub-category 3(a), and US$2,500 per classroom for sub-category 3(b).
v'National Shopping.
g' Three Quotations.
"The detailed procurement arrangements are listed in Table Al.
"The expenditures to be incurred under this sub-category include consulting services for the National Program. The activities will
be implemented with UNDP's support (please refer to footnote "d").
i/ The detailed procurement arrangements are listed in Table Al.
k/Operational expenses means incremental operational costs related to the management and supervision of the Project, including
maintenance and supplies, communication services and spare parts for office equipment and vehicles, and audit services for school
grant procurement ex-post reviews. The activities in this category will be implemented with UNDP's assistance (please refer to
footnote "d") and will be disbursed on the basis of administrative procedures, plans, and budgets approved by the Bank
periodically.
74



FUNDESCOLA 11                                                                       Annex 6
Procurement, Disbursement, and Financial Management
6.    Consulting Services: Quality and Cost procedures will be used for selection of consultants for all
contracts estimated to cost more than US$200,000. Selection based on Consultants' Qualifications
may be used for small assignments (less than US$ 100,000). Consultant services including foreign
and local ad hoc expertise and contractual services - for which individual qualification and
experience are the paramount requirement for the assignment - will be procured under contracts
awarded to individual consultants in accordance with the provisions of Section V of the Consultant
Guidelines. Because of the nature of some of the components, such as Social Mobilization, some
contracts may be awarded on the basis of Single Source Selection, pursuant to Clauses 3.8 through
3.1 1 of the Guidelines.
7.    Procurement Review - Details of the Bank prior review for ICB and NCB processes, and for the
selection of consulting services are shown in Table B. Sample based ex-post review of school-
based procurement through independent audits will be the responsibility of the DGP, based on
Terms of Reference acceptable to the Bank, and procedures detailed in the MOIP.
Documents
8.    The following documents will guide the procurement activities:
- For ICB: World Bank Standard Bidding Documents.
- For NCB: Standard bidding documents based on Bank's SBD.
- For Consultants: Bank's Standard Request for Proposals, and Standards Forms of Contracts.
- Other documents include: Bank's Standard Evaluation Reports (for Goods, Works and Consultant
Services), standard general and specific procurement notices, and the project procurement plan.
Assessment of Agency's Capacity to Implement Procurement
9.    An assessment of the agency's capacity in handling procurement issues was carried out, and the
overall risk has been considered as "average". As outlined below, a plan for improving
implementing agency's performance has already been agreed.
Measures to improve MEC's procurement capacity
10.   The Central Project Coordination Unit - DGP has experience in procurement management and
Bank procurement procedures, and is also willing to correct any deviations regarding the
procurement processes. Procurement specialists have been recruited to provide technical assistance
to the DGP in handling all matters related to works, goods, and services, and will be assisted as
needed by consultants in the preparation of bidding documents and bid evaluations. Training of
MEC procurement staff, DGP staff and State Education Secretariat staff in Bank procurement
procedures and documents will be carried out during the second quarter of 1999. Administrative
procedures have been established in order to improve documentation flow. Procurement processing
will be carried out according to agreed standard processing times between the DGP and the Bank.
Disbursement
11.   The applications for Withdrawal must be expressed in the currency of expenditures with the
exception of the requests for payments made out of Special Account, established in US Dollars
equivalent.
12.   In the case of direct school transfers, certification of expenditures will be completed immediately
upon transfer of funds, and disbursements presented on the basis of SOEs. Supervision will be
75



FUNDESCOLA 11                                                                              Annex 6
Procurement, Disbursement, and Financial Management
conducted by municipal and state secretaries, COEP, and the Project Coordination Unit1.
13.    Each Application for Withdrawal will be numbered consecutively regardless of the procedure to be
used.
14.    Applications for Withdrawal will be used to request: (i) reimbursement from the Loan Account; (ii)
requests for direct payment to third parties; or (iii) replenishment for expenditures paid with funds
from the Special Account for amounts equivalent to, or about 20%, of the Authorized Allocation of
the Special Account.
*  The Borrower should submit an Application for Withdrawal together with Statement of
Expenditures (SOE) and/or Summary Sheets (SS). When submitting SS, full supporting
documentation is required. The application should be expressed in the currency of the
expenditure.
*  The Borrower should submit Form 1903 with supporting documentation as follows: invoices,
receipts, formal bill of sale, copy of checks, or bank orders.
*  The Borrower should submit Form  1903 with SOE and/or SS, the Special Account
Reconciliation and bank statement.
Retroactive Financin!
15.    Project expenditures made after February 5, 1999, not to exceed US$40 million, will be eligible for
retroactive financing from the loan.
Use of Statement of Expenditures (SOEs):
16.    SOEs will be used for payments pertaining to:
*  Contracts of less than US$5,000,000 equivalent for civil works and less than US$750,000 for
goods;
*  Consultant contracts of less than US$ 100,000 and US$ 50,000 for firms and individuals,
respectively;
* All other expenditures will be disbursed on the basis of SOEs;
* All expenditures incurred by UNDP will be certified through SOEs and attached receipts.
Annex 6, Table Al: Consultant Selection Arrangements
(In US$ million equivalent)
Contract                          Selection Method                        Total Cost
Category             QCBS             CQ              OTHER                (including
Contingencies)
A. Firms                   19.0             2.0                                     21.0
(13.9)           (1.6)                                   (15.5)
B. Individual                                                  9.5                   9.5
(9.5)                 (9.5)
Total                      19.0             2.0                9.5                  30.5
(13.9)          (1.6)              (9.5)                (25.0)
Note:         QCBS - Quality and Cost Based Selection
CQ - Selection Based on Consultants Qualification
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan
'The SPA - Planning and Monitoring System will consolidate the physical and financial actions in each school,
municipality and state.
76



FUNDESCOLA 11                                                                                  Annex 6
Procurement, Disbursement, and Financial Management
Annex 6, Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
Expenditure            Contract Value         Procurement          Contracts Subject to
Category               (Threshold)            Method                Prior Review
US$ thousands                                 US$ thousands
1. Works                   >350 and < 5.000           NCB *               First two contracts
< 350          Three Quotations            None
2. Goods                          > 350                ICB                   All**
>100 and < 350            NCB                 First two contracts
< 100             Shopping                 None
3. Services
3.1 Firms                        >200                 QCBS         All *** (including technical
evaluation)
>100 and < 200            QCBS         All *** (except for technical
evaluation)
<100                  CQ           Review of TORs only
3.2 Individual                     > 50              Individual              All***
< 50             Individual     TORs and all agreed reporting
requirements (detailed in MOIP)
4. Miscellaneous                  < 100              Shopping                 None
Note:  * Civil works contract estimated to cost from US$350,000 to US$750,000 will use NCB Standard Bidding Documents for
Small Contracts; and from US$750,000 to US$5,000,000 will use NCB Standard Bidding Documents for Large
Contracts.
The standardization of architectural models will facilitate prior review by the Bank.
** The standardization of: (a) technical specification for goods; (b) place of delivery; and (c) bidding documents will
facilitate prior review by the Bank.
*** The standardization of global TORs and model contract forms will facilitate the prior review by the Bank.
Special Account:
17.    The Special Account will be denominated in US Dollars.
*  Authorized allocation is US$ 40.0 million. The implementation process of the project requires the
simultaneous transfer of financial resources to the schools, which are the final executors of the
project. These resources are associated with the various components. The amount of funds in the
Special Account will be based upon the value of this transfer, and will be at least 20% of the loan.
*  The timeframe for certification of these resources will guarantee the continuity of the subsequent
transfers.
*  Initial deposit in a commercial bank of US$ 24.0 million upon effectiveness will increase to
US$40.0 million once disbursement and commitments reach US$50.0 million.
*  Direct payment: minimum application amount must be above 20% of Special Account deposit.
77



FUNDESCOLA 11                                                                       Annex 6
Procurement, Disbursement, and Financial Management
PMR-Based Disbursement
18.   Once the Bank approves the Borrower's financial reporting system for PMR-based disbursements
(see paragraph 26, below) , the Borrower may choose to substitute PMR-based disbursement for
traditional and SOE-based disbursement procedures: PMR-based disbursement shall follow the
following procedures:
*  All withdrawals from the Loan Account shall be deposited by the Bank into the Special
Account based upon Table C, below. Each such deposit into the Special Account will be
withdrawn by the Bank from the loan account under one or more of the eligible categories.
*  Each application for withdrawal from the Loan Account for deposit into the Special Account
must be supported by a Project Management Report.
*  Upon receipt of each application for withdrawal the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower,
withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special Account an amount equal to the
lesser of: (a) the amount so requested; and (b) the amount which the Bank has determined,
based on the Project Management Report accompanying that application, is required to be
deposited in order to finance eligible expenditures during the six-month period following the
date of that Financial Management Report; and (c) the amount deposited, when added to the
amount indicated by the Project Management Report to be remaining in the Special Account,
cannot not exceed the amount of $50,000,000.
19.   Disbursement categories and percentages financed are shown in Table C below:
Annex 6, Table C: Allocation of Loan Proceeds
Expenditure Category              Amount in US$      Financing Percentage
million
1. Works                                          36.0         35% of all expenditures
2. Goods
(a) For the Borrower                             3.0         Up to 100% of all
expenditures, excluding
duties and taxes
(b) For participating states & municipalities   28.0         100% of foreign and 50%
of local expenditures
3. School Grants                                  82.5         50% of all expenditures
4. Training and Consultant Services
(a) For the Borrower                            25.6         Up to 100% of all
expenditures, excluding
duties and taxes
(b) For participating states & municipalities    2.0         50% of all expenditures
5. Administrative expenses                         2.0         100% of all expenditures,
excluding duties and taxes
6. Bank administrative fee                        2.03                100%
7. Unallocated                                    20.9
,*6 tal     202.03
78



FUNDESCOLA 11                                                                       Annex 6
Procurement, Disbursement, and Financial Management
20.   Operational Expenses include incremental operating cost incurred on account of project
implementation, management and supervision, including office maintenance, office supplies,
communication costs, office machinery, vehicle maintenance, vehicle acquisition and spare parts,
travel or allowances for Project staff.
Financial Manasiement Assessment
Project Financial Management System
21.   The Sistema de Planejamento e Acompanhamento - SPA is DGP's current computerized system for
monitoring and generating Statements of Expenditure - SOEs, the basis for the Project to prepare
application forms to disburse funds and request it to the Bank through STN - Secretary do Tesouro
Nacional. This system has been operating for other Ministry of Education implemented Bank
financed projects such as the Second and Third Northeast Basic Education Project and
FUNDESCOLA I for at least 1 year, and has demonstrated its capacity to maintain adequate
expenditure records and generate reports showing the actual expenditures.
22.   The SPA was designed, however, without accounting and procurement modules, and it has a weak
financial management reporting menu. Moreover, the SPA is not integrated into other subsystems
and, as currently configured, is unable to generate physical/financial management reports.
Organizational Chart - Financial Coordinating Unit
ICoordenaq5o Financeira
Secretaria
Ger6ncia Financeira    Gerencia de Licitaq6es  Gerencia de Desembolso
Project Management
23.   General Project Management (the DGP) managed FUNDESCOLA with the support of a Financial
Coordinating Unit that is responsible for the financial management and procurement related
matters for the project. The Financial Coordinating Unit consolidates all financial data generated at
the implementing agencies through the SPA.
Accounting System and Procedures
24.   The SPA is not structured on the basis of a "chart of accounts," and consequently, as mentioned
above, does not have an accounting module integrated into the system. The system has
demonstrated its capacity to maintain adequate expenditure records and generate reports showing
the actual expenditures, which are well documented for expenditure tracking.
Project Financial Management Reporting
25.   The format of the financial management reports, which are produced manually, does not currently
allow the DGP to compare planned versus actual activities. On the other hand, the reports available
from the SPA do show the amounts of funding planned, contracted (conveniado), disbursed, and
spent (documented) both at the central level and at the level of each of the executing agencies
79



FUNDESCOLA 11                                                                       Annex 6
Procurement, Disbursement, and Financial Management
(states and municipalities). These reports are prepared by the financial coordination unit based
upon the information received from the implementing agencies, and consolidated in an excel
spreadsheet.  SPA will be adjusted to generate financial management reports for the DGP to
follow up on the progress of the project.
Auditing Requirements
26.   FUNDESCOLA I as well as the Second and Third Northeast Basic Education Project have been
audited by the Secretary Federal de Controle - SFC, and the auditors have raised no major issues.
According to the proposal of SFC made to the Bank in context of the protocol of understanding,
SFC will be the auditor of this project
Eligibility for PMR-Based Disbursements
27.   Although the FUNDESCOLA 11 project satisfies the Bank's minimum  financial management
requirements, it is currently unprepared to carry out PMR-Based disbursements.  Project
Management agreed with the Bank at appraisal that, within one year of Project effectiveness, the
plan of action for upgrading the SPA, which was negotiated between the Bank and DGP at
appraisal, would be fully implemented and that the Project would then be eligible for PMR-based
disbursements.
80



FUNDESCOLA II                                                                          Annex 7
Poverty Analysis
Annex 7
FUNDESCOLA II
Poverty Analysis
Empirical studies have shown that education and poverty are closely linked on multiple
levels in Brazil. Most recently, analysis of the 1996/97 Living Standards Survey (Pesquisa sobre
Padroes de Vida or PPV) confirmed that Brazilian households headed by an adult with more than 4
years of education are much less likely to be poor than those with less educated heads of
household.' Indeed, one of the strongest predictors of poverty in Brazil is the head of household
level of schooling. For example, an econometric analysis using the same data source (the 1996/97
PPV) showed that education is negatively correlated with the probability of being poor, even when
other factors such as place of residence, age, access to services, and so forth, are held constant.2 In
a related area of research, the relationship between earnings and education level in Brazil is also
strongly established?.
Equal educational opportunities for all would go far toward addressing the country's
extreme income inequalities over the medium and long-term. The most recent CAS emphasized the
importance of equalizing educational opportunities as a strategy for reducing regional disparities
(June 12, 1997). Despite improvements in the past decade in educational opportunities and
outcomes, the poor continue to lag behind their wealthier peers.
Table 7.1 highlights the regional differences in two important indicators: average student
achievement and promotion rates. Average proficiency in Portuguese for eighth grade students, as
measured on a single scale from 0 to 375 is only 227 in the Northeast. By contrast, the average
level of proficiency in the Southeast, which has the highest average test scores, is 262.
Table 7.1 Promotion Rates and Student Achievement Scores by Region in 1995
Region                  Average promotion        Average Proficiency
rates for primary        Scores for 8h Graders
students                in Portuguese
North                   58.8                     238
Northeast               60.7                     227
Center-West             68.6                     252
Southeast               74.0                     262
South                   75.7                     257
Notes: Promotion rates are regional averages for students in grades I through 8. The average proficiency
scores are based on a possible score of o to 375, with a higher score indicating greater proficiency.
Sources: Data on average Portuguese proficiency of 8th grade students are from MEC, based on SAEB
testing in 1995. Data on promotion rates are from MEC, based on the 1996
School Census
'Unpublished Bank analysis completed for the Brazil urban poverty strategy paper (forthcoming).
2 Ibid.
3 For recent evidence on the relationship between salaries and education levels, see for example, Ramos and
Vieira, "A Relagao entre Educa9ao e Salarios no Brasil." 1996; Barros and Mendonca, "A Educa9ao e o
Processo de Determina9ao dos Salarios no Nordeste Brasileiro." 1997; and Hammer and Shalizi, "Public
Expenditures for Poverty Alleviation in Northeast Brazil: Promoting Growth and Improving Services." 1998.
81



FUNDESCOLA II                                                                Annex 7
Poverty Analysis
There is also ample evidence that poor and better-off children in Brazil have very different
educational opportunities, regardless of region. The bar chart below (graph 7.1) presents data
gleaned from the 1996/97 Brazil Living Standards Survey (PPV). Poorer children age 7 to 14 are
less likely to attend primary school than others, and are much less likely to attend private school.
The gaps between the educational opportunities for children in the poorest 20 percent of the
population and those in the richer groups is clear. The same pattern holds within regions: children
in the bottom per capita consumption quintiles are more likely to be out of school and less likely to
attend private school.
Graph 7.1. Primary School Attendance by Consumption Group
Primary school attendance, 7 to 14 year olds
30%
70%
60%
Per capita household consumnption quintlie
S,ource: 1996/97 Living Standards Survey (PPv); calculations made by P. Lanjouw for the
Urban Poverty Strategy report. The data only cover the NE and SE regions.
education financing changes initiated in 1996 should help equalize opportunities by
guaranteeing a national minimum level of spending for all public primary students (R$3 15).
However, it is extremely important that disadvantaged school systems have the skills to make
efficient use of their increased revenues; otherwise the reallocation may have little impact on the
educational opportunities available to poor children.
IMPROVING EDUCATIONAL OPPORTUNITIES FOR THE POOR
THROUGH FUNDESCOLA
Given the strong link between poverty and education, and the observed educational
disadvantages faced by poor children, it is critical to ensure that World Bank-supported educationf
projects in Brazil aim to reduce disparities in educational opportunities for the poor versus the rich.
To help reduce poverty, an education project has to: a) produce results, that is furnish benefits by
improving the quality or quantity of schooling; and b) ensure that the poor benefit from these
improvements. The appropriate use of targeting mechanisms is a means of ensuring that
FUNDESCOLA will achieve its poverty reduction goals. However, it is important to remember that
the goal is not to achieve precision in targeting by excluding all the non-poor. Rather it is to reduce
82



FUNDESCOLA II                                                                        Annex 7
Povertry Analysis
inequality in educational opportunities to the maximum extent given the project's resources. This
distinction matters, because there is usually a tradeoff between more precise levels of targeting and
monetary, social and/or political costs. The FUNDESCOLA program makes appropriate use of
targeting strategies to ensure it will reduce inequalities in educational attainment between the poor
and the better-off.
Broad Targeting through Choice of Intervention
FUNDESCOLA focuses on public primary schooling rather than secondary or higher level
education, making it more likely to benefit poorer Brazilians. As Graph 7.2 shows, only 23 percent
of public primary school students belong to the richest 40 percent of the population. Two factors
explain the over-representation of poorer Brazilians in the public primary schools: the
demographics of poverty and the tendency for middle-class and better-off parents to send their
children to private school. As is true in many countries, a disproportionately high share of the poor
in Brazil are children. Moreover, the widespread perception that the public primary system
generally provides a low quality education leads many parents to send their children to private
school as soon as they are financially able (see graph 7.1). At present, sector investments in
secondary and university education are substantially less targeted to the poor than investments in
primary education, because the poor make up a much smaller percentage of the student population
at these levels. Indeed, improving the quality of primary education available to the poor is a
prerequisite for increasing their access to higher levels of schooling.
Share of public school students belonging to each consumption group, by level of schooling
800%
75.7%
700%
00%
10 0o %   ------
0.0%
1       2        3        4        S
P*  rapit. hor--h- --pdu qeiu6i
Graph 7.2 Distribution ot Public School Students, Brazil (NE and SE Regions)
Source: 1996/97 Living Standards Strvey (PPV); calculations made by P. Lanjouw
for the Urban Poverty Strategy report. The data only cover the NE and SE regions.
The distribution of public primary school students is also biased towards the relatively poor
within each region. Graph 7.3 shows, for example, how within metropolitan regions, the majority of
public primary students come from the lower income groups.
83



FUNDESCOLA II                                                                           Annex 7
Poverty Analysis
Graph 7.3 Distribution of Public Primary Students Relative to the
Share of public primary students belonging to each consumption group
(regional quintiles)
45.0%
40.0%
35.0%
30.0%
\  i  "  F~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-ontaieza MR
25.0%                                            -*-Recife MR
-5.-- SaladorMR
20.0% ---- Belo Horizonte MR
-\ Rio MR
-4-S-ao Paulo MR
15.0%                                            -Nomerortollt.n urban NE
---Nonmetropelitan urban S_E
10.0%
5.0%
0.0%
2       3        4        5
Per capita household consumption quintile
Regional Consumption Distribution
Source: 1996/97 Living Standards Survey (PPV); calculations made by
P. Lanjouw for the World Bank's Urban Poverty Strategy report. The data only
cover the NE and SE regions.
Geographic Targeting and FUNDESCOLA
FUNDESCOLA uses broad geographic targeting in that it operates only in the three poorest
regions of Brazil: the North, Northeast and Center-West. As discussed above, both educational
inputs and schooling outcomes are much lower in the project's targeted states than elsewhere in
Brazil. To the extent that FUNDESCOLA raises educational attainment in these regions, it will no
doubt reduce inequalities of opportunity between rich and poor in Brazil.
Three activities under FUNDESCOLA II-promoting school autonomy; PROFORMAQAO;
and publicizing the program, its principles and results-serve all municipalities, and will thus
benefit 100% of the enrolled public primary students in the three regions (around 17.5 million
children). The remainder of project activities focus on the nineteen capital microregions in the
North, Center-West and Northeast, and eight additional microregions in the North and Center-
West.4 Box I describes the microregion concept used in the FUNDESCOLA program. In addition, we
expect the training and experience gained by the state secretariats of education under FUNDESCOLA
to have a positive impact on schools in municipalities outside the project's microregions.
Some communities outside of the targeted microregions are particularly under-served and
marginalized. Under FUNDESCOLA II a portion of project funds have been set aside to finance the
construction of 25 schools outside the targeted microregions, to benefit indigenous and/or very
poor children who lack access to school places of adequate quality. The criteria for selecting the
communities to benefit from new school construction will be defined in the project's operational
manual prior to loan effectiveness, and will probably include the percentage of indigenous and/or
' This coverage represents, respectively, 25%, 45% and 47% of the children enrolled in public primary
schools in the Northeast, North and Center-West.
84



FUNDESCOLA 11                                                                        Annex 7
Poverty Analysis
manual prior to loan effectiveness, and will probably include the percentage of indigenous and/or
poor people in the local population.
Box 7.1 The Mieroregion Model
FUNDESCOLA has chosen the IBGE microregion as its key level of project execution. The
project's designers, through collaboration with UNDIME and in consultation with
stakeholders, organized the project around the iMicroregion' concept, using existing
divisions established by the Brazilian Census Bureau (IBGE). These microregions are
within state lines, respect municipal divisions and group together a number of
municipalities, usually around a leading municipality such as the capital or other city. The
IBGE nicroregions were selected as a means of grouping municipalities for project
implemerntation because they are transparent, include both political-adtninistrative and
soclo-economic divisions, and facilitate data collection: 1BGE, which conducts the key
household-level surveys and population censuses for Brazil, uses geographic divisions
that are compatible with the microregion concept.
The microregion model permits a more rational and effective managerial option than the
traditional dispersion of resources among the individual municipalities or the
concentration of resources to state governments. Intervention in a microregion covers all
of the municipalities in the microregion. The microregion does not constitute an
additional administrative division, but provides a basis for planning, negotiation, and
dialogue among the municipal governments and the state govemment.
Microregions and Project Phasing
The FUNDESCOLA program focuses first on microregions with characteristics that increase
its chances for improving the quality of schooling. Following successful implementation in the
capital microregions, the program expands into more disadvantaged areas. FUNDESCOLA I financed
Phase I of the FUNDESCOLA program for the 10 capital city microregions in the North and Center
West states. These included the microregions surrounding the cities of Belem, Boa Vista, Campo
Grande, Cuiaba, Goiania, Macapa, Manaus, Palmas, Porto Velho and Rio Branco. The decision to
begin with the state capitals hinged on a number of operational and equity criteria, including: 1) the
desire to attend to areas of high student concentration within each state, 2) the desire to use the
most effective means of initiating dialogue between the state and municipal systems, for replication
within the interior in subsequent projects, and 3) the need to test the Program's instruments and
operations within an environment that could be more easily monitored. Initial implementation
within each state capital allowed for training of the state secretariat staff and technicians to work
directly with municipalities in their close proximity, and secondly, initiate cooperation among the
state and municipal secretariats for future project experience. The capital microregions also tend to
have larger absolute numbers of poor than any other single microregion in their state, because of
their high share of state population.
Project activities are sequenced carefully to maximize impact. Each microregion
participates in FUNDESCOLA in two phases. At the school level, Phase I focuses on social
mobilization, institutional development (particularly the school development process) and activities
to help raise schools up to minimum standards under Components 1 and 2. Phase I also focuses on
management training for managers and technical staff in state and municipal secretariats of
education to ensure that they have the skills needed to establish a school-based development
process and carry out programs to increase school access. School construction and school project
85



FUNDESCOLAII                                                                 Annex 7
Poverty Analysis
financing are not addressed in any significant way during this phase. Phase II finances school
rehabilitation and improvement projects developed by the schools in Phase I through the School
Development Planning process, and provides follow-up support for other components.
FUNDESCOLA II will finance Phase II for the municipal and state schools supported under
FUNDESCOLA I. It will also expand the program into additional microregions within the North,
Center-West and Northeast. Table 7.2 lists the microregions targeted under FUNDESCOLA II. In the
Northeast, the project focuses on the capital microregions of the nine states. In the North and
Center West, those microregions whose leading municipality is larger (in terms of population) than
50,000 were selected to enter into the project under FUNDESCOLA II. For those microregions which
bordered on entering (within a 5% margin) a secondary criteria using the percentage of poor
families, was used. If the percentage of poor families was greater than or equal to that of the last
microregion to enter the project, then the microregion entered. The states of Amapa and Roraima
had no other microregions meeting these criteria; therefore, FUNDESCOLA II will not expand
coverage beyond the capital microregions.
Table 7.2. Targeted Microregions in FUNDESCOLA II
$tate        Al            Phase U                       P         i
_____ ____ _____ _   (F NDESCOLA     i    ~         _  _  _ _  _  _  _  _  _
North Region
Acre                      Rio Branco                     Cruzeiro do Sul
Amnazonas                 Manaus                         Parintins
Amapa                     Macapa
Para                      Belem                          Maraba
Rond6nia                  Porto Velho                    Ji-Parana
Roraima                   Boa Vista
Tocantins                 Porto Nacional                 Araguaina
Center-West Region
Goias                     Goiania                        Entorno BSB
Mato Grosso               Cuiaba                         Rondon6polis
Mato Grosso do Sul        Campo Grande                   Dourados
Northeast Region
Alagoas                                                            Macei6
Bahia                                                    Salvador
Ceara                                                    Fortaleza
Maranhao                                                 Sao Luis
Pemambuco                                                Recife
Paraiba                                                  Joao Pessoa
Piaui                                                    Teresina
Rio Grande do Norte                                      Natal
Sergipe                                                  Aracaju
The third Project will finance Phase II for the second group of microregions, and Phases I
and II of another set of 25-40 microregions. In the Northeast, those microregions whose leading
municipality is larger than 100,000 inhabitants will enter into the project. As in FUNDESCOLA II, for
those microregions which border on entering (within a 5% margin) a secondary criteria using the
percentage of poor families, will be used. If the percentage of poor families is greater than or equal
to that of the last microregion to enter the project, then the microregion will enter.
86



FUNDESCOLA II                                                                          Annex 7
Poverty Analysis
Characteristics of the Targeted Microregions
Table 7.3 shows the incidence of poverty, size of the poor population and the share of the
state's poor found in each of FUNDESCOLA II's targeted microregions, based on the 1996 population
census and poverty estimates calculated from the 1991 census. It also presents an indicator of
education system efficiency, the grade repetition rate for grades one through eight.
Table 7.3. Poverty and Education Indicators in the Targeted Microregions
State         Microregion         Poverty      Number of   Share of        Grade
headcount   poor in        microregion   repetition rate
index        microregion  poor in the    (grades 1-8)
state poor
North         All                        58.6    6,614,920            n.a.            18.70
Acre          Rio Branco                 47.1       130,333          45.0             14.37
Cruzeiro do Sul           76.2        66,726           23.0            19.96
Amazonas      Manaus                     35.1      452,156           36.1             15.86
Parintins                 72.4       125,436           10.0            12.10
Amnapa        Macapa                     42.8       132,543          75.4             21.70
Para          Beldm                      40.1      651,439            19.1            19.70
Maraba                    65.7       124,072            3.6            17.87
Rondonia      Porto Velho                37.2       130,873           19.3            13.69
Ji-Parana                 60.0       167,115           24.6            13.33
Roraima       Boa Vista                  31.3        58,943          60.6             16.33
Tocantins     Porto Nacional             58.7        96,915           13.9            11.24
Araguaina                 61.0       128,332           18.5            11.45
Center-West  All                         39.3    4,126,728            n.a.            14.80
Goias         Goiania                    27.9      417,974           22.0             13.71
Entomo BSB                46.2       298,192           15.7            15.47
Mato Grosso   CuiabA                     35.2      234,984           23.7             16.27
Rondon6polis              42.3        89,030            9.0            16.00
Mato Grosso  Campo Grande                27.7       180,514          21.9             12.63
do Sul        Dourados                   45.6      220,182           26.7              9.03
Northeast     All                        71.7   32,187,366            n.a.            17.10
Alagoas       Macei6                     50.4       446,204          23.5             18.24
Bahia         Salvador                   43.8    1,187,662            13.2            14.68
Ceara         Fortaleza                  53.7    1,386,974           28.0             11.53
Maranhao      Sao Luis                   52.5       502,644           12.2            13.07
Pemambuco    Recife                      47.3    1,314,709           27.3             17.46
Parai'ba      Joao Pessoa                52.0      413,351            17.0            15.67
Piaui         Teresina                   62.5       507,860          24.3             27.32
Rio   Grande  Natal                      41.7       317,008           18.5            18.79
do Norte
Sergipe       Aracaju                    47.7       130,333          26.9             17.29
Southeast     All                        29.7   19,899,219            n.a.            10.20
South         All                        36.9    8,676,569            n.a.            14.90
Brazil        All                        45.5    71,504802            n.a.            14.10
Source: The poverty estimates (headcount ratios) for the microregions are taken from the Atlas do Desenvolvimento
Humano no Brasil, a UNDP/IPEAMBGElFunda,cao Joao Pinheiro undertaking. The data are from the 1991 census; this is
the only data that allow microregionar level calculations of poverty incidence for the entire country. The population
figures are from the 1996 mini-census (data from IBGE website), which were applied to the UNDP, et al. poverty rates to
estimate the number of poor. The microregion repetition rates are taken from the MEC 1998 School Census for 1997;
microregion rates are averages of the municipal rates; regional and all Brazil repetition rates are for 1996.
87



FUNDESCOLAII                                                                      Annex 7
Poverty Analysis
The capital city microregions, due to a process of rapid urbanization, possess the highest
concentration of population in each state. This is especially true in the North and Center West
Regions; few medium to large cities exist outside of the capital. In the case of five states, the
population of the capital city is larger than the remainder of the state. The capital city microregions
also contain a substantial share of each state's poor (from 13 to 75 percent, depending on the state).
The targeted microregions contain roughly 34.4, 34.9 and 23.3 percent of the total number
of poor in the North, Center-West and Northeast regions, respectively. FUNDESCOLA II achieves
greater coverage of the poor in the North and Center-West, because these regions are further along
in the process, having participated in FUNDESCOLA I. Most states in these two regions will have two
microregions participating in FUNDESCOLA II. The Northeast can expect to have higher coverage
under FUNDESCOLA III, when the program expands beyond the region's capital microregions. The
microregions differ quite a bit in terms of their poverty and repetition rates. In general, the
FUNDESCOLA microregions in the North and Northeast tend to have worse poverty and education
indicators than the South and Southeast regions. The Center-West microregions present a different
picture, as they tend to have indicators more similar to those found in the South and Southeast.
The microregions themselves also contain a lot of diversity: The "poorest" municipality
within a "rich" microregion is sometimes just as poor or poorer than the poorest municipality in a
"poor" microregion. Similarly, a rich municipality often contains pockets of poverty. In short,
geographic targeting even at the municipal level is generally an inefficient way of targeting the
poor. For that reason, within the microregions, FUNDESCOLA targets more resources to the most
disadvantaged schools (which normally serve the poorer children in a microregion). This occurs
through Component I, in which schools are raised to minimum operational standards. The neediest
schools in the microregion receive the most resources, as they require additional inputs close the
gap between their current conditions and the minimum operational standard. Uncertified teachers
tend to be concentrated in schools serving poorer students; hence, project resources dedicated to
educating and certifying teachers will tend to benefit poorer students more than the better-off.
School rehabilitation projects benefit schools with more than 20 students in need of major
renovations; again, these tend to serve economically disadvantaged students. Many public primary
schools in the three regions have fewer than 20 students. On the other hand, such schools account
for only a small portion of total enrolments. For example, only 6.6 percent of primary students in
the Northeast attend schools with fewer than 30 students. The smallest schools may include some
of the poorer students in the microregion, since they tend to be located in more rural areas.
Unfortunately, it is not cost-efficient to include such tiny schools in this component. Similarly,
FUNDESCOLA funds the supply of basic furniture and equipment needed to bring schools up to
minimum operational standards; again cost-efficiency concerns dictated that these resources focus
on schools containing more than 100 students.
It is anticipated that FUNDESCOLA II will benefit millions of poor children. That said, some
of the poorest (particularly rural) schools in the North, Northeast and Center-West regions will be
excluded from the majority of the program benefits. This reflects a considered choice. Since project
feasibility, impact and (especially) sustainability require that municipal secretariats of education
acquire the skills and tools to support school-based development, the Project needs to focus its
resources and training on a limited number of municipalities in a concentrated area to increase
educational outcomes, build critical mass, assure deeper penetration of the reforms in schools and
the secretariats of education, and provide the conditions for greater sustainability. The need to
avoid scattering FUNDESCOLA resources has only increased in light of the current fiscal crisis: the
first-year budget for FUNDESCOLA II has been reduced from R$386 to R$199 million.
88



FUNDESCOLA II                                                              Annex 7
Poverty Analysis
MEASURING THE POVERTY IMPACT OF FUNDESCOLA
Given the critical role of education in poverty alleviation, it is important that education
projects financed by the World Bank attempt to measure the extent to which the project benefits the
poor relative to other groups. This is perhaps particularly true in Brazil, where the level of
inequality, in terms of both income levels and children's access to a quality education, is
exceptionally high. Poverty impact, per se, is unlikely to be observable during the implementation
period of FUNDESCOLA I and II. The impact on household incomes and the incidence of poverty
should only be observable once primary students benefiting from the FUNDESCOLA program have
passed through the education system and entered the workforce. If prior research is any guide, the
higher levels of educational attainment supported by the project should lead to greater earnings for
the beneficiary students in adulthood.
However, we don't want to wait until the project is over to measure the extent to which
FUNDESCOLA is benefiting the poor. Ideally, poverty impact monitoring will provide information
within a timeframe that will allow for any necessary adjustments in program strategy. One useful
approach is to monitor the distributional aspects of the project. To what extent are poor children
benefiting from FUNDESCOLA, and how are program benefits distributed among the various income
groups? Under FUNDESCOLA, the key and leading indicators to be monitored-the proportion of
fourth grade and eighth grade students meeting acceptable learning standards in Portuguese, and
the promotion rates-will be measured separately for students from different socio-economic
groups. This will be accomplished by "piggybacking" onto the existing efforts to measure school
achievement scores through the SAEB.
89






FUNDESCOLA 11                                                                Annex 8
Social and Beneficiary Assessment
Annex 8
FUNDESCOLA II
Social and Beneficiary Assessment
EDUCATIONAND SOCL4L DEVELOPMENT
The relationship between higher levels of education and improved socioeconomic status
is firmly established in the economic literature through a wealth of empirical studies worldwide.
Brazil is no exception (see Annex 7 for a further discussion of the Brazil-specific evidence on
linkages between poverty and educational status). There is also ample Brazil-specific evidence
that higher education levels of parents are associated with better health and education outcomes
for children, even holding socioeconomic level constant. For example, the 1996 National
Demographic and Health Survey (Pesquisa Nacionais sobre Demografia e Saude) found that the
prevalence of growth retardation was much higher among children of mothers with lower levels
of schooling, even after the education level of the father (a proxy for socioeconomic status) was
accounted for.' Parental education level also influences the demand for schooling.2
BENEFICMAR YPOPULA TION
The principal beneficiaries of the project will be primary students in the selected
microregions within the Northeast, North and Center-West regions of Brazil. This group
comprises approximately 50 percent of children enrolled in school, between the ages of 7 and 14.
Though the project does not directly address the problem of children who have already dropped
out of school, the estimated number of beneficiaries reflects the assumption that improvements
within schools under the project will lead to a lower dropout rate. While the project also does not
specifically target benefits to poor children, its geographic focus, concentration of inputs to
worse-off schools, and emphasis on addressing many of the systemic causes of school failure
should disproportionately benefit poor children (who are at much higher risk of school failure in
terms of both low achievement and dropout, and are more likely to attend schools in poor
condition). Please see Annex 7 for additional poverty targeting information.
Major stakeholders under the project include parents, teachers, principals, and, perhaps
most importantly, municipal and state education secretariat staff and political leaders whose
policies, interests, and resource decisions directly affect the schools.
STUDIES ON THE ORIGINS OF SCHOOL FAILURE
There is a rich and growing body of literature and data on education in Brazil. One of the
most recent contributions to this literature was a series of studies on the origins of primary school
failure. These studies formed the basis of the sector study "Brazil: A Call to Action," which was
jointly sponsored by the World Bank, lUNICEF, and the Brazilian Government. Developed and
discussed with the participation of a wide array of actors in the educational arena, "A Call to
Action" identified four principal causes of school failure:
' Monteiro, D'Aquino Benicio and Marins de Freitas, "Melhoria em Indicadores de Saude Associados a
Pobreza no Brasil dos Anos 90: Descricao, causas e impacto sobre desigualdades regionais." October 1997.
2 Recent evidence on parental education as a determinant of school enrolment can be found in Hammer and
Shalizi, "Public Expenditures for Poverty Alleviation in Northeast Brazil: Promoting Growth and
Improving Services." 1998.
91



FUNDESCOLA II                                                                 Annex 8
Social and Beneficiary Assessment
*  Educational systems are not organized to promote school efficiency;
* The school does not make student learning its main priority;
*  Schools are out of touch with their communities; and
*  Programs for staff development are ineffective and inconsistent.
While many of the background studies relied on quantitative data, several studies conducted
in the Northeast relied on qualitative information, or a combination of qualitative and quantitative
techniques, in an attempt to better understand how potential beneficiaries and stakeholders
understand their own situation and the possibilities for change. Semi-structured "beneficiary
assessment" type interviews were held with students (both dropouts and currently enrolled),
parents, teachers, municipal authorities, and community members, regarding their perceptions
about school, learning, and the role of education. A study of teacher practices through direct
classroom observation was also conducted in 140 first grade classrooms in the states of Bahia and
Ceara.
The regional focus and small samples of the beneficiary studies suggest caution in
generalizing their findings. Coupled with quantitative data and information from earlier studies,
however, they do offer important insights into the perceptual and behavioral context that any
education project will be operating in. Several of the main findings of these studies are discussed
below.
STAKEHOLDER PERSPECTIVES
Both children and parents accord high theoretical value to education.
The role of education as a means of social advancement is recognized by both parents
and children. Poor, uneducated parents clearly-and accurately-associate their economic and
social status with lack of schooling, and for the most part have higher expectations regarding
schooling for their children than they themselves achieved. Children (both those in school and
dropouts) express a strong connection between higher levels of education and better employment
opportunities. Even dropouts recognize that they will not be able to obtain many professional
goals without further schooling, though they are less clear about how that will happen - whether
or when they will go back, and if they have any chance of succeeding if they do. Few dropouts
interviewed said they have no intention of ever continuing with their education.3
Recent household survey data for Northeast and Southeast Brazil indirectly confirm the
high value that children, even dropouts and other non-attendees, place on educational attainment.
According to the 1996 Living Standards Survey (Pesquisa sobre Padroes de Vida), less than one
percent of children (7 to 14 year olds) and youths (15 to 17 year olds) not attending school
believe that they have already attained the desired level of schooling.4
There is a gap between perceptions of school as ideal and as experienced.
Despite the theoretical value given to education, students and parents tend to be much
more critical of schooling in practice. Unsurprisingly, school dropouts tend to be more critical of
3 See: Portela e Bastos: "Educacao, Escola e Comunidade". 1997; Gurgel: "Ditos Sobre Sucesso Escolar,"
1998; and Gurgel: "Ditos Sobre Evaso Escolar," 1997.
4 Unpublished Bank analysis completed for the Brazil urban poverty strategy paper (forthcoming).
92



FUNDESCOLA 11                                                                   Annex 8
Social and Beneficiary Asbessment
school than students who are currently in school or are considered successful. Even successful
students cite poor physical conditions of schools, insufficient preparation of teachers, lack of
interest in/relevance of curricular content, and lack of discipline. Many students work and study
at the same time, leading to a certain ambivalence regarding the role of formal schooling in
preparation for work or life in the "real world" which stands at odds with the expressed
connection between getting an education and getting a good job.
Suggestions for improving school conditions tended to focus on improvements in
physical environment, better qualified teachers, and more discipline. Importantly, even among
those parents that felt that schools were better than in the past, most felt there was still room for
improvement, though many felt that further improvement would not be possible without some
sort of government initiative or assistance. While some parents referred to the government alone
(in some cases expressing their own lack of power to act), others suggested
govemment/community partnership as the appropriate means for improving school conditions.5
There is a gap between schools and surrounding communities.
In general, parents have only limited knowledge of what takes place in school - in part
due to their own limited experience with schooling and in part because of limited school
involvement with community and parents. School interaction with parents tends to be
circumscribed: occasional meetings, messages sent home, help with fundraising and events.
School expectations of parents, however, particularly in regard to supervision of homework,
capacity to read messages sent home, and ability to take time off from work during school hours
for meetings, often exceed the possibilities of low-income parents. For students, the culture and
content of formal schooling represents an enormous departure from day-to-day experience: for
some liberating, but for many, alienating.6
Teachers and principals harbor important misconceptions about their role.
In particular, neither seem to evaluate their own performance in terns of student learning.
Quantitative data released as part of a 1990 SAEB study of student achievement found that a
majority of school principals put student learning in fourth place in order of importance, behind:
(1) the relationship between school teachers and other employees; (2) administrative
performance; (3) teacher performance. The items considered least important were: (1) dropping
out; (2) repeating; and (3) passing to the next grade.
In discussions with teachers done as part of classroom observation studies, teachers in
describing their classes rarely made any references to students or student learning. Teachers also
overwhelmingly used a teacher-centered approach to material presented in the classroom. In one
striking finding, when teachers noted that students did not understand a particular point, 38
percent tried to explain it in another way, 36 percent explained it again in the same way, and 26
percent did nothing at all. To what degree the latter finding is related to teachers' own lack of
mastery of content and what is related to teachers' assumptions that their job is to present
material, not ensure that children learn it, is difficult to say. Another important finding from the
classroom observation studies is that many teachers expect children to enter first grade already
able to read and write, and hence spend little time or energy on basic literacy.7
5 Ibid.
6 See: Portela e Bastos: "Educacao, Escola e Comunidade". 1997.
7 See: Portela e Bastos: "O Des(conhecido) Universo da Sala de Aula," 1998; and Portela, Bastos, Viera,
Maia and Lopes de Matos: "Conhecendo o Universo da Sala de Aula," 1998.
93



FUNDESCOLA II                                                                      Annex 8
Social and Beneficiary Assessment
Repetition is another area of misconception. Repetition is sometimes presented in a
positive light, as a "solution" to the problem of children not mastering sufficient material to go on
to the next grade. In fact, in most of Brazil repetition appears to have the opposite effect.8 An
analysis of 1985 household survey data concluded that repetition appears to have a stigmatizing
effect: first grade repeaters were more likely to repeat again than those entering school for the
first time.9 Analysis of test scores of first graders participating in the classroom observation
studies also found that repetition correlated with lower achievement levels.' Thus repetition
appears to be neither an efficient nor effective means of ensuring that children learn.
Teachers, children, and parents all blame school failure on those who failed.
There is a strikingly uniform view among teachers, parents, and children that school
failure is the result of a lack of individual effort, interest, or ability. Reference to other factors
influencing student achievement and persistence in school, including poor teaching, competing
student responsibilities (to bring in income or help out at home, for example), the physical school
environment, and lack of relevance of content are cited often by dropouts in discussing their
decision to drop out of school, but rarely by teachers, parents or those students who remain in
school. Rather, those who are unable to learn or decide to dropout tend to be classified by parents,
teachers, and colleagues as "lazy", "stupid" or "uninterested in learning," personalizing what is
clearly (given the numbers) a systemic failure."
To a large extent this view is also shared by those who fail at school. About half of the
dropouts interviewed in the beneficiary studies cited a seminal event - the need to work (in the
house or outside), a pregnancy, lack of money for school materials, the incompetence or behavior
of a particular teacher - as a primary reason for dropping out of school, but many of these also
confessed that they did not like school in the first place (and hence may have expended little
energy in trying to stay enrolled). The other half simply said that they found school
uninteresting.12
The 1996 Living Standards Survey also provides evidence that lack of interest in school
is a major cause of non-attendance. An estimated 23 percent of poor 7-14 year olds and 41
percent of poor 15-17 year olds who were out of school cited "lack of interest" as their main
reason for not attending. This information cuts two ways. On the one hand, it offers hope that if
school conditions improve, more children may stay in school (not all dropouts leave school out of
financial necessity). On the other, the personalization of school failure can serve as a barrier to
making the larger connection between low school quality, low achievement, and student
dropout. 13
8 The exception is Sao Paulo.
9 Paes de Barros e Mendonca: "Consequencias da Repetencia sobre o Desempenho Educacional," 1998.
10 Portela e Bastos: "O Des(conhecido) Universo da Sala de Aula," 1997.
11 See: Portela e Bastos: "Educacao, Escola e Comunidade," 1997, and "O Des(conhecido) Universo da
Sala de Aula", 1997; Gurgel: "Ditos Sucesso Escolar," 1998, and "Ditos sobre Evasao Escolar," 1997.
12 Gurgel: "Ditos sobre Evasao Escolar."
13 Unpublished Bank analysis completed for the Brazil urban poverty strategy paper (forthcoming).
94



FUNDESCOLA 11                                                                     Annex 8
Social and Beneficiary Assessment
Students value the collegial/social aspects of schooling, but these
are not recognized by school staff.
One of the high points of school for children is clearly the chance to socialize and make
friends among their schoolmates. For the most part, however, the socialization role of school is
not explicitly recognized by teachers or school staff.14 Nor is the fact that children enjoy
interacting with one another used to any advantage in the classroom: small group work is very
rare. On an informal basis, girls seem to work more with one another than do boys (and
interestingly have consistently higher test scores).15
Teachers consider training and orientation opportunities insufficient.
While many teachers display a lack of self-awareness with regards to their practice in the
classroom, the majority also believe that more training and orientation opportunities would help
them to do their jobs better. In fact, students of teachers who did receive regular, school-based
pedagogical orientation did better on tests than those students of teachers who did not receive
such orientation. Several teachers interviewed also indicated that there should be more follow-up
to training offered, and that it was difficult to absorb new ideas into practice without such follow-
up.
With regard to other issues related to improving school quality, teachers cited the need
for better teacher salaries, improved physical conditions, political commitment to improving
education, a closer relationship between the school and student families and more and better
teaching material with greater relevance to student lives.16
Municipal Secretaries of Education can articulate many of the problems
affecting education at the primary level.
Municipal Secretaries of Education interviewed as part of a classroom observation study
in Bahia were cognizant of many of the main problems of education at the primary level,
including repetition and dropout, physical and material conditions of schools, and teacher
training. In terms of their own capacity to make a difference in these areas, they cited problems of
lack of resources, autonomy, trained professional teachers, political discontinuity, political
influences in the appointment of administrators and teachers, and weaknesses in municipal
institutions. The same secretaries also classified the relationship between the state and municipal
education systems and political authorities as for the most part "purely bureaucratic," "distant,"
"no relationship," or "difficult."'7
While it is interesting that the politicization of staff appointments should be raised as an
issue by the secretaries themselves, the study did not go further in probing whether any of the
secretaries would be willing or able to change that pattern under his or her own administration.
As another background study on the unification of state and municipal education systems pointed
out, the current overlap of responsibilities between the state and municipal levels may be highly
inefficient, but it persists for a reason. In the absence of clear responsibilities and transparent
funding mechanisms, the education system as currently constituted is rife with clientelistic
' Portela e Bastos: "Educacao, Escola e Comunidade."
5 Portela e Bastos: "O Desconhecido Universo da Sala de Aula."
16 Portela e Bastos: "O Desconhecido Universo da Sala de Aula," and "Educacao, Escola e Comunidade."
17 Portela e Bastos: "Educacao, Escola e Comunidade."
95



FUNDESCOLA II                                                                Annex 8
Social and Beneficiary Assessment
relationships and patronage opportunities. To change the system is to significantly alter current
political and social dynamics.18
IMPLICATIONS FOR THE PROJECT
Any project attempting to change the education landscape must take into account
stakeholder perspectives in addition to other information. The design and implementation of
FUNDESCOLA II will attempt to capitalize on some of these perspectives, while trying to alter
others.
Among the most positive of perspectives for the project is the widespread belief in the
value of education, and a general belief among most stakeholders that the quality of primary
education needs to be, and can be, improved. Had studies shown a massive disaffection with
education generally or complacency with the status quo, the project would have a much more
difficult task. There is also a fair degree of overlap in opinions regarding what needs to be
changed. Better physical conditions for schools, more and better material and equipment, a more
relevant curriculum, and better qualified teachers are mentioned again and again in interviews
across a range of stakeholders. While the project's analysis can (and does) extend beyond and
elaborate within these categories, clearly progress in these areas is necessary if beneficiaries and
stakeholders are to "see" an improvement in the quality of education.
The design of the FUNDESCOLA program takes these perspectives into account. Repair of
school buildings and equipping of classrooms are included in the project, within a larger
framework of promoting the use of minimum operating standards and state and municipal
cooperation in microregional planning. From the perspective of the education analyst, improving
the framework for these inputs offers the best hope for addressing the root causes of poor physical
and material conditions in schools, over the long term. Hence, FUNDESCOLA incorporates
financing for school improvements within a comprehensive strategy that acknowledges its role as
an important incentive for stakeholder participation. With regard to teacher training, the project
will finance certification training for uncertified teachers, but will also (through the financing of
school improvement projects) support school staff in defining their own training needs.)9 On a
pilot basis, the project will also explore a menu of pedagogic and curricular models proven to aid
in student learning.
Attitudes and perspectives that represent a challenge for the project include: (1) the sense
of disconnection and lack of shared perspectives between schools and their communities; (2) the
lack of a common view among teachers and principals that student learning is their main priority
(and the. lack of connection between student learning and "quality" among most stakeholders); (3)
teacher misconceptions about repetition and literacy teaching; (4) lack of clarity about the role of
the school; (5) the personalization of school failure; and (6) a fairly widespread
"disempowerment" syndrome, whereby everyone complains about the system, but few (be they
parents or municipal secretaries of education) squarely assume the responsibility for change.
FUNDESCOLA's main mechanism for working at the level of the school and community
(where many of these attitudes prevail) is the school development plan. Conceived as a joint
18 Plank, David: "A Unificacao dos Sistemas Escolares Estaduais e Municipais," 1998.
19 Experience with school improvement projects under FUNDESCOLAI indicates that teacher training is one
of the main areas of investment. This corresponds with study findings that teachers themselves do not feel
that they have sufficient training.
96



FUNDESCOLA II                                                                 Annex 8
Social and Beneficiary Assessment
school-community exercise, the school development plan is also the most likely entry point to
begin to address some of the issues outlined above. Schools will be assisted in the development of
plans by school development teams, made up of municipal and state education staff; these staff,
in turn, will receive training that will include exposure to some of these attitudes and guidelines
for facilitation that will help schools and communities to begin to question them. Messages and
activities developed under the project's social mobilization and communication component
should also help to reinforce alternative perspectives. As a concrete incentive for schools to
participate in the school development process, FUNDESCOLA includes financing for school
improvement projects developed as part of the overall school plan.
At the state and municipal level, the project represents a fairly radical departure from the
status quo and will doubtless entail a range of attitudinal and behavioral shifts. By forcing states
and municipalities to cooperate rather than compete for resources, the project should clarify
responsibilities and raise issues of accountability that had hitherto been obscured. This process is
likely to have its politically uncomfortable aspects. The challenge for the project will be to
demonstrate to both states and municipalities, that politically they can "do well by doing right" in
the educational arena. Here again, social mobilization and communications activities included
under the project should be helpful, both in maintaining pressure on political figures to do the
right thing, and in helping to publicize the successes of those that do. Training for state and
municipal education staff should give them a technical basis for decisions that in the past have
tended to be ruled by politics. Concrete incentives for municipalities to "buy in" to and expand
project approaches have also been included - for example, a fund to support municipal efforts to
expand the school development process outside those schools selected by the project.
Finally, it will be important for monitoring and evaluation of the FUNDESCOLA program
to include the gathering and dissemination of additional information on stakeholder perspectives.
Some of this will be of course be done informally in the course of project implementation, during
training sessions, for example. Other mechanisms will include classroom observation studies
done under the research subcomponent, the use of opinion surveys, and perhaps the involvement
of the municipal forums in the design and implementation of "mini" beneficiary assessment
studies in their own municipalities. Ultimately, it is important not only to assess whether
educational outcomes have improved by quantitative measures, but whether those involved
believe that things have improved, for the answer to that question will drive the politics of
education.
97






FUNDESCOLA II                                                                Annex 9
Technical Annex
Annex 9
FUNDESCOLAII
Technical Annex
This annex outlines some of the salient technical issues of the project, including provision
for teacher certification and upgrade, demand for schooling, and linkages among and between the
multiple FUNDESCOLA projects.
TEACHER DEVELOPMENTACTIVITIES UNDER FUNDESCOLA
Experience under the Northeast Basic Education Projects, and earlier projects, show that
the institutions responsible for teacher training in Brazil, namely universities and normal schools,
are burdened by pre-existing commitments, and tend to employ traditional or academic
approaches to teacher training. The poor quality of teacher training is well supported by research
in Brazil. Analyses carried out using student achievement results from both the SAEB/95 and
SAEB/97 assessments confirm that training activities for teachers and the possession of a
university or normal school teaching degree or license has little or no correlation with student
performance. On the other hand, teachers' education level and knowledge of the discipline they
teach does have a significant positive effect on student achievement. We know from research and
practice around the world that there are ways to raise teacher quality and their skills in helping
students learn. As mentioned in the technical summary, FUNDESCOLA has incorporated several
approaches that take an end run around the institutions responsible for teacher training today.
a)   Teacher Training under School's Own Financing.  Of the millions in funds being
transferred directly to schools, experience under FUNDESCOLA I shows that a significant portion
will be used by schools to hire teachers or specialists to carry out specialized and classroom-
specific training of teaching staff.
b)   Design-Based Training. A second approach to teacher development is found in the final
step of the school-based development process. Whereas the teaching/learning designs developed
under the FUNDESCOLA I project are only going to reach the development and pilot testing phase
(with the exception of "Escola Ativa," which will be more widely implemented as noted below),
it is expected that in FUNDESCOLA III these designs will play a very substantial role in school
improvement and especially teacher development. Teacher development and support are, in fact,
at the core of teaching/learning designs. Design-based training will include: on-site technical
assistance and training for the principal and teaching teams in implementing the design, summer
planning institutes, local and regional conferences for school leaders, annual school review and
strategic planning exercises, courses in continuous assessment, teaching to standards, use of
design-specific teaching and learning materials and methodologies, use of student achievement
data to better diagnose problems of individual students and target instruction, support for whole
faculty study groups and teacher learning circles, teacher assessment, within-school and cross-
school observation, and distance training workshops. A number of these design-based teacher
development activities play a part in the already successful Escola Ativa design, under
implementation today in over 170 schools under the FUNDESCOLA I project. Escola Ativa will be
expanded, with the support of the Ministry of Education, to over 690 rural and multi-grade
schools located in more than 150 municipalities in the three regions of FUNDESCOLA 11.
99



FUNDESCOLA 11                                                                Annex 9
Technical Annex
c)   Distance Teacher Training. Lastly, FUNDESCOLA has helped the Ministry of Education to
develop a low cost, results-oriented two-year distance education program, PROFORMAQAO, for
educating and training the nearly 70,000 uncertified teachers working in the region.
PROFORMAQAO is designed to provide Brazilian educators with a working model of a true
distance learning system that may help practitioners and decision makers avoid some of the
wasteful technology driven experiments now seen in so many other parts of the world. More than
providing a model, PROFoRMA(Ao has an important training effect by introducing a significant
number of individuals into the practice of designing good quality distance education learning
materials, others into facilitating learning through using these materials and others in organizing
and administering these practices. Not least in importance, in the long run, it will have initiated a
significant number of school-teachers into the value of participating in the relatively self-directed
process of being learners-at-a-distance.
The key features of the PROFORMACAO program are:
(a)    Course design: The courses have been designed by national subject specialist leaders and
are based on the Ministry of Education's National Curriculum Parameters. The content of the
subjects thus made available to the student-teacher in the most remote part of the country should
therefore be as good as that available to the most privileged urban university student. These
content experts have learned much about designing distance education materials as they have
been guided and assisted over a year-long period in writing and re-writing their subject matter
under direction of national and international distance education design experts. This work has
been formatted and edited for presentation in text and on video by leading experts in these
technologies. Moreover, the work has been informed by interviews and videotaped observations
of beneficiaries using a draft version of the material during field tests. With a substantial
investment in this design, the quality of these learning materials is significantly better than can be
provided in more traditional training programs, yet when amortized over some 70,000 trainees, is
of considerably lower average cost.
(b)   Instruction. One of the most significant features of well-designed distance education is
the separation of the various processes normally associated with teaching, and their delivery by a
team of specialists in each process. In distance education systems, content experts are not in
direct contact with learners, but their content is organized and delivered through a range of media.
Similarly the special skill of assisting each individual learner absorb and process the otherwise
mass produced materials into personal learning experiences is the work of specialists -- in
FUNDESCOLA's PROFORMAQAO program referred to as Tutors. These tutors are selected as
persons familiar with the working environment of the trainees, as people psychologically as well
as physically accessible to the trainees, and as persons with more experience and general
knowledge of the work that the trainees have to undertake in their classrooms. Tutors are trained
in their responsibilities, particularly in knowing the limits of their responsibility, and monitored
by persons appointed by Training Agencies (under agreed TORs) at the State level, who are in
turn trained and monitored by a specialist team at National level working with the Project team in
Brasilia.
(c)    Administration and management. PROFORMAcAo demonstrates one of the most recent
innovations in systematic distance education -- it is a system without an institution. It is a virtual
system, using content experts from a dozen contributing organizations, technology specialists
from others, instruction and learner support, monitoring and evaluation from yet others. All are
held in place and organized by a very small administrative unit at MEC dealing with such
questions as where and when team meetings are held and seeing that work of different specialists
100



FUNDESCOLA I1                                                               Annex 9
Technical Annex
is coordinated to meet deadlines. Such a virtual system is even more cost-efficient than
organizations like the Open University that employs its own content, design and instructional
resource personnel and also employ a large administrative staff.
(d)    Learning and learners. Those who learn in PROFORMAQko will, by definition, have a
significant influence on the next generation of adults, including the next generation of school-
teachers. Studying in a distance education system requires the learner to accept more
responsibility for deciding when, where, and to some extent, how to study. Although students
meet in groups with a tutor and the direction of their discussions and activities is determined by
the course design team, the distance of content experts from the tutorial group inevitably throws
trainees to some extent on their own resources. Indeed, a good design team takes this reality into
account and tries to steer course assignments in a direction that capitalizes on the local knowledge
and initiatives of the trainees themselves. Distance from an instructor is found to be a liberating
experience, provided course materials provide sufficient structure and course tutors are well
trained to give support to learners when needed. In summary, PROFORMAQAO is a process that
reinforces a philosophy of empowering and enabling trainee teachers to become more self-reliant,
more creative, and more independent thinkers as well as more knowledgeable in the subjects of
their instruction.
USING QUALITY INVESTMENTS TO STIMULA TE DEMAND FOR SCHOOLING
With the implementation of a "funding-follows-the-student model" through the FUNDEF,
both states and municipalities have greater incentive to get children into school. Encouraging
children to avoid dropping out or repeating a grade will require focusing on making school more
attractive by improving school quality, as detailed below.
Why Demand for Schooling is a Function of School Ouality. From an economic
perspective, parents' interest in sending their children to school, and children's interest in going to
school, attending regularly, and completing the primary cycle, are directly related to what they
both believe they will gain from this investment in time, effort, and money. Children drop out
when they or their parents conclude that the benefits of schooling do not exceed the costs of
going to school. The benefits considered by parents and children include the immediate benefits
associated with learning and participation in the schooling process, along with the expected future
benefits associated with recognition that earnings may be higher for those who complete more
schooling. Immediate benefits can serve to increase demand for children to attend school and
persist until school completion to the degree that children enjoy the learning that takes place, the
school experience itself, and the satisfaction of progressing through the educational cycle. Future
benefits are the expected additional earnings or other returns. Future benefits, too, are a function
of school quality. To the degree that future productivity depends on educational achievement, as
the human capital model postulates, and not just on attainment, then individuals who acquire
higher levels of learning because of higher quality schooling will be more productive in the labor
market, benefit more from on-the-job training, and be rewarded in terms of additional earnings
and job satisfaction.
Why demand for education is a function of the costs of schooling. The costs that a family
considers in its calculation of demand for schooling may include the personal costs experienced
by the child associated with going to school, as well as the more traditional costs associated with
the forgone earnings of child labor and the forgone returns from domestic help. Although it may
not be quantifiable, a young child may experience a significant personal cost associated with
constant exposure to failure, persistent repetition, low expectations, and an unpleasant or unsafe
101



FUNDESCOLA II                                                              Annex 9
Technical Annex
environment. Families may have to bear the costs associated with forgone earnings to the degree
that school-age children are required by their parents to bring income into the family from work
in the labor market, or to provide domestic help to parents who themselves may be working
outside of the home. In addition, families have to bear direct costs associated with uniforms,
educational materials, and, in some cases, transportation costs. These two types of costs are added
to the personal costs of school attendance and serve to reduce demand for school attendance and
completion.
Benefits and the poor. Poor children may have lower demand for schooling because they
experience lower benefits from schooling. With respect to the "immediate benefits" of schooling,
FUNDESCOLA data show that poor children are enrolled or are located in neighborhoods with
schools that are in poorer than average conditions -- schools that are further from minimum
operational conditions. Poor children are more likely to have unqualified, less educated teachers.
These less skilled teachers are less able to diagnose learning difficulties of poor children and
identify the appropriate instructional strategies. To make matters worse, research shows that
teachers in Brazil tend to have lower learning expectations for poor children. These lower
expectations translate into less direct attention from teachers who assume that poor children will
fail anyway.  Failure for these children confirms teachers' own prejudice.  Beneficiary
Assessments conducted with the support of the World Bank, Unicef, and the Ministry of
Education provide evidence that poor families tend to have less understanding of the "future
benefits" of schooling. First, the poor tend to live in communities with little experience of
success associated with educational attainment. In poor communities, because there is little
variance in educational attainment, differences between the rich and the poor are believed to be
more a consequence of luck or cunning than educational level. The beneficiary assessments also
point out that poor families tend not to believe that their children can escape from poverty by
schooling.
Costs and the poor. Poor children and their families also experience relatively higher
indirect costs of schooling. Schooling is often an unpleasant experience for poor children
because their teachers have such low esteem for them, because they are more likely to be left
back, and because they may have a harder time learning as a consequence of inadequate pre-
school preparation, inadequate diet, and lack of support at home. Some evidence suggests that
poor children are somewhat more likely to be required by their families to work at or even away
from home, although the LSMS results did not support this finding. In any case, opportunity
costs may figure into poor families' demand calculations. Direct costs of transportation, uniform,
or other miscellaneous school supplies represent a higher share of poor families' incomes.
What FUNDESCOLA does to increase the benefits and reduce the costs of schooling for the
poor. FUNDESCOLA directly attacks the benefit side of the demand equation by emphasizing
school quality improvements through (a) raising schools up to minimum operational standards,
including showering the schools with books (continuing the investments of the Northeast Basic
Education Project) (b) giving resources to the schools to promote school autonomy, (c) educating
unqualified teachers, (d) supporting school development planning with the support of the parent
community, and (e) improving the school learning climate. Items a through c disproportionately
benefit poor children who are today in the worst schools with the most unqualified teachers.
Through social marketing and communication, component four of the project, FUNDESCOLA also
reaches out to parents to discourage child labor and to encourage them to have a positive attitude
to education at home and to participate more in education and the school development process.
The campaign will target teachers to promote the idea that all children can learn and emphasize
that they are the central players in student learning and in supporting a positive learning
environment at school. The campaign will also target children to show them that education is the
key to success, and that their effort is the key ingredient in the recipe of this success.
102



FUNDESCOLAII                                                               Annex 9
Technical Annex
LINKS BETWEEN FUNDESCOLA PROJECTS
FUNDESCOLA I helped 100% of the targeted schools produce School Development Plans,
implemented the microplanning information system for all of the targeted microregions,
promoted the full operation of the forums, facilitated agreement of states and municipalities on
their microregion action programs, financed the school autonomy subcomponent, and launched
bidding documents for new furniture, school equipment, and learning materials for all of the
targeted microregions.   The Bank is highly satisfied with project management and
implementation.
The government will expect to negotiate FUNDESCOLA III when the FUNDESCOLA II Project
has disbursed 50% of its loan amount. That target is expected to be achieved before March 2001.
The loan amount for that project should be in the order of US$387.5 million.
Strategy: FUNDESCOLA III will have the same objectives of FUNDESCOLA I , and will be
designed around the same basic strategy, with a few notable exceptions:
(a) Step 5 of the School-Based Development Process (Implementing Teaching Learning
Designs) will be substantially strengthened. During the next 18 months, with financing from
FUNDESCOLA II, a number of these designs will be identified, developed, tested, and packaged
for implementation. Support teams will be identified and trained, training programs prepared,
and teaching/learning materials developed. These programs will then be made available and
exported by the project.
(b) Institution building (under part 2 of FUNDESCOLA's strategy for strengthening schools,
secretariats, and public support for education) will be enhanced for a selected group of
municipal and state education secretariats willing to undertake substantial changes under the
Secretariat Management and Business Plan. These secretariats will be helped in undertaking
a full restructuring of their education system focused on what their schools need, not based on
top-down requirements. Second, the FUNDESCOLA III project will help these secretariats of
education undertake a number of critical actions necessary for supporting step five of the
School-Based Development Process. These include: (i) an investment fund for school
reform; (ii) support for a professional development infrastructure that supports school reform;
(ii) the adoption of clear and objective leaming standards and the use of a formal criterion-
referenced student assessment system designed to measure achievement against these
standards; (iv) the decentralization of authority over budgets, staffing, and curriculum and
instructional strategies to schools that have effective school development plans tied to the
standards; (v) the direct engagement of a broad array of publics around school and municipal
performance, promoting accountability; and (iv) support for division of responsibility for
education between state and municipal governments.
(c) School director training, included as part of component 5 in FUNDESCOLA II, will be
expanded significantly as part of FUNDESCOLA III's effort to disseminate and expand the reach
of the School-Based Development Process to as many schools as possible in the three regions
of the Project. The model for this training program will be based upon PRASEM, the highly
successful training program for municipal secretaries of education initiated under the Call to
Action ESW dissemination program, and expanded substantially under NEBE II and
FUNDESCOLA I.
103



FUNDESCOLA II                                                             Annex 9
Technical Annex
Enhanced Sustainability: The FUNDESCOLA III project will provide additional incentives to
expand and to institutionalize the School-Based Development Process, including additional
rounds of School Improvement Projects and incentive funds to expand school development plans
to non-targeted schools.
104



FUNDESCOLA II                                                             Annex 10
Institutional Annex
Annex 10
FUNDESCOLA II
Institutional Development Annex
Institutional Development under FUNDESCOLA II
One of the features that distinguishes the FUNDESCOLA II project from its predecessors is
the emphasis given to institutional development of State and Municipal Secretariats.
Brazilian public primary education, as stated elsewhere in this document, is characterized
by parallel but uncoordinated municipal and state systems. Before FUNDESCOLA, these
overlapping administrative systems had little incentive to cooperate, optimize resources, or
reduce inequalities among and between their jurisdictions. FUNDESCOLA I was designed to foster
dialogue at the microregion level by promoting transparent information sharing through the
creation of Forums and joint municipal/state activities. This dialogue was a pre-requisite for
participation in the project. It also provided instruments, technical assistance and training for high
level education managers and technicians. These activities, many completed prior to Project
implementation, allowed for secretariats not only to have a clearer vision of the FUNDESCOLA
project, but also of their shared education system realities and expectations for improvement.
These efforts did not constitute a distinct subcomponent of FUNDESCOLA I. Rather, under
FUNDESCOLA I, a small group of specialists, in the course of their FUNDESCOLA coordinating
activities (including technical assistance and training for states and municipalities), became
catalysts for dialogue and cooperative planning. Their efforts were directed at a very specific and
politically sensitive clientele: state and municipal education managers and lead administrators.
FUNDESCOLA II begins where FUNDESCOLA I left off, with professionals from the
Ministry of Education coordinating the complex dialogue of the Forum. The expansion of the
Project to an additional seventeen microregions under FUNDESCOLA II required a new strategy,
namely the creation of new mechanisms that would permit secretariats, on their own, to improve
their management practices, continue dialogue among and between systems, and incorporate the
strategies, processes and instruments developed under FUNDESCOLA I into their strategic
framework as well as into their routine operational practices.
From a overall strategic planning point of view, this is a continuation of FUNDESCOLA I
and should contribute to the sustainability of the activities financed by that project and its
expansion. Responsibility for the development of this task will be placed with a team of
consultants and specialists capable of providing technical assistance for the professional
development of leadership in the secretary of education.
Given the importance of continuity and sustainability of the project strategies and actions in
participating states and municipalities, the need to rationalize operational procedures in the
secretariat and the possibility of significant financial support under FUNDESCOLA II, the
subcomponent "Institutional Development" (FUNDESCOLA I) was given greater emphasis and
redesigned as a specific component for FUNDESCOLA II This component acts in complement to
other project components, especially the Social Mobilization Component, conceived as an
important element for promoting the sustainability and expansion of FUNDESCOLA program
activities. Institutional Development as promoted by the FUNDESCOLA program is based on a
collection of actions, structured in two parts, described below.
105



FUNDESCOLAII                                                              Annex 10
Institutional Annex
Strengthening State and Municipal Coordination
This part of the institutional development component focuses on three operational principles
considered crucial to the development of primary education in the project regions and
microregions. These principles are affirmed through the establishment of the Forum, a political
instance created exclusively for FUNDESCOLA that unites mayors and UNDIME (Union of
Municipal Directors) under the coordination of the State Secretary of Education. In addition,
these principles are invoked in the elaboration, execution, and supervision of FUNDESCOLA
instruments, including the PAM (Municipal Action Program), PAE (State Action Program) and
PAZ (Microregion Action Program) as well as the Participation Agreement, essential conditions
for participation in FUNDESCOLA. These three principles are:
(i) Integration of education policies and initiatives between and among state and
municipal governments within the same microregion to optimize and rationalize the
supply of educational services among the diverse systems, promoting the exchange of
experiences among various education practitioners and the clear division of
responsibilities among government entities responsible for providing primary education;
(ii) Transparencv in the definition and allocation of resources in order to promote trust,
as well as a shared vision of the availability and use of the total existing and expected
financial resources (including from FUNDESCOLA), in accordance with the diversity of
funding sources for financing of primary education in the microregions. One of the more
effective tools in promoting transparency is the school network microplanning
information system, a highly technical school mapping procedure which uses educational,
demographic, and geographic information to catalogue levels of quality (inputs, services,
and results) and equity on a school by school and community by community basis. This
system demonstrates disparities in Minimum Operational Standards across schools in
different systems, and highlights differences in educational performance. This
information helps decision-makers from a variety of jurisdictions share information from
a reliable and valid sources, and reach agreement on cooperative planning, rational
assignment of enrollment, and location of new or replacement construction.
(iii) Commitment on the part of municipal and state directors to FUNDESCOLA goals and
objectives. This commitment is assured through signature of the regional action plan
(PAZ), guarantee of the implementation of activities set out in their respective
educational plans (PAM), and through leadership strengthening activities of the Forum.
Previous efforts will be incorporated into FUNDESCOLA II by means of the supervision, evaluation,
and possible adjustment of the programming mechanisms (PAM, PAE and PAZ). The role of the
Foruiw, in this process is as an informal political association capable of defining and supervising
the completion of objectives and goals for the microregion. In order that the member secretariats
can pursue and attend to these goals, they should develop strategies, incorporate adequate
procedures and instruments, and promote the professional development of managers and
technicians linked to improving the quality of expected educational outcomes, to optimize the
allocation of available human and financial resources, and reduce existing education inequalities.
Subcomponent B, below, describes how the FUNDESCOLA project contributes to development of
the management framework.
106



FUNDESCOLA II                                                               Annex 10
Institutional Annex
Implementation Strategy:
This subcomponent promotes and finances seminars, workshops (such as the "Program for
Support of Municipal Secretaries of Education" -PRASEM) and Forum meetings, debates, study
tours and other activities linked to the professional development of state and municipal education
managers.
A. PRASEM. This intensive seminar series disseminates information on educational financing,
legislation, management practices and educational outcomes to all municipal and state secretariats
of education in each of the project states. Working together over a period of a week, Municipal
and State Secretaries of Education and Mayors (or Finance Secretaries) calculate their FUNDEF
resources, elaborate model career plans, and learn about innovations in school autonomy and
management, and education system reforms.
B. Forum activities. The Forum provides an environment for defining regional and local needs,
aggregating municipal indicators to form regional project indicators, and establishing benchmarks
for project implementation and monitoring. The key tool used in this process is the Project
Logical Framework. State and Municipal education administrators meet to elaborate and monitor
the implementation of the microregion logical framework, review results of the microplanning
process, improve transparency of information, examine data in both systems, and agree on ways
to improve outcomes for all children in their region.
Institutional Developmentfor Secretariats of Education
This part of the institutional development component describes a collection of activities and
processes to be developed and incorporated by individual secretariats of education in their
structure, based on the strategies, instruments, processes and mechanisms developed by
FUNDESCOLA to attain the goals established in the PAM, PAZ and PAE, and primarily, to
guarantee the continual improvement of education system performance.
Under this subcomponent, with the technical support of the Project, the education managers and
technical body of the secretariats will complete a Secretariat Management and Business Plan
(PGS-Plano de Gestao da Secretaria) in order to rationalize decision-making and execution of
strategic actions.
The PGS is founded upon three principles. These principles represent trends observed throughout
Brazil in various state and municipal education programs and plans.
(i) Effectiveness. To effectively promote quality, the system (including all schools)
should first agree to common student learning standards based on the national
curriculum. These standards should specify what each student should know and be able to
do upon completion of each grade. Second, the secretariat should periodically administer
achievement tests linked to these curriculum parameters that permit meaningful
evaluation of student learning. The secretariat should inform schools and the community
of the results of these assessments. Moreover, these results should be treated as
diagnostic instruments, to be used by the secretariat and schools to continually improve
education results. Lastly, in order to focus its efforts and resources on improving learning
for all students, schools need to conduct a strategic planning process of its own, with the
participation of the school community, and the technical support and supervision of the
secretary.
107



FUNDESCOLA II                                                               Annex 10
Institutional Annex
For its part, the secretariat should reorganize its structure in order to give priority to
development of its schools. The PGS incorporates this vision of school effectiveness by
aligning learning standards with the National Curriculum Parameters (PCN); encouraging
expansion of SAEB-based exams and internalization of innovations such as the PDE,
EscolaAtiva, and teachers/learning designs aimed at increasing student achievement.
(ii) Equity is promoted through the correction of inequalities in the supply of educational
services. Differences in operational condition of the school can be observed within and
between systems. For a school system to attain acceptable levels of quality, each and
every school must meet Minimum Operational Standards. Once these standards have
been met in all schools, the secretariat should maintain operational equity to achieve
increases in student achievement.
The PGS should promote the incorporation and adjustment to local reality of the concepts
and instruments that make Minimum Operational Standards possible, including
Education Microplanning and the School Survey (LSE). Once these instruments are
operationalized, secretariats that participate in the PGS process should define and
implement strategies to raise all schools to Minimum Operational Standards.
(iii) Efficiency is understood as the optimal allocation of financial, human and material
resources in order to maximize education system performance. This can be measured by
indicators such as student-teacher ratio, average number of students per classroom, per
student and per graduate unit costs, student flows, ratio of administrators to students,
decentralization of budget responsibilities, teacher career planning, direct school transfer
programs and relative weight of resources allocation-administration vs. classroom
expenditures, etc.
Strategies for improving school-level efficiency include increasing school autonomy,
creating school/teacher accountability mechanisms (such as a form to justify student
repetition), encouraging the creation of a school team to maintain and improve the cadre
of teachers, and optimal allocation of staff on a school by school basis. Mechanisms for
improving system-level efficiency include aggregating school level indicators and needs
to create management plans and demand-based mechanisms for improvement, monitoring
and evaluating programs, and optimizing and reorganizing secretariat and regional
management staff to better support schools.
Implementation Strategy:
The component includes a process of training and technical assistance directed toward leaders
(management and administrators) of education secretariats, based on previously defined
guidelines that should provide the secretariat with the basic conditions to:
a) establish values, vision, and mission;
b) define a strategic plan with priorities and goals;
c) develop specific strategies for achieving these goals;
d) map out operational procedures;
e) adjust operational procedures in accordance with FUNDESCOLA requirements;
f) institutionalize these new procedures.
108



FUNDESCOLA II                                                                  Annex 10
Institutional Annex
In accordance with the innovative nature of this process, the DGP will direct initial
implementation of this subcomponent on a pilot basis, in at least two State and Municipal
Secretariats. These secretariats will be selected based on their level of commitment to the
strategies, instruments, and processes suggested by FUNDESCOLA. This strategy assumes a joint
effort on the part of the secretariat and FUNDESCOLA project staff to construct and put into action
the PGS so that it can be expanded to other interested states and municipalities under
FUNDESCOLA III.
During this process the DGP team will be supplemented by consultants and specialists that can
collaborate in the future expansion of the experience. The secretariats selected for the pilot will
sign a commitment contract that establishes the conditions of participation and the possibility for
collaboration and dissemination of their experience to other secretariats under the next project.
The underlying concept of the PGS is that while school-based reform is an effective starting
point, changes in governance and restructuring of central offices need to occur in order to provide
a healthy environment for increasing school autonomy and effectiveness. Configuration of central
offices to effectively support schools will then guide reforms of the secretariat itself. Particular
challenges to school reform at the central level include: making individual school accountable for
results, creating mechanisms to optimize allocation of human and financial resources, making
standards operational, implementing professional development strategies, and developing
mechanisms for feedback.
Expected Results
At the end of the FUNDESCOLA II project the following three products are expected:
a) Manual for the preparation and implementation of the PGS;
b) Consultants trained in the PGS process;
c) Expansion strategy formulated for FUNDESCOLA III.
109






FUNDESCOLA II                                                              Annex 11
Project Processing Budget and Schedule
Annex 11
FUNDESCOLA II
Project Processing Budget and Schedule
A. Project Budget (US$000)                     Planned                 Actual
200,000                 150,000
B. Project Schedule                            Planned                 Actual
Time taken to prepare the project (months)       11                       9
First Bank mission (identification)            06/01/98                08/10/97
Project Concept Paper review meeting           12/11/98                12/11/98
Project Appraisal Document review              01/11/99                01/11/99
Negotiations                                   04/15/99                04/19/99
Board Presentation                             06/08/99
Signing                                        07/30/99
Effectiveness                                  08/15/99
Prepared by:                             Ministry of Education
C. Bank staff and consultants who worked on the project included:
Name                                   Specialty
Robin Horn                          Task Manager/Education Economics
Alberto Rodriguez                   Education Assessment
Chris Parel                         Economist/Country Officer
Sergei Soares                       Consultant, Economic Analysis
Karla McEvoy                        Environmental Analysis and Project Costing
Kimberly Nead                       Consultant, Poverty Analysis
Amber Gove                          Consultant, Project Preparation
Tulio Correa                        Financial Management
Susana Amaral                       Disbursement Analysis
Daniela Marques                     Project Analysis
Jose Baigorria Pera                 Procurement
Nicia Wernek                        Social Mobilization Consultant
Adriana Weisman                     Operations Analyst
Katia Macedo                        Project Assistant
D. Ministry of Education staff and consultants who worked on the project included:
Ant6nio Emilio Sendim Marques       Project Director
Ant6nio Augusto de A. Neto          Project Design and Strategy
Maria Helena Guimaraes de Castro    President of INEP
Joao Batista Gomes-Neto             Director of Education Information & Statistics
Maria Ines Gomes de Sa Pestana      Director of Basic Education Evaluation
Jose Amaral Sobrinho                Education Management
Ronyse Pacheco                      Project Financing
Ant6nio Carlos Xavier               Project Advisor
Gilberto Costa                      Communications and Public Relations
Wilsa Maria Ramos                   Proforma9do Teacher Certification Program
111



FUNDESCOLA II                                                                      Annex 12
Documents in the Project File
Annex 12
FUNDESCOLA II
Documents in the Project File
A. Project Operations and Implementation Manual (MOIP) - FUNDESCOLAI
B. Other
1. Plano Nacional de Educa,ao Brasilia, 1998.
2. Evolucao da Educacao Basica no Brasil: 1991-1997. Instituto Nacional de Estudos e Pesquisas
Educacionais - INEP, Brasilia, 1997.
3.  Fundo de Manutencao e Desenvolvimento do Ensino Fundamental e de Valoriza,ao do Magisterio:
guia para sua operacionalizacao. Ministerio da Educa,ao e do Desporto -MEC, Fundo Nacional de
Desenvolvimento da Educacao - FNDE, Sao Paulo 1997.
4.  Carta Lei Darcy Ribeiro no. 9.394, de 1996: emendas a constituicao nos. 11 e 14, de 1996 e Lei 9.424,
de 1996, Diretrizes e Bases da Educacao Nacional. Gabinete do Senador Darcy Ribeiro, Brasilia, 1997.
5.  Sistematica de Financiamento do Ensino Fundamental. Fundo Nacional de Desenvolvimento da
Educaao - FNDE, Ministerio da Educacao e do Desporto -MEC, Brasilia, 1997.
6.  Dinheiro na Escola: procedimentos operacionais. Ministerio da Educacao e do Desporto - MEC,
Brasilia. 1997.
7.  Manual de Orientacao para Constituicao de Unidades Executoras. MEC - Secretaria de Educacao
Fundamental, Brasilia, 1997.
8.  Informe Estatistico 1, 1996: Brasil, Norte, Nordeste, Sudeste, Sul, Centro-Oeste. Instituto Nacional de
Estudos e Pesquisas Educacionais - INEP, Brasilia, 1997.
9.  Informe Estatistico 2, 1996: Rond8nia, Acre, Amazonas, Roraima, AmapA, Para, Tocantins. Instituto
Nacional de Estudos e Pesquisas Educacionais - INEP, Brasilia, 1997.
10. Informe Estatistico 3, 1996: Maranhao, Piaui, CearA, Rio Grande do Norte, Pernambuco, Alagoas,
Sergipe, Bahia. Instituto Nacional de Estudos e Pesquisas Educacionais - INEP, Brasilia, 1997.
11. Informe Estatistico 4, 1996: Minas Gerais, Espirito Santo, Rio de Janeiro, Sao Paulo. Instituto
Nacional de Estudos e Pesquisas Educacionais - INEP, Brasilia, 1997.
12. Informe Estatistico 5, 1996: Parana, Santa Catarina, Rio Grande do Sul. Instituto Nacional de Estudos
c Pesquisas Educacionais - INEP, Brasilia, 1997.
13. Informe Estatistico 6, 1996: Mato Grosso do Sul, Mato Grosso, Goias, Distrito Federal. Instituto
Nacional de Estudos e Pesquisas Educacionais - INEP, Brasilia, 1997.
14. Sistema Nacional de Avaliaco da Educacao BAsica, SAEB/95: resultados estaduais. Instituto
Nacional de Estudos e Pesquisas Educacionais - INEP, Brasilia, 1997.
15. Ditos sobre a Evasao Escolar: estudos de casos no estado da Bahia. Paulo Roberto Holanda Gurgel.
Ministerio da Educagao e do Desporto - MEC, Projeto de Educa,ao BAsica para o Nordeste, Brasilia, 1997.
16. Educa9ao, Escola e Comunidade: estudo piloto no estado da Bahia. Adelia Luiza Portela and Eni
Santana Barretto Bastos. Ministerio da Educacao e do Desporto - MEC, Projeto de Educacao Basica para o
Nordeste, Brasilia, 1997.
17. Chamada A Acao: combatendo o fracasso escolar no Nordeste. Projeto Nordeste, Banco Mundial,
UNICEF, Brasilia 1997.
18. Lioes e Praticas 1-13. Varias Autores, Projeto Nordeste, Banco Mundial, UNICEF, Brasilia 1997.
19. Guia de Consulta, Programa de Apoio aos Secretarios Municipais de Educacao (PRASEM). Projeto
Nordeste, Banco Mundial, UNICEF, Brasilia 1997.
20. Lessons from New American Schools' Scale-Up Phase, Susan R. Bodilly, Rand Corporation, 1998.
21. Design-Based Assistance as a Cornerstone of a School Improvement Strategy, Thomas K. Glennan,
Jr., New American Schools. 1997.
22. How to Create Incentives for Design-Based Schools, Paul T. Hill, New American Schools, 1997.
23. How to Engage Educators, Parents, and the Community in Design-Based School Change, NAS, 1997.
24. Blueprints for School Success: A Guide to New American Schools Designs, Educational Research
Service, 1998.
25. Creating World Class Schools: A Progress Report on the Memphis City Schools, Memphis City
Schools, 1997.
112



Status of Bank Group Operations in Brazil
Operations Portfolio
Difference Between
expected
Original Amount in US$ Millions                and actual                Last PSR
Fiscal                                                                                                                       disbursements a/       Supervision Rating b/
Project ID    Year               Borrower                          Purpose
IBRD       IDA      Cancel.     Undisb.      Orig    Frm Rev'd  Dev Obi   Imp Prog
Number of Closed Projects: 194
Active Projects
BR-PE-6414      1989   COCGAS, SAO PAULO               NTRL GAS DIST                           94.00        0.00       0.00          .04          .02       0.00      S          S
BR-PE-6370      1989   FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BR       NE IRRI JAIBA                           71.00        0.00       0.00         1.25        1.27        0.00      S          S
BR-PE-6473      1990   STATE OF SANTA CATARINA          LND MM4T II-S. CATAR                   33.00        0.00       0.00         1.09        1.13        1.13      S           S
BR-PE-6453      1990   FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BR       NE IRRIG I                             210.00        0.00      69.00        18.61       87.62       18.62      S          S
BR-PE-6505      1992   GOVERNMENT OF BRAZIL            NATO GROSSO NAT RES                    205.00        0.00        0.00       62.49       62.49        0.00      5           S
BR-PE-6368      1992   GOVERNWENT                      WATER SECTOR MODERNI                   250.00        0.00       0.00         3.25        3.25        0.00      S           S
BR-PE-6547      1993   FED.REP.OF BRAZIL               METRO TRANSP. RIO                      128.50        0.00        0.00          .29         .30       0.00       S          S
BR-PE-6541      1993   S.PAULO/PARANA STS.             WTR Q/PLN(SP/PARANA)                   245.00        0.00        9.30       30.78       40.06       -6.24      S           S
BR-PE-6540      3993   NINAS GERAIS ST.                 WTR Q/PLN(MINAS GERA                  145.00        0.00        5.00        2.29         7.28       2.28       S          U
BR-PE-6555      1994   STATE GOVTS                      STE KwY MGT 1I                        220.00        0.00       36.00        6.20       33.19        6.19      S           S
BR-PE-6558      1994   REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL               PARANA BASIC EDUC                      96.00        0.00        0.00       19.44        9.43        0.00      S           S
BR-PE-6452      1994   MINISTRY OF EDUCATION           NE BASIC EDUC III                      206.60        0.00        0.00       23.63       20.13        0.00       S          S
BR-PE-6543      1994   GOVERNMENT                      M. GERAIS BASIC EDUC                   150.00        0.00       0.00        20.31       13.30        0.00      S           S
BR-PE-6522      1994   ST.OF ESPIRITO SANTO             ESP.SANTO WATER                       154.00        0.00        4.00       72.97       70.36        3.13      U           U
BR-PE-6524      1994   ST.OF MINAS GERAIS              MINAS MNC.DEVELOPMT                    150.00        0.00        5.00       29.44       34.41       29.41       S          S
BR-PE-38885    1995   GOVT OF BRAZIL                    RURAL POV.-SERGIPE                     36.00        0.00        0.00       11.37          .07       0.00       5          5
BR-PE-38882    1995   FED REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL            RECIFE M.TSP                          102.00        0.00        0.00       71.95       43.97        0.00       S          S
BR-PE-6436      1995   STATE OF CEARA        ZIL        CEARA UR.DV/WATER CO                  140.00        0.00        0.00       61.27       51.25      -20.75       5          5
BR-PE-6564      1995   FED REPUBLIC/BRAZIL              BELO H M.TSP                           99.00        0.00        0.00       44.07       28.86        0.00       5          S
BR-PE-38884    1995   GOVT OF BRAZIL                    RURAL POV.- CEARA                      70.00        0.00        0.00       22.41        -.19        0.00       S          S
BR-PE-35717    1995   GOVT OF BRAZIL                    RURAL POV. (BAHIA)                    105.00        0.00        0.00       43.12       12.14        0.00       5          5
BR-PE-40028    1996   FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BR         RAILWAYS RESTRUCTURG                  350.00        0.00       50.00       37.42       37.42        0.00       S          S
BR-PE-6554      1996   FED. REP. OF BRAZIL              HLTH SCTR REFORM                      300.00        0.00        0.00      226.55      131.54        0.00       S          S
BR-PE-37828    1996   STATE OF PARANA                   (PR)R.POVERTY                         175.00        0.00        0.00      140.71       88.31        0.00       5          5
BR-PE-6512      1996   CVRD                             ENV/CONS(CVRD)                         50.00        0.00        O.O0       23.16       12.17        0.00      U           U
BR-PE-46052    1997                                     CEARA WTR PILOT                         9.60        0.00        0.00        7.89        7.89        0.00       S          S
BR-PE-48870    1997   THE STATE OF MATO GROSSO          NT STATE P5tIV.                        45.00        0.00        0.00       45.00       35.01        0.00      HS          S
BR-PE-43873    1997   FED.REP.OF BRAZIL                 AG TECH DEV.                           60.00        0.00        0.00       49.88       15.50        0.00       S          S
BR-PE-43868    1997   STATE OF RGS                      RGS LAND MGT/POVERTY                  100.00        0.00        0.00       89.45       18.29        0.00       S          S
BR-PE-38896    1997   STATE OF RGN                      R.POVERTY(RGN)                         24.00        0.00        0.00       15.25        3.75        0.00       5          S
BR-PE-6562      1997   STATE OF BAHIA                   BAHIA MUN.DV                          100.00        0.00        0.00        98.26      32.26        0.00       S          S
BR-PE-6475      1997   FED. REP. OF BRAZIL              LAND RFM PILOT                         90.00        0.00        0.00       61.25        13.89       0.00       S          S
BR-PE-42566    1997   STATE OF PERNAMSUCO               R.POVERTY(PE)                          39.00        0.00        0.00       16.36          .17       0.00       S          S
BR-PE-43871     1997   STATE OF PIAUI                   (PIAUI)R.POVERTY                       30.00        0.00        0.00         9.06       -4.74       0.00       S          S
BR-PE-6532      1997   FEDERAL GOVERNMENT               FED HWY DECENTR                       300.00        0.00        0.00      261.02       81.03        0.00       U          U
BR-PE-34578    1997   RIO GRANDE DO SUL                 RGS KWY MGT                            70.00        0.00        0.00        66.70       21.70       0.00       S          S
BR-PE-57910    1998   GOVERNMENT OF BRAZIL              PENSION REFORM LIL                      5.00        0.00        0.00         5.00       5.00        0.00      HS          S
BR-PE-51701    1998   STATE OF MARANHAO                 MARANHAO R.POVERTY                     80.00        0.00        0.00        69.14        5.64       0.00       S          S
BR-PE-42565    1998   STATE OF PARAIBA                  PARAIBA R.POVERTY                      60.00        0.00        0.00       48.56          .36       0.00       S          S
BR-PE-43421    1998   STATE OF RIO DE JANEIRO           RJ M.TRANSIT PRJ.                     186.00        0.00        0.00      186.00        76.65        0.00      S          S
BR-PE-48357    1998   REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL                CEN.BANK TAL                           20.00        0.00        0.00        16.83        6.33       0.00       S          S



FUNDESCOLA JJ                                                                                                                          Annex 13
Status of Bank Group Operations in Brazil
113



Difference Between
expected
Original Amount in US$ Millions                and actual                 Last PSR
Fiscal                                                                                                                       disbursements a/       Supervision Rating b/
Project ID    Year               Borrower                          Purpose
IBRD       IDA      Cancel.      Undisb.     Orig    Frm Rev'dd  Dev Obj   Imp Prog
BR-PE-43420    1998   FED. REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL          WATER S.MOD.2                          150.00       0.00        0.00       150.00       27.99        0.00      S          S
BR-PE-40033    1999   THE STATE OF MINAS GERAIS        MG STATE PRAV.                         170.00       0.00        0.00       170.00      120.01        0.00      S          B
BR-PE-38895    1998   GOVERNMENT OF BRAZIL             FED.WTR MGT                            198.00       0.00        0.00       178.73       35.72        0.00      S          S
BR-PE-6549      1998   TBG                             GAS SCTR DEV PROJECT                   130.00       0.00        0.00       130.00       67.00        0.00      RS         HS
BR-PE-6559      1998   THE STATE OF SAO PAULO           (BF-R)SP.TSP                           45.00       0.00        0.00        45.00       20.75        0.00      S          S
BR-PE-6474      1998   STATE OF SAO PAULO              LAND MGT 3(SP)                          55.00       0.00        0.00        55.00        7.00        0.00      S          U
BR-PE-50762    1998   GOV. OF BRAZIL                   FUNDESCOLAI                             62.50       0.00        0.00        27.13      -24.11        0.00      S          S
BR-PE-38947    1998   GOVERNMENT OF BRAZIL             SC. a TECH 3                           155.00       0.00        0.00       138.99       21.49        0.00      S          B
BR-PE-35728     1998   STATE OF BAHIA                  BAHIA WTR RESOURCES                     51.00       0.00        0.00        41.22       17.96        0.00      S          S
BR-PE-58129    1999   FEDERAL GOVERNMENT               EMER. FIRE PREVENTIO                    15.00        0.00       0.00        15.00        0.00        0.00      U          U
BR-PE-54120     1999   GOVERNMENT OF BRAZIL            AIDS 2                                 165.00        0.00       0.00       144.99      -20.01        0.00      S           S
BR-PE-43874     1999   GOVERNMENT OF BRAZIL            DISEASE SURVEILLANCE                   100.00        0.00       0.00       100.00        0.00        0.00      S           S
Total                                                                                       6,300.20       0.00      178.30    3,215.82   1,382.31         33.77
Active Projects      Closed Projects          Total
Total Disbursed (IBRD and IDA):              2,906.08          17,967.09           20,873.17
of which has been repaid:               261.42           13,405.00          13,666.42
Total now held by IBRD and IDA:              5,860.47           4,659.93           10,520.40
Amount sold                     :                0.00               45.83              45.83
Of which repaid              :                0.00              45.83               45.83
Total Undisbursed               :            3,215.82              97.83            3,313.65
a. Intended disbursements to date minus actual disbursements to date as projected at appraisal.
b. Following the FY94 Annual Review of Portfolio performance (ARPP), a letter based system was introduced (HS = highly Satisfactory, S = satisfactory, U - unsatisfactory,
HU = highly unsatisfactory): see proposed Improvements in Project and Portfolio Performance Rating Methodology (SecM94-901), August 23, 1994.
Note:
Disbursement data is updated at the end of the first week of the month.



FUNDESCOLA 11                                                                                                                    Annex 13
Status of Bank Group Operations in Brazil
114



Brazil at a glance                                                            9/16/98
Latin    Upper-
POVERTY. and SOCIAL                                        America   middle-   [
Brazil  & Carib.  income      Development diamond*
1997
Population, mid-year (millions)                     163.5       494       571                 Life expectancy
GNP per capita (Atlas method, US$)                  4,720     3,880     4,520
GNP (Atlas method, US$ billions)                    771.9      1,917    2,584
Average annual growth, 1991-97
Population (/)                                       1.4        1.7      1.5     GNP                              Gross
Labor force (/)                                      1.7        2.3      1.9     per    I                        primary
Most recent estimate (latest year available, 1991-97)                             capita                       enrollment
Poverty (% of population below national poverty line) 11  17
Urban population (% of total population)               80        74        73
Life expectancy at birth (years)                       67        70        70
Infant mortality (per 1,000 live births)               34        32        30
Child malnutrition (% of children under 5)              7         ..       .,               Access to safe water
Access to safe water (% of population)                 72        73        79
Illiteracy (% of population age 15+)                   17        13        15
Gross primary enrollment (% ofschool-age population)  112       111       107        -Brazil
Male                                                 ..        ..        ..              Upper-middle-income group
Female                                               ..        .._..
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1976    1986       1996      1997
Economic ratios
GDP (US$ billions)                         152.7   268.1       774.9    820.3
Gross domestic investment/GDP               23.1     19.1       20.7     22.8                     Trade
Exports of goods and services/GDP            7.0      8.8        7.1      6.2
Gross domestic savings/GDP                  20.7     21.6       18.6     20.6
Gross national saving6.GDP                  19.2    17.1        17.3     18.6                       T
Current account balance/GDP                  -4.3     -1.9      -3.1     -4.1      Domestic 
Interestpayments/GDP                         1.1      2.4        1.1      1.1     Svns                         Investment
Total debt/GDP                              21.8    40.7        23.1     23.6      Savigs
Total debt service/exports                  37.9     46.8       41.7     45.2
Present value of debWGDP                       ..      ..      21.8
Present value of debVexports                  ..       ..    280.8
Indebtedness
1976-86  1987-97    1996      1997   1998-02
(average annual growth)
GDP                                 2.9      1.9      2.8        3.2      3.5          - Brazil
GNP per capita                      0.2      0.0       1.8       1.9      2.0               Upper-middle-income group
Exports of goods and services      10.3      5.4      6.1        1.8      5.0
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1976     1986      1996      1997     Growth rates of output and investment(%)
(% of GDP)                                                                         5
Agriculture                                  13.0     11.2      14.4      12.7
Industry                                    39.7    45.2        36.4     37.8    10 
Manufacturing                              30.4     33.0      22.9      23.4     5
Services                                    47.3    43.7       49.2      49.5  oa9                                7
Private consumption                         68.8    67.8       62.2      61.9    _5 ;          93   94   9S   96   97
General govemment consumption               10.5     10.7       19.2     17.5              _GDI              GDP
Imports of goods and services                9.4      6.4        9.2      8.5
(average annual growth)                  1976-86  1987-97      1996      1997     Growth rates of exports and imports (%)
Agriculture                                  3.7      2.5        2.2      2.4    40
Industry                                     2.7      0.1        3.0      3.8
Manufacturng                                2.3     -0.2       2.9       3.8    20
Services                                     2.9      3.1        3.1      3.5
Private consumption                          2.5      3.4       4.6       4.5    0o9    94                      96   97
General government consumption               2.1     -1.6        9.8      8.0
Gross domestic investment                   -2.1      1.2       -0.2      6.2   -20
Imports of goods and services               -3.3     12.1        5.9     13.9                  Exports        llmports
Gross national product                       2.4       1.5       3.2      3.3   1
Note: 1997 data are preliminary estimates. 1/ Poverty estimate is from 1990.
The diamonds show four key indicators in the country (in bold) compared with its income-group average. If data are missing, the diamond will
be incomplete.



FUNDESCOLAII                                                                                 Annex 14
Brazil at a Glance
115



Brazil
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FiNANCE
1976    1986      1996      1997     Inflation (%)
Domestic prices2,0--
(% change)                                                                       2,500
Consumer prices                                ..   147.1      15.8      6.9    2,000
Implicit GDP deflator                       47.6   145.3       17.2      7.8    1,500                   \
1,000
Government finance                                                                So0
(% of GDP, includes current grants)                                                 o      l
Current revenue                                ..    22.3      31.3     32.1              92   93   94   95   as   97
Current budget balance                         ..    -5.0      -1.2     -1.6                  GDP deflator  OCPI
Overall surplus/deficit                       ..  -13.3        -5.9     -6.1
TRADE
(US$ millions)                              1976    1986      1996      1997     Export and Import levels (US$ millions)
Total exports (fob)                            ..  22,394    47,747   52,986    75s000
Coffee                                            2,360     2,095    3,094
Other food                                   ..   1,562     4,458    5,729                                         _
Manufactures                                ..  11,839    29,676   32,732    s0000
Total imports (cif)                           ..  14,044    53,301   61,358
Food                                        ..       ..    3,279    3,290    2s,000 -i i i
Fuel and energy                             ..   3,541      3,459    3,220
Capital goods                               ..   3,464    20,188   26,232         o0     .      _S               !
Export price index (1995=100)                  ..     68        100       96            91  92  93  94  95  as  97
Import price index (1995=100)                 ..      85        103       95               U Exports    U Imports
Terms of trade (1995=100)                      ..     80         97      101
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
(UJS$ millions)                             1976    1986      1996      1997     Current account balance to GDP ratio (%)
Exports of goods and services             10,848   23,870    51,853   56,827     2
Imports of goods and services             14,687   16,576    64,958   74,158
Resource balance                          -3,839    7,294   -13,105  -17,331        10
Net income                                -2,719  -12,259   -14,141   -18,329        91  92   93  94
Net current transfers                        -3      -26      2,899    2,220    -2*
Current account balance                   -6,561   -4,991   -24,347  -33,439    -4
Financing items (net)                      9,233    -319    33,364   25,629
Changes in net reserves                   -2,672    5,310    -9,017    7,810    -6
Memo:
Reserves including gold (US$ millions)     6,542    5,907    60,089   51,729
Conversion rate (DEC, local/US$)        3.88E-12  4.97E-9       1.0       1.1
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1976    1986      1996      1997
(US$ millions)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed      33,340  109,026   179,047  193,598
IBRD                                     1,172    7,546     5,876    5,743      Composition of totRi ,1 996 (USSmillIons)
IDA                                         0        0         0         0          G: 35,439            1: 3,550
Total debt service                         4,278   11,616    25,091    30,000                       lE:16,803
IBRD                                       130    1,164     1,638    1,428
IDA                                          0       0         0         0
Composition of net resource flows
Official grants                              6      30         80
Official creditors                         384    1,152      -514   -1,786
Prvate creditors                         5,215    -444    14,514   17,238
Foreign direct investment                1,555     320      9,889
Portfolio equity                             0       0      3,981                                   F: 117,311
Worid Bank program
Commitments                                486    1,620       858    1,104     A - IBRD                     E - Bilateral
Disbursements                              173    1,619     1,500    1,416     B - IDA    D - Other multilateral   F - Private
Principal repayments                       45      608      1,222    1,049     C - IMF                      G - Short-term
Netflows                                   128    1,011      278       368
Interest payments                           85     556       416       380
Net transfers                               43     455       -138      -12
Development Economics                                                                                             9/16/98



FUNDESCOLA II                                                                        Annex 14
Brazil at a Glance
116



MAP SECTION



VENEZUELACFR:
FUNDESCOLA II PROJECT STATES:
NORTH REGION
5Mctcapa  ~ ~ ~ ~      ~       ~      ~ ~ ~                      Z~~~~ NORTHEAST REGION
~~~et~~~~~~ai ~~~~~CENTER WEST REGION
~~~ Mn~~~~~w   ~~~~  \                Sootuis ~~~~~~~~~~~RIVERS
"PA  R   A                               Fortalezo                             ~~~~~~~~~~~~~STATE CAPITALS
AMAZONAS  ~~~~~~~~  <6  /                   MAkM4J1k0                                                           ~~~~~~~~~~NATIONAL CAPITAL
STATE BOUNDARIES
J'~~~~  ~~'                               -     ~~~REGION BOUNDARIES
A C R S   jAPoti                             /     I                     R T~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A S44~~~jZ~~~                           INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
Bronco~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                                    GOA$ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~This map was pod-ced by the
TOCAN TINS   ~~~~~~~~~~~"  /   ~~~~~                           Map Design Unit of The World Bonk.
I'                        ~~~~~~~~~The bsoundaries, colors, denominotions
~~~JA LML ~~~~~~~~~~and onyother inf-ration shown on
P   E   RU                                                                                                                                                                             this mop do not imply, on the port of
The World Bonk Group, ony judgment
I   Solvador                            ~~~~~~~~~~~~on the Ieg.1lstot-s of any territory, or
5          C~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~NTER ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~any endorsement or acceptance of
suds ,,audaries
)~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                                                                                       VENEZUELA~GYN
COLOMBIA'
Horizont)sRT
SAO PAULO                                                              __         REAU Z4I
'   NPAAGAYPARRAdNJnet
5)                                        STACAT~~~~~~~~~ARINA                                                                                           -
)                                       ~~~~~~~~ ~~DO SUL0                       20       50        75
'I                                                                             _  _ _     _ _  _  _ _    _  _  __600  U   U G U A Y   3UA
~~~,30'   )                                                POdEt                           200   400   600 MILES                                        C,~~~~~~~~~~~3"                      1



7   VENEZUELA   a,                                 / FR                                                  40                                          BRAZIL
COLOMBIA    j                                              z  SRINAMERGL                                :
,   ,,'   0-                                                                               ......51fE
t  a~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~FNECOL:'A II; PRJC  ST -hA^itt|=TE NnNLONIS:
L                    . .......                                                      ol               ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~NORTHES REGION
0"'-...  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                                                           0'        W      ~~~~~~~~~~~CNOTHEAWST REGION
Err '"                           .,          E          OS   L I                                                 RIVERS
.            '     t             XAM     ZO A;,         t         7P         'y            4e14m                                                                         CETE  WES  REGIONtw*      , 2 z
OR                        g~~~~P    :AZ  A:                                                                         STATE CAPITALS
TtI-*m                                   Ms PARAGU.A Y  @P'                                                    NATIONAL CAPITAL
3F                                                                                                          RlDoRsAuN&DE 6>Porto STATE BOUNDARIES
N   A- !                     ,,   , ;u            :=                                  -        'p  REGION BOUNDARIES
/ '&2penoa              ~INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
ACRCN~~~~~~~~~~~%:                                                                           .../. ......
)      obp' ~~~~~ob     .&4jf6QAS ~~~~~~This mop was produced by the
RONDt6NIA             WCAN TINS   '. ,9S4j   /'         fl T                                        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Map Design Unit of The World Bank.
C 1^  \l700The boundaie, colors, denominations
0 Am   $ A            .!BRGIPE                          and anyother information shown on
,'                       ~~~~~~~~~~this mop dlo sot imply, on the part of
The World Bank Group, any judgment
"Sahador                  ~~~~~~~~on the legal status of any territory, or
5  j                                                                                                                     *.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~R  any endorsement or acceptance of
such boundaries.
4,                                                                                                   ...       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~COLOMBIA?  ~.'(ygiuAt  tR
~~ MATOGROS$$1  .,o,sods            Horizonte)EsplIRo          .             .
[     DO SC/U                '---q         /    ~~~~RI DE   ANTMO
PARAGUAYAUO.                                                                                             PE5A~               RAI
CHILE!               'NkARGUY                                                    <  ~io do Jonoiro                           .BOLIVIA
to6o                                                          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~PARAGUAY
CHIIBE
)                  l~~~...-.v"         -- ~~~~STA CATARINA. 
I)                       A)        S 01ST H    M~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~FIorian6poIis                                                      j AROE  4tA 
A  R G  E N    I NRIO GANDS                                                    500      750     1000 KILOMETER
DO SUL   )Po   Alegre         1        200         400        600 MILES
10                 7~~~~0-                         6p~~~    URUGUA                 SP                             O                                 30



