Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 4487-BR
Loan Agreement
(Second School Improvement Project- FUNDESCOLA II)
between
FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated December 16, 1999
LOAN NUMBER 4487-BR
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated December 16, 1999, between FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL (the 
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank). 
WHEREAS (A) the Bank is currently providing support for the Borrower’s first 
School Improvement Project – FUNDESCOLA I through Loan 4311-BR;
WHEREAS (B) the Borrower, having been satisfied as to the feasibility and 
priority of the project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement (the Project), has 
requested the Bank to assist in the financing of the Project, which constitutes the 
second phase of the Borrower’s School Improvement Program (the Fundescola Program), 
the overall mission, concept and objectives of which were presented to the Bank by the 
Borrower’s Ministry of Education in October 1997;
WHEREAS (C) the Borrower, after evaluating the implementation of the first 
project referred to above and the Project, intends to extend similar activities to 
other schools and municipalities in the Borrower’s North, Northeast, and Center-West 
Regions (as hereinafter defined) as well as to consolidate the initial results from 
such projects, and, for such purpose will seek the Bank’s financial assistance; and
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions 
Page  2
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements for Currency Pool Loans” of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985 (as amended 
through December 2, 1997) (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this 
Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
(a)
“Annual Implementation Program” means each program referred to in Section 
3.08 (d) of this Agreement;
(b)
“Annual Work Plan” means Plano de Trabalho Annual - PTA, each plan 
prepared by the relevant COEP (as hereinafter defined), to be approved by DGP (as 
hereinafter defined) and containing the actions recommended by the corresponding Forum 
(as hereinafter defined) to be financed by the Project;
(c)
“Center-West, North and Northeast Regions” means those geographic regions 
of the Borrower, excluding the Federal District, defined in the MOIP;
(d)
“COEP” means Coordenação Estadual Executiva do Projeto,  the Project’s 
state-based Executive Coordination, to be established in each of the Participating 
States’ (as hereinafter defined) Secretariat of Education;
(e)
“DGP” means Direção Geral do Programa, the Project’s central coordination 
unit, established pursuant to MEC’s Portaria No. 172 of March 4, 1998;
(f)
“Eligible Categories” means Categories (1) through (5) set forth in the 
table in Part A.1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
(g)
“Eligible Expenditures” means the expenditures for goods and services 
referred to in Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(h)
“FNDE” means Fundo Nacional de Desenvolvimento da Educação, the National 
Fund for Education Development, established pursuant to the Borrower’s Law No. 5,537, 
dated November 21, 1968, and Decree-Law No. 872, dated September 15, 1969;
(i)
“FNDE Arrangements” means the financial and administrative arrangements 
set forth in CD/FNDE Resolution No. 12 of April 19, 1999 issued by FNDE’s Deliberative 
Council;
(j)
“Forum” means a collective body in a Participating Microregion (as 
hereinafter defined) comprised of the Participating State’s Secretary of Education, 
the Mayors of the Participating Municipalities (as hereinafter defined) from that 
Microregion, and a representative of UNDIME (as hereinafter defined);
(k)
“GDE” means Grupo de Desenvolvimento da Escola, the School Development 
Group which is a municipal-based unit composed of technical staff from the municipal 
education secretariat which provides technical assistance to schools in implementing 
the Project;
(l)
“MEC” means Ministério da Educação, the Borrower’s Ministry of Education; 
(m)
“Microregion” means a geographic region of a state, as established 
pursuant to Resolução IBGE No. 51 dated July 31, 1989;
(n)
“Microregion Action Program” means Programa de Ação Zonal - PAZ, a set of 
actions, including the construction of new schools, proposed by the relevant Forum to 
be implemented in its corresponding Participating Microregion;
(o)
“Minimum Operational Standards” means the essential inputs and human 
resources needed for schools to function adequately and offer children the opportunity 
to learn, such standards to be prepared on the basis of a checklist referred in 
Section 3.03 of this Agreement;
Page  3
(p)
“MOIP” means Manual de Operações e Implementação do Projeto, the Project 
operations and implementation manual referred to in Section 3.03 of this Agreement;
(q)
“Operating Agreement” means any of the agreements referred to in Section 
3.06 of this Agreement;
(r)
“Participating Microregion” means a Microregion located in a 
Participating State and comprised of Participating Municipalities;
(s)
“Participating Municipality” means any of the municipalities located in a 
Participating Microregion which benefits from the Project;
(t)
“Participating School” means a school located in any Participating State 
that meets the eligibility criteria to carry out School Improvement Projects or other 
selected activities under the Project;
(u)
“Participating States” means the Borrower’s States of the North, 
Northeast and Center-West Regions in which the Project shall be carried out; 
(v)
“Participation Agreements” means any of the agreements referred to in 
Section 3.05 of this Agreement;
(w)
“Project Logical Framework” means the matrix setting forth the 
performance indicators to be used in monitoring the progress of the Project and the 
achievement of its objectives;
(x)
“Project Management Reports” means the quarterly reports to be issued on 
the basis of the SPA (as hereinafter defined) and referred to in Section 4.02 (a) of 
this Agreement; 
(y)
“School Development Plan” means the multi-year plan, prepared by a 
Participating School located in a Participating Microregion, which meets agreed 
selection criteria, implementation procedures and instruments, and establishes the 
specific education improvement targets and identifies the inputs and activities, 
including School Improvement Projects (as hereinafter defined), necessary for the 
achievement of such targets;
(z)
“School Grants” means a grant to be made by the Borrower to a 
Participating School for the financing of a School Improvement Project under Part B.2 
of the Project or the activities under Parts A.1 and A.4 of the Project;
(aa)
“School Improvement Project” means a set of actions to be carried out by 
a Participating School and included in Part B.2 of the Project, which is designed to 
achieve agreed education improvement targets specified in the relevant School 
Development Plan, through, inter alia, the financing of didactic materials, training, 
and learning kits, following agreed selection criteria and implementation procedures;
(bb)
“SPA” means Sistema de Planejamento e Acompanhamento, the Project’s 
computerized planning, monitoring and financial management system responsible for, 
inter alia, providing all necessary information for the preparation of the Project 
Management Reports;
(cc)
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Part B of Schedule 1 
to this Agreement; and 
(dd)
“UNDIME” means União Nacional de Dirigentes Municipais de Educação, the 
National Association of Municipal Education Managers.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, various currencies that 
shall have an aggregate value equivalent to the amount of two hundred two million 
thirty thousand Dollars ($202,030,000), being the sum of withdrawals of the proceeds 
Page  4
of the Loan, with each withdrawal valued by the Bank as of the date of such 
withdrawal.
Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures made 
(or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of 
goods and services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement 
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan and in respect of the fee referred 
to in Section 2.04 of this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2004 or such later date as 
the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later 
date.
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a fee in an amount equivalent to two 
million twenty thousand three hundred Dollars ($2,020,300). On or promptly after the 
Effective Date, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan 
Account and pay to itself the amount of said fee.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the rate 
of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Loan not withdrawn from time to time.
Section 2.06. (a)  The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of 
the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Interest 
Period equal to the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the 
preceding Semester, plus three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%).  On each of the 
dates specified in Section 2.07 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest 
accrued on the principal amount outstanding during the preceding Interest Period, 
calculated at the rate applicable during such Interest Period.
(b)
As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester, the Bank shall 
notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of such 
Semester.
(c)
For the purposes of this Section:
(i)
“Interest Period” means a six-month period ending on the date 
immediately 
preceding each date specified in Section 2.07 of this 
Agreement, beginning 
with the Interest Period in which this 
Agreement is signed.
(ii)
“Cost of Qualified Borrowings” means the cost, as reasonably 
determined by the 
Bank and expressed as a percentage per annum, of the 
outstanding borrowings of 
the Bank drawn down after June 30, 1982, 
excluding such borrowings or portions 
thereof as the Bank has allocated 
to fund: (A) the Bank's investments; and (B) 
loans which may be made by 
the Bank after July 1, 1989 bearing interest rates 
determined otherwise 
than as provided in paragraph (a) of this Section.
(iii)
“Semester” means the first six months or the second six months of 
a calendar 
year.
(d)
On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than six months' notice 
to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) (iii) of this Section shall be amended to 
read as follows:
“(a)
The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn 
and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Quarter 
equal to the Cost of Qualified 
Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding 
Quarter, plus three-fourths of one percent 
(3/4 of 1%).  On each of the dates 
specified in Section 2.07 of this Agreement, the Borrower 
shall pay interest accrued 
on the principal amount outstanding during the preceding Interest  Period, calculated 
at the rates applicable during such Interest Period.”
“(b)
As soon as practicable after the end of each Quarter, the Bank 
shall notify  the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of 
Page  5
such Quarter.”
“(c)
(iii) ‘Quarter’ means a three-month period commencing on January 
1, April 1, 
July 1 or October 1 in a calendar year.”
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable semiannually on 
February 15 and August 15 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 2.09. The Minister of Education of the Borrower, and the person or 
persons designated in writing by such Minister, are designated as representatives of 
the Borrower for the purposes of taking any action required or permitted to be taken 
under the provisions of Section 2.02 of this Agreement and Article V of the General 
Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry 
out the Project through MEC, with the assistance of the Participating States and 
Participating Municipalities, all with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity 
with appropriate administrative, financial, educational, and environmental practices, 
and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other 
resources required for the Project.
Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement.
Section 3.03. Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this 
Agreement, the Borrower shall carry out the Project, or cause the Project to be 
carried out, in accordance with an operational manual satisfactory to the Bank (the 
MOIP) containing, inter alia: (a) detailed arrangements for the overall carrying out 
of the Project; (b) a description of the Project’s decision making bodies, including, 
inter alia, DGP, COEP, Forum and GDE and their corresponding responsibilities; (c) the 
instruments and procedures to be followed by these bodies, including, inter alia, the 
Annual Implementation Program, the Annual Work Plan, the checklist for the preparation 
of Minimum Operational Standards, and the Project Logical Framework, including the 
mechanisms for periodically measuring each of its performance indicators; (d) the 
selection criteria, implementation procedures and instruments necessary for the 
preparation of School Development Plans and correspondent School Improvement Projects, 
school network microplanning information systems, and Microregion Action Programs; (e) 
a criteria for defining the Project’s eligible expenditures; (f) the Project’s 
geographic scope, including its corresponding regions, the Participating Microregions 
and municipalities; (g) the procedures and criteria for the provision of School 
Grants, technical assistance, environmental assessment and corresponding mitigation 
measures, and other activities to be carried out under the Project; (h) the model 
forms of the Participation and Operating Agreements; (i) the procedures for preparing 
and implementing a teacher certification program; (j) the procedures for financing of 
new school construction under Part A.5 of the Project; and (k) the criteria and 
procedures for the carrying out of the pilot activities referred to in Part F.2 of the 
Project.  In case of any conflict between the terms of the MOIP and those of this 
Agreement, the terms of this Agreement  shall prevail.
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall maintain, until the completion of the Project, 
the DGP with adequate responsibilities, structure and functions and with staff in 
adequate numbers and with adequate qualifications, for the purposes of, inter alia: 
(a) assisting MEC in the overall coordination and carrying out of the Project; (b) 
defining the main implementation strategies, systems, and instruments for  the 
carrying out the Project activities; (c) preparing the relevant Project reports and 
the Annual Implementation Programs, and submitting such documentation to the Bank for 
approval; (d) maintaining the SPA; and (e) providing training and technical support to 
Page  6
the relevant Forum, COEPs and GDEs.
Section 3.05. For the purposes of the overall carrying out of the Project, the 
Borrower, through MEC, shall enter into an agreement, satisfactory to the Bank, with 
each Participating State and with each Participating Municipality (the Participation 
Agreements) representing a Microregion, to govern such Participating State’s and 
Participating Municipality’s overall responsibilities in the carrying out of their 
corresponding activities under the Project, such Participation Agreement to provide 
for, inter alia:
(a)
In the case of a Participating State: (i) the establishment and 
maintenance, until the completion of the Project, in each of the Project’s 
Microregion, of the Forum with adequate structure and functions for the purposes of, 
inter alia: (A) preparing the Microregion Action Program; and (B) recommending to the 
DGP the School Improvement Projects and other Project activities to be financed under 
the relevant Annual Work Plan; and (ii) the establishment and maintenance by each 
Participating State, through its Secretariat of Education, of the COEP with adequate 
responsibilities, structure and functions for the purposes of, inter alia: (A) 
coordinating the preparation and monitoring of the Annual Work Plan, such plan to be 
based on the Microregion Action Program, for approval of the DGP; (B) providing 
training and technical assistance to the GDEs; (C) guiding the State and Municipal 
Secretariats of Education in the procurement of goods and services approved by DGP in 
the Annual Work Plan; (D) certifying the exp
enditures related to the goods and services procured by the Participating State 
Secretariat of Education; and (E) providing to DGP information based on the SPA and 
maintaining separate records and accounts in respect of Project expenditures; and
(b)
In the case of a Participating Municipality, the establishment and 
maintenance, until the completion of the Project, through its Secretariat of 
Education, of the GDE, with adequate responsibilities, structure and functions for the 
purposes of, inter alia: (i) assisting schools in the preparation of the corresponding 
School Development Plan; (ii) analyzing School Improvement Projects, and providing 
information to the DGP and COEP on the status of the implementation of such School 
Improvement Projects; and (iii) assisting schools in procurement processes and 
procedures and in maintaining separate records and accounts in respect of Project 
expenditures.
Section 3.06. Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this 
Agreement, and, for the purposes of providing funds for the Project, the Borrower 
shall, through MEC, enter into arrangements satisfactory to the Bank with FNDE (the 
FNDE Arrangements), such Arrangements to include, inter alia, the obligation of FNDE, 
whenever required during Project implementation, to enter into an agreement consistent 
with the corresponding model form set forth in the MOIP (the Operating Agreement), 
with each Participating State and each Participating Municipality or other 
municipality located in a Participating State, as the case may be, each of such 
agreements to require strict compliance with the relevant Annual Work Plan, and to 
govern the respective parties’ corresponding responsibilities in the carrying out of 
eligible activities under the Project. 
Section 3.07. Prior to initiating the construction of new schools in each 
Microregion under Part A.5 of the Project, and in accordance with the relevant 
provisions of the corresponding Participation Agreement, the Borrower shall provide 
evidence to the Bank, in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank, that the 
proposed schools to be constructed for such Microregion are technically, legally, and 
operationally viable.  The evidence referred to in this Section shall demonstrate, 
inter alia, that each new or replacement school to be constructed: (a) is included in 
the relevant multi-year plan based on the school network microplanning information 
system and in the Microregion Action Program; (b) will be established with the 
agreement of the relevant Forum and the DGP; (c) will be built using a standardized 
architectural plan approved by the Bank; (d) has a specified jurisdictional authority 
(State or Municipality) that can demonstrate adequate fiscal capacity to absorb the 
projected recurrent costs of such school; (e) will be staffed by certified teachers 
and will meet all other minimum operational standards; and (f) has land and rights in 
respect of land required for the construction of the new school physically and legally 
available therefor.
Section 3.08. Without limitation upon the provisions of Sections 9.01 (a) and 
Page  7
9.07 of the General Conditions, the Borrower, through MEC, shall:
(a)
In the months of March, June, September and December during each year of 
Project implementation, furnish to the Bank quarterly cumulative financial reports on 
the progress in the implementation of the Project, the reports to be issued in March 
and September to take into consideration the indicators and targets set forth in the 
Project Logical Framework, and, any of the reports referred to in this paragraph (a) 
to be of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request, provided, 
however, that once the Project Management Reports start being furnished to the Bank 
pursuant to Section 4.02 (b) of this Agreement, the Borrower shall no longer be 
required to furnish the reports referred to in the beginning of this paragraph (a);
(b)
In the month of April during each year of Project implementation, hold an 
annual review, jointly with the Bank, based on the relevant reports issued pursuant to 
paragraph (a) of this Section, and,  the progress in the implementation of the Project 
during the previous 12-month period, such progress to be measured against the 
indicators set forth in the Project Logical Framework and, thereafter, take or cause 
to be taken all such action which shall have been agreed upon by the Borrower and the 
Bank, during the review referred to in this paragraph, as necessary for the efficient 
execution of the Project or the achievement of its objectives, such action to be taken 
in the manner and within the timetable agreed upon during such review;
(c)
Whenever an amount of the Loan equivalent to 50% (fifty percent) thereof 
shall have been withdrawn by the Borrower from the Loan Account, carry out an in-depth 
review (the mid-term review), jointly with the Bank, on the progress achieved in the 
implementation of the Project; and
(d)
In the month of December during each year of Project implementation, 
except for the first year, furnish to the Bank an annual program satisfactory to the 
Bank (the Annual Implementation Program), describing, inter alia, the Project 
activities (including School Improvement Projects and school construction to be 
carried out under the Project) to be carried out during the next calendar year, 
including the cost thereof, and, thereafter, carry out the Project in accordance with 
the terms of such Annual Implementation Program and this Agreement.
Section 3.09. The Borrower shall exercise its rights and comply with its 
obligations under each Participation Agreement in such a manner as to protect the 
interests of the Borrower and the Bank, and, except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, 
the Borrower shall not amend, suspend, abrogate, waive or fail to enforce any of the 
Participation Agreements, or any provision thereof.
Section 3.10. For the purposes of Section 9.08 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower, through MEC, shall:
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish 
to the Bank not later than six months after the Closing Date or such later date as may 
be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, a plan for the 
continuing operation and maintenance of the facilities provided by the Project; and
(b)
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the 
Borrower on said plan.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants 
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain in DGP a financial management 
system, within the SPA, including records and accounts, and prepare financial 
statements in a format acceptable to the Bank, adequate to reflect the operations, 
resources and expenditures related to the Project.
(b)
The Borrower shall: 
(i)
have the records, accounts and financial statements referred to in 
paragraph 
(a) of this Section and the records and accounts for the 
Special Account for 
each fiscal year audited, in accordance with 
auditing standards acceptable to 
the Bank, consistently applied, by 
Page  8
independent auditors acceptable to the 
Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six 
months after the end of each such year: (A) certified 
copies of the financial 
statements referred to in paragraph (a) of 
this Section for such year as so 
audited; and (B) an opinion on such 
statements, records and accounts and 
report of such audit, by 
said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as 
the Bank shall have 
reasonably requested; and 
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning such records 
and 
accounts, and the audit thereof, and concerning said 
auditors, as the Bank may 
from time to time reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 
Account were made on the basis of Project Management Reports or statements of 
expenditure, the Borrower shall: 
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this 
Section, records and separate accounts reflecting such 
expenditures; 
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received the 
audit report 
for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from the 
Loan Account was 
made, all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other 
documents) evidencing such 
expenditures; 
(iii)
enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records; and 
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit 
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit 
contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the Project 
Management Reports or statements of 
expenditure submitted during such fiscal 
year, together with the 
procedures and internal controls involved in their 
preparation, 
can be relied upon to support the related withdrawals.
Section 4.02. (a) Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 4.01 of this 
Agreement, the Borrower shall carry out a time-bound action plan acceptable to the 
Bank for the strengthening of the financial management system referred to in paragraph 
(a) of said Section 4.01 in order to enable the Borrower, not later than one year 
after the Effective Date, or such later date as the Bank shall agree, to prepare 
quarterly Project Management Reports, acceptable to the Bank, each of which: 
(i)
(A) sets forth actual sources and applications of funds for the 
Project, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said 
report, and projected sources 
and applications of funds for the 
Project for the six-month period following 
the period covered by said 
report; and (B) shows separately expenditures 
financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan during the period covered by said 
report 
and expenditures proposed to be financed out of the proceeds of the 
Loan during the six-month period following the period covered by said report;
(ii)
(A) describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively 
and for the period covered by said report; and (B) explains 
variances between 
the actual and previously forecast Project 
performance indicators set forth in 
the Project Logical Framework; 
and 
(iii)  sets forth the status of procurement under the Project and 
expenditures under 
contracts financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, 
as at the end of the 
period covered by said report. 
(b)
Upon the completion of the action plan referred to in paragraph (a) of 
this Section, the Borrower shall prepare, in accordance with guidelines acceptable to 
the Bank, and furnish to the Bank not later than 45 days after the end of each 
Page  9
calendar quarter a Project Management Report for such period.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the 
General Conditions: 
(a)
that at least two Participation Agreements with Participating States or 
Municipalities located in the Center-West Region comprising two Participating 
Microregions have been entered into between the parties thereto;
(b)
that at least four Participation Agreements with Participating States or 
Municipalities located in the North Region comprising four Participating Microregions 
have been entered into between the parties thereto;
(c)
that at least five Participation Agreements with Participating States or 
Municipalities located in the Northeast Region comprising five Participating 
Microregions have been entered into between the parties thereto; and
(d)
that the MOIP has been furnished to the Bank.
Section 5.02. The following is specified as an additional matter, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion 
to be furnished to the Bank, namely, that the Loan Agreement has been validly 
registered by the Borrower’s Central Bank.
Section 5.03. The date March 16, 2000, is hereby specified for the purposes of 
Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministério da Fazenda
Procuradoria Geral da Fazenda Nacional
Esplanada dos Ministérios - Bloco “P” - 8° andar
70048-900, Brasília, D.F.
Brazil
For the Bank:
International Bank for
   Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
With copies to:
Ministério do Planejamento, Orçamento e Gestão
Page  10
Secretaria de Assuntos Internacionais
Esplanada dos Ministérios, Bloco “K” - 5º andar
70040-906, Brasília, D.F.
Brazil
Ministério da Educação 
Direção Geral do Programa Fundescola
Via N1 Leste, Pavilhão das Metas, 
70150-900, Brasília - D.F.
Brazil
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
Brasília, Brazil, as of  the day and year first above written.
FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL
By /s/ Suely Dib de Souza
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
   RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Patricio Millán
Authorized Representative 
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
A.
General
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated
   % of
(Expressed in
Expenditures
Category
Dollar Equivalent)
to be Financed
(1)
Works (except works
   36,000,000
35%
financed by School
Grants)
(2)
Goods (except goods
financed by School
Grants):
(a)
For the Borrower
    3,000,000
100%
(b)
For the Participating   28,000,000
100% of foreign
States and Participating
expenditures and
Municipalities
50% of local
expenditures
(3)
School Grants
   82,500,000
50%
(4)
Training and Consultants’
Page  11
Services (except for
training and consultants’
services financed by
School Grants):
(a)
For the Borrower
   25,600,000
100%
(b)
For the Participating   2,000,000
50%
States and Participating
Municipalities
(5)
Administrative Expenses
    2,000,000
100%
(6)
Fee
    2,020,300
Amount due
under Section
2.04 of this
Agreement
(7)
Unallocated
   20,909,700
TOTAL
  202,030,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower;
(b)
the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower;
(c)
the term “Training and Consultants’ Services” means training, technical 
assistance, travel and related expenses for staff preparing and carrying out 
Project-related activities; and
(d)
the term “Administrative Expenses” means incremental operational costs 
related to the management and supervision of the Project, including maintenance and 
supplies, communication services and spare parts for office equipment and vehicles.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, 
except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of 
$40,000,000, may be made on account of payments made for expenditures before that date 
but after February 5, 1999 or a date twelve months before the date of this Agreement, 
whichever is later.
4.
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the basis 
of statements of expenditures for expenditures under contracts for: (a) civil works 
costing less than $5,000,000 equivalent (other than the first two contracts to be 
awarded); (b) goods costing less than $750,000 equivalent; (c) services of consulting 
firms costing less than $100,000 equivalent; and (d) services of individual 
consultants costing less than $50,000 equivalent; all under such terms and conditions 
as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
B.
Special Account 
1.
The Borrower shall open and maintain in Dollars a special deposit account in a 
commercial bank acceptable to the Bank, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the 
Bank, including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure and attachment.
2.
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been opened, withdrawals from the Loan Account of amounts to be deposited into the 
Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
until the Bank shall have received: (i) the first Project Management 
Report referred to in Section 4.02 (b) of this Agreement; and (ii) a request from the 
Page  12
Borrower for withdrawal on the basis of Project Management Reports, withdrawals shall 
be made in accordance with the provisions of Annex A to this Schedule 1; and 
(b)
upon receipt by the Bank of a Project Management Report pursuant to 
Section 4.02 (b) of this Agreement, accompanied by a request from the Borrower for 
withdrawal on the basis of Project Management Reports, all further withdrawals shall 
be made in accordance with the provisions of Annex B to this Schedule 1. 
3.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for Eligible 
Expenditures.  For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the 
Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank 
such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
Eligible Expenditures.
4.
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule, the Bank shall not 
be required to make further deposits into the Special Account: 
(a)
if the Bank determines at any time that any Project Management Report 
does not adequately provide the information required pursuant to Section 4.02 of this 
Agreement; 
(b)
if the Bank determines at any time that all further withdrawals should be 
made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account; or
(c)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank within the 
period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit 
reports required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of 
the audit of: (A) the records and accounts for the Special Account; or (B) the records 
and accounts reflecting expenditures with respect to which withdrawals were made on 
the basis of Project Management Reports. 
5.
The Bank shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule if, at any time, the 
Bank shall have notified the Borrower of its intention to suspend in whole or in part 
the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Loan Account pursuant to 
Section 6.02 of the General Conditions.  Upon such notification, the Bank shall 
determine, in its sole discretion, whether further deposits into the Special Account 
may be made and what procedures should be followed for making such deposits, and shall 
notify the Borrower of its determination.
6.
(a)
If the Bank determines at any time that any payment out of the Special 
Account was made for an expenditure which is not an Eligible Expenditure, or was not 
justified by the evidence furnished to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon 
notice from the Bank, provide such additional evidence as the Bank may request, or 
deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the 
Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such payment.  Unless the Bank shall otherwise 
agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall be made until the 
Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may 
be.
(b)
If the Bank determines at any time that any amount outstanding in the 
Special Account will not be required to cover payments for Eligible Expenditures 
during the six-month period following such determination, the Borrower shall, promptly 
upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or any 
portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account. 
(d)
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to sub-paragraph (a), (b) or (c) of 
this paragraph 6 shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or 
for cancellation in accordance with the provisions of the Loan Agreement.
Annex A to SCHEDULE 1 
Operation of Special Account When Withdrawals Are Not Made 
On the Basis of Project Management Reports
Page  13
1.
For the purposes of this Annex, the term “Authorized Allocation” means the 
amount of $40,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into the 
Special Account pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Annex; provided, however, that unless 
the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to the 
amount of $24,000,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Loan Account, 
plus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by the Bank 
pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall equal or exceed the amount of 
$50,000,000.
2.
Withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish 
the Special Account shall be made as follows: 
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount or 
amounts which in the aggregate do not exceed the Authorized Allocation.  On the basis 
of each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the 
Loan Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall 
have requested. 
(b)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall furnish to 
the Bank requests for deposit into the Special Account at such intervals as the Bank 
shall specify.  Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Bank the documents and other evidence required pursuant to Part B.3 of 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement for the payment or payments in respect of which 
replenishment is requested. On the basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on 
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special 
Account such amount as the Borrower shall have requested and as shall have been shown 
by said documents and other evidence to have been paid out of the Special Account for 
Eligible Expenditures. Each such deposit into the Special Account shall be withdrawn 
by the Bank from the Loan Account under one or more of the Eligible Categories.
3.
The Bank shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special 
Account, once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan minus the total amount of all 
outstanding special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of 
the General Conditions shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the 
Authorized Allocation. Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining 
unwithdrawn amount of the Loan shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify 
by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to 
the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on 
deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in 
making payments for Eligible Expenditures.
Annex B to SCHEDULE 1
Operation of Special Account When Withdrawals Are Made 
On the Basis of Project Management Reports 
1.
Except as the Bank may otherwise specify by notice to the Borrower, all 
withdrawals from the Loan Account shall be deposited by the Bank into the Special 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. Each such 
deposit into the Special Account shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan Account 
under one or more of the Eligible Categories. 
2.
Each application for withdrawal from the Loan Account for deposit into the 
Special Account shall be supported by a Project Management Report.
3.
Upon receipt of each application for withdrawal of an amount of the Loan, the 
Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into 
the Special Account an amount equal to the lesser of: (a) the amount so requested; and 
(b) the amount which the Bank has determined, based on the Project Management Report 
accompanying said application, is required to be deposited in order to finance 
Eligible Expenditures during the six-month period following the date of such report; 
provided, however, that the amount so deposited, when added to the amount indicated by 
said Project Management Report to be remaining in the Special Account, shall not 
exceed the amount of $50,000,000.
SCHEDULE 2
Page  14
Description of the Project
The objective of the Project is to improve the educational outcomes of the 
children enrolled in public primary schools in the Project’s targeted areas of the 
North, Center-West and Northeast Regions of the Borrower.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives:
Part A:
Raising Primary Schools to Minimum Operating Standards
Carrying out of the following activities:
1.
Financing school autonomy through the direct provision of funds to schools for 
the purchase, inter alia, of educational materials, equipment, supplies, or 
maintenance to raise the school to Minimum Operational Standards.
2.
Educating and certifying teachers through the preparation and implementation of 
a teacher certification program.
3.
Financing basic school furniture and equipment.
4.
Financing the school-managed rehabilitation of school physical facilities.
5.
Financing the construction of new schools.
Part B:
Establishing a School Development Process
Carrying of the following activities:
1.
Training and supporting school management and GDEs and COEPs for the purposes of 
preparing, implementing and monitoring School Development Plans.
2.
Financing School Improvement Projects included in the School Development Plans.
3.
Developing, testing, disseminating, and implementing pedagogical and school 
improvement models and designs, through, inter alia, the piloting of new approaches 
and materials aimed at improving pedagogy and student learning. 
Part C:
Promoting Social Mobilization and Communication
1.
Disseminating the principles, objectives, strategies, procedures and results of 
the Fundescola Program. 
2.
Mobilizing stakeholders and beneficiaries associated with public primary 
education in the three regions of the Project to perform in ways consistent with the 
overall objectives of the Fundescola Program.
Part D:
Strengthening National Education Information Systems and Programs 
1.
Continuing activities aimed at improving the Borrower’s educational assessment 
system and other relevant systems and programs through the integration of national and 
international best practices.
2.
Improving and disseminating educational information through, inter alia, 
provision of support to the Borrower’s educational statistics and information systems 
and school census.
3.
Carrying out of research and studies designed to improve the implementation and 
impact of the Fundescola Program.
Part E:
Management and Institutional Development of Education Systems 
1.
Strengthening state and municipal collaboration in school system improvement and 
integrated planning.
Page  15
2.
Improving institutional capacity of state and municipal secretariats of 
education to prioritize support to schools and professional development of school 
staff.
3.
Carrying out in each Participating Municipality a school network microplanning 
information system that includes detailed educational, demographic, social, and 
geographic indicators, such system to be used by the DGP and the relevant Forum to 
technically justify decisions regarding the rationalization of student enrollment and 
school construction, as well as to inform other resource allocation decisions.
Part F:
Project Administration and Pilot Activities
Provision of goods, works and consultants’ services for the purposes of carrying 
out Project management and other activities, such activities to comprise, inter alia:  
1.
The overall planning and coordination of Project activities, studies designed to 
improve the implementation and impact of the Fundescola Program.
2.
The development and carrying out of pilot activities in areas of extreme poverty 
or severe social needs, such as school construction and renovation, and training; all 
aimed at improving the implementation, increasing the impact, and supporting the 
expansion of the Fundescola Program.
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2004.
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal 
Date Payment Due
(expressed in dollars)*
On each February 15 and August 15
beginning February 15, 2005
   through February 15, 2014
10,100,000
On August 15, 2014
10,130,000
Page  16
______________________
*
The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents determined as of the 
respective 
dates of withdrawal. See General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 
4.03.
Premiums on Prepayment
Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions, the premium payable on 
the principal amount of any maturity of the Loan to be prepaid shall be the percentage 
specified for the applicable time of prepayment below:
Time of Prepayment
Premium
The interest rate (expressed 
as a percentage per annum 
applicable to the Loan on the 
day of prepayment multiplied by:
Not more than three years
0.20
before maturity
More than three years but
0.40
not more than six years
before maturity
More than six years but
0.73
not more than eleven years
before maturity
More than eleven years but not
0.87
more than thirteen years
before maturity
More than  thirteen years 
1.00
before maturity 
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement 
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:
General
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I 
of the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” published by the 
Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, September 1997 and 
January 1999 (the Guidelines) and the following provisions of this Section, as 
applicable.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding
1.
Except as provided in Part C of this Section, goods and works shall be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the 
Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to goods to be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B:
(a)
Grouping of contracts
To the extent practicable, contracts for goods shall be grouped in bid packages 
estimated to cost $350,000 equivalent or more each.
(b)
Preference for Domestically Manufactured Goods
Page  17
In the procurement of goods pursuant to paragraph 1 of this Part B, the 
provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 thereto shall 
apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower. For purposes of the 
Guidelines, the term custom duties and other import taxes includes the Borrower's 
Freight Surcharge for the Renewal of the Merchant Marine (Adicional ao Frete para a 
Renovação da Marinha Mercante – AFRMM), established by Decree Law 1.142 of December 
30, 1970, as amended to December 31, 1987, or any other tax, levy or charge that, in 
the reasonable opinion of the Bank, may substitute it, in whole or in part, after 
January 1, 1988.
(c)
Notification and Advertising
The invitation to bid for each contract estimated to cost $10,000,000 equivalent 
or more shall be advertised in accordance with the procedures applicable to large 
contracts under paragraph 2.8 of the Guidelines.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
1.
National Competitive Bidding
Goods estimated to cost $100,000 equivalent or more per contract, but less than 
$350,000 equivalent per contract, and works estimated to cost $350,000 equivalent or 
more per contract but less than $5,000,000 equivalent per contract, may be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of 
the Guidelines.  In the procurement of goods and works under this Part C.1, bidding 
documents in a standardized form for the Project shall be used.
Without limitation to any other provisions set forth in this Schedule or the 
Guidelines, the following shall apply to the procurement of goods and works to be 
undertaken pursuant to this Part C.1:
(a)
contracts shall be awarded to the bidder whose bid has been determined to 
be the lowest evaluated bid, such evaluation to be based on price and, whenever 
appropriate, to also take into account factors similar to those referred to in 
paragraph 2.51 of the Guidelines, provided, however, that the bid evaluation shall 
always be based on factors that can be quantified objectively, and the procedure for 
such quantification shall be disclosed in the invitation to bid;
(b)
whenever required by the Bank, the invitation to bid shall be advertised 
for at least three consecutive days in a newspaper of wide circulation in Brazil;
(c)
the arrangements, under the invitation to bid, for joint-ventures 
(consórcios) of Brazilian and foreign firms shall be approved in advance by the Bank 
in each case;
(d)
the invitation to bid shall not establish, for purposes of acceptance of 
bids, minimum or maximum amounts for the contract prices; and
(e)
there shall not be, without the Bank's prior approval, issuance of any 
change order under a contract which would increase or decrease by more than 15% the 
quantity of works or goods (and related services), as the case may be, without any 
change in the unit prices or other terms and conditions of such contract.
2.
Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract may be 
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of international or national shopping 
procedures acceptable to the Bank in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 
and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
3.
Procurement of Small Works
Works estimated to cost less than $350,000 equivalent per contract may be 
procured under lump-sum, fixed-price contracts awarded on the basis of quotations 
obtained from three (3) qualified domestic contractors in response to a written 
invitation. The invitation shall include a detailed description of the works, 
including basic specifications, the required completion date, a basic form of 
Page  18
agreement acceptable to the Bank, and relevant drawings, where applicable. The award 
shall be made to the contractor who offers the lowest price quotation for the required 
work, and who has the experience and resources to complete the contract successfully.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the proposed 
procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Bank for its review and 
approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines.  Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken in accordance with 
such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and with the provisions 
of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
With respect to: (a) each contract for goods or works procured under Part B.1 of 
this Section; (b) the first two contracts for goods estimated to cost the equivalent 
of $100,000 or more, but less than the equivalent of  $350,000; and (c) the first two 
contracts for works estimated to cost the equivalent of $350,000 or more, but less 
than the equivalent of $5,000,000, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the 
Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised 
in September 1997 and January 1999 (the Consultant Guidelines) and the following 
provisions of this Section.
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section 
II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 
thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
1.
Quality-based Selection
Services related to the preparation of school architectural models estimated to 
cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract may be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 through 3.4 of the 
Consultant Guidelines.
2.
Individual Consultants
Services for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 5.1 of the 
Consultant Guidelines shall be procured under contracts awarded to individual 
consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the 
Consultant Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Planning 
Page  19
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the Bank 
for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ services shall 
be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been approved by 
the Bank, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $200,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third subparagraph of paragraph 2 (a)) and 5 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, but less than the equivalent of 
$200,000, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the second 
subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
(c)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the qualifications, 
experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be 
furnished to the Bank for its prior review and approval. The contract shall be awarded 
only after said approval shall have been given. 
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply, provided, however, that the terms of reference for such contracts and any 
single-source selection of consulting firms shall be subject to the Bank’s prior 
approval.
