                                       Document of
                                     The World Bank




                                                               Report No: 36452-BR

                        IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                                       (CPL-44870)

                                          ON A

                                          LOAN

                          IN THE AMOUNT OF US$202.03 MILLION

                                         TO THE

                            FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL

                                         FOR THE

               SECOND SCHOOL IMPROVEMENT PROJECT (FUNDESCOLA II)




                                     September 18, 2006




Human Development Sector Management Unit
Brazil Country Management Unit
Latin America and the Caribbean Region

                             CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                        (Exchange Rate Effective January 2006)

                                Currency Unit = Real
                                        R$ 1 = US$ .45
                                       US$ 1 = R$ 2.24

                                     FISCAL YEAR
                                 January 1     December 1

                        ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

ACOM        Advisory Communication Committee
CAS        Country Assistance Strategy
COEP        State-based Project Executive Coordination (Coordenação Estadual Executiva do
            Projeto)
CW         Center-West region of Brazil, Comprising the states of Goias (GO), Mato Grosso
           (MT), and Mato Grosso do Sul
DGP        Directorate for Project Management (Diretoria de Gestão de Projetos)
FNDE       National Education Development Fund (Fundo Nacional de Desenvolvimento da
           Educação)
FUNDESCOLA School Improvement Program (Programa Fundo de Fortalecimento da Escola)
GDP         Gross Domestic Product
IBRD       International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
ICR         Implementation Completion Report
INEP        National Institute for Educational Research and Studies, a MEC-based agency
            (Instituto Nacional de Estudos e Pesquisas Educacionais)
LSE        School Facility Survey
M&E         Monitoring and Evaluation
MEC        Ministry of Education
MOIP       Project Operations and Implementation Manual (Manual de Operações e
           Implementação do Projeto)
N          North region of Brazil, comprising the states of Acre (AC), Amazonas (AM), Amapá
           (AP), Pará (PA), Rondônia (RO), Roraima (RR), and Tocantins (TO)
NE         Northeast region of Brazil, comprising the states of Alagoas (AL), Bahia (BA), Ceara
           (CE), Maranhao (MA), Pemambuco (PB), Paraíba (PE), Piauí (PI), Rio Grande do
           Norte (RN), and Sergipe (SE)
PAPE        Physical Rehabilitation Project
PDDE       Money Directly to School Program (Projeto Dinheiro Direto na Escola)
PDE        School Development Plan (Projeto de Desenvolvimento Escolar)
PDO        Project Development Objectives
PES         Strategic Plan for Secretariats (Plano Estratégico da Secretaria)
PGS        Secretariat Business and Management Plan (Plano de Gestão da Secretaria)
PME        School Improvement Project (Projeto de Melhoria da Escola)
PRASEM      Municipal Education Secretariats Support Program (Programa de Apoio aos
            Secretarias Municipais de Educação)

SAEB      National System for Basic Education Evaluation (Sistema Nacional de Avaliação da
         Educação Basica)
SAR       Staff Appraisal Report (Documento de Avaliação do Projeto)
SEB       Secretariat of Basic Education (Secretaria de Educação Básica)
SEED      Secretariat of Distance Education (Secretaria de Ensino a Distância)
SIED      Integrated Education Information System (Sistema Integrado de Infomaçoes
         Educacionais)
UNDIME    National Association of Municipal Education Managers (Unido Nacional dos
         Dirigentes Municipais de Educação)
ZAP       Priority Attention Zones or Microregions (Zonas de Atendimento Prioritário)




                            Vice President:    Pamela Cox
                          Country Director     John Briscoe
                           Sector Director     Evangeline Javier
                        Task Team Leader       Andréa C. Guedes

                                           BRAZIL
                   Second School Improvement Project - FUNDESCOLA II


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            5
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                            16
6. Sustainability                                                                19
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 19
8. Lessons Learned                                                               21
9. Partner Comments                                                              23
10. Additional Information                                                       23
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             25
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             27
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             30
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             31
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             33
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                34
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            35
Annex 8. Borrower's Contribution                                                 39

Project ID: P050763                                                  Project Name: Second School Improvement Project
Team Leader: Andrea C. Guedes                                        TL Unit: LCSHE
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: September 18, 2006


1. Project Data
                   Name: Second School Improvement Project                        L/C/TF Number: CPL-44870
   Country/Department: BRAZIL                                                             Region: Latin America and the
                                                                                                     Caribbean Region

        Sector/subsector: Primary education (68%); Sub-national government administration (14%); Central
                            government administration (13%); Tertiary education (5%)
                  Theme: Education for all (P); Rural services and infrastructure (P); Participation and civic engagement
                            (P); Access to urban services and housing (P); Municipal governance and institution building
                            (S)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 10/15/1997                                     Effective: 01/11/2000                01/11/2000
     Appraisal: 01/22/1999                                         MTR:                             06/07/2002
      Approval: 06/08/1999                                      Closing: 12/31/2004                 12/31/2005



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          GOV. OF BRAZIL/FEDERAL MINISTRY OF EDUCATION
                      Other Partners:

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Pamela Cox                                     S. Javed Burki
Country Director:               John Briscoe                                   Gobind T. Nankani
Sector Director:                Evangeline Javier                              Xavier Coll
Team Leader at ICR:             Andréa Guedes                                  Robin Horn
ICR Primary Author:             Andréa Guedes; Ramon
                                Balestino


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        S
                      Sustainability:      HL
   Institutional Development Impact:       SU
                 Bank Performance:         S
            Borrower Performance:          S


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry:                                  S
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: No

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:
The School Improvement Project (FUNDESCOLA II) is the second of three projects designed to improve
the performance of public primary education (1st to 8th grades) in selected areas ­denominated as
microregions - of the North (N), Northeast (NE), and Center-West (CW) regions by strengthening primary
             1


schools and the public institutions responsible for them within a coordinated management framework.
While these three projects were not designed as part of an Adaptable Program Lending (APL), they all
support a Government Program whose objective is to improve the educational outcomes of children
enrolled in public primary schools in the project's targeted areas, as measured by promotion and
achievement rates. As stated in the Project Appraisal Document (PAD), FUNDESCOLA II's objective
was to contribute to achieve the overall goal of ensuring that children from the poorest areas of Brazil
successfully complete a basic eight-grade education.

3.2 Revised Objective:
The objective of this project was not revised.

3.3 Original Components:
The total project costs were estimated at US$402.03 (US$202.03 million loan and US$200 million
Borrower's contribution). The project comprised the following five components:

Component 1. Raising Schools to Minimum Operational Standards
US$ 335.5 million, excluding price contingencies (83.5 percent of project costs).

This component financed inputs and services to schools in selected municipalities so they would be closer
to meeting minimum operational standards. Such standards consist of an agreed-upon, pre-determined set
of staffing requirements, inputs and conditions needed for a school to be considered "operational." A
school operating at the minimum operational standard is one that is considered minimally capable of
providing satisfactory conditions for student learning.

Component 2. Establishing a School Development Process
US$ 17 million, excluding price contingencies (4.2 percent of project costs).

This component sought to promote the development of a school-centered planning and decision-making
process for school improvement.

Component 3. Promoting Communication and Social Mobilization
US$ 4 million, excluding price contingencies (1 percent of project costs).

This component sought to promote a structured process of social mobilization and communication directed
to primary school beneficiaries and stakeholders in the project's targeted areas to ensure sustainability of
FUNDESCOLA's results.

Component 4. Strengthening National Education Information Systems and Programs
US$ 10 million, excluding price contingencies (2.5 percent of project costs).

This component sought to provide timely, relevant information for educational planning at the school,
municipal, state and national levels by supporting existing and emerging national MEC-sponsored
programs designed to improve school quality.



                                                     - 2 -

  Component 5. Management and Institutional Development of Education Systems
  US$ 13.5 million, excluding price contingencies (3.4 percent of project costs).

  This component sought to raise the management quality of institutions responsible for schools so they could
  better guide, support, assess schools as well as provide effective conditions for equal access and quality
  education to children in the targeted areas of the Northeast, North and Center-West.

  Table I provides a summary of the evolution of project components and sub-components from
  FUNDESCOLA I to FUNDESCOLA II:

             Table I: Evolution of Project Inputs from FUNDESCOLA I to FUNDESCOLA II

FUNDESCOLA II                                       Relation to FUNDESCOLA I
Component / Sub-component
I. Raising Schools to Minimum Operational Standards
  1.1 Promoting School Autonomy                     Carried over and scope expanded
  1.2 Educating and Certifying Teachers             Piloted under FUNDESCOLA I and implemented under
                                                    FUNDESCOLA II
   1.3 Supplying Basic Furniture & Equipment        Carried over and scope expanded
  1.4 Physical Rehabilitation Projects              Carried over and scope expanded
  1.5 Model School Program                          New
II. Establishing A School Development Process
  2.1 School Development Plans (PDE)                Carried over and scope expanded
  2.2 Financing School Improvement Projects         Carried over and scope expanded
  (PME)
  2.3 Pedagogical Models                            New
III. Promoting Communication and Social Mobilization
  3.1 Communication & Dissemination                 New
  3.2 Social Communication Campaigns                New although some activities initiated under FUNDESCOLA
                                                    I.
IV. Strengthening National Education and Information
Systems
  4.1 Educational Assessments                       Carried over and activities expanded
  4.2 Educational Information                       Carried over and activities expanded
  4.3 Education Research and Studies                Carried over and activities expanded
V. Management and Development of Education Systems
  5.1 Strengthening State and Municipal             Carried over and activities expanded
  Collaboration
  5.2 Institutional Development for Secretary of    New
  Education
  5.3 Microplanning                                 Carried over and scope expanded
  5.4 Project Administration & Pilot Activities     Carried over with some changes
VI. Project Administration & Pilot Activities
  6.1 Project Administration                        Carried over with some changes
  6.2 Implementation of Pilot Projects              Carried over with some changes
  Source: Adapted from FUNDESCOLA II PAD




                                                       - 3 -

3.4 Revised Components:
Components were not revised during implementation.            However, during the early phase of project
implementation ­as detailed in the project's Operational Manual-- the Government opted for turning
sub-component 5.4 (Project Administration and Pilot Activities) into a component (Component 6). This
was done in order to simplify monitoring of project implementation, as the Governement opted for hiring an
international procurement and contracting agency to carry out the work under the "new" component.

It should also be noted that, in 2004, the Government requested a partial loan cancellation in the amount of
US$10.86 million. At the same time, the Government also increased its total contribution to the project
from US$200 million to US$225.32 million, more than compensating for the cancellation.

3.5 Quality at Entry:
The Quality at Entry is rated satisfactory.

The project design was consistent with the Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) objectives of achieving
universal primary education schooling by 2007 and improving student performance in basic subjects.
Project design was based on FUNDESCOLA I and aimed to support and expand the school improvement
instruments and strategies developed under it. At the same time, it sought to emphasize quality-teaching
models and strengthen state and municipal Secretariats.           Project design benefited from:     (i) the
implementation experience and lessons of FUNDESCOLA I; (ii) preparatory consultation and technical
discussions with FUNDESCOLA and Ministry of Eduction (MEC) teams; (iii) international study tours to
assess school reforms that were carried out in other countries; (iv) lessons from previous national and
regional school improvement projects; and (v) the conclusion and recommendations of the 1997 report, A
Call to Action: Combating School Failure in the Northeast of Brazil. FUNDESCOLA II's design also
responded to the Government's policy objective of improving education system performance outcomes in
the North (N), Northeast (NE), and Center-West (CW), some of the less developed areas of the country.
Specifically, project design supported and complimented Government reforms, which sought to: (i) ensure
a minimum per student expenditure; (ii) decentralize the funding of primary education; (iii) diminish
regional disparities; and (iv) improve the national assessment system.

Project design was adequate but the project's monitoring and evaluation warranted more upfront attention.
First, though relevant, the PDO and its three corresponding indicators were ambitious in scope. The
Bank's team opted to use student assessment data from the SAEB as the baseline for two of the three key
indicators for the Program (ending in 2007), taking the results listed in Report: SAEB 97 - First Results --
whose data was collected in 1995. However, in 1997 the assessment scale started being changed resulting
                                                                                                   2


in the baseline data no longer being comparable.          This problem could have been anticipated during
preparation and the team could have built the synchronization of the baseline into early project
implementation, or chosen other indicators as proxys for quality improvements. By the time this project
was completed, the latest SAEB data was still not comparable to the project's baseline because the
Borrower had not carried out the needed adjustments. An additional problem, and of equal importance, is
that SAEB measurement system does not yield student achievement data for the project's microregions and
all regional results are diluted by their larger geographical scope. While student assessment indicators are
not expected to be achieved until 2007, after five years of implementation the aforementioned problems
have not been resolved by MEC.

The ICR team also found the student promotion indicator ambitious, though in line with the 1998 National
Plan for Education's goal to halve repetition rates by 2003. This indicator sought an average increase in
promotion rates of 17 percentage points in the North, Northeast, and Center-West Regions. However, the
emphases of FUNDESCOLA II was in smaller geographical areas within those regions and the bulk of the



                                                      - 4 -

project's inputs were for school inputs to meet minimum operational standards ­ the realization of which
perhaps did not translate as quickly as expected into increased promotion rates.

Lastly, the lack of measurable, quantifiable markers within a number of sub-component output indicators
caused difficulties in assessment and reporting. While some indicators relied upon School Facilities
Surveys (LSE in Portuguese) or Microplanning systems to determine a value once the project was
underway, the absence of specific baseline indicators challenged monitoring and evaluation in terms of
understanding progress. Likewise, a concrete data collection methodology to facilitate the measurement of
each of these sub-component indicators was missing. The definition of such instruments were critical ­
particularly in the case of sub-components whose indicators were more challenging to measure ­ to ensure
the reliable collection of information and accurate determination of progress.

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:

ICR Rating: Satisfactory.
The achievement of the Project's Development Objective (PDO) of improving educational outcomes of
primary school students in the three-targeted regions would be rated Moderately Satisfactory, if this rating
was available. The project succeeded in positively impacting both the key performance indicators and the
               3


leading performance indicator: student achievement has gone up in both mathematics and Portuguese, and
promotion rates have increased. Furthermore, the project has had a substantial institutional development
impact, which should lead to continuous improvements in the sector. The moderately satisfactory rating is
suggested because the project was short of reaching its actual numeric targets. Nonetheless, as Section 3.5
explains, the ICR team found those targets ambitious to begin with and problematic in terms of
geographical dispersion. This may be, in fact, the reason why the project fell short of achieving its goals.

Fourth-graders meeting acceptable learning standards in Portuguese

As mentioned in Section 3.5, a 1997 change in SAEB's measurement scale has limited the interpretation of
4th and 8th grade student assessment within FUNDESCOLA I and II. Nonetheless, the Government has
provided data that demonstrates a comparison of 4th and 8th grade student achievement in Portuguese from
2001 to 2003. While the data does not cover the life of FUNDESCOLA II, it does allow a glimpse into the
project's impact within the three regions.

Key Performance Indicator: 4th grade students meeting acceptable learning standards in Portuguese will
increase from 1997 rates of: 28.3 percent (N), 32.8 percent (NE) and 36.7 (CW) ­ each to 50 percent by
2007.

The data available shows that the project is having a positive impact on 4th grade student achievement in
Portuguese in each of the three regions. As observed in Table 2, there is an upward trend between 2001
and 2003 of fourth-graders at an Adequate level of Portuguese language competence. Equally important,
                                                  4


there is a downward trend of students in the Very Critical category of language competence. Students
                                                              5


from the Center-West region had the greatest gains, followed by those from the Northeast region.




                                                     - 5 -

              Table 2. Percent of Students within Competence Levels: Portuguese Language
                                  4th Grade ­ Regions ­ SAEB 2001 & 2003

        Level                 North                     Northeast                Center-West
                        2001          2003         2001          2003         2001          2003
  Very Critical         22.61        21.18         33.42        29.32         20.50         14.91
  Critical              44.89        45.24         41.75        41.85         39.23         37.60
  Intermediate          31.00        31.86         22.94        26.77         36.64         43.28
  Adequate              1.51          1.72         1.88          2.06         3.63           4.20
  Total                 100           100          100           100           100           100
 Source: MEC/Inep/Daeb.



Eighth-graders meeting acceptable learning standards in Portuguese

Key Performance Indicator: 8th grade students meeting acceptable learning standards in Portuguese will
increase from 1997 rates of: 43.6 percent (N), 43.8 percent (NE) and 54.9 percent (CW) ­ each to 60
percent by 2007.

Similarly to the 4th graders, 8th graders have also improved achievement, though the changes are more
modest and the North region has seen a small deterioration in performance. Once again, students from the
Center-West region had the greatest gains.

              Table 3. Percent of Students within Competence Levels: Portuguese Language
                                  8th Grade ­ Regions ­ SAEB 2001 & 2003

        Level                 North                     Northeast                Center-West
                        2001          2003         2001          2003         2001          2003
  Very Critical         7.31          9.14         10.53        10.90         4.66           6.55
  Critical              59.58        60.34         60.09        58.31         52.68         48.12
  Intermediate          32.48        29.84         28.01        28.86         40.56         42.91
  Adequate              0.63          0.67         1.37          1.92         2.10           2.41
  Total                 100           100          100           100           100           100
 Source: MEC/Inep/Daeb.



Increase average promotion rates in primary school

Leading Performance Indicator: The average promotion rates in primary school will increase from 1997
rates of: 64.2 percent (N), 64.7 percent (NE) and 71.5 percent (CW) ­ each to 85 percent by 2003.

While promotion rates improved an average of more than eight percentage points during project
implementation, they fell short of the target. The reported 2005 promotion rates were: 72.3 percent (N),
73.6 percent (NE), and 79.4 percent (CW). The ICR team believes the targets were overly ambitious to
begin with and could not have been met. Thus, the progress achieved is considered satisfactory.




                                                   - 6 -

                                           Figure 1. Primary Level Promotion Rates



                                         80


                                         60                                        1997
                                                                                   2005
                           Rates
                                         40


                                Promotion
                                         20


                                          0
                                              North      Northeast    Center-
                                                                       West



4.2 Outputs by components:
As previously stated, FUNDESCOLA II had a total of six components based on two interweaving
objectives: (i) improving educational quality of schools; and (ii) strengthening management and planning
capabilities of secretariats.

Component 1: Raising Schools to Minimum Operational Standards
(US$ 348.76 million or 104 percent of estimated appraisal cost)

ICR Rating: Satisfactory

This component aimed at bringing schools up to a minimal level of functionality through a set of
pre-determined staffing requirements, inputs, and conditions. Overall, it was successful in promoting
school autonomy, certifying teachers, supplying basic equipment, and rehabilitating and constructing
schools. This component was organized into five sub-components, each described below.

1.1     Promoting School Autonomy. This sub-component met its target of providing direct funds to all
schools with more than 20 students in the N, NE, and CW regions. With the objective of promoting greater
school autonomy, the Federal Government provided small discretionary budgets to all schools within those
microregions.    These funds were to be used for expenditures that would bring schools to minimum
operational standards. The Ministry of Education (MEC), through the National Education Development
Fund (FNDE in Portuguese) was highly successful in implementing this activity (known as Money Directly
to School Program, PDDE). The PDDE is deposited into school bank accounts managed by school
councils. The councils, composed of the school's parents and principal, in turn, make collaborative
decisions about how the money will be spent.

The MEC reported that these funds were primarily used for building maintenance, small repairs,
acquisition of school materials, and/or the development of educational projects. The project activities not



                                                            - 7 -

only played a key role in bringing schools up to minimum operational standards but have also stimulated
the creation of additional school councils. Between 1996 and 1999, 50,000 additional school councils were
established to receive and manage these funds.

1.2      Educating and Certifying Teachers. This sub-component surpassed its goal of reducing the
number of uncertified teachers in the N, NE, and CW regions by 75 percent. In 1999 there were 96,000
uncertified teachers in those regions, accounting for 91 percent of all uncertified primary teachers in Brazil.
At project completion, 85 percent of uncertified teachers in those regions were trained and certified. Thus,
from 2000 to 2005, a total of 81,600 uncertified teachers were trained and certified.

Since 2002, under the national education policy, it is illegal for states to employ uncertified teachers.
Proformação, designed and tested under FUNDESCOLA I, is the distance education program that uses
self-instructional materials (in print and videos) to provide certification to 1st thru 4th grade teachers. The
coursework lasts for two years and is actively supported by implementing agencies, tutors, and technology
specialists. At the federal level, the MEC's Secretary of Distance Education (SEED), the Secretary of
Basic Education (SEB), and the Central Coordination Unit are responsible for the development of the
instructional materials, monitoring and evaluation, and coordination. The project supported the expansion
of Proformação until it was completely absorbed into the Ministry's regular operations and scaled up to
cover the whole country.

A 2000-2002 external evaluation of the pedagogical impact of Proformação on more than 2,500 course
participants in the N, NE and CW showed promising results. Classroom observation, review of lesson
                                                                  6


plans, and `Didactic Simulation Tests' revealed that, consistently across the sample, the distance education
courses were having a positive impact on pedagogy.              Some of the positive changes observed in
Proformação-trained teachers included: (i) improved course planning; (ii) higher awareness of the needs
and differences of students; (iii) use of techniques to stimulate students; (iv) improved use and management
of classrooms; and (iv) greater and more effective teacher participation in schools.

1.3      Supplying Basic Furniture and Equipment . This sub-component substantially achieved its target
of delivering furniture and equipment to 15,000 school classrooms classified as below the minimum
operational standards in the project's microregions. In total, 14,126 classrooms received basic classroom
items such as chalkboards, desks and chairs, bookshelves, and closets.

1.4      Physical Rehabilitation Projects.      This sub-component surpassed its goal of supporting and
renovating 15,000 classrooms in the microregions. By project completion, almost 16,000 classrooms had
been repaired and upgraded. The rehabilitation projects (PAPE in Portuguese) were carried out, as in the
preceding sub-component, in schools that met the established criteria of enrolling more than 20 students,
maintaining active school councils, and functioning below minimum operational standards.

In line with FUNDESCOLA's approach of promoting school autonomy, school councils received financing
for rehabilitation projects and made decisions on the nature of the repairs. The project was successful in
supporting improvements in numerous areas of the school including sanitary facilities, classrooms, school
security, and operational mechanisms.

1.5      Model School Program. The sub-component's target was to replace or rebuild 182 schools within
the microregions. By the project's end, a total of 178 schools were built: 93 schools in assentamentos, 63
indigenous schools, 21 urban schools, and 5 quilombola schools.




                                                      - 8 -

The sub-component's quantitative target of 182 schools was established during early-implementation and
was based on the results of the School Facilities Surveys (LSE in Portuguese) and the school network
                                                                                    7


microplanning information system . This sub-component relied heavily on the coordination and cooperation
                                     8


of state and municipal secretariats and although challenges in such coordination were noted, the project
nonetheless reached 98 percent of its goal.

Component 2: Establishing A School Development Process
(US$ 24.83 million or 146 percent of appraisal cost)

ICR Rating: Highly Satisfactory

This component aimed at promoting a school improvement process through school-centered planning and
decision-making as well as the development and dissemination of teaching-learning models. The School
Development Plan (PDE in Portuguese) and School Improvement Projects (PME in Portuguese) were the
sub-components through which the planning and decision making processes took place. Escola Ativa,
GESTAR and PRALER were the pedagogic models disseminated throughout the three target regions. This
component was highly successful and, while it ended up costing 46 percent more than the appraisal's
estimate, it was able to more than double all of its targets, showing efficiency in its implementation. This
expansion in coverage was also possible due to the depreciation of the local currency. The component was
organized into three sub-components as detailed below.

2.1      School Development Plans (PDE).            This sub-component, considered the core strategy of
FUNDESCOLA, aimed at implementing School Development Plans (PDE) in 1,150 schools in the
project's microregions. At closing, the sub-component well exceeded its goal and successfully promoted
school-centered planning in 5,021 schools.         The achievement can be attributed to the Government's
decision to scale-up to meet the great demand within the target areas of the project, together with the
availability of more resources from the exchange rate variation.  9




The PDEs were produced through a series of steps that enabled a multi-year strategy. In each school, a
`PDE systematizing team' went through a five-step process that included: (i) preparation; (ii) situation
analysis; (iii) strategic vision; (iv) execution; and (v) monitoring and control. The focus of the PDEs was
on teaching and learning strategies to address deficiencies such as repetition, dropout and pedagogical
quality. The project's mid-term review team registered that in schools with PDEs: (i) the community
seemed to demand more accountability from the school; (ii) there was an emerging culture on relying on
data for decision-making; (iii) they were more organized and seemed to allocate resources better; (iv) there
was greater focus on learning and good management; and (v) the principal was the single most important
factor accounting for differences in how well the PDEs were implemented.

A Stanford University study on how the PDEs/PMEs impacted schools and whether they affected outcomes
for children concluded that schools with PDEs students had: (i) higher passing rates; (ii) lower desertion
rates; and (iii) better attendance (though the research stated that the evidence for attendance was tenuous).
Additionally, the research concluded that while a school having a PDE/PME did not result in better
academic achievement (compared to those that did not have), the overall reported PME spending per
student had an impact on student achievement. In other words, up to a certain monetary amount, PMEs
were not a factor on improving student performance in mathematics and Portuguese achievement tests but
after a certain amount one could start seeing a correlation. Additionally, the two spending categories that
showed a correlation with achievement were learning materials and furniture.        10    On the other hand,
spending on computers and electronic equipment (i.e. TVs, VCRs, etc.) and teacher training did not seem to



                                                       - 9 -

impact student achievement. Finally, the study concluded that schools with the PDE tended to be better
managed and have more learning materials. While the study had some data limitations, the results show
some initial evidence of the benefits of promoting the PDEs.

Another key element within this process was the emphasis on training State and Municipal Education
Secretariat staff so they could better support and train schools in carrying out PDEs. The project met its
target of training secretariat staff in the entire targeted area as well as school staff in at least 1,000 schools.
The preparation of the PDEs received a high level of support, technical assistance and coordination­ both
from PDE technical staff to secretariats and from secretariat staff to schools. As a result, teacher attitudes
were positively impacted by the process. Again, the Stanford study revealed that teachers in PDE schools
tended to view the director (or administrative staff) in a more favorable light versus non-PDE Schools.          11


Such results are consistent with a PDE focus on improving school management and are suggestive of a
positive effect from PDE participation.

It should be noted that this tool was so successful that, during the life of the project, other state and
municipal secretariats of education that were not among the targeted areas started adopting the PDE
methodology, despite not receiving financial support from the project to do so.

2.2     Financing School Improvement Projects (PME).                   In concurrence with the PDE, this
sub-component also surpassed its goal of implementation in 1,350 schools. By the end of the project,
8,818 schools received funds to implement their PMEs. As the PME and PDE are interdependent, the large
variation between expected and actual outcomes is also attributed to responding to the demand that took
place for the PDE together with the availability of resources due to exchange rate variations. Overall, the
success within this sub-component can be attributed to a high level of collaboration between federal, state,
municipal, and local level teams.

The PME is a strategy ­ derived from the larger School Development Plan (PDE) -- for which funding is
sought. In effect, PMEs are small project proposals to address an issue identified under the PDE, which
schools applied for financing from FUNDESCOLA. An evaluation of the PMEs in 1999 found that the
following were the expenditure types that received the most funding: (a) electronic equipment; (b)
learning-teaching materials (software, guides, etc); and (c) school materials.  12




2.3     Pedagogical Models. The goal of this sub-component was to implement pedagogical models in
2,000 rural schools. The project more than doubled its outcome indicator, resulting in pedagogical models
implemented in 5,333 rural schools. As in the previous two sub-components, the high outcome can be
credited to the Government's willingness to respond to the high demand for these activities.

Three pedagogical models were promoted under FUNDESCOLA II:

        (1) Escola Ativa (Active School): Escola Ativa is a teaching methodology for rural multi-grade
        classes. According to the MEC, this pedagogy has been implemented in 5,333 rural schools.
        Introducing a multi-grade methodology to rural teachers is Brazil has been particularly important
        for multi-grade teachers, since most had previously received limited or no training on how to
        handle such classrooms. It should be noted that late arrival of textbooks for these schools was a
        recurrent problem under FUNDESCOLA II, just as it had been under FUNDESCOLA I. Section
        5.3 of this report provides details on the reasons for the delays.




                                                       - 10 -

         (2) GESTAR (Management of School Learning): GESTAR is a distance education program that
         provides continuous pedagogical training in mathematics and Portuguese language for 1st thru 4th
         grade teachers. Such demand is identified by the school during the preparation of its school
         development plan (PDE), which is a pre-requisite for schools to benefit from this intervention. The
         project met its goal of piloting GESTAR in 80 schools and more than doubled its implementation
         goal of 317 to 662 schools.           GESTAR was piloted, evaluated, and disseminated under
         FUNDESCOLA II to schools in states and municipalities that were undergoing the Strategic Plan
         for the Secretariat (PES in Portuguese) program. The MEC reports that as of 2004, GESTAR is
                                                   13


         being used to train 5th thru 8th grade mathematics and Portuguese teachers.

         (3) PRALER (Program for Reading & Writing Assistance): This program was developed in 2003
         and focuses on improving pedagogical techniques around literacy for 1st and 2nd teachers who
         have finished the GESTAR training. It is currently being piloted in four states: Bahia, Roraima,
         Goiás, and Mato Grosso. According to Government's reports, PRALER is having a positive
         impact on the development of teachers. A more detailed evaluation is being planned to determine if
         FUNDESCOLA IIIa will finance its expansion to other states.

Component 3: Promoting Communication and Social Mobilization
(US$ 5.79 million or 145 percent of appraisal cost)

ICR Rating: Satisfactory

Under FUNDESCOLA I, communication was a cross-cutting theme that was blended into two project
sub-components. FUNDESCOLA II, however, dedicated a component to promoting and sustaining project
activities through social marketing and training in the N, NE, and CW regions. The component succeeded
in communicating project principles and results to stakeholders and beneficiaries through two
sub-components, as described below. The component is rated as satisfactory because of its impact in
generating support and demand for project activities, and because its coverage area was significantly higher
than originally planned thus justifying the fact that it cost more than the appraisal's estimate.

3.1      Communication & Dissemination. This sub-component aimed to implement social mobilization
campaigns in targeted areas reaching 75 percent of the population by 2002. While seemingly difficult to
measure, the Borrower nonetheless reported that it met its target as campaigns were implemented not only
to the targeted regions but also to the rest of the country.

Under the sub-component, initiatives developed in FUNDESCOLA I were updated and adapted and
included:

         Escola Brasil (Brazil School):       Escola Brasil is a radio entertainment program designed to
         promote primary education through news, reading letters from students, and case studies. The
         radio program launched in 1997 by the MEC, was funded by the project from 1999 until 2002. In
         total, 522 programs aired on National Radio of Brasilia (AM) and National Radio of the Amazon.
         During implementation, it was decided to expand the reach of Escola Brasil to the whole country,
         so as to promote the assimilation of FUNDESCOLA's policies and interventions in other states
         and municipalities.    The Borrower believes that the high demand for several interventions
         supported by FUNDESCOLA (PDEs, PMEs, Escola Ativa, etc.) is partially due to the
         communication outreach of this initiative as well as the Technical Bulletin discussed below.




                                                      - 11 -

         Boletim Técnico (Technical Bulletin): The Boletim Técnico was a monthly newsletter, produced
         from 1999 ­2002 which included interviews with education specialists, information about
         successful initiatives in the sector, results of the project's interventions, best practices,
         dissemination of project events, and hints on how to improve school maintenance. A total of 31
         complete editions were distributed to schools as well as State and Municipal Secretariats in the
         whole country.      The Advisory Communication Committee of FUNDESCOLA (ACOM in
         Portuguese) cited that letters arrived monthly. Similarly to Escola Brasil above, the expansion in
         distribution area of this "newsletter" fostered the demand for several interventions supported by the
         project from municipalities and states that were not targeted under it.

         FUNDESCOLA Website: This site has a virtual library of project documents and articles which
         were distributed to the media via the website. It has been incorporated into the Government's own
         website (www.fnde.gov.br), where all project information and publications are included.

3.2      Social Communication Campaigns.           The objective of this sub-component was to identify,
mobilize, and train leadership to create a network of community liaison/social activities so as to replicate
and disseminate FUNDESCOLA'S goals.              This sub-component took the social marketing processes
initiated in the previous sub-component to a deeper level and aimed for longer-term impact through: (i)
organizing seminars with local government; (ii) training local journalists to be education activists; and (iii)
developing workshops to train both local communicators and institutions working in fields related to
education (e.g., NGOs, CBOs).

By project closing, a total of 36 workshops had taken place in different targeted areas. The original goal of
this sub-component was modified as participants stated that the FUNDESCOLA's goals, objectives and
methodologies were clear after one workshop and warranted no further training on this area.              This
sub-component also financed training of local journalists in 19 radio news-education offices within the N,
NE and CW regions. In 2000, 800 radio-education activists were trained in 19 states within these regions.
One visible result of this sub-component was the monthly production of a radio program called "Role of the
Radio Activist ­ Education for All: A Challenge for Communication."      14




Component 4: Strengthening National Education and Information Systems
(US$ 5.08 million or 51 percent of appraisal cost)

ICR Rating:       Moderately Satisfactory

This component was expected to give continued support to existing and emerging MEC-sponsored
programs that provide timely and relevant information for educational planning. This was carried out
through sub-components that aimed to develop and strengthen evaluation, dissemination, and research
systems managed by the Secretary of Education as described below. While this component financed a
couple of important evaluations as well as continued providing support for the national student assessment
system (SAEB), the ICR team found that the component had supported less than originally planned. Thus,
this component is rated as moderately satisfactory.

4.1      Improving Educational Assessments.         The objective of this sub-component was to continue
providing SAEB with organizational assistance and technical support. New activities that were to be
financed under this sub-component included the development of: (i) a four-year strategic and operational
plan; (ii) a comprehensive item bank of tested and scaled items for all assessment purposes; and (iii)
SAEB-linked standardized test packages for use by state and municipal governments.                       This



                                                      - 12 -

sub-component's indicator was the development and testing of at least one kit of standardized student
achievement tests. By project completion, the National Institute of Educational Studies and Research
(INEP in Portuguese) had developed a standardized achievement test kit, but was unable to validate it due
                       15


to the change in Government combined with fiscal constraints.

4.2      Improvement and Dissemination of Educational Information.              According to the PAD, this
sub-component was to carry out complimentary activities through four main actions: (i) improving the
Integrated Information System (SIED in Portuguese); (ii) improving quality of the school census; (iii)
supporting school-based information systems; and (iv) improving the integrated dissemination of
SIED/SAEB indicators. As a goal (and indicator), the sub-component aimed to provide 60 percent of the
states in the targeted regions with annual indicator education reports of its students. These were to serve as
a `report card' on student performance for policy making. By project completion, this sub-component had
supported the provision of reports to 100 percent of the state governments in the N, NE and CW regions
but those reports did not reach schools and students, as was expected.

4.3      Education Research and Studies.        This sub-component aimed to support research began in
previous projects as well as evaluation studies for the FUNDESCOLA Program itself. The sub-component
met the goal of producing recommendations to be incorporated into the design of FUNDESCOLA III, as
research completed and a 2001 report, Avaliação de Desempenho: Fatores Associados, provided lessons
which were incorporated into the design of the third project. As well, a major study by Stanford University
in 2004 produced How Schools and Students Respond to School Improvement Programs: The Case of
Brazil's PDE, an evaluation of the PDE.

Component 5: Management and Development of Education Systems
(US$ 4.37 million or 32 percent of appraisal cost)

ICR Rating:       Moderately Satisfactory

This component sought to raise the quality of management, coordination, and planning within the state,
municipal, and school level entities through institutional strengthening activities that included: strategic
planning, monitoring, and evaluation of capacities. The ICR mission found that this component had some
impact on strengthening the capacity of state and municipal secretariats of education and schools and it had
mostly met its indicators. Nonetheless, by completion the microplanning model had not been implemented
in targeted municipalities, and the project's institutional strengthening among MEC's own staff was limited
because project implementation relied on external consultants hired to implement most of the project.
Furthermore, as previously stated, sub-component 5.4 was made into a new component thus explaining
why the actual cost of this component was much lower than the appraisal's estimate. Thus, the ICR team
rated this component as moderately satisfactory.

5.1      Strengthening State and Municipal Collaboration. According to the PAD, this sub-component
would support work with state and municipal leadership to develop and promote three key principles: (i)
state municipal integration in decision-making; (ii) transparency around financial resources; and (iii)
commitment towards FUNDESCOLA objectives. These principles were realized via meetings of the
Microregion Forum and corresponding municipal, state, and Microregion Action Plans. As well, Program
Support for the Municipal Education Secretaries (PRASEM in Portuguese) and other meeting activities
were supported under this sub-component. The indicators for this sub-component were two: (i) train in
education management and other administrative issues 70 percent of the secretaries of education from the
target regions; and (ii) train 25 percent of the school directors in school management. The project



                                                      - 13 -

surpassed its first target and trained 83 percent of secretaries in the target regions. The second target was
also surpassed as 100 percent of school directors with PDE implemented were trained. More importantly,
this sub-component promoted several exchanges among municipal secretaries of education, something that
contributed to best practice exchanges as well as joint strategies to address common problems. The
PRASEM was so well-received by municipal secretaries of education that despite their frequent turn-over,
the demand for these exchanges persisted.         Thus, the follow-up operation (FUNDESCOLA IIIa) is
expected to start supporting a continuation of this initiative and the Borrower is considering integrating this
practice into their regular responsibilities.

5.2     Institutional Development for Secretary of Education. This sub-component aimed to support a
large number of municipalities and states to improve their education system. The sub-component's target
was having a Secretariat Management Business Plan (PGS in Portuguese) implemented in two secretariats
of education within the targeted regions. The sub-component was able to surpass the indicator as staff
from 354 secretariats were trained in PGS, staff from 327 were trained in the process of elaborating a plan,
and 65 plans were implemented. It should be noted that during its implementation, the Government decided
to further develop the methodology for the business plans, re-naming the more detailed version of it as the
Strategic Plan for Secretariats (PES in Portuguese). By project completion, a total, 391 secretariats were
trained and 355 were implementing PES.            This result, however, should be partially credited to
FUNDESCOLA IIIa, which financed some of the training.

5.3     Microplanning.      The microplanning model is a combination of the School Mapping and the
Geographic Information System that supports decision-makers on the rationalization of the urban school
network at the municipal level. This sub-component supported the use of instruments developed under
FUNDESCOLA I. Under the project, the goals were to install the planning systems and provide training
for technical staff of state and municipal secretariats of education. The project would, therefore, base all
school construction decisions on the network microplanning information system. The project supported the
development of a Microplanning system for selected Priority Attention Zones (ZAPs in Portuguese).
Nonetheless, because this microplanning system required the availability of expensive and sophisticated
computer equipment which were not available in many secretariats of education, they were not able to
implement it by the time the project completed. Under FUNDESCOLA IIIa, the Borrower is currently
trying to simplify such methodology and its corresponding equipment needs so that it is accessible to all
municipalities.

5.4     Project Administration & Pilot Activities. The goal of this sub-component was to support the
federal (DGP) and state (COEP) coordination units of FUNDESCOLA to develop and implement pilot
projects in areas of extreme poverty. As previously stated, in accordance with the Project Operations and
Implementation Manual (MOIP in Portuguese) approved by the Bank, this sub-component was transferred
into a sixth project component described below. This decision was made to simplify project monitoring
since the Borrower decided to hire an international procurement and contracting agency to implement this
sub-component.

Component 6: Project Administration & Pilot Activities
(US$ 25.62 million ­ not in original project cost)

ICR Rating:      Satisfactory
This component was composed of two sub-components:                     (i) Project Administration and (ii)
Implementation of Pilot Projects. Activities carried out under the first sub-component were executed by
an international procurement and contracting agency under a Country Cooperation Framework and
specifically guided by a project document that detailed corresponding activities, outcomes, budgets and


                                                     - 14 -

timelines. Specifically, this sub-component supported project administration and implementation in the
three regions, including 19 states and 384 municipalities.   The agency facilitated procuring and hiring of
individual consultants and firms--including to staff the project implementation unit at the federal level
(DGP) and state coordination units (COEPs)-- travel arrangements, logistics and support costs for training,
and other administrative arrangements. This support was particularly important given the administrative
complexity of working with so many different secretariats, many with very weak implementation capacity.
The total cost of the Project Administration sub-component was US$17.3 million, four percent of the total
project cost. While this figure may appear high, disbursements under this component actually financed
incremental staff --hired through the procurement agency-- to implement the FUNDESCOLA Program (as
opposed to project) --an ongoing and now institutionalized program-- at the federal, state, and municipal
levels. Moreover, the amount of financing required was greater than originally expected because as project
implementation progressed the government and the Bank realized that weak municipal implementation
capacity required a grater number of qualified technicians.

The Implementation of Pilot Projects sub-component financed pilot activities focusing on indigenous and
quilombola populations, including the construction of indigenous schools on a pilot basis. Once the schools
were ready and well-accepted by the communities, the construction was expanded under sub-component
1.5.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
Not applicable.

4.4 Financial rate of return:
Not applicable.

4.5 Institutional development impact:
The project's institutional development impact is substantial as it was successful in:

·       Improving coordination of education policies, strategies and activities of key actors at the local,
municipal, state and federal levels. This was particularly important given the overlap in responsibilities for
education that exists in Brazil.     The project supported the Federal Government in providing overall
guidance and setting standards for education. It also supported the development and/or improvement of
tools such as the SAEB to assist monitoring and evaluation of the education system. At the state and
municipal levels, it strengthened their capacity to use such tools to foster quality improvements within the
education systems. The school level was given responsibility to implement such interventions through
training of key actors (directors, school council members, and teachers) to enable them to properly use the
PDE, PME, PDDE and other school level interventions.

·       Strengthening of the state and municipal teams to carry out strategic planning so local strategies
can be better implemented, including the development and implementation of a school census information
system (School Facilities Survey, LSE), to serve as a tool for secretaries of education to plan their school
networks.

·       Strengthening school autonomy by fostering the creation of schools councils, promoting a strategic
planning methodology at the school level (PDE), and giving schools greater responsibility to manage funds
through the PME and the direct transfers to schools for infrastructure improvements and school
maintenance (PDDE). The PDE and PME were so successful that several states ­ including some that
were not project beneficiaries ­ decided to adopt and/or expand the program. The same is true for Escola
Ativa and Gestar.



                                                    - 15 -

·        Improving teachers' capacity to provide quality education, through the successful implementation
of the teacher training program (Proformação) and the certification of 85 percent of teachers in the project
target areas. Likewise, continuous in-service teacher training for 1st ­ 4th grade teachers in mathematics
and Portuguese.

·        Establishing classroom and school standards, which have since been adapted and adopted by
several states and municipalities.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
Exchange rate fluctuation. In January 1999 the Government adopted a floating exchange rate. The
immediate result was a strong depreciation of the real (R$) in relation to the dollar (US$), which lasted
over three years until its stabilization, at about 30 percent less than the appraisal's exchange rate. This
fluctuation meant frequent adjustments to the project's implementation plan, as the Borrower often found
itself with more resources than originally planned due to the depreciation of the local currency. Likewise,
there were a few instances when the local currency appreciated --until it estabilized-- and the Borrower had
less local currency than planned.

Changes in leadership in States and Municipal Secretariats of Education. Project implementation and
outcomes were affected by frequent changes in the leadership at the state and municipal levels as well as
high turnover of staff in the municipal and state teams. This reality made it hard to: (i) increase the
technical capacity of the municipal and state teams in a sustainable way; and (ii) provide adequate technical
assistance to the schools.

Low technical capacity of participating municipalities.          Because the project was designed to be
implemented in partnership with states and municipalities, it heavily relied on the their technical capacity.
However, state and municipal technical capacity was often low requiring that the FUNDESCOLA team
provide more technical assistance to them than originally anticipated so they could implement the project.
This caused obvious delays in implementation and higher administrative cost.

Overall delays in procurement. As mentioned in section 5.2 of this document, there were several factors
delaying procurement. A general problem was that some individual states' laws governing procurement
processes were more complex, requiring several signatures and approvals before contract signing. Since
many project funds and their procurement were decentralized to the state level, these procedures caused
delays.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
Fiscal policy and availability of counterpart funds. The fiscal constraint experienced since 2002 resulted
in less availability of counterpart funds, which seriously reduced the project's implementation pace.
Between 1999 and 2002, the loan disbursed about 87 percent of the total amount, compared to about 12
percent between 2003 and project completion. After 2003 the Government, through the Ministry of
Finance, established annual expenditure ceilings, which conditioned the rhythm of implementation. It also
tightened the internal controls for the use of external funds. This disrupted disbursements until the internal
procedures were adapted to the new mechanisms imposed by the Ministry of Finance. In this context, the
Government approved a decree (Decree n. 4591/2003) limiting the transfer of resources to reimburse
expenses, which diminished the project's capacity to reimburse schools for expenses, affecting the
implementation of the PDEs and PMEs.



                                                     - 16 -

Staff turnover due to election. As a result of the 2002 presidential elections, a new administration took
office in January 2003, led by President Lula. The new administration reviewed all ongoing projects to
confirm support, and engaged in extensive discussions with the Bank as to how it would like to modify
some of the activities of the project, including eventually asking for an extension of closing date and
canceling part of the loan. As a result, project implementation was delayed by a year. Additionally, the
change in administration also brought management changes to FUNDESCOLA ­ in 2003 five different
individuals were hired to fill the project director position which resulted in further delays in implementation.

Staff turnover due to change in legislation. In 2003, the new administration introduced a decree (Decree
n.4748/2003) requiring that all staff working for the federal government be selected through a competitive
process and hired under a new law (Law N. 8745/93). This was a response to the on-going criticism that
there was abuse in the use of "long-term" consultants with salaries that were much higher than government
salaries and not subject to local legislation because they were hired through international procurement and
contracting agencies.     Because of this decree, all the consultants working at FUNDESCOLA's
implementation unit, which included the majority of staff, were subjected to a competitive selection process
(concurso). As a result, many of FUNDESCOLA's team members were replaced by those who did better
at the selection process but who did not necessarily have hands-on experience in implementing these types
of projects. Together with the natural staff turnover associated with the government's change, much of
FUNDESCOLA's institutional capacity and memory were lost.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
Delays in purchase and distribution of textbooks. Each year, the project experienced difficulties and
delays in contracting and distributing its textbooks for its teaching and learning models (such as Escola
Ativa and GESTAR). This delay was due to the fact that the actual number of textbooks is determined by
the school census from the previous year, which did not come out early enough for the orders to be placed.
Once the number of textbooks was determined, it took about nine months for the books to be procured and
delivered. It should be noted that these delays do not affect the distribution of regular textbooks purchased
by MEC because those are bought in advance (based on previous student census data) and because the
Government procures the books by Pregão, a method that speeds up the process but is not accepted under
the Bank's procurement guidelines.

Inadequate system to monitor project progress. Despite having an in-house team dedicated to the
development of software and systems, the project's implementation unit was not always able to produce a
satisfactory supervision report that included physical monitoring of the project.           Likewise, financial
monitoring did not adequately include expenditures by the international procurement and contracting
agency. The system used by FUNDESCOLA in its initial implementation stage was considered outdated
and inadequate by the staff that joined FUNDESCOLA after 2003 and it was "discarded" without finding
an adequate replacement for it. Thus, since 2003 supervision reports were produced manually and were
often inconsistent. Likewise, several of the audits as well as the Bank's own reviews frequently cited the
project's lack of a system integrating physical and financial implementation as an area for improvement.
Bank reports also properly highlight the lack of an adequate system to monitor financial progress.

Lack of selectivity of activities. During the first half of project implementation, the implementing unit
was involved in supporting several activities, instead of focusing on a smaller set of activities that would
directly impact project indicators.     A new project manager reduced the scope of FUNDESCOLA's
activities at the end of 2002, right before the transition. As the new administration took over, a further
focus was placed on FUNDESCOLA's activities.




                                                      - 17 -

5.4 Costs and financing:
The total project cost was US$416.49 million. The Borrower used up 95 percent of the loan (US$191
million), cancelling the remaining 5 percent about one year before project closing.     At the same time, it
increased its contribution from US$200 million to US$225 million.

The Loan closing date was extended by one year to December 31 2005, to allow the Borrower to complete
the activities underway and disburse remaining funds. This extension request was accompanied by a
cancellation request in the amount US$10.9 million. This cancellation was consistent with the fact that
exchange rate fluctuations led the Government to have more local currency available than at the time of
project appraisal and its willingness to increase their contribution to it. Unfortunately, this was also
accompanied by shortages in counterpart financing, particularly after 2003.

The financial performance of each component is quickly described below, as its details are included in
Section 4.2 of this document.


        1.       Raising Schools to Minimum Operational Standards disbursed 104 percent of the
        appraisal estimate and met all of its targets ­ with the exception of the purchase and distribution of
        furniture and equipment, which faced procurement problems.

        2.       Establishing a School Development Process disbursed 146 percent of the appraisal
        estimate but surpassed all of its goals by far. This was due to the combination of high demand for
        the interventions, increased project financing and availability of additional resources due to
        depreciation of local currency.

        3.       Promoting Communication and Social Mobilization disbursed 145 percent more than the
        original estimate. This is explained by the fact that originally the Escola Brazil Program and the
        Technical Bulletin were meant to reach only project targeted areas.                However, during
        implementation it was decided to expand the outreach of these communication methods to the
        whole country.

        4.       Strengthening National Education Information Systems and Programs disbursed 51
        percent of the appraisal estimate, which is consistent with the Government not having met its
        targets and the availability of more resources due to the exchange rate fluctuation.

        5.       Management and Institutional Development of Education Systems disbursed 32 percent
        of the appraisal estimate and partially accomplished its targets. This was due to the transformation
        of sub-component 5.4 (Project Management and Pilot Activities) ­which accounted for 65 percent
        of the original component cost-- into a new component.

        6.       Project Management and Pilot Activities, as previously stated, was part of the previous
        component in the original project design. This sub-component basically consisted of the project's
        administrative costs, sub-contracted to an international procurement and contracting agency, and
        pilot activities.

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
The interventions supported by this project are highly likely to continue being implemented by the
Borrower.     Most of the key interventions (PDE, PME, Minimum Operational Standards, Strategic



                                                    - 18 -

Planning, etc.) have already been adopted ­in some cases expanded-- by several state and municipal
education secretariats, including several not receiving financing from the project. This is consistent with
FUNDESCOLA's approach, where quality improvements need to take place at the local level. Likewise,
many secretariats have introduced complementary interventions to those from the Federal Government.
Except for three states (Bahia, Ceará, and Pernambuco) that have IBRD loans, these activities are financed
by their regular budget. For instance, some state secretariats have implemented student assessment systems
to complement the SAEB carried out biannually by MEC. Additionally, in order to ensure sustainability of
the interventions, FUNDESCOLA helped set up and train local teams made up of regular staff from the
secretariats so they could continue providing support at the local level. Furthermore, a broad base of
teachers and school directors received extensive training. Finally, the Borrower has already mainstreamed
some of the interventions into its regular budget and operations and is engaged in a concerted effort to
continue this process so that by the time FUNDESCOLA IIIa closes, all key interventions that received
positive evaluations will be part of Ministry of Education's regular operations.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
As stated under Section 6.1, most of FUNDESCOLA's interventions have already been adopted at the state
and municipal levels, mainstreamed into their regular operations and budgets.            Most importantly,
interventions such as school councils and PDEs have become part of regular operations of many schools,
which continue fostering the demand for them.

During the last two years, the FUNDESCOLA implementation unit was mainstreamed into the National
Fund for Education Development (FNDE), a key "arm" of the MEC. FUNDESCOLA's director also
carries the responsibility for managing education loans for the IDB.

Currently, the Bank still finances some of the FUNDESCOLA activities through loan FUNDESCOLA III
a (loan 71220-BR), which is expected to close in December 2007 (including a one year extension). At that
time it is expected that the Borrower will have finished mainstreaming successful interventions tested under
the project into FNDE's regular operations.


7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:
Satisfactory. Bank's performance during preparation is rated as satisfactory. The Bank's team used the
experience accumulated with the preparation and implementation of FUNDESCOLA I to prepare the
project, including addressing issues encountered during its implementation. Project design was based on
previous activities that had demonstrated success ­including some that had been closely evaluated. The
team also worked closely with the Borrower and involved the different levels of administration (federal,
state and municipalities), relying on their experience and inputs to improve existing instruments. Finally,
recognizing the need to prioritize resources, the team rightly targeted the areas with the lowest education
quality, including indigenous and quilombola groups. Nonetheless, as stated in the "Quality at Entry"
section, the Bank's team erred on establishing key indicators for the project that were overly optimistic and
not necessarily demonstrative of the project's target area.

7.2 Supervision:
Satisfactory.    Project supervision is rated as satisfactory.     The Bank performed well during the
implementation period. It actively carried out an adequate number of supervision missions, including
bringing Bank experts and international consultants to provide technical assistance in the different areas
covered by the project. There were three post reviews to the project as well as an independent procurement



                                                    - 19 -

review (IPR) during its implementation. It would, however, have been useful if the financial management
specialist had participated in a greater number of supervision missions so as to address inadequacies with
financial reporting, particularly the fact that the international procurement and contracting agency was not
producing reports according to the Bank's requirements. The Bank changed the project's task team leader
(TTL) once during implementation and the transition was a smooth one since the new TTL had previously
been involved in the project as the back-up TTL.             The Bank provided support to the incumbent
FUNDESCOLA team at the time of the transition to a new administration. Given the high staff turnover
on the Government's side, this was particularly important to ensure consistency and continuity of the
project, as well as institutional memory.        Overall, the Bank's team was a constant presence during
implementation.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:
Satisfactory. The overall Bank's performance is rated as satisfactory based on the Bank's efforts in project
preparation and the close support it provided the Borrower during implementation, particularly during the
Government's transition. The caveat to this rating is that, in hindsight, the team was overly optimistic in
setting key indicators at lending.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
Satisfactory. The Borrower actively participated in the preparation of the project, the definition of its
objectives, components and activities. It provided good quality data to establish the project targets for most
sub-components. It based project design on its long-term education goals, the experience accumulated
under FUNDESCOLA I, and the piloting of activities supported under the first phase of the Program, at
the moment of preparation. The Borrower showed strong commitment and remained well focused on the
national long term education plan, which acted as the FUNDESCOLA framework. Similar to the Bank,
the Borrower was also responsible for the overly optimistic indicators set during preparation.

7.5 Government implementation performance:
Satisfactory. The administration in office during project preparation had a clear long-term vision for
education and provided strong support to project objectives and activities during the implementation period.
It remained committed to the goals of the FUNDESCOLA Program, which set a quick implementation pace
for the first half of the implementation period.

The new administration, which took office in 2003, took about one year to assess the project and adjust it
to its own priorities ­which were basically similar to the previous administration. The main change
requested by the new administration was to focus some of the project activities. Once the Government and
Bank arrived at a mutual understanding on how this change would be carried out, implementation
progressed successfully ensuring that project targets were met. Additionally, the new administration had a
strong commitment for the sustainability of the project, quickly moving to mainstream its implementation
team into FNDE. However, fiscal constraints established by the Government resulted in insufficient
counter-financing for the project, which led to implementation delays in the last couple of years.

7.6 Implementing Agency:
Moderately Satisfactory. The Directorate for Project Administration (DGP) implemented the project in a
moderately satisfactory manner throughout most of its life. Project directors were normally capable and
with strong management skills. It played a key role in both managing the project as well as doing its actual
implementation --DGP staff developed several of the project's instruments as well as provided much of the
training to the states and municipalities. The team adequately dealt with the difficulties of the exchange
rate variations, and set a quick implementation pace in the first few years of implementation. They were



                                                      - 20 -

also pro-active in requesting a partial cancellation of the loan ­together with its extension--to ensure full
financial implementation. On the weaker side, the DGP was not able to maintain a satisfactory financial
accounting of the expenses disbursed through the international procurement and contracting agency.
Another shortcoming was that the DGP did not always coordinate with MEC, many times functioning as a
separate and independent unit. This problem was addressed when the DGP was integrated into FNDE in
2004. Furthermore, throughout implementation there were several complaints from state and municipal
secretariats as to the need to simplify and adapt certain instruments to their realities -- which were strongly
resisted by the DGP. This was particularly true up to 2003.

The high rotation of directors and the staff turnout negatively impacted the project's implementation and
institutional memory, a problem exacerbated by the inadequate reporting of project implementation
progress.    As previously stated, the DGP did not maintain an informatized monitoring, evaluation and
reporting system for the project.     While the project set out to deepen the activities of its predecessor, it
equally sought to broaden its scope. These design changes, taken as a whole, significantly increased the
need for a system to coordinate the project monitoring, evaluation and reporting at all levels. Nonetheless,
the computer system that was used to do this in the early phase of implementation was reported as
inadequate and set aside in 2003, without any satisfactory arrangement to replace and/or update it. Thus,
supervision reports were prepared manually.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
Satisfactory. Overall, Borrower's performance is considered as satisfactory. The Borrower was able to
implement the project, meeting most of its targets ­ including financial execution-- and surpassed many, in
a timely manner ­ the one-year extension was due to delays from the presidential transition. The Borrower
had a clear long-term education goal, and focused project activities in attaining them, which did not change
with the change in administration. At the same time, there was recognition of the key role played by state
and municipal secretariats, as well as schools, who were involved in all aspects of implementation. Finally,
the Borrower took the initiative of streamlining project operations -- a full year before project completion
--into their regular structure to ensure the sustainability of the interventions.




8. Lessons Learned

l Long-term Bank support for well-defined national education programs. Much of the success and
    sustainability of FUNDESCOLA are due to the fact that this is a long-term Bank support to a national
    education program, with well defined goals. The Bank's team correctly recognized the need for
    long-term support for Brazil and developed an investment strategy that responded to that need. The
    first project, FUNDESCOLA I, financed the development and testing of several pilot interventions,
    before supported their full-scale implementation. This loan supported the expansion of the successful
    pilots, targeting areas with the poorest education indicators. The follow-up operation, focuses on
    perfecting some of those instruments while making them sustainable after the Bank's financial support
    ends. This approach ensured the continuous support of the projects' objectives, despite a change in
    government.

l Recognition of the role of the different levels of Government. A key success of the FUNDESCOLA
    Program (and projects) has been the recognition of the importance of the state and municipal
    governments in improving education quality. The Federal Government recognized this and retained for
    itself the role of setting overarching policies and goals for the sector, and providing instruments to state
    and municipal secretariats so they could pursue quality improvements in their systems. Likewise, they



                                                     - 21 -

    provided extensive technical assistance to the weaker secretariats. It did not, however, intervene in
    state and municipal decisions, nor did it impose its instruments on them. This approach is not only
    consistent with Brazil's Constitution but avoids resistance on the part of local governments.

l Seeking strategies to mobilize support, generate local demand, and ensure sustainability.              By
    promoting instruments/interventions at the school level, where the school community can see and feel
    the immediate benefits, the project generated immediate support for some of its key interventions.
    Likewise, the Borrower successfully used communication campaigns to disseminate the benefits of
    many of its activities such as the PDE and PME --letting the beneficiaries themselves report to other
    communities through a written bulletin or radio programs-- thus quickly spreading information among
    schools, generating a great demand for those interventions. The "buy-in" of stakeholders increases the
    long-term sustainability of the interventions started under the project.

l Balancing hiring external implementation agencies and consultants with building Borrower's
    institutional capacity. Due to the complexity of this project, the Borrower opted for contracting an
    international procurement and contracting agency so as to expedite processes and have access to a
    greater pool of consultants. While both agency and consultants enabled the project's initial success by
    setting a quick implementation pace from the start, they did not contribute to strengthening the capacity
    of Government staff. Fortunately, during project implementation the Borrower recognized the need for
    an alternative implementation model, quickly passing legislation limiting the role of external
    consultants and the kinds of contracts.       The Borrower also recognized the need to mainstream
    responsibilities within the Ministry of Education and has been moving toward mainstreaming project
    activities into regular operations.

l Importance of establishing a strong control framework with clear and transparent institutional
    and implementation arrangments during project preparation to avoid reliance of external agencies for
    project implementation. As previously mentioned, hiring extertal implementation agencies can provide
    some advantages in project implementation. However, such arrangements are often costly and lead to
    problems in terms of compliance with the Bank's fiduciary requirements because the Bank has no
    leverage on these institutions' management/administrative side such as their accounting system.

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:

Included in Annex 8.

(b) Cofinanciers:
Not applicable

(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
Not applicable

10. Additional Information


    End Notes


1.       Microregions are a group of municipalities within state lines, usually around the capital. The
FUNDESCOLA program focuses first on microregions with characteristics that increase its chances for
improving the quality of schooling. At conception, FUNDESCOLA II project activities were directed


                                                    - 22 -

toward municipalities located in 27 microregions:      17 new and 10 microregions brought over from
FUNDESCOLA I.           Finally, microregions are also known as Priority Attention Zones (ZAPs in
Portuguese).

2.      SAEB has been undergoing a series of institutional and methodological changes since its creation
in 1990. Since 1997, the test measurement scale has been in a process of improvement. This, along with
significant increases in primary school enrollment and greater effort on behalf of local governments to
promote underachieving students in the three target regions have forced SAEB to interpret student
achievement across years. This is also the case in SAEB's most recent results of primary achievement in
Portuguese and mathematics. Here, the 2003 test measurement scale is more rigorous and has in-turn
caused some negative trends in eighth-grade achievements and very slight changes in fourth grade when
compared to 2001 results. See, Resultados do Saeb 2003 Brasil, MEC/SAEB, Brasilia, 2004.

3.      This ICR is still being processed under the old format because it was prepared before June 2006
and its original delivery date was June 30, 2006. However, an extension to the delivery date was granted to
allow the Government to provide some missing data for its conclusion.

4.      Adequate Level: students are reading and comprehending at an adequate level that corresponds to
fourth grade.

5.      Very Critical Level: students have not developed the minimum reading abilities that allow them to
function on a fourth grade level.

6.      Vera Maria N. S. Placco, et al., Proformação: Avaliação Externa, Brasília: MEC/SEED -
Secretaria de Educação a Distância, 2003.

7.      The LSE surveys, taken in 1997, 1998 (FUNDESCOLA I) and 2001 (FUNDESCOLA II),
assessed the physical conditions, human resources and teaching materials of 6,000 schools in six states.
Generally, LSEs are utilized to determine if schools meet or fall short of the Minimum Operational
Standards.

8.      This system is inherently a part of sub-component 5.3 Micro Planning whereby Microregion
Forums, consisting of mayors in conjunction with the state secretary of education and the state president of
National Association of Municipal Education Managers (UNDIME) are charged with prioritizing and
planning all microregion activities.

9.       "Fundo de Fortalecimento da Escola ­ FUNDESCOLA." Last retrieved March 27, 2006 from
http://www.fnde.gov.br/home/FUNDESCOLA/balanço1988a2003.doc.

10.     Martin Carnoy, et, al., How Schools and Students Respond to School Improvement Programs:
The Case of Brazil's PDE, Stanford University, 2004, 39.

11.     Ibid, 42.

12.      Ibid, 40.

13.     The Strategic Plan for Secretariats (PES) is used to promote the institutional development and
strengthening of Secretariats. The four step planning process reinforces the Secretariat Management
Business Plan (PGS) and is detailed further in 5.2.

14.     "Mais       próximo      da     escola."   Last     retrieved    March      29,      2006     from
http://www.socialtec.org.br/Downloads/Educacao/GilbertoCosta_MaisProximoEscola.doc

15.     INEP is a semi-autonomous agency of the MEC with a mission to promote studies, research and
evaluation on the National Education System.




                                                   - 23 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

Outcome / Impact Indicators:
                                                                               1
              Indicator/Matrix                           Projected in last PSR                    Actual/Latest Estimate
(KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS BY
JUNE 2007)

Increase to 50% the proportion of 4th grade
students meeting acceptable learning
standards in targeted areas from:
 Region North - 28.3%                         Measurement scale changed in 2003.        Technical work is underway to allow
 Region Northeast - 32.8%                     Technical work is underway to allow       comparability between SAEB after 2003 and
 Region Center-West - 36.7%                   comparability between SAEB after 2003 and the 1995/7.*
                                              the 1995/7.
                                                                                        2001/03 data shows positive trends.

Increase to 60% the proportion of 8th grade
students meeting acceptable learning
standards in targeted areas from:
 Region North - 43.6%                         Measurement scale changed in 2003.        Technical work is underway to allow
 Region Northeast - 43.8%                     Technical work is underway to allow       comparability between SAEB after 2003 and
 Region Center-West - 54.9%                   comparability between SAEB after 2003 and the 1995/7.*
                                              the 1995/7.
                                                                                        2001/03 data shows positive trends.

(LEADING PERFORMANCE INDICATOR
BY JUNE 2004)

Increase to 85% the average promotion rates
in primary schools in targeted areas from:
 Region North - 64.2%                         not available                             Region North - 72.3%
 Region Northeast - 64.7%                                                               Region Northeast - 73.6%
 Region Center-West - 71.5%                                                             Region Center-West - 79.4%

Given that this data was not available while this report was being prepared, section 4.1 of the ICR includes results
from 2001 and 2003 student assessments, showing a conservative upward trend.
Output Indicators:
                                                                               1
              Indicator/Matrix                           Projected in last PSR                    Actual/Latest Estimate
1.1 All schools with more than 20 students in 100%                                      100%
N, NE, and CW in receipt of direct school
transfer funds.


1.2 15,000 classrooms rehabilitated in the    15,964                                    15,964
targeted microregions.


1.3 15,000 classrooms meeting minimum         14,126                                    14,126
operational standards.


1.4 Number of uncertified teachers in         85% of teachers certified                 85% of teachers certified
classrooms reduced by 75%.


1.5 Implementing Model School Program         178                                       178
--construction of new schools*


2.1 1,150 schools with PDE implemented        5,021                                     5,021


2.2 1,350 schools with PME implemented.       8,818                                     8,818


2.3 2,000 rural schools with pedagogic        5,333                                     5,333
models implemented.




                                                                - 24 -

3.1 Social mobilization campaign in targeted 100%                                    100%
areas reaching 75% of population.


3.2 Three workshops held with each            36                                     36
microregion forum to establish agreements &
disseminate objectives and methods of
FUNDESCOLA Program.


4.1 At least 1 Kit w/ standardized student    1 kit                                  1 kit developed but not validated
achievement tests developed and tested.


4.2 60% of students in targeted regions       100%                                   100%
enrolled in schools that receive annual
education indicator reports.


4.3 Recommendations of applied research       Research concluded and recommendations Research concluded and recommendations
disseminated to DGP & incorporated in         incorporated                           incorporated
FUNDESCOLA IIIa design


5.1 Secretariat Management and Business       65 with PGS implemented.               391 trained in PGS
Plan implemented in two secretariats of                                              355 developing PGS
education


5.2 Microplanning and Geographic              Not implemented                        Not implemented
Information System implemented in targeted
areas.


5.3 70% of secretaries of education directors 83%                                    83%
in targeted areas trained.


5.4 25% of school directors who have          100%                                   100%
adopted PDE trained in school management.

1End of project
* A target was established of 182 constructed schools during project implementation.




                                                              - 25 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                          Appraisal   Actual/Latest    Percentage of
                                                          Estimate       Estimate        Appraisal
                        Component                         US$ million  US$ million
1. Raising Schools to Minimum Operational Standards        335.50          348.76              104
2. Establishing a School Development Process                 17.00          24.83              146
3. Promoting Communication and Social Mobilization            4.00           5.79              145
4. Strengthening National Education Information Systems      10.00           5.08               51
and Programs
5. Management and Institutional Development of               13.50           4.37               32
Education Systems
6. Project Administration and Pilot Activities                              25.62

Total Baseline Cost                                        380.00          414.45
 Price Contingencies                                         20.00
                           Total Project Costs             400.00          414.45
                                          Front-end fee       2.03           2.03
                   Total Financing Required                402.03          416.48


Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                 Procurement Method1
                                               Procurement    Other 2


   Expenditure Category              ICB          NCB                      N.B.F.     Total Cost
1. Works (except those                            75.00       28.50                    103.50
financed by School Grants)                       (26.67)      (9.33)                   (36.00)
2. Goods (except those
financed by School Grants)
(a) For the Borrower                46.5           9.5                                  56.0
                                   (23.25)        (4.75)                               (28.0)
(b) For participating states &       3.0                                                 3.0
municipalities                     (03.0)                                               (3.0)
3. School Grants
(a) School Improvement                                        160.0                    160.0
                                                              (70.0)                   (70.0)
(b) School Rehabilitation                                      25.0                     25.0
                                                              (12.5)                   (12.5)
4. Training and Consultants
(except those financed by
School Grants)
(a) For the Borrower                                            4.0                      4.0
                                                               (2.0)                    (2.0)
(b) For participating states &                                 25.6                     25.6
municipalities                                                (25.6)                   (25.6)



                                                 - 26 -

5. Operational Expenses                                               2.0                          2.0
                                                                     (2.0)                        (2.0)
6. UNDP administrative fee                                                           0.9           0.9
                                                                                    (0.0)         (0.0)
7. Bank front-end fee                                                2.03                          2.03
                                                                    (2.03)                        (2.03)
   Total                             49.5             84.5         247.13            0.9         382.03
                                   (26.25)          (31.42)        (123.46)        (0.00)       (181.13)
This table does not include the unallocated amount of US$20.9 million, which adds to a total loan amount
of US$202.03 million equivalent.

Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)*
                                                  Procurement      Other  2


    Expenditure Category             ICB              NCB                          N.B.F.     Total Cost
1. Works (except those
financed by School Grants)                                                                       (7.94)
2. Goods (except those
financed by School Grants)
 (a) For the Borrower
                                                                                                 (3.07)
(b) For participating states &
municipalities                                                                                  (11.44)
3. School Grants
 (a) School Improvement
                                                                                               (123.31)
 (b) School Rehabilitation

4. Training and Consultants
(except those financed by
School Grants)
 (a) For the Borrower
                                                                                                (39.01)
 (b) For participating states &
municipalities                                                                                   (3.28)
5. Operational Expenses
                                                                                                 (1.07)
6. UNDP administrative fee

7. Bank front-end fee                                                2.03                         2.03
                                                                    (2.03)                       (2.03)
   Total
                                                                                               (191.15)
The Borrower did not provide the data on project costs by procurement arrangement for the expenses
incurred with counter-part funding. As a result, the ICR team was not able to complete the above table.




                                                    - 27 -

Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                       Percentage of Appraisal
        Component                Appraisal Estimate           Actual/Latest Estimate
                             Bank      Govt.       CoF.    Bank       Govt.       CoF.  Bank   Govt.   CoF.
1. Raising Schools to       165.00    190.50               143.65     205.11            87.1   107.7
Minimum Operational
Standards
2. Establishing a School     9.50      7.50                13.46      11.37             141.7  151.6
Development Process
3. Promoting                 4.00      0.00                 5.31       0.48             132.8   0.0
Communication and Social
Mobilization
4. Strengthening National    8.00      2.00                 4.66       0.42             58.3    21.0
Education Information
Systems and Programs
5. Management and            13.50     0.00                 4.01       0.36             29.7    0.0
Institutional Development
of Education Systems
6. Project Administration    0.00      0.00                18.05       7.58             0.0     0.0
and Pilot Activities
Front-end Fee                2.03      0.00                 2.03       0.00             100.0   0.0

   All costs include contingencies.




                                                    - 28 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

Not applicable.




                                      - 29 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty            Performance Rating
                                     (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)    Implementation Development
                   Month/Year  Count           Specialty                   Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              08/13/1998                1    TTL (1)
              10/21/1998                6    TTL (1); ENVIRONMENT AND
                                             PROJECT COSTING
                                             SPECIALIST (1);
                                             OPERATIONS AND
                                             PROCUREMENT SPECIALIST
                                             (1); POVERTY INDICATORS
                                             SPECIALIST (CONSULTANT);
                                             EDUCATION SPECIALIST (1)
              11/19/1998                1    EDUCATION SPECIALIST

 Appraisal/Negotiation
              12/18/1998                7    TTL (1); FINANCIAL
                                             MANAGEMENT
                                             SPECIALIST (1);
                                             CONSULTOR (3);
                                             OPERATIONS ANALIST
                                             (1); FINANCIAL
                                             MANAGEMENT ANALIST
                                             (1)
              02/03/1999                4    TTL (1); EDUCATION
                                             SPECIALIST (1);
                                             ENVIRONMENT AND
                                             PROJECT COSTING
                                             SPECIALIST (1);
                                             CONSULTANT (1)

 Supervision

              08/21/1999                3    TTL (1); OPERATIONS              S               S
                                             ANALYST (1);
                                             PROCUREMENT ANALYST
                                             (1)
              05/19/2000*               2    TTL (1); OPERATIONS              S               S
                                             SPECIALIST (1)
              12/08/2000**              4     TTL (1); INSTITUTIONAL          S               S
                                             DEVELOP. (1);
                                             PROCUREMENT (1);
                                             OPERATIONS (1)
              06/15/2001**              1    TTL (1)                          S               S



              12/07/2001                2    TTL (1); PROCUREMENT             S               S
                                             SPECIALIST
              06/01/2002                4    TTL (1); EDUCATION               S               S
                                             SPECIALIST (1);



                                              - 30 -

                                                    OPERATIONS OFFICER (1);
                                                    SECTOR LEADER (1)
               11/22/2002                       1   TTL (1)                            HS    S
               06/11/2003                       7   TTL (1); SECTOR DIRECTOR            S    S
                                                    (1); SECTOR LEADER (1);
                                                    SECTOR MANAGER (1);
                                                    SENIOR EDUC. SPEC. (2);
                                                    EDUC. SPEC. (1)
               08/08/2003                       3   TTL (1); SENIOR EDUCATION           U    S
                                                    SPECIALIST (1); SECTOR
                                                    LEADER (1)
               09/24/2003                       1   TTL (1)                             U    S
               01/09/2004                       4   TTL (1); EDUCATION POLICY           S    S
                                                    (1); FINANCIAL
                                                    MANAGEMENT (1);
                                                    PROCUREMENT (1)
               07/29/2004                       3   TTL (1); OPERATIONS                 S    S
                                                    OFFICER (1); OPERATIONS
                                                    ANALIST (1);
               11/18/2004                       2   TTL (1); OPERATIONS                 S    S
                                                    OFFICER (1)
               02/03/2005                       2   TTL (1); OPERATIONS                 S    S
                                                    OFFICER (1)
               03/29/2005***                    1   TTL (1)                             S    S
               11/08/2005***                    2   TTL (1); SECTOR MANAGER             S    S
                                                    (1)

 ICR
               11/08/2005***                   1     TTL (1)                            S    S

* The dates of the Aide Memoires and PSRs differ.
** No Aide-memoires were found for these missions. The data was retrieved from the PSRs.
*** The DO rating for the last two missions was MS (Moderately Satisfactory)

(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                         Actual/Latest Estimate
                                          No. Staff weeks                  US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation                     N/A                   included below
  Appraisal/Negotiation                          N/A                          245.9*
  Supervision                                   115.1                           448.9
  ICR                                               4                         33.7**
  Total                                         119.1                           728.5
* Amount includes Identification/Preparation and Appraisal/Negotiations.
** Estimate includes fixed and variable costs.




                                                     - 31 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 32 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 33 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

External Documents:

_______ Banco Mundial em Foco: Um Ensaio Sobre Sua Atuação na Educação Brasileira e
na Dos Países que Integram a Iniciativa Via Rápida na América Latina, Ação Educativa &
Action Aid Brasil: Brasília, Julho, 2005

Carnoy, Martin, et, al., How Schools and Students Respond to School Improvement Programs:
The Case of Brazil's PDE, Stanford University, September - 2004.

Educación Para La Población Rural en Brasil, Chile, Colombia, Honduras, México, Paraguay Y
Perú, Proyecto FAO-UNESCO-DGCS/ITALIA-CIDE-REDUC FAO: Italy, 2004.

Schwartz, Correzzola, Distance In-Service Teacher Training for Primary School Teachers in
Brazil: the Proformação Program, The George Washington University: Washington DC, 2001.


Government Documents:

Banco Mundial. Chamada À Ação: Combatendo o Fracasso Escolar Nordeste, MEC, UNICEF,
Banco Mundial, Video, 1997.

Ministério de Educação. Domingos da Paz, A, et, al., Programa Dinheiro Direto na Escola /
Fundo Nacional de Desenvolvimento da Educação, FNDE: Brasília, 2004.

Ministério de Educação. Informe De Resultados Comparativos do SAEB 1995, 1997 e 1999,
INEP ­ Diretoria de Avaliação de Educação Básica, MEC & Instituto Nacional de Estudos e
Pesquisas Educacionais (INEPE): Brasília, 2000.

Ministério de Educação. Manual de Operação e Implementação do Projeto (MOIP): FUNDESCOLA
II. Volume I, Orientações Gerais, FUNDESCOLA, MEC: Brasília, 2002.

Ministério de Educação. Manual de Operação e Implementação do Projeto (MOIP): FUNDESCOLA
II. Volume II, Orientações Gerais, FUNDESCOLA, MEC: Brasília, 2002.

Ministério de Educação. Os desafios do Plano Nacional de Educação, Instituto Nacional de
Estudos e Pesquisas Educacionais (INEP): Brasília, Anísio Teixeira, 2004.

Ministério de Educação. Placco, Vera Maria, et al., Proformação : Avaliação Externa, MEC &
Secretaria de Educação a Distância (SEED): Brasília, 2003.

Ministério de Educação. Plano Nacional de Educação, 1998, MEC: Brasília.

Ministério de Educação. Programa Dinheiro Direto Na Escola (PDDE) - Orientações básicas
sobre: Os processos de adesão e de habilitação; transferência e execução dos recursos,


                                             - 34 -

elaboração e encaminhamento das prestações de contas, MEC & Fundo Nacional de
Desenvolvimento da Educação (FNDE): Brasília, June 2005.

Ministério de Educação. Relatório De Avaliação Final Do FUNDESCOLA II 2000 A 2005
(Contrato de Empréstimo 4487 ­ BR) , FUNDESCOLA: Brasília, 2005

Ministério de Educação. Relatório de Progresso Anual do FUNDESCOLA II (Jan-Oct de 2005),
MEC/FUNDESCOLA: Brasília, 2005.

Ministério de Educação. Relatório (Julho de 2004), MEC/FUNDESCOLA: Brasília, 2004

Ministério de Educação. Relatório de Avaliação dos Systemas Informatizados do
FUNDESCOLA: Brasília, Octubro, 2004

Ministério de Educação. Relatório de Progresso Anual do FUNDESCOLA (2004), MEC/
FUNDESCOLA: Brasília, 2004.

Ministério de Educação. Relatório de Progresso Semestral do FUNDESCOLA II (2º Semestre de
2003), MEC/FUNDESCOLA: Brasília, 2003

Ministério de Educação. Relatório de Progresso Semestral do FUN II (1º Semestre de 2003),
MEC/FUNDESCOLA: Brasília, 2003

Ministério de Educação. Relatório de Progresso (Versão Preliminar FUNDESCOLA II
Dezembro-2000), MEC/FUNDESCOLA: Brasília, 2000

Ministério de Educação. Relatório Do 1º Encontro Técnico Nacional do Programa Dinheiro
Direto Na Escola (PDDE), MEC & Fundo Nacional de Desenvolvimento da Educação (FNDE):
Brasília, Dezembro, 2005.

Ministério de Educação. Relatório SAEB 2001 ­ Língua Portuguesa, MEC & Sistema Nacional
de Avaliacao da Educação Basica (SAEB): Brasília, 2002

Ministério de Educação. Relatório Sobre a Execução Financeira do FUNDESCOLA II -
Exercícios de 2000 A 20003, MEC/FUNDESCOLA: Brasília, 2004

Ministério de Educação. Resultados do SAEB 2003, MEC & Sistema Nacional de Avaliação da
Educação Básica (SAEB): Brasila, 2004 (Versão Preliminar).

Ministério de Educação. SAEB 2001: Novas Perspectivas, Instituto Nacional de Estudos e
Pesquisas Educacionais (INEPE): Brasília, 2001.

Ministério de Educação. The Development of Education ­ Quality Education for All Young
People: Challenges, Trends and Priorities, paper presented at the 47th Session of the
International Conference on Education, Geneva, Switzerland, MEC: Brasília, 2004.



                                             - 35 -

Websites:

Castro, Andréa, "Secretarias Adotam Planejamento Estratégico - Notícias - Agosto/2003". Last
retrieved, March 21, 2006 at: http://www.mec.gov.br/acs/asp/noticias/noticiasId.asp?Id=4102

Castro, Andréa, "Fundescola investe R$ 28 milhões em reforma de escolas - Notícias -
Agosto/2003". Last retrieved, March 22, 2006 at:
http://www.mec.gov.br/acs/asp/noticias/noticiasId.asp?Id=4098

Castro, Andréa, "Fundescola repassa até R$ 12, 5 milhões a escolas do PDE - Notícias -
Agosto/2003". Last retrieved, March 22, 2006 at:
http://www.mec.gov.br/acs/asp/noticias/noticiasId.asp?Id=4099

Costa, Gilberto "Mais próximo da escola: Governo e 3º setor tem o rádio como principal meio de
mobilização pela Educação". Last retrieved, March 26, 2006 at:
http://www.socialtec.org.br/Downloads/Educação/GilbertoCosta_MaisProximoEscola.doc

Fonesca, Marília, "O Projeto Politico-Pedagogico E O Plano De Desenvolvimento Da Escola:
Duas Concepcoes Antagônicas de Gestão Escolar. Last retrieved, March 22, 2006 at:
http://www.scielo.br/pdf/ccedes/v23n61/a04v2361.pdf

Fonesca, Marília, "O Plano de Desenvolvimento Da Escola (PDE): Modernização, Diretividade e
Controle da Gestão e do Trabalho Escolar. Last retrieved, March 23, 2006 at:
http://www.anped.org.br/26/trabalhos/05tmarfo.pdf

Fundo Nacional de Desenvolvimento da Educação (FNDE), "FUNDESCOLA". Last retrieved,
March 21, 2006 at:
http://www.fnde.gov.br/home/index.jsp?arquivo=/fundescola/fundescola.html

"FUNDESCOLA vai reformar 456 escolas em 2004." Last retrieved, March 25, 2006 at: from
http://www.acessepiaui.com.br/geral2.php?id=2333&ref=200402

"Fundo de Fortalecimento da Escola ­ FUNDESCOLA." Last retrieved, March 27, 2006 from
http://www.fnde.gov.br/home/FUNDESCOLA/balanco1988a2003.doc

"Mais próximo da escola." Last retrieved March 29, 2006 from
http://www.socialtec.org.br/Downloads/Educação/GilbertoCosta_MaisProximoEscola.doc

World Bank, "The FUNDESCOLA Program: Improving Schools and Schooling in Brazil
Evaluating the Implementation and Impact of Core CCD Elements". Last retrieved, March 26,
2006 at:
http://lnweb18.worldbank.org/ESSD/essdext.nsf/7DocByUnid/7A2ABF05805B368685256C3000
65EE29/$FILE/FUNDESCOLA.pdf



                                               - 36 -

World Bank Documents:

World Bank. Project Appraisal Document: FUNDESCOLA I, World Bank: Washington, D.C.,
1998.

World Bank. Project Appraisal Document: FUNDESCOLA II, World Bank: Washington, D.C.,
1999.

World Bank. Brazil Municipal Education Resources, Incentives, and Results Volume I: Policy
Report, Report No. 24413-BR, Brazil Country Management Unit Latin America and the
Caribbean - World Bank: Washington, December 2002.

World Bank. Brazil Municipal Education Resources, Incentives, and Results Volume II: Policy
Report, Report No. 24413-BR, Brazil Country Management Unit Latin America and the
Caribbean - World Bank: Washington, December 2002.

World Bank. Implementation Completion Report: FUNDESCOLA I, World Bank: Washington
DC, 2001.

World Bank. Information Supervision Reports (ISRs) dated: 12-6-05; 3/3/05.

World Bank. Project Supervision Reports (PSRs) dated: 12/3/2004; 6/4/2004; 8/23/04;
1/30/2004; 6/3/2003; 10/2/2003; 12/11/2002; 6/26/2002; 12/13/2001; 6/1/2001; 5/23/2000;
9/17/1999; 6/23/1999; 12/7/2001.

World Bank. Aide Memoirs dated: October/2005; March/2005; February/2005; July/2004;
November/2004; January/2004; August/2003; September/2003; August/1999; February/1999;
December/1998; November/1998; August/1998.

World Bank. Back to the Office Reports dated: 8/16/2004; 8/30/99; 2/15/1999; 12/22/1998;
10/29/1998.




                                            - 37 -

  Additional Annex 8. Borrower's Contribution

                              FUNDESCOLA II EVALUATION REPORT
                                           (Unofficial Translation)

I ­ PROJECT DATA

    l Original amount of Loan Agreement : US$ 202,030,000.00
    l Revised amount (if applicable): US$ 191,170,000.00
    l Project closing date : 31 December 2004
    l Revised closing date (if applicable): 31 December 2005
    l Number of extensions (if applicable): 01
    l Number of additions to Loan Agreement (if applicable): 01
    l Summary of type of addition (if applicable): extension of closing date of Project to 31 December
         2005.
    l Date of last supervisory mission: October 2005.


II ­ PRESENTATION

1. This is a Summary Evaluation Report of the FUNDESCOLA II Project (AE nº 4487/BR) being executed
in the context of the FUNDESCOLA Program.

III - INTRODUCTION

2. FUNDESCOLA is a Ministry of Education Program co-financed by the World Bank (IBRD) and executed
by FNDE (Fund for the Development of Education) in partnership with state and municipal education
secretariats. The FUNDESCOLA II Project has developed a series of actions for regular primary schools,
operating in Priority Attention Zones (ZAPs)- microregions according to National Institute of Geography and
Statistics (IBGE) definition - in the North, Northeast and Center-West states of Brazil, comprising 384
municipalities.

IV ­ DEVELOPMENT OBJECTIVE OF THE PROJECT

3. FUNDESCOLA II is the second project of the FUNDESCOLA Program designed to improve the
performance of public primary education in selected areas of the North (N), Northeast (NE) Center-West
                                           1


(CO). The overall FUNDESCOLA Program was agreed by the World Bank (Bank) and the Government of
                                              2


Brazil (Borrower), and is loan-financed. FUNDESCOLA II, in common with its sister projects, would
contribute to achieving the global target of this sector, which is to ensure that children in the poorest regions
of Brazil successfully complete a basic eight-grade education. The Project sets out to ensure that these
children are better prepared to participate as active and productive citizens in a democratic society, and will
go some way to reducing the sharp inter-regional disparities in the educational field.

4. The development object of FUNDESCOLA II is to improve the educational performance outcomes
(measured by promotion and achievement rates) of children enrolled in public primary schools located in the
areas designated in the Project.

5. The key performance indicators for this development objective were defined as:




                                                       - 38 -

   l To increase the proportion of 4th grade students with acceptable learning standards in Portuguese
         from 28.3% (N), 32.8% (NE) and 36.7% (CO) in 1997 to 50% by 2007, in the areas covered by the
         Project;
   l To increase the proportion of 8th grade students with acceptable learning standards in Portuguese
         from 43.6% (N), 43.8% (NE) and 54.9% (CO) in 1997 to 60% by 2007, in the areas covered by the
         Project.
   l To increase the average promotion rates in primary schools from 64.2% (N), 64.7% (NE) and 71.5%
         (CO) in 1997 to 85% in 2004 in the areas covered by the Project.

6. Although FUNDESCOLA II was set up in 1999, the baseline leading performance indicators of the project
in fact date from 1997, given that the development objective relates to the FUNDESCOLA Program in its
entirety and not to an isolated phase. The three phases of the Program comprise and finance many of the same
activities and components, adopt the same general strategy and decision-making process, and share the same
approach. While necessary adjustments are made on the basis of lessons learnt from the previous Project, and
while geographical and structural differences exist between each of the projects, it has always been
understood that the main development objectives involve the improvement of the educational outcomes of
primary schoolchildren in selected areas of the North, Northeast and Center-West regions of Brazil and that
these objectives would be achieved by the end of the Program.

7. The development objective of FUNDESCOLA II was to be measured using promotion and achievement
rates in Portuguese for students in grades 4 and 8 (at the design stage of the Project comparable indicators for
mathematics were not available). In order to verify the effectiveness of the activities implemented and the
reforms supported by the Project, data from the National Student Assessment System (SAEB) were to be
used. Monitoring and evaluation of the outcome impacts should also have been carried out within the research
component.

8. The scale used in the Project preparatory document to describe the indicators - FUNDESCOLA II leading
performance indicator - is no longer used by SAEB/INEP/MEC. A new scale was adopted using another
program to estimate the items. Since the SAEB scales described in document SAEB 97- First Results (old
scale) - and data interpretation of the present Single Scale are not comparable, it is proposed that the Project
assessment should be done on the basis of the performance data available for Portuguese test results of
students in the 4th and 8th grades referring to years 2001 and 2003, as demonstrated in the following tables:

                                  Percent of students within competence levels:
                                               Portuguese Language
                                    4th Grade­ Regions ­ SAEB 2001 & 2003

   Level                               North                   Northeast                Center- West
                                    2001         2003         2001         2003         2001         2003
   Very critical                   22,61        21,18        33,42        29,32         20,50       14,91
   Critical                        44,89        45,24        41,75        41,85         39,23       37,60
   Intermediate                       31        31,86        22,94        26,77         36,64       43,28
   Adequate                          1,51        1,72          1,88         2,06         3,63         4,20
   Total                             100          100          100          100          100          100
        Source: Ministry of Education/INEP/Daeb/ SAEB 2003 Results.




                                                       - 39 -

The levels of proficiency in Portuguese for students in the 4th grade, analyzed by the SAEB, are as described
below:


 Level               Competencies
 Very critical       Failed to develop language skills minimally in line with four years of primary
                     schooling. The student is not taught to read and write correctly. Unable to respond
                     to the items in the test.
 Critical            Not competent readers. Student's reading not up to the level expected of the grade
                     but student nevertheless able to understand simple sentences. These are still very
                     basic readers, able only to decode superficial aspects of simple short narratives,
                     but can locate explicit pieces of information, among other skills.
 Intermediate        Beginning to develop reading skills closer to the level expected of the grade.
                     Capable of deducing explicit information in longer texts and of identifying the
                     raison d'être of an informative text; these students recognize the theme of a text
                     and the main idea behind it. They are also able to recognize the elements that form
                     part of a narrative such as, for example, the reasons for conflict, the personalities
                     involved and the outcome; among other skills.
 Adequate            These readers possess the level of comprehension required by the grade. They
                     demonstrate consolidated skills and are able to establish a relationship between
                     cause and effect in longer narratives; they recognize the effect of sense as the result
                     of punctuation use; they distinguish more subtle forms of humor; they are able to
                     identify the finality of a text based upon more elaborate textual clues and they are
                     able to adduce the relationship between cause and effect implicit in the texts, in
                     addition to other skills.

                                  Percent of students within competence levels:
                                                Portuguese Language
                                    8th Grade­ Regions ­ SAEB 2001 & 2003

   Level                               North                    Northeast                Center-West
                                    2001          2003        2001                       2001         2003
   Very critical                    7,31           9,14       10,53       10,90           4,66         6,55
   Critical                        59,58          60,34       60,09       58,31         52,68         48,12
   Intermediate                    32,48          29,84       28,01       28,86         40,56         42,91
   Adequate                         0,63           0,67        1,37        1,92           2,10         2,41
   Total                             100            100         100         100           100           100
       Source: Ministry of Education/INEP/Daeb/ SAEB 2003 Results.




                                                        - 40 -

  The levels of proficiency in Portuguese for students in the 8th grade, analyzed by the SAEB, are as
  described below:

 Level                                                    Competencies
  Very critical       Not good readers. Failed to develop reading skills required for students completing
                      Primary Education
  Critical            Not yet good readers. Demonstrate some reading skills but below the standard
                      demanded of the grade (simple and informative texts). Certain skills consolidated
                      at this stage: for example, students able to deduce the metaphoric sense of a given
                      expression; they are able to identify (in stories) implicit intentions of people when
                      they speak, the outcome of a conflict, temporal organization of the narrative and
                      the themes of poetic texts; they also distinguish a fact from the opinion relating to
                      that fact and identify the finality of a long informative text; they establish
                      relationships between cause and effect in texts of different kinds; they identify the
                      effects of sense arising from the use of punctuation as well as the central idea of a
                      poetic text.
  Intermediate        Students at this stage developed some reading skills more in keeping with the full
                      educational standard required of Primary Education students at this level. This will
                      enable the students to continue their schooling at Secondary Level with less of a
                      reading deficit. In addition to the skills described in the above stage, these students
                      were able to add certain other skills: they are able for example to identify texts that
                      express opinions; they are capable of identifying the subject of a text presenting an
                      argument as well as the thesis of the text, establishing a relationship between the
                      thesis and the arguments presented to sustain it; they identify the conflict generator
                      in a more complex narrative and the different types of narrator.
  Adequate            Competent readers demonstrating reading skills compatible with the 8th grade
                      (more complex poetic texts, informative texts carrying information in graphic and
                      table form). Key skills shown most explicitly in the analysis of texts: are able to
                      deduce relationship between cause and effect implicit in the text; they recognize the
                      effect of sense caused by the selection and choice of certain expressions; they
                      identify the temporal sequence of a narrative and different points of view in the
                      same text; they are able to recognize relationships between cause and effect from
                      statements with less familiar syntax and terms; they identify the effects of sense
                      arising from the use of punctuation and recognize the intentions contained in the
                      use of slang and colloquial expressions contained in a text.



9. Based on the data presented, it can be assessed that the Project had a reduced but positive impact on the
results referring to the Portuguese language proficiency levels of the 4th and 8th Grade students in the three
regions benefited by the Project.

10. These results do not necessarily reflect the results of the Project as such, since in order to establish the
indicators and targets to be achieved the entire region covered by FUNDESCOLA was taken into
consideration at the design stage of the Project, although the Project activities were targeted on and confined
to the Priority Attention Zones (ZAPs). This led to distortion of the results, since the interventions concerned
only with the ZAPs are not sufficient to effect improvement in the performance outcomes of the students of
the entire North, Northeast and Center-West region. On the other hand, the SAEB data are presented



                                                        - 41 -

according to State (`Federative Unit') and not by municipality, making it impossible to separately identify the
results for the municipalities benefited by the FUNDESCOLA II Project.

11. With regard to the average promotion rates at primary school level, it can be observed that in 2005 the
promotion rate in the North region was 72.3%, in the Northeast, 73.6% and in the Center-West 79.4%. In
other words, the 85% promotion rate forecast during Project preparation was not achieved. The
FUNDESCOLA implementation team considers this target to have been extremely ambitious given the
historic evolution of the average promotion rates during the period.

V ­ PROJECT DESIGN

12. FUNDESCOLA II can be regarded as an ambitious project, particularly in terms of the implementation
of actions in states and municipalities with scarce technical capacity and the risk of discontinuation of the
Project due to the country's economic and political instability - in addition to the unwillingness of the states
and municipalities to endow schools with more autonomy. However, this was indeed an opposite project,
seeking to develop and test quality educational products in limited areas ­ microregions ­ with the possibility
of further dissemination in due course following positive evaluation of the results.

13. With the aim of achieving this objective, the Project consisted of six components and their respective
subcomponents:

Part A: Raising primary schools to minimum operational standards

    1. Promoting school autonomy by providing direct school transfer funds for providing inter alia
    educational material, equipment, supplies or carrying out maintenance works, with the aim of raising
    primary schools to minimum operational standards.
    2. Educating and certifying teachers through the preparation and implementation of a Certification
    Program for teachers.
    3. Supplying basic furniture and equipment.
    4. Financing physical rehabilitation in the schools to be managed by the schools themselves.
    5. Financing the building of new schools.

Part B: Establishing a school development process

    1. Training and support for school management and the GDEs and COEPs with the aim of preparing,
    implementing and monitoring the School Development Plans.
    2. Financing of school improvement projects included in the School Development Plans.
    3. Developing, testing, disseminating and implementing models and designs for pedagogical upgrading by
    using new approaches and materials targeted on improving teaching-learning techniques.

Part C: Promoting communication and social mobilization

    l. Dissemination of the principles, objectives, strategies, procedures and outcomes of the FUNDESCOLA
    Program.
    2. Mobilization of stakeholders and beneficiaries associated with primary school education in the three
    target areas of the Project, for them to undertake their functions in a manner consistent with the overall
    objectives of the FUNDESCOLA Program.




                                                       - 42 -

Part D: Strengthening national education and information systems

    1. Ongoing activities to improve the system of educational assessment and other systems and programs of
    relevance to the Borrower by adopting best national and international practices.
    2. Improvement and dissemination of educational information through inter alia providing support to the
    Borrower's statistical and educational information systems and improving the quality of the School
    Census.
    3. Undertaking research studies and surveys with a view to improving the implementation and impact of
    the FUNDESCOLA Program.

Part E: Management and development of education systems

   1. Strengthening state/municipal liaison with a view to improving the school systems and encouraging
    integrated planning.
    2. Raising the quality of the institutional capacity of the state and municipal education secretariats so as
    to prioritize support for the schools and the professional development of the school team.
    3. Putting into operation, in each participating municipality, a microplanning information system
    encompassing the school network - to include detailed educational, social and geographical indicators.
    This system to be used by the Project Implementation Unit in the relevant Forum to provide technical
    justifications for decisions regarding the rationalization of student enrolment and school construction, and
    to provide information for other resource allocation decisions.

Part F: Project administration and pilot activities

    1. Global planning and coordination of Project activities, studies planned with a view to improving
    implementation and increasing the impact of the FUNDESCOLA Program.
    2. Developing and undertaking pilot activities in areas of extreme poverty or areas of serious social
    deprivation. Such activities to target for example the construction and rehabilitation of schools and to
    foster training with the aim of improving implementation, maximizing impact and underpinning
    expansion of the FUNDESCOLA Program.

14. FUNDESCOLA II contained more components than FUNDESCOLA I and III. However, the coverage
area of FUNDESCOLA IIIA is much broader, since it was agreed with the Bank that in FUNDESCOLA
IIIA all the 2,704 municipalities in the North, Northeast and Center-West regions would be eligible for
targeting, and that the ZAPs would serve as testing grounds for new actions planned in the Loan Agreement
components. A range of strategies was therefore designed for the dissemination of the FUNDESCOLA
products:

   l In accordance with their profile and socio-economic characteristics, the municipalities were classified
        into four groups, comprising two assistance matrices defined on the basis of whether the municipality
        was eligible or not to receive financing from the FUNDESCOLA.
   l In addition to classification into four groups and two matrices, each municipality was appraised on
        the basis of two additional variables (financial capacity and technical capacity) aimed at determining
        the level of priority for assistance.
   l Regardless of financial assistance, all the municipalities are eligible for benefits and assistance with
        the technology developed by the Project.




                                                        - 43 -

VI ­ SUMMARY OF PROGRESS MADE BY THE PROJECT

15. The indicators of results / implementation are contained in the following table:

                                          TABLE 1 B- FUNDESCOLA II
                             INDICATORS OF OUTCOME / IMPLEMENTATION

                   INDICATOR                  PREVIOUS             PRESENT          EXPECTED           COMMENT
                                                REPORT            OUTCOME          RESULT END OF
                                            December 2004        December 2005       PROJECT
                                                                                   December 2005
         1.1. ­ Schools with over 20      100% of the schools   100% the schools       100%
         students in the North, Northeast  with UEx receiving       with UEx
         and Center-West receiving              PDDE             receiving PDDE
         direct school transfer funds
         (PDDE).
        1.2. ­ Classrooms brought up to         15,964                15,964           15,000
        standard in the target areas
        1.3. ­ Classrooms complying with        13,975                14,126           15,000    Target           not
        Minimum Operational Standards                                                            achieved          on
                                                                                                 account           of
                                                                                                 tendering/bidding
                                                                                                 problems related to
                                                                                                 furniture
                                                                                                 procurement
        1.4. - Number of uncertified       85% of enrolled      85% of enrolled        75%
        teachers reduced                   teachers certified   teachers certified
        1.5. ­ Construction of urban             178                   178            Undefined  Of the 182 schools
        schools with Project Standard ­                                                          initially scheduled,
        Model School                                                                             work             was
                                                                                                 paralyzed on 01
                                                                                                 and cancelled in
                                                                                                 the   case   of   03
                                                                                                 others.
         2.1. Schools with PDE                   5,021                5,021            1,150
         implemented
         2.2. ­ Schools with PME                 8,819                8,819            1,350      The target was
         implemented                                                                              surpassed on account
                                                                                                  of the large-scale
                                                                                                  expansion of PDE
                                                                                                  (School Development
                                                                                                  Plans)
         2.3. a) Pedagogical models              5,333                5,333            2,000      Policy   resumed    for
         implemented in rural schools                                                             expanding outside the
         (number of schools)                                                                      ZAP led to targets
                                                                                                  being surpassed.
         2.3. b)1. GESTAR pilot project           80                    80              80        Concluded
         involving 1st-4th grades set up
         in schools of states and
         municipalities with PES
         2.3 b)2. GESTAR model                   662                   662             317        Concluded. Target
         involving 1st - 4th grades set up                                                        surpassed.
         in schools of states and                                                                 16 states and 34
         municipalities with PES                                                                  municipalities
                                                                                                  benefited with the
                                                                                                  distribution of 10,960
                                                                                                  kits of



                                                            - 44 -

                                                                                              teaching-learning
                                                                                              materials, meeting the
                                                                                              needs of 44,817
                                                                                              teachers on the
                                                                                              courses.
3.1. ­ Social mobilization              100%                  100%              100%                Concluded
campaign in the target areas     -31 editions of the   -31 editions of the
reaching 75% of the population   FUNDESCOLA            FUNDESCOLA
by around year 2002.             Technical Bulletin    Technical Bulletin
                                 produced;             produced
                                 - 522 editions of the - 522 editions of
                                 Escola Brasil         the Escola Brasil
                                 Program aired on      Program aired on
                                 Brasilia National     Brasilia National
                                 Radio and National    Radio and
                                 Radio of Amazonia     National Radio of
                                 (Radio Nacional)      Amazonia (Radio
                                                       Nacional)
3.2. ­ 03 workshops organized    19                    19                         108               Concluded
in each of the micro-regional    radio-journalism/ed radio-journalism/e
Forums in order to draw up       ucation workshops     ducation
agreements and disseminate the   held in the North,    workshops held in
objectives and methods of the    Northeast and         the North,
FUNDESCOLA Program.              Center-West           Northeast and
                                 regions               Center-West
                                                       regions
                                                       - 36 forums held
                                                       in the Priority
                                                       Attention Zones of
                                                       the Project
4.1. ­ % of students of the      100% of the schools       100% of the     60% of the students      Concluded
target regions enrolled in                                   schools
schools that receive annual
reports of educational indicators

4.2. ­ Kit containing standard           1 kit         1 kit of the SAEB           1                Concluded
student performances developed                         developed and not
and tested                                                  validated
4.3. ­ Recommendations of the    Research concluded         Research
applied research disseminated                               concluded
to the DGP and incorporated in
the design of FUNDESCOLA
III.

5.1. ­ Secretariat management    -         Education 391 Secretariats              02               Concluded
plan implemented in the          Secretariats trained trained in PES;                           Target surpassed
Education Secretariats           in PGS: 354           355 Secretariats
                                 -         Education developing PES
                                 Secretariats
                                 implementing      the
                                 PGS: 327;
                                 -         Education
                                 Secretariats    with
                                 PGS implemented:
                                 65
5.2. ­ Microplanning and         Systems for ZAP I     Systems for ZAP I
geographical information         of the N, NE and      of the N, NE and
system implemented in target     CW and ZAP II of      CW and ZAP II of




                                                    - 45 -

         areas                           Goiás developed,   Goiás developed
                                         although the       although the
                                         method was not     method was not
                                         implemented.       implemented.
         5.3. ­ 70% of the Education            83%               83%              70%               Concluded
         Secretaries in the target areas
         trained.
         5.4. - 25% of the Principals of       100%               100%             25%               Concluded
         the schools that adopted the
         PDE.



16. Analysis of the physical execution of the FUNDESCOLA II project demonstrates that the targets of the
subcomponents were in general surpassed, with the exception of equipment and furniture procurement,
implementation of microplanning and the subcomponents where targets were not duly quantified - such as the
case of the `construction' subcomponent and GESTAR.

17. Targets were surpassed basically due to two factors: exchange-rate fluctuations (at the time the Loan
Agreement was signed, the dollar was equal to the real), and reallocating part of the resources earmarked for
school-building to school subventions, since the Loan Agreement was forecast to come to an end in December
2004 - which allowed insufficient time for finalizing implementation of the School Construction Program.
Thus parts of the resources were reallocated to the PAPE and (principally) PME activities which are
executed more efficiently.

18. The aim of Component 1 was to bring the primary schools up to minimum operating standards,
promoting autonomy of the schools, certification of teachers, providing equipment and school furniture,
repairing existing school premises and constructing new schools.

19. Subcomponent 1.1 designed to promote schools autonomy through the Money direct to School Program
(PDDE) was implemented in 100% of the schools in the North, Northeast and Center-West regions.

20. Subcomponent 1.2 dealing with the training and certification of teachers succeeded in certifying 85% of
lay teachers through Proformação. This action was conceived and tested in the FUNDESCOLA I and in
FUNDESCOLA II became the policy adopted by the Ministry of Education, to be executed by all the states
of the Federation.

21. Subcomponent 1.3 dealing with the provision of school equipment and furniture met a performance rating
of about 94% of the hoped-for target, benefiting 14,126 classrooms. This target was not fully achieved
mainly due to problems with procurement, which caused substantial delay to the process. There were also
legal problems resulting from the Furniture Quality Program drawn up in conjunction with INMETRO,
which paralyzed acquisitions in 2003 and 2004. To resolve this question sub judice, the Project managers
took all the necessary steps, negotiating with the Ministério Público a Term of Adjustment of Conduct
(TAC) and, with INMETRO, a revision of the Technical Regulation (RTQ) and the Conformity Evaluation
Regulation (RAC). These initiatives enabled the procurement processes to progress. Great care was taken to
locate better quality school furniture to be purchased with federal resources. Following the introduction of
furniture `certification', the bidding processes were more agile, quicker and economical given that the need no
longer existed to test samples during the tendering and contract period.

22. Subcomponent 1.4 also exceeded the target set out in the PAD and 15,964 classrooms benefited as a
result.



                                                         - 46 -

23. In regards to component 1.5, no limit was placed on school construction activities since there was no
indicator for this subcomponent. This activity was undertaken according to the demands set forth in the
`Microplanning and Schools Facilities Surveys' (LSE). For constructing schools to serve areas inhabited by
populations with the relevant socio-economic characteristics, demand was based upon data provided by the
Federal Attorney General's Office, the Federal Office for Protection of Citizens' Rights and the National
Indian Foundation (the later for schools located in indigenous communities), the Palmares Foundation of the
Ministry of Culture (for schools in the remaining quilombola areas) and by the Agrarian Reform Institute
(INCRA), and the Company for the Development of the São Francisco Valley for rural settlements. Based on
the data received, the Project selected the areas with the lowest HDI and the largest populations. It is
important to emphasize that the construction of schools must be preceded by planning of the school network
so that priority school-building should be done in areas where real need exists. FUNDESCOLA II views this
as a major focal point for the implementation of this subcomponent. 178 schools were built ­ 93 in rural
settlements (assentamentos), 63 in indigenous areas, 21 in urban locations and 5 in quilombolas.

24. The targets relating to Component 2 (`establishing a school development process') would appear on first
analysis to have performed much better than planned. It is worth recalling that the products related to this
component are developed and implemented in the schools (PDE, PME, Escola Ativa and GESTAR) and has
contributed effectively to the strengthening of the process and to the improvement of results from an
educational point of view. The initiatives found ready acceptance and stimulated immense demand for
expansion. This led the Ministry of Education, with the approval of IBRD, to fine-tune and re-define the
strategy for implementing them, inducing the executors (states and municipalities) to assume a greater share
of responsibility for the process, thereby enabling a larger number of schools to benefit from the same volume
of resources without undermining the quality of the products.

25. Subcomponent 2.1 promoted the implementation of the School Development Plan (PDE) in 5,021
schools, thereby surpassing the established target. The main result of this was an improvement in school
management processes on the basis of school-centered planning.

26. Subcomponent 2.2 financed the School Improvement Projects ­ PME (Melhoria da Escola) for 8,819
schools with the bulk of the resources being invested in procurement of small-scale equipment, school
materials and teaching-learning materials.

27. Subcomponent 2.3 sought to develop and implement pedagogical models in the schools of the
microregions. Pedagogical models implemented were the Active School Program (Escola Ativa), a teaching
methodology for rural multi-grade classes which benefited 5,333 rural schools and the GESTAR (distance
education for 1st - 4th grade teachers in Portuguese and mathematics teaching) which benefited 742 urban
schools that had implemented the PDE. In addition the PRALER was developed ­ a training program for 1st
and 2nd grade teachers in reading and writing assistance skills.

28. Component 3 sought to promote media and social mobilization campaigns to underpin the sustainability
of the Project. The Escola Brasil (Brazil School) Program was undertaken in subcomponent 3.1. This
reached 100% of the population of the North, Northeast and Center-West regions. Technical Bulletins
(Boletins Técnicos) were also distributed containing interviews with experts in the education field, successful
initiatives and experiments undertaken by the co-executing states and municipalities in the Project, results
obtained with the implementation of the FUNDESCOLA products, dissemination of events organized under
the aegis of the Project and technical advice for the maintenance of school buildings. Furthermore, a website
was developed containing information and publications referring to the Project. This was incorporated into
the FNDE website (www.fnde.gov.br). Specifically, with regard to subcomponent 3.2, provision was made


                                                       - 47 -

for three workshops in each of the micro-regions totaling 108 workshops. However it become clear that after
one workshop had been organized in each micro-region the participating states and municipalities were
sufficiently familiar with the objectives and methods of the Program so that there was no further requirement
for these meetings. Thus only 36 workshops were in fact organized, one in each of the microregions. In each
of the 19 states of the North, Northeast and Center-West regions radio-journalism workshops were held.

29. The objective of Component 4 was to strengthen the National Educational Information Systems and
Programs in order to supply the local systems, schools and students with educational data regarding student
performance. In subcomponent 4.1, in addition to technical and organizational assistance to SAEB, a
standard kit should have been developed for testing student performance (this was developed but not duly
validated by the INEP). In subcomponent 4.2, 60% of the students in the areas covered by the Project should
have received a report containing educational indicators referring to their schools and municipalities. It
transpired that the results of the SAEB do not present `results per student `and `per municipality' but only by
Federative Unit (ie: State). Therefore, the dissemination of this data was done to the states that would pass on
the information (as multipliers) to the municipalities. But it should be noted that this exercise did not reach
down to the schools and students. In subcomponent 4.3, the assessments of the PDE by Stanford University
were carried out as well as the publication of the Performance Assessment Report: Associated Factors,
which provided a recommendation for the design of FUNDESCOLA III.

30. Component 5 sought to provide support to the management for developing educational systems for the
states, municipalities and schools by means of upgrading collaboration between states/municipalities and
schools and strengthening institutional development of the Education Secretariats and undertaking school
microplanning.

31. As for Subcomponent 5.1, 83% of the education secretaries were trained through PRASEM (Program for
supporting Municipal Education Secretaries) and 100% of the school directors of schools with PDE were
also trained. It is also worth noting that under subcomponent 5.2 - Institutional Development of the Education
Secretariats - 391 Education Secretariats were trained of which 355 are implementing the Strategic
Secretariat Plan (PES). Worth highlighting is the fact that the process of PGS implementation calls for a
series of preliminary stages to be addressed demanding considerable effort by the state and municipal
secretariats, eg: for training relevant teams, elaboration of the PES (Secretariat Strategic Planning) and
learning/absorbing the methodology. The PGS can only be considered to be implemented when the planned
actions are effectively in execution. The fact that a state or municipal secretariat receives training, draws up a
PES and has a Management Plan does not necessarily guarantee institutional implementation. The results of
this subcomponent were therefore presented on the basis of two indicators: the number of education
secretariats with PGS being implemented (at the elaboration stage) and the number of secretariats with PGS
implemented (at execution stage). This result can be partly credited to the implementation of FUNDESCOLA
IIIA.

32. Regarding indicator 5.3 referring to the implantation of microplanning, the systems were developed but
implementation of the methodology by the beneficiaries was not concluded since the states and municipalities
had difficulty in understanding and using it. This subcomponent will be therefore be revisited in
FUNDESCOLA IIIA, with a simplified approach to learning how to use the method to proper effect.

33. Component 6, which was initially planned in the PAD as subcomponent 5.4 (PAD - page 40) comprised
the administration of the Project and the implementation of pilot activities. However, in the Loan Agreement
and in the Project Implementation and Operation Manual (MOIP), approved by the Bank, this subcomponent
was transposed into Component 6 ­ Project Administration and Pilot Activities (MOIP, page 39). The sum of
US$ 17.3 million executed under this component refers to centralized execution through the PRODOC


                                                        - 48 -

(Project Document) BRA/00/027 signed with the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP). This
PRODOC, previously approved by the World Bank, covered the conception, purpose, objectives, results and
plans of the actions to be undertaken during the period that the document was to be in force, together with the
development of pilot activities in special areas.

34. Centralized execution of the funds of the Loan Agreement on the basis of the PRODOC is indispensable
for bringing on stream the technical assistance provided by the Project Management team to the 19 states and
384 municipalities to enable them to carry out the agreed actions.

VII ­ MONITORING, EVALUATION AND SUSTAINABILITY

35. The Project was designed and implemented with appropriate emphasis placed on the monitoring and
coordination process. In this respect, the structure of the Project comprised the General Board of
Management of the Project and the area coordinations centralized in Brasilia and the State Coordinating
Units (COEPs) which possessed the technical teams of the secretaries and supervisors contracted by the
General Management and which overall were responsible for following up and monitoring implementation of
all the activities based upon monthly monitoring reports. The difficulties encountered in producing reports in
real time arose from the nonexistence of a computerized system capable of producing management reports
that met the requirements of the Bank.

36. The main requirements for monitoring and evaluating FUNDESCOLA II were targeted mainly on
deepening and consolidation of the Project `improvement' interventions. These challenges were most apparent
in the design of FUNDESCOLA IIIA: to guarantee sustainability of the actions already tested and to
maintain the focus on schools, strategic support was increasingly directed to the state and municipal
secretariats in a bid to assist them to strengthen their teaching systems by incorporating (on their own
account) the methods and products developed by the Program which, tested and evaluated, produced good
results.

37. In order to boost the absorption and sustainability of actions targeted on the education secretariats,
FUNDESCOLA II sought to develop a system to ensure that they all received good quality educational
services. High-performance products were placed at the disposal of schools and education secretariats with a
view to up scaling teaching-learning processes, educational management and raising minimum operational
standards. Efforts were also set to provide technical and financial assistance to the partners involved and to
develop actions focused on upgrading the organizational capacity of the secretariats by reviewing their
structures and procedures so as to create institutional and functional conditions for the implementation,
monitoring and evaluation of products and policies. Furthermore, encouragement was provided to secretariats
to define a matrix of accountability, indicating those responsible (FUNDESCOLA, secretariats etc.) for each
stage of the processes associated with the interventions, developing a series of indicators linked to the
different phases and establishing a time-limit for the participation of the Project in the partnerships
established. With a view to promoting sustainability, FUNDESCOLA II supported the establishment and
training of local support teams to implement Project actions and to tackle the main problems involved in
execution of the same.

VIII ­ MAIN PROBLEMS ENCOUNTERED IN IMPLEMENTATION OF THE PROJECT

38. Given the fact that this was an innovative project seeking to promote change in the management of the
states, municipalities and schools, resistance was occasionally encountered against implementing actions or
promoting their sustainability.




                                                      - 49 -

39. The discontinuity in 2003 of the actions developed by the Project arising from the change of Government
can be identified as a problem that impacted on the implementation of FUNDESCOLA II. The result was
that, in addition to delays in fulfilling the established targets, the state and municipal teams working on the
Project were called into question. However, once the management of the Program had been transferred to
FNDE, execution of the Project once again got underway, finalization of the Agreement was achieved
satisfactorily and the majority of the targets met.

40. Problems arose as a result of delays in the procurement processes for equipment and furniture. Initially,
under FUNDESCOLA I, these problems were due to the adoption of the `Furniture Quality Program' (
Programa de Qualidade do Mobiliário), with furniture being obligatorily inspected to ensure that it met
technical specifications on the basis of laboratory tests (carried out under a contract between
FUNDESCOLA and the IPT). This process took place when firms were being assessed as potential suppliers
and occupied a great deal of time. It was common for example for the lower-priced firms to have their
samples rejected on inspection, making it necessary to test the products of three or four other firms. On other
occasions the furniture had to be inspected during delivery - which also delayed execution of the contracts.
During the execution of FUNDESCOLA II, a second stage of the Furniture Quality Program led to
discussions with INMETRO for the development of a Furniture Certification Program aimed at ensuring
acquisition of good quality furniture as quickly and as economically as possible. In this case, the firms
involved would only need to present a certificate, and to deliver the furniture with the appropriate seal of
conformity affixed. However, as already explained, this process was brought to a halt by a judicial action
which paralyzed all procurements during 2003-2004. Delays also occurred in bidding processes since some
participating states possess highly complex bureaucratic structures vis-à-vis bidding/contracts which demand
several signatures and approvals before contracts can be signed, thereby further delaying procurement of the
required materials.

41. The main challenges encountered during the implementation of FUNDESCOLA II can be summarized as:

   l Budgetary cuts and contingencies undermining the execution of certain components and
         subcomponents of the project;
   l A monthly limit placed on reimbursements to schools for expenses, established by the National
         Treasury Secretariat (STN) (Decree 4591/2003), which reduced the reimbursement capacity of the
         Project mainly on the subcomponents concerning the PDDE and PME;
   l High turnover of state and municipal teams;
   l Low-grade technical capacity of the municipalities participating in the Program;
   l Substandard technical assistance for the schools provided by the states and municipalities;
   l Central Government changeover resulting in Project managers being moved on; and
   l Substitution of the team responsible for execution of the Project by a new team with no knowledge or
         experience of executing Loan Agreements.

IX ­ FINANCIAL ASPECTS

42. The total initial value of the project was US$202,030,000.00. At the request of the Brazilian
Government, the sum of US$10,860,000.00 was cancelled. The Project disbursed US$ 191,170,000.00 -
equivalent to 100% of the resources of the Loan Agreement and executed with Ministry of Education funds
the sum of US$225,320,000.00.

43. Delay in the implementation of the Project was caused principally by the Government changeover and the
resulting changes of Project directors as well as by the introduction of Decree Number 4748/2003 which
determined replacement of the base team by contract personnel under Law 8745/93 and Decree nº


                                                        - 50 -

   5151/2004. This made finalization of the Loan Agreement within the stipulated timeframe impossible. In
   order to conclude the actions initiated in previous FYs and given that there was insufficient time to conclude
   them in 2004, an extension to the Loan Agreement (up to December 2005) was requested. However, for this
   extension to be agreed within the Brazilian Government, negotiations with the Secretariat for International
   Affairs (SEAIN) resulted in a decision that this request should go hand in hand with cancellation of the Loan
   Agreement resources. Thus, the cancellation of US$10.9 million was requested, corresponding to the
   remaining balance of the Loan Agreement ­ a sum that could not be used up during the extension period. The
   Project nevertheless behaved pro-actively by requesting the extension and the cancellation of resources,
   establishing exactly how much should be executed and disbursed in 2005 in order to close the Loan
   Agreement with 100% financial execution.

   44. The costs of the Project by components, subcomponents and categories of expenditure are presented in
   the following tables:


                                   Project activies                                 IBRD         Government        TOTAL
                                                                                em US$ 1,000.00 em US$ 1,000.00 em US$ 1,000.00
1. Bringing the Primary Schools up to Minimum Operational Standards
1.1 Promotion of school autonomy - PDDE                                               101.651         158.843          260.494
1.2 Training and certification of teachers - Proformação                                 3.096            344             3.440
1.3 Supplying basic furniture and equipment for schools                                16.406          16.406            32.812
1.4 Financing for physical rehabilitation projects managed by the schools - PAPE       14.292          14.292            28.584
1.5 Financing the building of new schools                                                8.200         15.229            23.429
Total of component                                                                    143.645         205.114          348.759
2. Establishing a School Development Process
2.1 Elaboration and implementation of school development plans - PDE                     1.540           1.063            2.603
2.2 Financing school improvement projects - PME                                          7.362           5.954           13.316
2.3 Development, testing and implementation of pedagogical models                        4.560           4.355            8.915
Total of component                                                                     13.462          11.372            24.834
3. Promoting Communication and Social Mobilization
3.1 Support to Fundescola through communition and dissemination                          1.563            141             1.704
3.2 Undertaking social mobilization campaigns                                            3.751            338             4.089
Total of component                                                                       5.314            479             5.793
4. Strengthening National Education Information Systems and Programs
4.1 Improving educational assessments                                                    2.000            180             2.180
4.2 Improvement and dissemination of educational information                             1.864            168             2.032
4.3 Development of education research and studies                                         800              72              872
Total of component                                                                       4.664            420             5.084
5. Management and Institutional Development of Educational Systems
5.1 Strengthening state and municipal collaboration                                       821              74              895
5.2 Institutional development for Secretaries of Education                               1.715            154             1.869
5.3 Implementation of microplanning                                                      1.472            132             1.604
Total of component                                                                       4.008            360             4.368
6. Project Administration and Pilot Activities
6.1 Project management                                                                 15.147            2.190           17.337
6.2 Development of pilot activities in special areas                                     2.900           5.385            8.285
Total of component                                                                     18.047            7.575           25.622
7. Management Fee                                                                        2.030              0             2.030
Total expenditure of Project                                                          191.170         225.320          416.490




                                                                - 51 -

                       COSTS OF THE PROJECT BY COMPONENT (US$)
         COMPONENT                     PAD ESTIMATE                 ACTUAL EXPENDITURE



                                    IBRD           Government         IBRD         Government
1. Bringing the Primary Schools 165,000,000.00   190,500,000.00   143,645,000.00  205,114,000.00
up to Minimum Operational
Standards
2. Establishing a School         9,500,000.00     7,500,000.00     13,462,000.00  11,372,000.00
Development Process

3. Promoting Communication       4,000,000.00         00           5,314,000.00      478,000
and Social Mobilization
4. Strengthening National        8,000,000.00     2,000,000.00     4,664,000.00      420,000
Education Information Systems
and Programs
5. Management and Institutional 13,500,000.00         00           4,008,000.00      360,000
Development of Educational
Systems
6. Project Administration and         -                -           18,047,000.00     7,576.00
Pilot Activities
Management Fee                   2,030,000.00         00           2,030,000.00         00



TOTAL                           202,030,000.00   200,000,000.00   191,170,000.00  225,320,000.00




                               PROJECT COSTS BY CATEGORY
         CATEGORY                PAD ESTIMATE              ESTIMATE OF            ACTUAL
                                                           ADDITIONAL           EXPENDITURE
                                                               COSTS

                                                             (DEC 2004)
1 ­ Works                          36,000,000.00             7,600,000.00        7,939,401.18
2 - Goods

(a) for borrower                    3,000,000.00             3,100,000.00        3,072,003.15

(b) for states and                  28,000,000.00           10,700,000.00        11,443,994.37
municipalities
3 ­ School subvention              82,500,000.00            122,079,700.00      123,305,054.35
4 ­ Training

(a) for borrower                   25,600,000.00            40,300,000.00        39,014,066.57


                                             - 52 -

  (b) for states and                         2,000,000.00                4,300,000.00           3,276,312.74
  municipalities
  5 ­ Administrative costs                   2,000,000.00                1,070,000.00          1,072,364.01
  6 ­ Management fee                         2,020,300.00                2,020,300.00          2,020,300.00
  7 ­ Not allocated                          20,900,000.00                   0.00                  0.00
  SA-A ­ Special Account                         ----                        0.00                26,503.63
  Cancelled on 18/01/05                          ----                   10,860,000.00
  TOTAL                                     202,030,000.00             191,170,000.00         191,170,000.00



X ­ LESSONS LEARNED

45. The main lessons learned with the implementation of FUNDESCOLA II can be summarized as follows:

   l A clear and unequivocal sign that the strategies prioritizing the schools, with particular focus on the
        classroom and learning, have produced favorable results.
   l Development of products and effective strategies can contribute to overcoming the main problems
        affecting the education system;
   l The strategic alignment of policies, programs, projects and actions of the interested parties changes
        the activity profile of the secretariats;
   l The implementation on their own by the states and municipalities of the products developed by the
        FUNDESCOLA, creating ownership of the policies;
   l The difficulties encountered in obtaining reliable and trustworthy data for measuring the performance
        of the Project was mainly due to the lack of a corporate system interlinked with the states and
        municipalities and capable of supplying, in real time, relevant data on the execution and outcomes of
        the Project;
   l The need to strengthen initiatives to promote training of the co-executors - mainly effective
        management techniques and meeting requirements for social accountability in the control and
        rendering of accounts of the educational programs;
   l The need to strengthen the state and municipal secretariats, encouraging them to put into practice the
        planning tools provided under the Strategic Plan for Secretariats (PES);
   l Increased support needed for Project monitoring and evaluation activities with a view to improving
        management;
   l A need for new strategies for releasing funds to the co-executors to permit automatic transfers of
        resources, resulting in speedier implementation of the Project.

XI ­ CONCLUSIONS AND RECOMMENDATIONS

46. Since the implementation of FUNDESCOLA II, a need was identified to take steps and interventions in
future:

   l To enhance in the quickest way possible the performance outcomes of the students and management
        of the education system;
   l To expand the effective actions of the Program to all the municipalities of the beneficiary regions,
        while respecting the different levels of organizational capacity;
   l To develop the organizational capacity of the secretariats;
   l To establish, and give practical effect to, the responsibility of all the parties concerned for every



                                                      - 53 -

        stage of the process of formulation and implementation of education policies linked to the products of
        the Project;
   l To develop instruments and strategies to ensure the continuity and sustainability of the interventions,
        ensuring that the secretariats assume once and for all responsibility for implementation of the
        processes and policies related to the products of the FUNDESCOLA;
   l To seek to separate the activities of FUNDESCOLA II from those of other programs and projects
        developed by MEC and the states and municipalities, so that more trustworthy data can be secured
        referring to the educational outcomes achieved in the areas covered by the Project.

47. The key results obtained can be summarized as follows:

   l Greater involvement of all the sectors of the secretariats and support of the managers in the adoption
        and endorsement of Strategic Planning by a significant number of education secretariats;
   l An improvement in the quality standards of school-building and school furniture and equipment;
   l Incorporation of the products of FUNDESCOLA by the MEC, as in the case of Proformação, and
        by the state and municipal education secretariats with the PDE and Escola Ativa. In some states the
        latter were implemented in all the schools of the network and the Minimum Operational Standards
        implemented in all the schools in a number of secretariats as well as in some other schools in the
        network.
   l LSEs made available to the secretariats, thus contributing to network planning;
   l Proformação Program and GESTAR welcomed by teachers;
   l Strengthening of education policies focused on guaranteeing the quality of basic education,
        particularly as regards primary schooling in the three regions targeted by the Project and the
        development of policies, products and programs that can make an effective contribution at this level
        of education.


    ------------------------------------
    1
      "Primary education" is defined throughout this document as grades 1 to 8 of primary education for children
    aged between 7 and 14 years and known in Brazil as Regular Basic Education (in Portuguese educação
    fundamental regular).
    2
      Henceforth, references to "FUNDESCOLA" refer to the Program as a whole, while references to the "Project"
    or to "FUNDESCOLA II" concern the project evaluated in this document.




                                                      - 54 -

- 55 -

