Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 4150-AR
Loan Agreement
(Provincial Agricultural Development Project)
between
ARGENTINE REPUBLIC
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated January 20, 1998
LOAN NUMBER 4150-AR
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated January 20, 1998, between ARGENTINE REPUBLIC (the Borrower) and 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Bank to assist in the financing of the Project;
(B)
the Borrower has contracted from Inter-American Development Bank (IDB) a 
loan in an amount equivalent to $125,000,000 (the IDB Loan) to assist in financing the 
Project on the terms and conditions set forth in an agreement dated March 26, 1996 
between the Borrower and IDB; and 
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements for Single Currency Loans" of the Bank, dated May 30, 1995, with the 
modification of Section 6.03 set forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an 
integral part of this Agreement: "Section 6.03.  Cancellation by the Bank.  If (a) the 
right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Loan Account shall have been 
suspended with respect to any amount of the Loan for a continuous period of thirty 
days, or (b) at any time, the Bank determines, after consultation with the Borrower, 
Page  2
that an amount of the Loan will not be required to finance the Project’s costs to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, or (c) at any time, the Bank determines, 
with respect to any contract to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, that 
corrupt or fraudulent practices were engaged in by representatives of the Borrower or 
of a beneficiary of the Loan during the procurement or the execution of such contract, 
without the Borrower having taken timely and appropriate action satisfactory to the 
Bank to remedy the situation, and establishes the amount of expenditures in respect of 
such contract which would otherwise have been eligible for financing out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, or (d) at any time, the Bank determines that the procurement of 
any contract to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan is inconsistent with the 
procedures set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement and establishes the amount 
of expenditures in respect of such contract which would otherwise have been eligible 
for financing out of the proceeds of the Loan, or (e) after the Closing Date, an 
amount of the Loan shall remain unwithdrawn from the Loan Account, or (f) the Bank 
shall have received notice from the Guarantor pursuant to Section 6.07 with respect to 
an amount of the Loan, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower and the Guarantor, 
terminate the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals with respect to such amount.  
Upon the giving of such notice, such amount of the Loan shall be cancelled." 
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
(a)
"Chart of Accounts" means the chart of accounts referred to in Section 
4.01 (a) of this Agreement;
(b)
"Common Accounting Plan" means the accounting plan referred to in Section 
4.01 (a) of this Agreement; 
(c)
"Environmental Manual" means the manual referred to in Section 3.07 of 
this Agreement;
(d)
"EPDA" means Entidad de Programación del Desarrollo Agropecuario, the 
agency in charge of Project coordination in a Participating Province (as hereinafter 
defined);
(e)
"Implementation Letter" means the letter of even date with this Agreement 
from the Borrower to the Bank;
(f)
"Government Agencies" means ministries, secretariats and decentralized 
agencies of the Borrower involved in the execution of the Project;
(g)
"Monitoring Indicators" means the performance and impact indicators set 
forth in an Annex to the Implementation Letter;
(h)
"National Subprojects" means Subprojects (as hereinafter defined) of 
national or regional importance carried out by the Borrower or by decentralized 
agencies of the Borrower;
(i)
"Operational Manual" means the manual referred to in Section 3.07 of this 
Agreement;
(j)
"Participating Province" means any province of the Borrower which enters 
into a Subsidiary Loan Agreement (as hereinafter defined) for the execution of a 
Subproject (as hereinafter defined);
(k)
"Provincial Eligibility Criteria" means the eligibility criteria set 
forth in Part II of Schedule 6 to this Agreement;
(l)
"Provincial Subprojects" means Subprojects (as hereinafter defined) 
carried out by Participating Provinces; 
(m)
"SAGPyA" means Secretaría de Agricultura, Ganadería, Pesca y 
Alimentación, the Borrower’s Secretariat of Agriculture, Livestock, Fisheries and 
Food; 
(n)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement;
(o)
"Subproject" means a subproject for water resource management, rural 
infrastructure, technology development and transfer, animal and plant health, market 
Page  3
development, agricultural information, provincial agricultural institution building, 
production and regulation of food products, or for another agricultural development 
activity, that meets the objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement and the Subproject Eligibility Criteria (as hereinafter defined), and that 
has been approved by the Borrower and the Bank;
(p)
"Subproject Eligibility Criteria" means the criteria for eligibility of 
subprojects set forth in the Operational Manual;
(q)
"Subsidiary Loan" means a loan provided under a Subsidiary Loan Agreement 
(as hereinafter defined);
(r)
"Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means an agreement entered into between the 
Borrower and a Participating Province in accordance with Section 3.01 (b) of this 
Agreement;
(s) 
"Total Project Cost" means, unless the Bank otherwise agrees, 
$357,200,000 equivalent;
(t)
"UEC" means Unidad Ejecutora Central, the unit referred to in Section 
3.05 of this Agreement; and 
(u)
"UEP" means Unidad Ejecutora de Proyectos, the executing units 
established or to be established and maintained for the purpose of coordinating and 
supervising the execution of National Subprojects or Provincial Subprojects.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, an amount equal to one 
hundred twenty-five million Dollars ($125,000,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures 
made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of 
goods and services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement 
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
(b)
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
Dollars a special deposit account in Banco de la Nación Argentina on terms and 
conditions satisfactory to the Bank, including appropriate protection against set-off, 
seizure or attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall 
be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2004 or such later date as the 
Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the rate 
of three\1efourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Loan not withdrawn from time to time.
Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Interest Period 
equal to LIBOR Base Rate plus LIBOR Total Spread.
(b)
For the purposes of this Section: 
(i)
"Interest Period" means the initial period from and including the 
date of this Agreement to, but excluding, the first Interest 
Payment Date occurring thereafter, and after the initial period, 
each period from and including an Interest Payment Date to, but 
excluding the next following Interest Payment Date. 
(ii)
"Interest Payment Date" means any date specified in Section 2.06 
of this Agreement. 
(iii)
"LIBOR Base Rate" means, for each Interest Period, the London 
interbank offered rate for six-month deposits in Dollars for value 
the first day of such Interest Period (or, in the case of the 
initial Interest Period, for value the Interest Payment Date 
Page  4
occurring on or next preceding the first day of such Interest 
Period), as reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a 
percentage per annum.
(iv)
"LIBOR Total Spread" means, for each Interest Period: (A) one half 
of one percent (1/2 of 1%); (B) minus (or plus) the weighted 
average margin, for such Interest Period, below (or above) the 
London interbank offered rates, or other reference rates, for 
six-month deposits, in respect of the Bank’s outstanding 
borrowings or portions thereof allocated by the Bank to fund 
single currency loans or portions thereof made by it that include 
the Loan; as reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a 
percentage per annum. 
(c)
The Bank shall notify the Borrower of LIBOR Base Rate and LIBOR Total 
Spread for each Interest Period, promptly upon the determination thereof. 
(d)
Whenever, in light of changes in market practice affecting the 
determination of the interest rates referred to in this Section 2.05, the Bank 
determines that it is in the interest of its borrowers as a whole and of the Bank to 
apply a basis for determining the interest rates applicable to the Loan other than as 
provided in said Section, the Bank may modify the basis for determining the interest 
rates applicable to the Loan upon not less than six (6) months’ notice to the Borrower 
of the new basis. The basis shall become effective on the expiry of the notice period 
unless the Borrower notifies the Bank during said period of its objection thereto, in 
which case said modification shall not apply to the Loan.
Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable March 15 and September 
15 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry 
out Part A (1) and Part B of the Project through SAGPyA, and shall cause the 
Participating Provinces to carry out Part A (2) of the Project, with due diligence and 
efficiency and in accordance with appropriate administrative, financial, engineering, 
environmental and agricultural practices and shall provide, promptly as needed, the 
funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the Project.
(b)
The Borrower shall relend part of the proceeds of the Loan to the 
Participating Provinces under subsidiary loan agreements to be entered into between 
the Borrower and each of the Participating Provinces under terms and conditions which 
shall have been approved by the  Bank and which shall include those set forth in Part 
I of Schedule 6 to this Agreement.
(c)
The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Loan 
Agreements in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Bank and 
to accomplish the purposes of the Loan, and, except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, 
shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive any of the Subsidiary Loan Agreements or 
any provision thereof.
Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement.
Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.08 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall: 
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish 
to the Bank not later than six  months after the Closing Date or such later date as 
may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, a plan for the 
future operation of the Project; and
(b)
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the 
Borrower on said plan.
Page  5
Section 3.04.  The Borrower, through the UEC, shall:
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with the Monitoring Indicators, the 
carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof;
(b)
by October 31 of each year of Project execution, furnish to the Bank for 
its review and approval a draft annual work plan and proposed budget for the Project 
for the following year;
(c)
by March 31 and September 30 of each year of Project execution, furnish 
to the Bank a progress report on the execution of the Project, said reports to be of 
such scope and detail as the Bank shall have reasonably requested and to include: (i) 
the results of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to 
paragraph (a) of this Section; and (ii) an update of the approved annual work plan and 
budget referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section, and thereafter discuss said 
reports jointly with the Bank and the IDB in order to analyze problems and proposed 
solutions and to review the pipeline of proposed subprojects;  
(d)
cause an independent agency or specialized firm acceptable to the Bank to 
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and to furnish to the Bank 
on or about March 31, 2000, a report on the progress achieved in the carrying out of 
the Project since its beginning, including the results of the monitoring and 
evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section, and setting 
out the measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and 
the achievement of its objectives; and
(e)
review with the Bank, by June 30, 2000, or such later date as the Bank 
may request, the report referred to in paragraph (d) of this Section, and, thereafter, 
take all measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the Project and the 
achievement of its objectives, based on the conclusions and recommendations of the 
said report and the Bank's views on the matter.
Section 3.05.  The Borrower, through SAGPyA, shall establish, and thereafter 
maintain during the execution of the Project, a central unit (UEC) for the overall 
management, financial administration, and monitoring of the Project, said unit to have 
an organization acceptable to the Bank and to have staff with qualifications, 
experience and terms of reference acceptable to the Bank. 
Section 3.06.  When presenting a subproject for approval, the Borrower, through 
UEC, shall furnish to the Bank an application, in form satisfactory to the Bank, 
including:
(a)
an appraisal of the subproject as provided in the Operational Manual, 
including a description of the expenditures proposed to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, a copy of the feasibility study and engineering designs, and the 
cost recovery proposal;
(b)
evidence that the Subproject Eligibility Criteria have been met;
(c)
a copy of the environmental assessment, environmental mitigation plan, 
and such other assessments and mitigations plans as may be called for by the 
Environmental Manual and the Operational Manual under the circumstances of the 
proposed subproject; 
(d)
evidence that UEC has completed its review process and has given its 
technical clearance to the proposed subproject; and
(e)
in the event the proposed subproject would be a Provincial Subproject:
(i)
a draft of the subsidiary loan agreement;
(ii)
evidence that the Provincial Eligibility Criteria are met; 
(iii)
evidence that adequate institutional arrangements exist for the 
execution of the proposed subproject; and
(iv)
evidence that sufficient counterpart funds will be available for 
the first year of execution of the proposed subproject.
Section 3.07. The Borrower, through SAGPyA, shall ensure that all National 
Page  6
Subprojects are carried out, and shall cause the Participating Provinces to carry out 
all Provincial Subprojects, in accordance with an operational manual and an 
environmental manual for this Project acceptable to the Bank and in accordance with 
the information and supporting documentation provided to the Bank pursuant to Section 
3.06 of this Agreement.
Section 3.08.  The Borrower, through the UEC, shall ensure that all contracts 
for the execution of applied research, rural extension and technology transfer shall 
be awarded on the basis of the selection criteria, approval process and form of 
contract satisfactory to the Bank.
Section 3.09.  The Borrower shall ensure that, unless the Bank otherwise agrees, 
the total cost of Provincial Subprojects to be implemented by a single Participating 
Province shall not exceed twenty-five percent of Total Project Cost and that the total 
cost of National Subprojects shall not exceed thirty percent of Total Project Cost.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records 
and separate accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting 
practices the operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Project, said 
accounts to be kept by all Government Agencies and Participating Provinces on the 
basis of a common accounting plan and chart of accounts acceptable to the Bank.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section including those for the Special Account for each fiscal 
year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles 
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the 
Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six months after the end of each such year, the report 
of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail 
as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said records 
and accounts and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to 
time reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with 
paragraph (a) of this Section, records and accounts reflecting 
such expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received the 
audit report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from 
the Loan Account or payment out of the Special Account was made, 
all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and 
other documents) evidencing such expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Bank's representatives to examine such records; and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of expenditure submitted during such 
fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal controls 
involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to support the 
related withdrawals.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions, the 
Page  7
following additional events are specified:
(a)
any Participating Province has failed to perform any of its obligations 
under a Subsidiary Loan Agreement; 
(b)
the Operational Manual, or any provision thereof, has been amended, 
suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect, in the opinion of the Bank, 
materially and adversely the carrying out of the Project; and
(c)
the Environmental Manual, or any provision thereof, has been amended, 
suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived without the prior agreement of the Bank.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified: that any event specified in paragraphs (a), 
(b) and (c) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a 
period of sixty (60) days after notice thereof shall have been given by the Bank to 
the Borrower.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the 
General Conditions:
(a)
the UEC has been established and its key staff have been employed in 
accordance with the provisions of Section 3.05 of this Agreement; 
(b)
the monitoring and evaluation system referred to in Section 3.04 (a) of 
this Agreement, the Operational Manual, the Environmental Manual, the Chart of 
Accounts and the Common Accounting Plan have been finalized and are acceptable to the 
Bank; and
(c)
all action has been taken by the Borrower in order to permit the 
procurement of goods, works and services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the provisions set forth or 
referred to in this Agreement.
Section 6.02. The date April 20, 1998 is hereby specified for the purposes of 
Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of Economy and Public Works and Services of the 
Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 
11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministerio de Economía
  y Obras y Servicios Públicos
Hipólito Yrigoyen 250
Buenos Aires
Argentina
Cable address: 
Telex:
MINISTERIO ECONOMIA
121942-AR
Baires
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Page  8
 Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI)
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
Buenos Aires, Argentina, as of the day and year first above written.
ARGENTINE REPUBLIC
By /s/ Roque Benjamín Fernández
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
  RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Myrna Alexander
Acting Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
    % of
Loan Allocated
Expenditures
(Expressed in
    to be
Category
   Dollars)
  Financed
(1)
Part A of the Project:
(a)
Civil Works
  40,000,000
80%
(b)
Goods
  16,000,000
100% of foreign 
expenditures and 
80% of local 
expenditures
(c)
Consultants'  28,000,000
100%
services and
training
(d)
Incremental
  18,000,000
75% up to 
recurrent costs
$6,000,000
disbursed; 50%
thereafter up to
an aggregate of
$12,000,000 
disbursed; 25%
thereafter up to
an aggregate of
$18,000,000
disbursed 
Page  9
(2)
Part B of the Project:
(a)
Consultants’  10,000,000
100%
services and
training
(b)
Incremental
   3,000,000
75% up to
recurrent costs
$1,000,000
disbursed; 50%
thereafter up
to $2,000,000
disbursed; 25%
thereafter up
to $3,000,000
disbursed
(3)
Unallocated
  10,000,000
TOTAL
 125,000,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods supplied from the territory of any 
country other than that of the Borrower;
(b)
the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods supplied from the territory of the Borrower; and
(c)
the term "incremental recurrent costs" means the cost of insurance, 
utilities, repairs and maintenance, salaries of incremental staff and travel for the 
execution of Project activities by Government Agencies.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of: 
(a)
payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, 
except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not to exceed $6,000,000 may be made 
in respect of Categories (1) and (2) of the table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule on 
account of payments made for expenditures before that date but after February 12, 
1996; and 
(b)
expenditures under Category (1) of the table in paragraph 1 of this 
Schedule unless:
(i)
the Borrower and the Bank have approved the Subproject; and
(ii)
for Provincial Subprojects:
(A)
the Participating Province has entered into a Subsidiary 
Loan Agreement with the Borrower, and the Bank has received 
an opinion or opinions satisfactory to the Bank of counsel 
acceptable to the Bank, showing, on behalf of the Borrower 
and the Participating Province, that: (1) the Subsidiary 
Loan Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by, and 
executed and delivered on behalf of, the Participating 
Province and the Borrower, and is legally binding upon them 
in accordance with its terms; and (2) that all action 
referred to in subparagraph (C) below has been taken;
(B)
the Participating Province has established, staffed and 
funded the EPDA and UEP in accordance with the Provincial 
Subproject proposal and an agreement for the execution of 
the Provincial Subproject acceptable to the Bank has been 
entered into between EPDA and UEP; and
(C)
the Participating Province has taken all action necessary to 
permit the procurement of goods, works and consultants’ 
services required for a Provincial Subproject and to be 
financed under a Subsidiary Loan in accordance with the 
provisions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement.
Page  10
4.
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the basis 
of statements of expenditure for expenditures for goods under contracts costing less 
than $100,000 equivalent, for works under contracts costing less than $350,000 
equivalent, for services of consulting and training firms under contracts costing less 
than $100,000 equivalent and services of individual consultants and trainers under 
contracts costing less than $30,000 equivalent, all under such terms and conditions as 
the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are: (a) to increase and to diversify agricultural 
production and exports; (b) to increase and to stabilize agricultural incomes for 
about 120,000 small and medium-sized commercial farms; (c) to improve the 
effectiveness of basic agricultural support services so as to increase international 
competitiveness of agricultural products; (d) to improve rural productive 
infrastructure so as to reduce production costs and to improve conservation and 
management of natural resources; (e) to strengthen national and  provincial 
institutional capacity to formulate and analyze agricultural development policy and to 
identify, prepare and implement investment projects; and (f) to rationalize public 
investments and to promote an expanded private sector role in agricultural 
development.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives:
Part A:
Subprojects 
(1)
Carrying out of National Subprojects.
(2)
Carrying out of Provincial Subprojects.
Part B:
Institutional Strengthening and Project Management
Strengthening of national and provincial capabilities to develop and implement 
efficient systems for formulation and analysis of agricultural policies, and to 
identify, prepare and implement programs and projects through, inter alia:
(a)
at the national level establishment of: (i) operational mechanisms among 
SAGPyA and other Government Agencies in order to improve coordination; and (ii) 
processes and procedures to improve the generation, execution and analysis of 
agricultural policies, programs and projects;
(b)
at the provincial level: (i) improvement of the definition of the 
functions of provincial agricultural public sector agencies and improvement of 
coordination among them; and (ii) establishment of processes and procedures to improve 
the generation, execution and analysis of agricultural policies, programs and 
projects, including definition of the role of provincial public sector agencies in the 
preparation and execution of Subprojects and preparation of implementation 
arrangements among the entities involved; and
(c)
at the operational level: coordination, management, monitoring and 
evaluation of the Project, at both the national and provincial levels.
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 2003.
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due 
(expressed in Dollars)*
On each September 15 and March 15
Page  11
beginning September 15, 2002
through March 15, 2012
6,250,000
_____________________________
*
The figures in this column represent the amount in Dollars to be repaid, 
except as provided in Section 4.04 (d) of the General Conditions.
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:
General
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I 
of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the 
Bank in January 1995 and revised in January 1996 (the Guidelines) and the following 
provisions of this Section, as applicable.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods and works shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of 
the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to goods and works to be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B.
Notification and Advertising
1.
The invitation to prequalify or bid for each contract estimated to cost 
$10,000,000 equivalent or more shall be  advertised in accordance with the procedures 
applicable to large contracts under paragraph 2.8 of the Guidelines.
2.
Prequalification
Bidders for works estimated to cost $10,000,000 equivalent or more shall be 
prequalified in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 2.09 and 2.10 of the 
Guidelines.
3.
Grouping of contracts
To the extent practicable, contracts for goods and works shall be grouped into 
bid packages estimated to cost the equivalent of, respectively, $350,000 equivalent 
and $5,000,000 equivalent or more each.
Page  12
4.
Preference for domestically manufactured goods
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
1.
Limited International Bidding
Goods estimated to cost less than $350,000 equivalent per contract but more than 
$100,000, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $1,500,000 equivalent, which the 
Bank agrees can only be purchased from a limited number of suppliers with established 
service and maintenance facilities in Argentina, may be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.2 of the Guidelines.
2.
National Competitive Bidding
(a)
Goods (other than those subject to Part C.1 hereof) estimated to cost 
less than $350,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed 
$13,000,000 equivalent, and works estimated to cost less than $5,000,000 equivalent 
per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $22,900,000 equivalent, may be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 
and 3.4 of the Guidelines.
(b)
In the procurement of goods and works in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraph (a) above, standard bidding documents satisfactory to the Bank shall be 
used.
3.
International or National Shopping
Goods (other than computers, vehicles and equipment for civil works) estimated 
to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to 
exceed $14,800,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of 
international or national shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
4.
Procurement of Small Works
Works estimated to cost less than $350,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
amount not to exceed $8,200,000 equivalent, may be procured under lump-sum, 
fixed-price contracts awarded on the basis of quotations obtained from three qualified 
domestic contractors in response to a written invitation. The invitation shall include 
a detailed description of the works, including basic specifications, the required 
completion date, a basic form of agreement acceptable to the Bank, and relevant 
drawings, where applicable. The award shall be made to the contractor who offers the 
lowest price quotation for the required work, and who has the experience and resources 
to complete the contract successfully.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding or to bid for 
contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the 
Bank for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken 
in accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and 
with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
With respect to each contract for goods and each contract for works estimated to 
cost the equivalent of, respectively, $100,000 and $350,000 or more, the procedures 
set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II. Employment of Consultants
Page  13
1.
Consultants' services shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance 
with the provisions of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank 
Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 
1981 (the Consultant Guidelines).  For complex, time-based assignments, such contracts 
shall be based on the standard form of contract for consultants' services issued by 
the Bank, with such modifications as shall have been agreed by the Bank.  Where no 
relevant standard contract documents have been issued by the Bank, other standard 
forms acceptable to the Bank shall be used.
2.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section, the provisions of 
the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior Bank review or approval of budgets, short 
lists, selection procedures, letters of invitation, proposals, evaluation reports and 
contracts shall not apply to: (a) contracts for the employment of firms of consultants 
and auditors estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent each; or (b) contracts 
for the employment of individuals estimated to cost less than $30,000 equivalent each.  
However, said exceptions to prior Bank review shall not apply to: (a) the terms of 
reference for such contracts; (b) single-source selection of consulting firms; (c) 
assignments of a critical nature, as reasonably determined by the Bank; (d) amendments 
to contracts for the employment of consulting or auditing firms raising the contract 
value to $100,000 equivalent or above; or (e) amendments to contracts for the 
employment of individual consultants raising the contract value to $30,000 equivalent 
or above.
SCHEDULE 5
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1) and (2) set forth in 
the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods, works and services required for the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible 
Categories in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount of $8,000,000 to be 
withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited in the Special Account pursuant to 
paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless the Bank shall 
otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an amount of $4,000,000 
until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Loan Account plus the total amount 
of all outstanding special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 
5.02 of the General Conditions shall be equal to or exceed $10,000,000.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for a deposit or deposits which do not exceed the 
aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or 
requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account 
and deposit in the Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have 
requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Bank requests for deposits into the Special Account 
at such intervals as the Bank shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Bank the documents and other evidence required 
pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or 
payments in respect of which replenishment is requested.  On the 
basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the 
Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have requested 
and as shall have been shown by said documents and other evidence 
to have been paid out of the Special Account for eligible 
Page  14
expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan Account under the 
respective eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall 
have been justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such 
documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall 
not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the 
period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit 
reports required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of 
the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account;
(c)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Borrower of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
from the Loan Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible 
Categories, less the amount of any outstanding special commitment entered into by the 
Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the Project, 
shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the Bank 
shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only 
after and to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts 
remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be 
utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a) If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant 
to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished 
to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such 
additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account 
(or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount 
of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified.  Unless the Bank 
shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall 
be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, 
as the case may be.
(b)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding 
in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for eligible 
expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the 
Bank such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or any 
portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of 
this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including 
the General Conditions.
SCHEDULE 6
Subsidiary Loan Agreements and Provincial Eligibility Criteria
Part I:
Terms and Conditions of Subsidiary Loan Agreements
The terms and conditions of Subsidiary Loan Agreements shall include:
Page  15
1.
The Subsidiary Loan shall be used exclusively for the financing of Provincial 
Subprojects.
2.
The Subsidiary Loans shall have a term of 18 years, carry an interest rate that 
is the average of the interest charged from time to time by the Bank on the Loan and 
by the Inter-American Development Bank on the IDB Loan, and carry a commitment fee at 
the average of the rates and under the same conditions as applicable to the Loan and 
the IDB Loan.  Withdrawals from the Loan Account for the purposes of Provincial 
Subprojects shall also be deemed to be withdrawals from the account established on the 
books of the Borrower for the Subsidiary Loan.  The Subsidiary Loans shall be repaid, 
together with interest and other charges, on the same terms and conditions as are 
applicable to the Loan and the IDB Loan.
3.
The Participating Province shall declare its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement and shall carry out the 
Provincial Subprojects with due diligence and efficiency, in accordance with 
appropriate administrative, financial, engineering, environmental and agricultural 
practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and 
other resources required for the Provincial Subprojects.
4.
The Participating Province shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Loan 
Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Bank and 
to accomplish the purposes of the Loan and, except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, 
shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive any of the provisions of the Subsidiary 
Loan Agreement.
5.
The Participating Province shall carry out the obligations set forth in Sections 
9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the General Conditions (relating to 
insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, 
maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) in respect of the Provincial 
Subprojects.
6.
The Participating Province shall procure goods, works and consultants’ services, 
and shall maintain records and separate accounts in respect of the Provincial 
Subprojects, all as provided in the Loan Agreement.
7.
The Participating Province shall, with respect to the Provincial Subprojects, 
cooperate with the Borrower so as to enable the Borrower to meet its obligations under 
Sections 3.03, 3.04, 3.06, 3.07, 3.08 and 4.01 of the Loan Agreement.
8.
The payment obligations of the Participating Province shall be secured by its 
co-participation funds as set forth in the Borrower’s law no. 23548.
Part II:
Provincial Eligibility Criteria
Provinces of the Borrower shall be able to participate in Part A (2) of the 
Project provided that:
1.
They meet the creditworthiness criteria set forth in the Operational Manual.
2.
With respect to Provincial Subloans for technical assistance and institutional 
strengthening:
(a)
 the provincial legislature has approved the Subloan; and
(b)
the province has an adequately staffed provincial agricultural authority, 
legally and technically capable of administering the Provincial Subproject and the 
Subsidiary Loan.
3.
With respect to Provincial Subloans for investment subprojects, in addition to 
the criteria listed in paragraph 2 above, the province shall:
(a)
have a surplus in the provincial current account of the last executed 
budget period; and
(b)
 meet the debt service criteria set forth in the Operational Manual.
4.
A Province that cannot satisfy the criteria under paragraph 3 above will be 
eligible to receive a Provincial Subloan for rehabilitation of existing infrastructure 
provided that it has a written agreement with the Borrower to implement a provincial 
reform program, acceptable to the Bank, demonstrating that the province will be in a 
Page  16
position to meet the criteria set forth in paragraph 3 above within a specified time.
