Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
LOAN NUMBER 7425-AR 
 
Loan Agreement 
 
(Additional Financing for the  
Provincial Agricultural Development Project) 
 
between 
 
ARGENTINE REPUBLIC 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
Dated August 16, 2007 
 
Page  2
LOAN NUMBER 7425-AR 
 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
 
Agreement dated August 16, 2007, between ARGENTINE REPUBLIC
 (“Borrower”) and 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (“Bank”) for 
the purpose of providing additional financing for activities related to the Original Project (as 
defined in the Appendix to this Agreement).  The Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as 
follows: 
ARTICLE I
—GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) constitute an 
integral part of this Agreement. 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in the Loan Agreement 
have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions, in the Original Loan 
Agreement or in the Appendix to this Agreement.  
ARTICLE II
—LOAN 
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or referred 
to in this Agreement, the amount of thirty seven million Dollars ($37,000,000), as such 
amount may be converted from time to time through a Currency Conversion in 
accordance with the provisions of Section 2.08 of this Agreement
 (“Loan”), to assist in 
financing the project described in Schedule 1 to this Agreement (“Project”). 
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with Section IV of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
 
2.03. 
The Commitment Charge payable by the Borrower shall be equal to three-fourths of one 
percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the Unwithdrawn Loan Balance, subject to any waiver 
of a portion of such charge as may be determined by the Bank from time to time. 
2.04. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one percent (1.0%) of the 
Loan amount, subject to any waiver of a portion of such fee as may be determined by the 
Bank from time to time.  In the event that the Borrower selects not to capitalize the Front-
end Fee, the Borrower shall pay the Front-end Fee not later than 60 days after the 
Effective Date. 
2.05. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate equal to 
LIBOR for the Loan Currency plus the Fixed Spread, subject to any waiver of a portion 
of such interest as may be determined by the Bank from time to time; provided, that upon 
a
Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan, the interest 
Page  3
2
payable by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on such amount shall be 
determined in accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of the General 
Conditions. 
2.06. 
The Payment Dates are January 1 and July 1 in each year. 
2.07. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the amortization 
schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
2.08. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions of the 
terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: (i) a change of 
the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan, 
withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved Currency; (ii) a change of the 
interest rate basis applicable to all or any portion of the principal amount of the 
Loan from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa; and (iii) the setting of 
limits on the Variable Rate applicable to all or any portion of the principal 
amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding by the establishment of an 
Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar on the Variable Rate. 
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that is 
accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined in the 
General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the provisions of 
Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion Guidelines.  
(c) 
Promptly following the Execution Date for an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate 
Collar for which the Borrower has requested that the premium be paid out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from 
the Loan Account and pay to itself the amounts required to pay any premium 
payable in accordance with Section 4.04 (c) of the General Conditions up to the 
amount allocated from time to time for the purpose in the table in Section IV of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
ARTICLE III
—PROJECT 
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project. To this end, the 
Borrower shall: (a) carry out: (i) National Subprojects under Part 1 (a) of the Project 
which fall under its administrative jurisdiction; and (ii) Part 2 of the Project through 
SAGPyA; and (b) cause: (i) SENASA to carry out National Subprojects under Parts 1 (a) 
of the Project which fall under its administrative jurisdiction; and (ii) the Participating 
Provinces to carry out Part 1 (b) of the Project, all in accordance with the provisions of 
Article V of the General Conditions. 
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and except as 
the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall ensure that the 
Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
Page  4
3
3.03. 
The Borrower shall ensure that: (a) (i) either the Operational Manual or the 
Environmental Manual contains, 
inter alia
,
the EMP for the 
Línea Tapenagá
 Works to be 
carried out under Part 1 (b) of the Project and the IPDP for those same works; and (ii) 
such works shall be carried out according to the terms of the EMP and IPDP; and (b) the 
Operational Manual has been amended to incorporate the procurement provisions set 
forth in this Agreement 
ARTICLE IV
—REMEDIES OF THE BANK 
4.01. 
The Additional Events of Suspension consist of the following: 
(a)  
SENASA has failed to perform any of its obligations under the Institutional 
Agreement and/or any Participating Province has failed to perform any of its 
obligations under the pertinent Subsidiary Loan Agreement, in which case the 
Bank may only suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make 
withdrawals from the Loan Account for: (i) expenditures incurred by SENASA 
under Part 1 (a) of the Project; and/or (ii) expenditures incurred by the pertinent 
Participating Province under Part 1 (b) of the Project.
 
(b)  
The Operational Manual, or any provision thereof, has been amended, 
 
suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect, in the opinion of 
 
the Bank, materially and adversely the carrying out of the Project. 
(c)  
The Environmental Manual, or any provision thereof, has been amended, 
 
suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived without the prior agreement of  the 
 Bank. 
4.02. 
The Additional Event of Acceleration consists of the following, namely, that any of the 
 
events specified in paragraph (a) or (b) or (c) of Section 4.01 of this Agreement occurs 
 
and is continuing for a period of sixty (60) days after notice of the event has been given 
 
by the Bank to the Borrower. 
ARTICLE V
—EFFECTIVENESS
 
5.01. 
Without prejudice to the provisions of the General Conditions, the Effectiveness Deadline 
 
is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement, but in no case later than the 
 
eighteen (18) months after the Bank’s approval of the Loan which expire on July 23, 
 2008. 
ARTICLE VI 
—
REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
 
6.01. 
The Borrower’s Representative is its Minister of Economy and Production. 
 
Page  5
4
6.02. 
The Borrower’s Address is: 
 
Ministerio de Economía y Producción 
 
Hipólito Yrigoyen 250 
 
C1086AAB, Buenos Aires 
 Argentina 
 
Cable address:   
  
      Telex: 
 
Facsimile: 
 
MINISTERIO DE ECONOMIA      121942-AR   
(54 11) 4349-8815 
Y
PRODUCCION 
Baires 
 
6.03. 
The Bank’s Address is: 
 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
 Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
INTBAFRAD  
248423(MCI) 
or 
1-202-477-6391 
Washington, D.C. 
 64145(MCI) 
 
Page  6
5
AGREED at Buenos Aires, Argentina, as of the day and year first above written. 
 
ARGENTINE REPUBLIC 
 
By/s/ Miguel Peirano 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
By/s/ Pedro Alba 
 
Authorized Representative 
Page  7
6
SCHEDULE 1 
Project Description 
The objectives of the Project are:  (a) to increase and to diversify agricultural production 
and exports; (b) to increase and to stabilize agricultural incomes for about 120,000 small and 
medium-sized commercial farms; (c) to improve the effectiveness of basic agricultural support 
services so as to increase international competitiveness of agricultural products; (d) to improve 
rural productive infrastructure so as to reduce production costs and to improve conservation and 
management of natural resources; (e) to strengthen national and provincial institutional capacity 
to formulate and analyze agricultural development policy and to identify, prepare and implement 
investment projects; (f) to rationalize public investments and to promote an expanded private 
sector role in agricultural development; and (g) to improve maternal and child health through the 
delivery of quality services, and to strengthen disease surveillance and control activities, all for 
purposes of reducing the acute risk of disease in the Borrower’s territory.  
 
The Project consists of the following parts included in the Original Project, as amended 
below solely for purposes of the Loan: 
Part 1
:
Subprojects
:
(a) 
Carrying out of National Subprojects. 
 
(b) 
Carrying out of Provincial Subprojects. 
Part 2
:
Institutional Strengthening and Project Management
Strengthening of national and provincial capabilities to develop and implement efficient 
systems for formulation and analysis of agricultural policies, and to identify, prepare and 
implement programs and projects through, 
inter alia
:
(a) 
at the national level establishment of: (i) operational mechanisms among 
SAGPyA and other Government Agencies in order to improve coordination; and (ii) processes 
and procedures to improve the generation, execution and analysis of agricultural policies, 
programs and projects; 
 
(b) 
at the provincial level: (i) improvement of the definition of the functions of 
provincial agricultural public sector agencies and improvement of coordination among them; and 
(ii) establishment of processes and procedures to improve the generation, execution and analysis 
of agricultural policies, programs and projects, including definition of the role of provincial 
public sector agencies in the preparation and execution of Subprojects and preparation of 
implementation arrangements among the entities involved; and 
 
Page  8
7
(c) 
at the operational level: coordination, management, monitoring and evaluation of 
the Project, at both the national and provincial levels, as well as preparation of a follow-up 
project. 
 
Page  9
8
SCHEDULE 2
 
Project Execution 
Section I
.
Institutional and Other Arrangements
A. 
The Borrower shall carry out, and/or cause to be carried out, the Project in accordance 
with the terms of this Agreement, as well as in accordance to Sections 3.01 (b) and (c), 3.06, 3.07, 
3.08, 4.01 (a) of, and Schedule 6 to, the Original Loan Agreement. 
B. 
The Borrower, through SAGPyA, shall:  (a) maintain until the completion of the Project, 
a
central unit (the UEC), with functions, responsibilities and staff acceptable to the Bank for the 
overall management, financial administration, and monitoring of the Project; and (b) furnish such 
UEC with all funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the coordination and 
management of the Project.  
C.  
For purposes of enabling SENASA to carry out National Subprojects which fall under its 
administrative jurisdiction as referred to in Section 3.01 (b) (i) of this Agreement, and prior to the 
carry out of said subprojects, the Borrower, through SAGPyA, shall enter into a coordination 
agreement with SENASA (the Institutional Agreement) on terms and conditions satisfactory to 
the Bank, with the purpose of setting forth the responsibilities and implementation arrangements 
for said subprojects; said Institutional Agreement to include, 
inter alia
:
(i) the obligation of the 
Borrower to make available, on a grant basis, a portion of the proceeds of the Loan to SENASA 
to finance said subprojects; and (ii) the obligation of SENASA to: (A) provide the necessary 
funds, facilities, services and other resources to supplement those provided through the Borrower; 
(B) assist the Borrower in achieving compliance with the terms of this Agreement; and (C) follow 
the provisions of the Operational Manual and Environmental Manual, all in connection with the 
carrying out of said subprojects. 
D.  
The Borrower shall exercise its rights and comply with its obligations under the 
Institutional Agreement throughout Project implementation in such a manner as to protect its 
interests and those of the Bank, and to accomplish the objective and purposes of the Project, and 
except as the Bank may otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate, 
suspend, waive, terminate or fail to enforce the Institutional Agreement or any provision thereof. 
E. 
In case of any conflict among the terms of the Operational Manual, the Environmental 
Manual, the Original Loan Agreement, the Institutional Agreement and those of this Agreement, 
the terms of this Agreement shall prevail. 
Section II
.
Project Monitoring, Reporting, Evaluation.
A. Project 
Reports 
1. 
The Borrower, through UEC, shall:  
Page  10
9
(a)  
monitor and evaluate the progress of the Project and prepare Project Reports in 
accordance with the provisions of Section 5.08 of the General Conditions, and maintain policies 
and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and evaluate on a ongoing basis, in accordance 
with the Monitoring Indicators set forth in the Implementation Letter, the carrying out of the 
Project and the achievement of the objective thereof.  Each Project Report shall cover the period 
of one calendar semester, and shall be furnished to the Bank not later than one month after the 
end of the period covered by such report. The Project Reports shall include, 
inter alia
:
(i) the 
results of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to this Section; and (ii) an 
update of the approved annual work plan and budget referred to in paragraph (b) hereof, and 
thereafter discuss said reports with the Bank in order to analyze problems and proposed solutions 
and to review the pipeline of proposed subprojects; 
 
(b)  
by January 15 of each year of Project execution, furnish to the Bank for its 
review and approval a draft annual work plan and proposed budget for the Project for the 
following year; 
 
(c)  
cause an independent agency or specialized firm acceptable to the Bank to 
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and to furnish to the Bank on or about 
January 15, 2008 a report on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project since its 
beginning, including the results of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to 
paragraph (a) of this Section, and setting out the measures recommended to ensure the efficient 
carrying out of the Project and the achievement of its objective; and  
 
(d)  
review with the Bank, by March 1, 2008, or such later date as the Bank may 
request, the report referred to in paragraph (c) of this Section, and, thereafter, take all measures 
required to ensure the efficient completion of the Project and the achievement of its objective, 
based on the conclusions and recommendations of the said report and the Bank’s views on the 
matter.  
 
2. 
For the purposes of Section 5.07 of the General Conditions and without limitation 
thereto, the Borrower shall: 
 
(a) 
 prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish to the 
Bank not later than six months after the Closing Date or such later date as may be agreed for this 
purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, a plan for the future operation of the Project; and 
 
(b)  
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the Borrower 
on said plan 
B.
 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits   
1. 
The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial management system in 
accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 of the General Conditions. 
Page  11
10
2. 
Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Borrower shall prepare 
and furnish to the Bank as part of the Project Report not later than one month after the end of 
each semester, interim un-audited financial reports for the Project covering the semester, in form 
and substance satisfactory to the Bank (which reports shall include, 
inter alia
,
the list of signed 
contracts for works, goods, Non-
Consultant Services and consultants’ services under the Project 
as reflected in the Borrower’s financial management system (UEPEX) during the period covered 
by each of said reports). 
3. 
The Borrower shall have its Financial Statements audited in accordance with the 
provisions of Section 5.09 (b) of the General Conditions. Each audit of the Financial Statements 
shall cover the period of one fiscal year of the Borrower. The audited Financial Statements for 
each such period shall be furnished to the Bank not later than six months after the end of such 
period.
 
Section III
.
Procurement
A. General
1. 
Goods, Works and Non-Consultant Services.  
All goods, works and Non- Consultant 
Services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be 
procured in accordance with the requirements set forth or referred to: (a) in the Original Loan 
Agreement; and (b) in Section I of the Procurement Guidelines and with the provisions of this 
Schedule (as the case may be, depending on the date of said procurement). 
2. 
Consultants’ Services.  
All consultants’ services required for the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the requirements 
set forth or referred to: (a) in the Original Loan Agreement; and (b) in Sections I and IV of the 
Consultant Guidelines and with the provisions of this Schedule (as the case may be, depending on 
the date of said procurement).   
3.
 
Definitions.
 
The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe particular 
procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular contracts refer to the 
corresponding method described in the Procurement Guidelines, or Consultant Guidelines, as the 
case may be. 
4.
 
Special Provisions.   
Without limitation to the provisions in Section III A.1 and 2 of this 
Schedule, the following additional provisions shall also govern the procurement of goods, works, 
Non-Consultant Services and consultants’ services under the Project (as the case may be): 
(a) 
procurement of goods, works, Non-Consultant Services and consultants’ services 
(in respect of firms) shall be carried out using standard bidding documents and standard requests 
for proposals acceptable to the Bank, which shall include, 
inter alia
,
a
settlement of dispute 
provision; 
Page  12
11
 
(b) 
all contracts for works to be procured under the Project shall contain a 
methodology, acceptable to the Bank, whereby the price of each said contracts shall be adjusted 
through the use of price adjustment formulas, in a manner acceptable to the Bank; 
 
(c)    
a two-envelope bidding procedure shall not be allowed in the procurement of 
goods, works and Non-Consultant Services;  
(d)      after the public opening of bids for goods, works and Non-Consultant Services, 
information relating to the examination, clarification and evaluation of bids and recommendations 
concerning awards, shall not be disclosed to bidders or other persons not officially concerned 
with this process until the publication of contract award. In addition, bidders and/or other persons 
not officially concerned with said process shall not be allowed to review or make copies of other 
bidders’ bids; 
(e)      after the public opening of consultants’ proposals, information relating to the 
examination, clarification and evaluation of proposals and recommendations concerning awards, 
shall not be disclosed to consultants or other persons not officially concerned with this process 
until the publication of contract award (except as provided in paragraphs 2.20 and 2.27 of the 
Consultant Guidelines). In addition, consultants and/or other persons not officially concerned 
with said process shall not be allowed to review or make copies of other consultants’ proposals; 
(f)    
bidders or consultants shall not, as a condition for submitting bids or proposals 
and/or for contract award: (i) be required to be registered in Argentina; (ii) have a representative 
in Argentina; and (iii) be associated or subcontract with Argentine suppliers, contractors or 
consultants; 
(g)  
the invitations to bid, bidding documents, minutes of bid openings, requests for 
expressions of interest and the evaluation reports of bids and proposals of all goods, works and 
consultants’ services, as the case may be, shall be published in the web page of the Borrower’s 
Office of National Procurement (
Oficina Nacional de Contrataciones
), and in a manner 
acceptable to the Bank. The bidding period shall be counted from the date of publication of the 
invitation to bid or the date of the availability of the bidding documents, whichever is later, to the 
date of bid opening;  
(h) 
the provisions set forth in paragraphs 2.49, 2.50, 2.52, 2.53, 2.54 and 2.59 of the 
Procurement Guidelines shall also be applicable to contracts for goods, works and Non-
Consultant Services to be procured under National Competitive Bidding procedures; 
(i) 
references to bidders in one or more specialized magazines shall not be used by 
the Borrower in determining if the bidder whose bid has been determined to be the lowest 
evaluated bid has the capability and resources to effectively carry out the contract as offered in 
the bid, as referred to in the provision set forth in paragraph 2.58 of the Procurement Guidelines. 
The provision set forth in paragraph 2.58 of the Procurement Guidelines (including the limitation 
set forth herein) shall also be applicable to contracts for goods and works to be procured under 
National Competitive Bidding procedures;  
Page  13
12
(j) 
the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Procurement Guidelines 
providing for domestic preference in the evaluation of bids in respect of goods and/or works shall 
not apply under the Project;  
(k) 
witness prices shall not be used as a parameter for bid evaluation, bid rejection or 
contract award; 
(l) 
the Borrower shall: (i) supply the Bank’s publicly accessible Procurement Plans 
Execution System with the information contained in the initial Procurement Plan within 30 days 
after such plan has been approved by the Bank; and (ii) update the Procurement Plan at least 
biannually, or as required by the Bank, to reflect the actual project implementation needs and 
progress and shall supply the Bank’s Procurement Plans Execution System with the information 
contained in the updated Procurement Plan immediately thereafter; 
(m) 
consultants shall not be required to submit bid or performance securities; and 
(n) 
the types of contracts described in Section IV of the Consultant Guidelines 
(including the important provisions to be included in said contracts under said Section IV) shall 
be the only types of contracts to be used by the Borrower in connection with the contracting of 
consultants’ services provided by a firm and to be financed with the proceeds of the Loan. 
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Non-Consultant Service
1. 
International Competitive Bidding.
 Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 2 
below, goods, works and Non-Consultant Services shall be procured under contracts awarded on 
the basis of International Competitive Bidding.
 
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Non-Consultant Services.
 
The 
following table specifies the methods of procurement, other than International Competitive 
Bidding, which may be used for goods, works and Non-Consultant Services. The Procurement 
Plan shall specify the circumstances under which such methods may be used. 
 
Procured Methods
(a)  National Competitive Bidding 
(b)   Shopping 
(c)  Direct Contracting 
Page  14
13
C. 
Particular Methods of Procurement o
f
Consultants’ Services
1. 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection.
 
Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 2 below, 
consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of Quality and Cost-
based Selection.
 
2. Other 
Methods 
of 
Procurem
ent of Consultants’ Services
.
The following table 
specifies the methods of procurement, other than Quality and Cost-based Selection, which may be 
u
sed for consultants’ services. The Procurement Plan shall specify the circumstances under which 
such methods may be used. 
Procurement Method
(a)  Least-Cost Selection  
(b)  Procedures set forth in paragraphs 5.2 
and 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines for the 
Selection of Individual Consultants 
D. 
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
Except as the Bank shall otherwise determine by notice to the Borrower, the following 
contracts shall be subject to Prior Review by the Bank:  (a) each contract for goods, works or 
Non-Consultant Services procured on the basis of International Competitive Bidding and Direct 
Contracting; (b) the first three contracts for goods, works or Non-Consultant Services procured on 
the basis of National Competitive Bidding; (c) each contract for consultants’ services provided by 
a
firm estimated to cost the equivalent of $200,000 or more; and (d) the first three contracts for 
consultants’ services provided by a firm estimated to cost the equivalent of less than $200,000. 
All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the Bank.
 
Section IV
.
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds
A. General
.
1.
 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the provisions 
of: (a) Article II of the General Conditions, (b) this Section, and (c) such additional instructions as 
the Bank may specify by notice to the Borrower (including the applicable provisions of the 
“World Bank Disbursement Guidelines for Projects” dated May 1, 2006, as revised from time to 
time by the World Bank and as made applicable to this Agreement pursuant to such instructions), 
to finance Eligible Expenditures, as set forth in the table in paragraph 2 below. 
Page  15
14
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
 (“Category”), the allocation of the amounts of the Loan 
to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be financed for Eligible Expenditures in 
each Category. 
 
Category 
Amount of the Loan 
Allocated 
(expressed in USD) 
Percentage of 
Expenditures to be 
financed 
(1) Part 1 of the Project 
 
 
(a) Civil Works 
 
22,250,000 
 
80% 
(b) Goods 
 
8,600,000 
 
100% of Foreign 
Expenditures and 80% of 
Local Expenditures 
(c) Consultants’ services,     
Non-Consultant Services 
 
and Training 
 
2,200,000 
 
100% 
 
(d) Incremental 
 
Recurrent Costs 
 
600,000 
 
40% 
 
(2) Part 2 of the Project 
 
 
(a) Consultants’ services,  
 
Non-Consultant Services 
 
and Training 
 
2,950,000 
 
100% 
(b) Incremental 
 
Recurrent Costs 
 
400,000 
 
40% 
 
(3) Front-End Fee
 
0
Amount payable pursuant 
to Section 2.04 of this 
Agreement in accordance 
with Section 2.07 (b) of 
the General Conditions  
(4) Premia for Interest Rate Caps and 
Interest Rate Collars 
 
0
Amounts payable 
pursuant to Section 2.08 
(c) of this Agreement 
 
TOTAL AMOUNT 
 
37,000,000  
Page  16
15
For purposes of this table: 
 
(a) 
the term "Incremental Recurrent Costs" means the cost of insurance, utilities, 
repairs and maintenance, salaries of incremental staff and travel for the execution of Project 
activities by Government Agencies and/or SENASA; and  
 (b) 
the term “Training” means expenditures (other than those for consultants’ 
services) incurred by the Borrower, Participating Provinces and/or SENASA, as approved by the 
Bank on the basis of an annual budget acceptable to the Bank, to finance reasonable 
transportation costs and per-diem of trainees and trainers (if applicable), training registration fees, 
and rental of training facilities and equipment under the Project. 
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period
.
1.
 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section no withdrawal shall be made: 
 
(a)  
from the Loan Account until the Bank has received payment in full of the Front-
end Fee, if applicable; 
 
(b)  
for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement, except that withdrawals 
up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $7,400,000 equivalent may be made for payments made 
prior to this date but on or after April 1, 2006 (but in no case more than one year prior to the date 
of this Agreement) for Eligible Expenditures for Categories (1) and (2), if the pertinent conditions 
set forth in the Original Loan Agreement and/or this Agreement have been met (as the case may 
be); and: 
 
(c)  
for Eligible Expenditures under Category (1) unless:
 
(i)  
the Borrower and the Bank have approved the pertinent Subproject; and 
 
(ii)  
for Provincial Subprojects: (A) the Participating Province has entered 
 
into a Subsidiary Loan Agreement with the Borrower (or, if 
 
applicable, amended the same to increase the amount of the Subsidiary 
 
Loan), and the Bank has received an opinion or opinions satisfactory to 
 
the Bank of counsel acceptable to the Bank, showing, on behalf of the 
 
Borrower and the Participating Province, that: (1) the Subsidiary Loan 
 
Agreement (or its amendment thereto as referred to herein) has been duly 
 
authorized or ratified by, and executed and delivered on behalf of, the 
 
Participating Province and the Borrower, and is legally binding upon 
 
them in accordance with its terms; and (2) that all action referred to in 
 
subparagraph (C) below has been taken; (B) the Participating Province 
 
has established, staffed and funded the EPDA and UEP in accordance 
 
with the Provincial Subproject proposal and an agreement for the 
 
execution of the Provincial Subproject acceptable to the Bank has been
 
entered into between EPDA and UEP; and (C) the Participating Province 
Page  17
16
 
has taken all action necessary to permit the procurement of goods, works 
 
and consultants’ services required for a Provincial Subproject and to be 
 
financed under a Subsidiary Loan. 
2
.
The Closing Date is November 30, 2008. 
Page  18
17
SCHEDULE 3 
Amortization Schedule 
1. 
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the 
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal Payment Date 
(
“Installment Share”).  If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully withdrawn as of the first 
Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on each 
Principal Payment Date shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying:  (a) Withdrawn Loan 
Balance as of the first Principal Payment Date; by (b) the Installment Share for each Principal 
Payment Date, such repayable amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts 
referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion applies. 
Principal Payment Date 
Installment Share 
(Expressed as a Percentage)
 
On each January 1 and July 1 
 
Beginning July 1, 2012  
 
through January 1, 2022 
 
5% 
2.  
If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal 
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on each Principal 
Payment Date shall be determined as follows: 
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of the first 
Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the Withdrawn Loan Balance as of such date in 
accordance with paragraph 1 of this Schedule. 
(b) 
Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be repaid on 
each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such withdrawal in amounts determined by 
the Bank by multiplying the amount of each such withdrawal by a fraction, the numerator of 
which is the original Installment Share specified in the table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule for 
said Principal Payment Date (“Original Installment Share”) and the denominator of which is the 
sum of all remaining Original Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after 
such date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts referred to 
in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion applies.
 
3. 
(a) 
Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two calendar months prior to any 
Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the principal amounts payable 
on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as withdrawn and outstanding on the second Principal 
Page  19
18
Payment Date following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each Principal Payment 
Date commencing with the second Principal Payment Date following the date of withdrawal. 
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if at any 
time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which invoices are issued on or after the 
respective Principal Payment Date, the provisions of such sub-paragraph shall no longer apply to 
any withdrawals made after the adoption of such billing system.  
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a Currency 
Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an Approved Currency, the 
amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is repayable on any Principal Payment Date 
occurring during the Conversion Period, shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such 
amount in its currency of denomination immediately prior to the Conversion by either: (i) the 
exchange rate that reflects the amounts of principal in the Approved Currency payable by the 
Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to the Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so 
determines in accordance with the Conversion Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the 
Screen Rate.  
5. 
If the Withdrawn Loan Balance is denominated in more than one Loan Currency, the 
provisions of this Schedule shall apply separately to the amount denominated in each Loan 
Currency, so as to produce a separate amortization schedule for each such amount. 
 
Page  20
19
APPENDIX 
Definitions 
 
Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the Original Loan 
Agreement and the General Conditions have the respective meaning therein set forth, and are 
hereby incorporated to this Agreement. Additionally, the following definitions also constitute an 
integral part of this Agreement: 
(1) 
“Category” means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement. 
(2) 
“Consultant Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in May 2004. 
(3) 
“EMP” means the environmental management plan dated April 30, 2004 for the 
Línea 
Tapenagá
 Works (as defined below). 
(4) 
“Environmental Manual” manual referred to in Section 3.07 of the Original Loan 
Agreement, as the same has been, or may be, amended from time to time with the agreement of 
the Bank.  
(5) 
“General Conditions” means the “International Bank for Reconstruction and 
Development General Conditions for Loans”, dated July 1, 2005. 
(6) 
“Implementation Letter” means the letter of even date herewith from the Borrower to the 
Bank setting forth the Monitoring Indicators (as defined below), as the same may be amended 
from time to time with the agreement of the Bank. 
(7) 
“Institutional Agreement” means the agreement referred to in Section I.C of Schedule 2 
to this Agreement. 
(8) 
“IPDP” means the Province of Chaco’s indigenous peoples development plan dated 
March 27, 2004 for the 
Línea Tapenagá
 Works. 
(9) 
“
Línea Tapenagá
 Works” means a Provincial Subproject which consists of drainage and 
agricultural development investments in the basin of Río Tapenagá within the Province of Chaco. 
(10) 
“Monitoring Indicators” means the Project’s performance and impact indicators set forth 
in an annex to the Implementation Letter (as defined above).   
 
Page  21
20
(11) 
“National Subprojects” means Subprojects (as defined below) of national or regional 
importance carried out by the Borrower or by decentralized agencies and/or by SENASA (as 
defined below). 
(12 ) 
“Non-Consultant Services” means services under the Project, which services will be bid 
and contracted on the basis of performance of measurable physical outputs. 
(13) 
“Operational Manual” means the manual referred to in Section 3.07 of the Original Loan 
Agreement, as the same has been, or may be, amended from time to time with the agreement of 
the Bank.  
 (14) 
“Original Loan Agreement” means the loan agreement for the Original Project between 
the Bank and the Borrower, dated January 20, 1998 (Loan No. 4150-AR), as amended to the date 
of this Agreement. 
(15) 
“Original Project” means the Project described in Schedule 2 to the Original Loan 
Agreement. 
(16) 
“Procurement Guidelines” means the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans 
and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in May 2004. 
(17) 
“Procurement Plan” means the Borrower’s procurement plan for the Project, dated 
December 11, 2006 and referred to in paragraph 1.16 of the Procurement Guidelines and 
paragraph 1.24 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be updated from time to time in 
accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs. 
(18) “SENASA” 
means 
Servicio Nacional de Sanidad y Calidad Agroalimentaria
,
an entity 
vested with legal personality pursuant to the Borrower’s Presidential Decree No. 1585/1996 of 
December 19, 1996 (as the same has been amended to the date of this Agreement) which is 
responsible for, 
inter alia
,
the execution of sanitary and phytosanitary national policies. 
(19) 
“Subproject” means a subproject for water resource management, rural infrastructure, 
technology development and transfer, plant health, market development, agricultural information, 
provincial agricultural institution building, production and regulation of food products, animal 
health (which may include Avian Influenza (AI) risk-prevention activities, and strengthening of 
field epidemiological surveillance structures for AI to minimize the sanitary impact on human 
health and the economic impact on production through, 
inter alia
:
(a) expansion of the 
Borrower’s active epidemiological surveillance system (which system is used to prevent and 
mitigate animal diseases)  to include wild migratory bird populations and backyard poultry 
production in international border regions of the Borrower’s territory; (b) improvement of a rapid 
alert system for AI; (c) standardization of technical criteria throughout the rapid alert system; and 
(d) improvement of the equipment of selected SENASA field offices, agents and laboratories 
(such as, vehicles, boats, field gear for SENASA’s personnel that will be carrying out monitoring 
and surveillance activities, laboratory equipment and supplies, and any other equipment 
acceptable to the Bank), or for another agricultural development activity, that meets the 
Page  22
21
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and the Subproject 
Eligibility Criteria, and that has been approved by the Borrower and the Bank. 
(20) 
“UEC” means 
Unidad Ejecutora Central
,
the unit referred to in Section I.B of Schedule 2 
to this Agreement. 
 
