FILE Copy
DOCUMENT OF INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Not For Public Use
Report No. 63a-LE
APPRAISAL OF
A HIGHWAY PROJECT
LEBANON
March 29, 1973
Regional Projects Department
Europe, Middle East, and
North Africa Regional Office
This report was prepared for official use only by the Bank Group. It may not be published, quoted
or cited without Bank Group authorization. The Bank Group does not accept responsibility for the
accuracy or completeness of the report.



FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31
CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit                  =     Lebanese Pound (LL)
US$                            =     LL 2.70
US$0.37                        =        Ll
US$370.37                            LL 1,000
US$370,37                      =      L  1 million
SYSTEM OF WEIGHTS AND MEASURES: METRIC
Metric                               British/US equivalent
1 meter (m)                    =     3.28 feet (ft)
1 kilometer (kn)               =     0.62 (mi)
1 square kilometer (km2)       =     0.387 square mile (sq mi)
1 metric ton (m ton)           =     2,204 pounds (lb)
ACRONYMS AND ABBREVIATIONS
ACE               -            Associatiated Consulting Engineering Company
BCEOM             -            Bureau Central d'Etudes pour les
Equipements d'Outre-Mer
CEC              -             Consolidated Engineering Company
CEGP              -            Conseil Executif des Grands Frojets
DGHB             -             Directorate General of Highways and
Buildings
LE               -             Directorate of Highways
NPWT              -            Ministry of Public Works and Transport
ADr               -            Average Daily Traffic
km/h             -             kilometers per hour
1/ The Lebanese Pound is a freely fluctuating currency. In this report,
conversions between Lebanese Pounds and U.S. Dollars were based on
the exchange rate existing at the time of loar, negotiations in March
1973.



APPRAISAL OF
A HIGHWAY PROJECT
LEBANON
CONTENTS
Page No.
SUMMARY .......................................                iii
I.    INTRODUCTION ...................................                  1
II.    THE TRANSPORTATION SECTOR .....            ................1
A.    The Country and its Economy ..............1
B.    The Modes ................................                  2
C.   Planning, Financing, and Coordination .....                  4
III.    HIGHWAYS         ..............................                   5
A.    The Network ..............................                  5
B.    Characteristics and Growth of Traffic                       6
C.    Administration ...........................                  7
D.    Planning .................................                  7
E.   Financing ................................                   8
F.    Engineering ..............................                  8
G.    Construction .............................                  9
H.   Maintenance  ..............................                  9
IV.    THE PROJECT ...................................                   9
A.   Description  ..............................                  9
B.    Cost Estimates and Foreign Exchange
Component ...........................               12
C.    Execution ................................                 14
D.  Financing ................... 16
E.  Disbursements .................                              16
V.    ECONOMIC EVALUATION ...........................                  17
A.    Tabarja-Tripoli Expressway ....            ...........     17
B.    Other Project Elements  .....            ..............    19
VI.    AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION .........                  19
This report was prepared by Messrs. N. E. Krogh-Poulsen (Economist) and
R. Paraud (Engineer), Mr. Snorri Hallgrimsson (Engineer) assisted in pre-
paring the report.



CONTENTS (CONTINUED)
TABLES
I - Traffic on Railways and at Beirut Port and Airport, 1961-70
2 - Length of Highway Network, 1963 and 1971
3 - Motor Vehicle Fleet, 1961-71
4 - Gasoline Consumption, 1961-71
5 - Highway Revenues and Expenditures, 1967-71
6 - Design Standards for the Tabarja-Tripoli Expressway
7 - Traffic Between Tabarja and Tripoli, 1971-96
8 - Vehicle Operating Costs, 1976
9 -  Estimated Economic Returns of Construction of Tabarja-Tripoli
Expressway
ANNEX
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
CHARTS
Organization Chart of the "Conseil Executif des Grands Projets"
Organization Chart of the Ministry of Public Works and Transport
MAP
Transportation Infrastructure



APPRAISAL OF
A HIGHWAY PPROJECT
LEBANON
SUMMARY
i.        The major part of Lebanon's population and economic activity is
located along the coast in and around the capital, Beirut, which is also the
site of the biggest harbor in the country and its only civilian airport. Most
transport along the coast, as well as transit traffic origins in or is destined
for Beirut. The main domestic transport arteries are the North-South corridor
along the coast and the East-West corridor between Beirut and Syria border
which also serves transport to and from Syria, Jordan and Iraq. Both corridors
are served by road and rail.
ii.       The main traffic mode is road transport.  The highway network,
comprising about 7,100 km, is basically well developed. However, serious
congestion has developed on the coastal and Beirut-Syrian Border highways.
The railway network is small (413 km), in poor condition, has declined steadily
in importance and operates with a large deficit. There are no navigable
rivers. Coastal shipping is negligible. The small size of the country leaves
no scope for internal air transnort.
iii.      The Government's Development Plan (1972-77) envisages a total in-
vestment of LL 350 million in the transport sector, or about 20% of total
proposed public investments over the plan Deriod. Of this total, LL 250 mil-
lion have been earmarked for the highway sector, for improving the most
congested parts of the highway network.
iv.       Planning in the transport sector is carried out by the various
agencies resnonsible for the different modes. Until recently, investment
decisions were made on an ad hoc basis. During the last five years, however,
a number of highway projects have been subject to technical and economical
feasibility studies; and a study to determine the future development of the
port of Beirut is about to begin. There is little coordination between
agencies concerned with planning of investments in transport infrastructure.
This has not been a problem in the past because the transport system is simple.
However, as traffic volumes increase rapidly large investments are required
in transport infrastructure, which should be properly planned and coordinated.
The Government is aware of this and intends to initiate studies to review
the operations of the railways, and coordinate a study to be made under the
project of a road bypassing the Beirut metropolitan area with urban and other
transport studies in the area.
v.        Under the proposed project the most urgent transport infrastructure
needs in Lebanon's transport sector will be met. Construction of the Tabarja-
Tripoli expressway will provide much needed relief for the presently congested



- ii-
two-lane coastal highway.  Also included in the project are pre-investment
studies of other congested highways, such as for a road bvpassing Beirut and
for the Beirut-Syrian border highway.
vi.       There is no formalized planning of highway improvement; the quality
and level of maintenance is unsatisfactory and highway administration needs
iinnrovement. A study of the organization and operation of the highway
administration under the Ministry of Public Works and Transport will be car-
ried out under the project with a view to identifying the needs for organiza-
tional improvements and staffing and preparing a highway improvement and
maintenance program, including a program for equipment purchases.  Preliminary
plans for the establishment in Batroun (29 km from Tabarja) of a maintenance
center will be reviewed by the consultants for the highway organization and
maintenance study. Construction of the maintenance center and procurement
of equinment therefor will be financed under the present project.
vii.      Two Government authorities will be responsible for execution of
the project:
(a) The Conseil Executif des Grands Projets for construction
of the Tabarja-Tripoli Expressway and of a maintenance
center in Batroun with procurement of related maintenance
equipment, as well as for the administration of
the Beirut bypass studies and the detailed engineering
of the Beirut-Syrian Border highway: and
(b) the Ministry of Public Works and Transportation for the
highway organization and maintenance study.
The project is expected to be completed by late 1976.
viii.     The total project cost is estimated at US$64.2 million equivalent
(excluding US$13.3 million for right-of-way acquisition) with a foreign
exchange component of US$33.0 million or about 52%. The foreign exchange cost
will be financed by the Bank loan and the local costs will be provided by
the Government. The Government has asked the Bank to provide retroactive
financing for construction of a first section of the expressway which is
expected to start in January 1973, and an amount of US$800,000 is included
in the project for this purpose.
ix.       The Economic Return on the investments in the expressway, including
time savings for non-leisure travel, is calculated at 21%, and the First Year
Economic Return at 13%, indicating that construction is economically well
justified and appropriately timed. If time savings were excluded from the
benefits and assuming an increase in construction costs of 15% and a decrease
in benefits of 25% the Economic Return would still be 11%. Benefits accruing
from the preinvestment and maintenance studies have not been quantified.
These elements, however, are clearly justified since they will contribute
to increased efficiency in highway administration, as well as assist the
Government in the necessary improvements, exnansion and maintenance of its
hiighway network.



APPRAISAL OF
A HIGHWAY PROJECT
LEBANON
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      In 1967, the Government of Lebanon asked the Bank to participate
in the financing of a highway project. The project was appraised in 1968
but was not carried beyond that stage because the Government could not pro-
vide the necessary local funds. In early 1972 the Government informed the
Bank that this problem had been overcome. A project preparation mission
visited the country in July 1972 and agreed with the Government on the scope
and arrangements for updating the 1969 project preparation studies.
1.02      The main purpose of the proposed project, which would be the first
lending by the Bank Group in the transportation sector in Lebanon, is: to
increase the capacity of the most congested section of the existing coastal
highway; to carry out economic and technical studies of high priority highway
projects which could be suitable for future Bank financing; and to carry out
studies to identify necessary institutional improvement in the transport
sector. The project includes consulting services suitable for UNDP financing.
The Government has indicated, however, that it wants to use UNDP funds for
other high priority sectors and these services are therefore included in the
project.
1.03      The appraisal is based on the feasibility study and detailed
engineering for the Tabarja-Tripoli expressway prepared by the French con-
sulting firm Bureau Central d'Etudes pour les Equipments d'Outre-Mer (BCEOM)
in association with two Lebanese consultants, Associated Consulting Engineers
(ACE) and Consolidated Engineering Company (CEC); information obtained from
the Government; and the findings of a Bank appraisal mission to Lebanon in
September 1972 consisting of Messrs. N.E. Krogh-Poulsen (Economist) and
R. Paraud (Engineer). Mr. S. Hallgrimsson (Engineer) assisted in preparing
the report.
II. THE TRANSPORTATION SECTOR
A.   The Country and its Economy
2.01      Lebanon is located on the Eastern Mediterranean coast with Syria
to the no5th and east and Israel to the south. It covers an area of about
10,500 km and is 190 km in length north-south with a maximum width of only
about 90 km east-west. Nearly three-quarters of the country is made up of
two mountain ranges: the Lebanon Mountains which run parallel to the Medi-
terranean, leaving only a narrow coastal strip, and the Anti-Lebanon Moun-
tains which form the eastern boundary with Syria. Between these two ranges
at an altitude of about 1,000 m lies the fertile Bekaa Valley which consti-
tutes Lebanon's main agricultural area.



- 2 -
2.02      The major part of population and economic activity in Lebanon
is located along the coast which is dominated by Beirut, the country's
capital, its most important population and economic center, its biggest
harbor and its only civil airport. The population of Lebanon is estimated
at about 2.8 million, of which 1.4 million live in the Beirut metropolitan
area and 325,000 in Tripoli, the second largest city in the country. The
major sectors of the economy are commerce, transport and services, includ-
ing tourism. Together these sectors contribute about 68% to the gross
domestic product.
B.   The Modes
2.03      Beirut is the origin or destination of most transport along the
coast as well as of transit transport to and from Syria, Jordan, Iraq, and
other Middle East countries which route part of their international trade
through the port of Beirut. The north-south transport corridor along the
coast and the east-west transport corridor between Beirut and Damascus there-
fore are the main arteries of the transport system. Both corridors are
served by highway and railway. There are no navigable rivers, coastal ship-
ing is negligible and the small size of the country leaves no scope for in-
ternal air transport.
2.04      Highways are the main modes of transport.  Mountainous terrain,
short distances, and the need for widespread distribution of goods in small
quantities to scattered mountain communities have favored the development
of road transport. While, apart from the main transport corridors, Lebanon's
highway network is generally adequate for serving present traffic volumes,
serious congestion is developing on the north-south coastal highway and on
the east-west highway between Beirut and Damascus. The Government is, there-
fore, giving high priority in its road investment program to improving these
routes.
(a) Highways
2.05      Details of the highway sector are discussed in Chapter III.
(b) Railways
2.0f      The Lebanese railways are operated by the semi-autonomous Office
des Chemins de Fer de l'Etat Libanais, which is controlled by the Ministry
of Public Works and Transport (NPWT).  The system comprises 413 km of line
of which 331 km are standard gauge and 82 kn narrow gauge.  The narrow gauge
section, built in 1895, is part of the rack railway from Beirut to Damascus.
The main standard gauge line, built in 1944 for military purposes to esta-
blish a railway connection betweer Egypt and Syria, runs along the coast
from the Israeli border through Beirut and Tripoli to join the Syrian and
Turkish railways. Between Zahrani and the Israeli border (about 47 km) this
line has completely deteriorated and is not being used. A second standard



- 3 -
gauge line, built in 1902, runs from Rayak in the Bekaa Valley to Homs and
is carrying almost no traffic. Neither of the lines allow high speeds: the
narrow gauge line operates at average speeds of 20 km/h and the standard
gauge lines at about 45 km/h. Both infrastructure and equipment are worn
out and generally obsolete.
2.07      Freight traffic has been steadily declining in recent years, and
amounted to 258,000 m tons in 1970 (195,000 m tons on the coastal and Bekaa
Valley lines and 63,000 m tons on the Beirut-Damascus line) (Table 1). On
the standard gauge lines three commodities, cement (60%), live animals (26%),
and general merchandise (12%) account for 98% of total freight traffic. On
the Beirut-Damascus line, two commodities, phosphate (48%) from Jordan and
general merchandise (21%) account for 69% of total freight traffic. Total
passenger traffic amounted to 76,000 in 1970 (60,000 passengers on the
standard gauge line and 16,000 passengers on the narrow gauge line). Aver-
age hauls are between 80 km and 100 km for freight and passengers. A payroll
of about 1,100 employees and obsolete equipment and infrastructure combined
with steadily decreasing volumes of traffic has brought about an operating
ratio of 440 in 1971 resulting from expenditures of LL 15.8 million and
revenues of only LL 3.6 million.
2.08      The prospects of improving the financial position of the railways
are remote. Present total expenditures per ton/km are LL 0.527. If only
direct variable operational expenditures are regarded, expenditures per
ton/km amount to LL 0.132, which is more than twice the amount charged per
ton/km by truck on the coastal road. The present track with steep grades
and sharp curves does not allow speeds that would make passenger transport
by railway a realistic alternative to road transport, while short transport
hauls do not allow the railway much room for competition with highway freight
transport, even if rolling stock and the general service level were improved.
The Government is aware of the railway problems and is initiating studies to
review present operations and recommend future action (para 2.15).
(c) Ports
2.09      Lebanon has two main ports, Beirut and Tripoli, of which the former
is by far the more important. Both ports are controlled by the Ministry of
Hydraulic and Electrical Resources. The port of Tripoli is administered by a
semiautonomous port authority directly under this Ministry, whereas the port
of Beirut is operated by a private concessionary company. Total freight
traffic, exclusive of oil, at Beirut increased by 5.8% per annum during the
last decade and amounted to 3.0 million tons in 1970   (Table 1).  Due to the
closure of the Suez Canal, transit traffic especially from Iraq and Jordan
increased markedly since 1967 and was about 900,000 tons or 30% of the total
volume in 1970. Total freight traffic at Tripoli is growing at an average of
15% per annum and amounted to 650,000 tons in 1970. The capacity of the port
of Beirut is becoming insufficient to handle the increasing traffic volumes
and will be expanded by construction of a new quay and extension of the exist-
ing breakwater in 1973-1974. Proposals for a study (to be financed by the



- 4 -
Government) of a fourth basin and for reorganization of the existing port
administration have been invited and the studies are scheduled to start
shortly. The port of Tripoli can handle present traffic volumes and no invest-
ments have been specified in the 1972-1977 Development Plan.
(d) Civil Aviation
2.10      Beirut has Lebanon's only civil airport, which is one of the most
important in the Middle East. It is administered by the Directorate of Civil
Aviation under the Ministry of Public Works and Transport. The Directorate
is well organized and efficiently operating. Traffic growth has been rapid.
Passenger traffic increased by 9% per annum during the last decade and amounted
to 1.6 million passengers in 1970. Freight traffic increased by 14.5% per
annum during the last five years and amounted to 58,000 tons in 1970 (Table
1). Although the capacity of Beirut airport is adequate at present, an invest-
ment program has been proposed for expansion of the airport and construction
of a new runway, which would enable it to accommodate increasing traffic
volumes.
2.11      There are two Lebanese commercial airlines, Middle East Airlines-
Airliban (NEA) and the all cargo Trans Mediterranean Airlines (TMA). MEA
is the biggest of the two with 16 jet aircraft of various sizes (Boeing 707
and 720, Caravelle and Comet). MEA operates to all continents. TMA has
4 Boeing 707 aircraft and 5 DC-6 propeller aircraft. Both airlines appear
to be efficiently operated.
(e) Pipelines
2.12      Two important oil pipelines terminate in Lebanon, one at Tripoli
from Iraq, and the other near Saida from Saudi  Arabia. Yearly throuigh-put
of oil in 1969 was about 45 million tons. The pipelines remain largely
outside the Lebanese economy, except for some employment and receipts from
royalties which in 1969 amounted to about LL 35 million.
C.   Planning, Financing and Coordination
2.13      A national development plan covering the six-year period 1972-1977
was approved by the Council of Ministers in January 1972. Although the plan
has not yet been legally enacted it is an important guideline for public in-
vestments and is generally being taken into consideration by the various
ministries and autonomous agencies when preparing their programs and budgets.
Total proposed public investments under the development plan amount to LL
1,740 million, or on the average about LL 290 million annually. Total in-
vestments in the transport sector proposed in the development plan amount to
LL 350 million, of which LL 250 million is allocated to highways and LL 50
million each to the port and airport of Beirut. No investments have been
proposed for the railways. Considering that the proposed investments for
the Tabarja-Tripoli expressway and the Lebanese part of the Beirut-Damascus



highway alone amount to more than LL 270 million, and that the major part
of these investments should be completed in the plan period, the amounts
proposed for highways are low.
2.14      The development plan stresses the necessity for rational investment
planning. Planning in the transport sector is carried out by the agencies
responsible for the various modes. Until recently investment decisions were
made on an ad hoc basis, in which political considerations rather than poten-
tial economic benefits played a significant role.  During the last five years,
however, a number of highway projects have been subject to technical and
economical feasibility studies; and a study to determine the future develop-
ment of the port of Beirut is about to begin. Minor projects, including
improvement and maintenance works for highways are not subject to formalized
planning and continue to be determined on an ad hoc basis. In order to im-
prove highway planning the Government has requested inclusion in the project
of a highway maintenance and organization study which will include prepara-
tio'n of a five-year highway improvement and maintenance program.
2.15      Little coordination exists between the various agencies concerned
with planning of investments in transport infrastructure. This has not been
a problem in the past because the transport system is simple, but problems
are now arising on railways and transportation in the Beirut Metropolitan
Area. The railway problems have been outlined in paras. 2.06 to 2.08. The
Government is aware of these problems and in addition to a preliminary review
carried out in 1969, it has assigned the Ministry of Planning to carry out
a study of the railway, which may serve as a basis for the Government's decision
on future railway operations. Assurances have been obtained from the Govern-
ment that it will review with the Bank the conclusions and recommendations
of the study and the proposed implementation plan, if any.
2.16      With the proposed improvements of the main highway connections of
Lebanon, all originating in Beirut, the pressure of traffic on the central
business district of Beirut must be alleviated through a bypass. The Govern-
ment has requested inclusion of a study of a bypass in the project; this
study will be coordinated with the study for the enlargement of the port of
Beirut (para 2.09) as well as with a study of urban development in Beirut
being undertaken by the city of Beirut with the assistance of a group of
French experts, financed by French bilateral aid.
III. HIGHWAYS
A.   The Network
3.01      The length of the highway network is about 7,100 km (Table 2).
About 2,000 km are classified as international and primary roads, and the
remainder as secondary and local. The north-south coastal highway and the
east-west Beirut-Syrian border highway with its northern branch through the



Bekaa Valley are the trunk roads of the highway network. Road density is
highest on the coastal plain and on the western slopes of the Lebanon
Mountains, where the majority of the population is located.
3.02      More than 80% of the highway network, including all primary roads,
consists of two-lane bituminous paved roads, many of them developed from
tracks with only a few engineered improvements. They are usually narrow
and winding, with steep grades in the mountainous areas where landslides,
rockfalls and snow in the winter frequently interrupt traffic. Along the
coast, roads are subject to periodic flooding and to accumulation of water
on the surface due to poor drainage. Structures vary in width, load capacity
and condition. Wayside encumbrances and poor signalling further limit the
capacity of some important road sections. Reconstruction to higher standards
of part of the primary road system is required, but most of the highway net-
work could be substantially improved through better maintenance and relatively
minor betterment works.
B.   Characteristics and Growth of Traffic
3.03      Between 1961 and 1971 the vehicle fleet increased at an average
annual growth rate of 9.5% from about 66,000 to 164,000 vehicles (Table 3).
The number of passenger cars has increased most rapidly, and now represents
89% of the total fleet. Trucks account for 10% and buses for 1% of the
vehicle fleet. Gasoline consumption has increased at a rate of 11.6%
annually from 1961 to 1971, in line with the growth of private cars and
taxis over this period (Table 4).
3.04      The growth in the vehicle fleet is paralleled by the growth of
road traffic. Traffic counts carried out by the Directorate of Highways (DH)
on the main roads permanently and on the remainder of the highway system
seasonally show a 13% annual increase in Average Daily Traffic (ADT) on the
coastal highway between Beirut and Tripoli from 1960 to 1966, and a 10% annual
increase from 1966 to 1970. ADT of 5,000 vehicles are common on the primary
roads, reaching levels of more than 30,000 vehicles near Beirut.
3.05      Public freight and passenger transport is subject to Government
regulation. At the end of 1971, taxi licenses numbered 10,645, and truck and
bus licenses 3,477 and 618 respectively.  The number of licenses appears to be
adequate for the present transport needs of the country. Public transport is
generally in the hands of small operators with one to five vehicles, except
for the operation of bus transport in the city of Beirut by the Government.
3.06      Public passenger transport in Lebanon is generally undertaken by
taxis. The taxis operate all over Lebanon in direct competition with each
other and with the buses in Beirut. Their competition is based on comfort,
convenience and speed. They charge rates which are usually about twice
those of the buses. Fares for public bus transport in Beirut are controlled
by the Government; they are below cost for social and competitive reasons.



-7-
Taxi fares are also controlled by the Government, and seem to cover cost and
a reasonable profit margin for the operator. Truck rates are not controlled.
3.07      Regulations regarding traffic and vehicle dimensions are generally
satisfactory, but permissible axle loads are rather high (14 tons). Regula-
tions are rarely enforced. The consultants for the highway organization and
maintenance study will review the traffic regulations and propose measures
needed for effective enforcement thereof.
C.   Administration
3.08      Responsibility for construction and maintenance of highways is
shared by the Directorate General of Highways and Buildings (DGHB) and the
Conseil Executif des Grands Projets (CEGP). The DGHB is one of the General
Directorates of the MPWT, whereas CEGP is a semi-autonomous agency under the
direct supervision of the Minister of Public Works and Transport.
3.09      The CEGP is concerned with major construction. projects of buildings,
electricity, ports, highways, and river flood control, which are assigned
to it by the Council of Ministers. It was created in June 1961 as a
specialized agency for particularly large projects iwich could -- by operating
outside the civil service structure -- employ qualified professional personnel
at competitive salaries without having to increase the size or salaries of
the permanent civil service. It has a staff of about 20 engineers and employs
consultants for most design and supervision work. CEGP's organization is
shown in Chart World Bank 7147(R). So far projects under its responsibility
have been properly executed.
3.10      Except for the major projects assigned to the CEGP, responsibility
for planning, design and maintenance of highways is entrusted to the DGHB.
The DGHB is divided into two directorates, one for buildings and one for
highways. The DH has divisions for highway planning and programming, engineer-
ing, construction, maintenance, highway safety and a highway laboratory. For
maintenance it operates partly through four Regional Public Works Directorates
(Chart World Bank 7148(R)). Despite a sufficient supply of competent nationals
the DH has not been able to attract and retain capable staff and has therefore
been unable to carry out its duties efficiently. Low salaries and lack of
opportunity to participate in the important works reserved for the CEGP
prejudice the recruitment and retention of capable professionals.  This
problem will be reviewed by consultants under the proposed highway organi-
zation and maintenance study (para. 4.11).
D.   Planning
3.11      Economic analysis of highway investments received little attention
until in 1967, when the Government asked the Bank to participate in the
financing of the Tabarja-Tripoli expressway project. A feasibility study
was prepared for this project followed, between 1967 and 1971, by feasibility
and engineering studies of other important roads. These studies were carried
out by consultants (para. 3.15).



-8-
3.12      There is no general system of planning, budgeting and control of
highway works; no centralized highway inventory kept up-to-date; and little
analysis of traffic counts and other data. The Government realizes that
there is a need to improve highway data collection and analysis to provide
a proper basis for highway investment planning.  To achieve this it has
agreed that consultants should review and recommend improvements in the
organization and operations of the DH under the proposed highway organization
and maintenance study (para. 4.11).
E.   Financing
3.13      Funds for the DH for highway maintenance and improvement works are
appropriated each year from the recurrent budget while funds for the CEGP are
drawn from the capital budget and are allocated by special laws on a case by
case basis. Taxes on highway users consist of taxes and duties on vehicles
and fuel, and vehicle registration fees. Highway expenditures have been
modest and remained largely constant at about LL 44 million from 1967 to 1971,
whereas taxes on ownership and use of vehicles have risen from LL 113 million
in 1967 to LL 174 million in 1971 (Table 5). These charges far exceed what
would be required to pay for adequate current maintenance and required
additions to the highway network.
F.   Engineering
3.14      The DH has adopted an adequate range of design standards for
road construction which take into account terrain, traffic and road class.
The standards follow generally accepted engineering practices and can be
applied with flexibility to suit specific conditions.  When major construc-
tion works are to be carried out, as in the case of the present project, the
consultants are requested to develop specific design standards. The standards
for the proposed project prepared by the consultants BCEOM-ACE-CEC are shown
in Table 6. They are acceptable.
3.15      The DH only undertakes design on a limited scale and mainly for
improvement works. Design for major construction works is carried out by
consultants supervised by the CEGP. About ten local consulting firms are
capable of preparing engineering design for highway works. For specialized
or difficult designs, however, foreign consultants have so far been engaged.
The detailed engineering of the Tabarja-Tripoli expressway (57.5 km), the
center line locations of the section Tabarja-Antelias (12 km) and the Beirut
Bypass (Antelias-Khalde - 18 km), and the preliminary engineering, including
some detailed engineering, of the Khalde-Tyr highway (about 68 km) were
prepared by a group led by BCEOM (France) associated with two Lebanese firms.
The preliminary engineering of the Beirut-Syrian border highway (about 60 km)
was carried out by a group led by X. u. D. Dorsch (Germany) associated with
one American and two Lebanese firms.



-9-
G.   Construction
3.16      During recent years construction of new highways in Lebanon has
been carried out on a very limited scale since efforts were mainly concentrated
in improving the existing network. Construction is generally carried out
through unit price contracts, awarded on the basis of competitive bidding.
The MPWT has a register of contracting firms classified according to their
capital, equipment, personnel and working capabilities. There are no
restrictions for the registration of foreign firms, which are accepted on the
basis of prequalification carried out for each major work. Minor government-
financed construction and improvement works are normally supervised by DH
staff, whereas sitpervision of major works is carried out by consultants
under the control of the CEGP.
H.   Maintenance
3.17      Routine maintenance is carried out by force account through the
regional Directorates and periodic maintenance, consisting mainly of
bituminous resurfacing, by the maintenance division of the DH. The useful
life of the surfacing is often short due to the inferior quality of
aggregate and, although the operations are highly mechanized, they can
meet only about half of the requirements. Maintenance operations are
inadequately costed and do not provide a clear statement of maintenance
expenditures. Budgetary allocations, averaging about LL 8 million per year,
are insufficient for proper maintenance of the highway system. The main-
tenance equipment fleet is inadequate and part of the equipment is obsolete.
During recent years, however, about LL 500,000 per year has been spent for
the gradual replacement of worn-out equipment; however, this is not suffi-
cient to compensate for equipment depreciation. The Government is aware
that highway maintenance should be improved and consultants will review
present highway maintenance under the highway organization and maintenance
study (para. 4.11).
IV. THE PROJECT
A.   Description
4.01      The project consists of:
(i)  construction of a four-lane divided expressway between
Tabarja and Tripoli (57.5 km), including supervision
by consultants;
(ii)  construction of a highway maintenance center in Batroun
and purchases of maintenance equipment for the center;



- 10 -
(iii) a feasibility study of the Beirut Bypass Highway (about
18 km) and detailed engineering of priority sections;
(iv)  detailed engineering of the Beirut-Syrian Border highway
(about 60 km); and
(v) studies of highway organization and maintenance, in-
cluding the preparation of a highway improvement and
maintenance program.
(a) Construction of the Tabarja-Tripoli Expressway
4.02      The proposed Tabarja-Tripoli expressway will be the first phase
in the construction of a modern highway network serving the densely popu-
lated coastal plain and providing improved connection with Syria and other
Middle East countries. Between Beirut and Tabarja (16 km) a four-lane
divided highway already exists. The proposed expressway will link with
this section and provide an improved connection between Tabarja and Tripoli,
the second largest city and an important industrial center. The existing
highway from Tabarja to Tripoli now carries over 10,000 vehicles per day.
It has a single two-lane paved carriageway and is poorly aligned and narrow.
It crosses the railway 15 times, passes through many towns and villages and
is heavily congested. After the expressway is opened and through traffic
diverts to it, the existing road will be maintained for local traffic.
4.03      Feasibility studies for the expressway were prepared in 1967
and updated in 1972 by the consultants BCEOM in association with ACE and
CEC. Detailed engineering was carried out by the same consultants. Both
the feasibility studies and the detailed engineering were financed by the
Government. Details of the design standards, which are acceptable, are
shown in Table 6.
4.04      From Tabarja to Batroun the expressway will follow the coastal
plain at the base of the foothills of the Lebanon mountains north of Batroun,
traverse a valley to avoid a rocky and unstable peninsula, pass through a
tunnel under the Col de Hamat, and then rejoin the coastal plain from Chekka
to Tripoli. In designing the expressway, care was taken to find a technically
suitable alignment which would avoid high value agricultural land and
residential areas, and at the same time open views to natural scenery and
historical sites attractive to tourists.
4.05      The expressway will be constructed with separated two-lane carriage-
ways in each direction, full access control and seven grade-separated inter-
changes with the existing highway system. The design provides for future
expansion to six lanes at both ends between Tabarja and Jbeil (13.5 km) and
between El Oalamoun and Tripoli (11 kin) to accommodate traffic growth.
4.06      The Government intends to retain qualified local consultants for
construction supervision. For the Tabarja-Jbeil section of the expressway,
CEGP has already engaged a joint venture of local consultants on terms and



conditions satisfactory to the Bank. To assist the CEGP in administering the
project and in coordinating supervision, the services of two foreign experts,
from the consulting firm which prepared the detailed engineering of the project
road (BCEOM-ACE-CEC) will be provided under the Loan.
(b) The Batroun Maintenance Center and Purchases of Maintenance
Equipment
4.07      Primarily to ensure adequate maintenance of the expressway,
a maintenance center will be established in Batroun, midway between Tabarja
and Tripoli. The consultants (BCEOM-ACE-CEC) have prepared preliminary plans
for the center and the Loan would provide for its construction as well as
for procurement of the necessary maintenance equipment. These plans will
be reviewed bv the consultants for the highway maintenance and organization
study in order to ensure that they are consistent with their recommendations.
During negotiations assurances were obtained from the Government that it will
review with the Bank the recommendations of the consultants regarding the
organization and operation of the maintenance center and the proposed equip-
ment purchases therefor.
(c) Feasibility Studv of the Beirut Bypass and Detailed Engineering
of Priority Sections
4.08      The planned construction during the next decade of three main
highways reaching Beirut from the north (Tabarja-Tripoli) from the south
(Khalde-Tyr) and from the east (Beirut-Syrian Border) makes it necessary to
undertake now a study of a highway to bypass the city, including its con-
nections with the urban street system. In 1970 at the request of the CEGP
the consultants BCEOM-ACE-CEC prepared a feasibility study of the section
Tabarja-Antelias (about 12 km) and a pre-feasibility study-of the4 Beirut
bypass (Antelias-Khalde, about 18 kmn).  These studies were coordinatea wicf
the Directorate of Urban Affairs and the results thereof will eventually be
incorporated in the Master Plan of the City of Beirut now being prepared
with the assistance of French experts. The loan provides for the financing
of a full feasibility study of the Beirut Bypass as well as for detailed
engineering of the priority sections that will be deternined by the feasi-
bility study. During negotiations, assurances were obtained from the Govern-
ment that it will review, with the Bank, the findings of the feasibility
study and agree on the selection of the road sections for detailed engineerine.
(d) Detailed Engineering of the Beirut-Syrian Border Highway
4.09      The Beirut-Syrian Border highway is part of the international
highway between Beirut and Damascus. In addition to international traffic,
the road serves many populated areas and constitutes an important factor
for the economic and social development of Lebanon. Present ADT is 37,000
vehicles on the western slope of the Lebanon Mountains, 15,000 vehicles on
the eastern slope and 4,000 vehicles across the Bekaa Valley. The present



- 12 -
road is winding and has steep grades (up to 14%).  A section of about 15 km
close to Beirut was recently widened to four and six lanes to cope with the
growing traffic demand: the remainder has only two lanes.
4.10      A feasibility study of the highway was prepared between 1969 and
1971 by the associated consultants of X. u. D. Dorsch (Germany), Miller-
Warden-Wiestern (United States), Antoine Salame (Lebanon), and Moustapha
Fawaz (Lebanon). The study showed that early improvement of this highway
would be highly justified. The proposed loan provides for the financing
of detailed engineering to be carried out by consultants. The reconstruction
of the Syrian section of this international highway is expected to start
in late 1973 with financing being provided by an IDA Credit (298-SYR of April
1972).
(e) Highway Organization and Maintenance Study
4.11      The study to be carried out by consultants would include:
(i) preparation of a five-year highway maintenance and
improvement program, based on a detailed road inventory;
(ii) review of the organization and operation of the DH and
recommended improvements thereof including the functional
relationship between the DH and the CEGP; and
(iii)  determination of the need for maintenance and workshop
equipment purchases and for workshop construction necessary
for carrying out the proposed highway maintenance and
improvement program, including a review of the plans for
the Batroun maintenance center and its equipment needs.
The study would be carried out in two stages, each lasting about one year.
The principal objectives of the second stage will be to assist in the
implementation of the highway maintenance program developed under the
first stage.
4.12      During negotiations, assurances were obtained from the Government
that it will: (i) review with the Bank the consultants' recommendations for
the highway organization and maintenance study (ii) carry out the agreed
programs according to a timetable satisfactory to the Bank; (iii) maintain
the highway network adequately in accordance with sound engineering and high-
way practices; and (iv) provide promptly as needed the necessary finance and
facilities for adequate highway maintenance.
B.   Cost Estimates and Foreign Exchange Component
4.13      The total cost of the project (including contingencies but ex-
cluding right-of-way acquisition) is estimated at US$64.2 million. The
foreign exchange component to be financed by the Loan is estimated at
US$33.0 million or about 52%. Detailed costs are shown in the table on page 13.



13. -
Foreign
LL Million               US$ Million       Exchange
Project Elements                 Foreign Local  Total   Foreign  Local Total  Component
A. Construction of           /a
Tabarja-Tripoli Expressway       64.5   64.5  129.0      23.9   23.9  47.8        50
B. Supervision of A.                 2.4    3.6   6.0        0.9     1.3    2.2      40
C. Batroun Maintenance Center
Construction                      o.6    o.6   1.2        0.2     0.2    0.4      50
Procurement of equipment         .L.5      o    1.5       0.6       o    o.6    100
Subtotal                        2.1    o.6    2.7       0.8     0.2    1.0
D. Detailed engineering of
Beirut-Syrian border
highway                           2.8   0.7    3.5        1.0     0.3   1.3       80
E. Feasibility study of Beirut
bypass and detailed engineer-
ing of priority sections          1.2   0.3    1.5        0.4    o.2   o.6        80
F. Highway organization and
maintenance study                 2.0   0.5    2.5        0.7     0.2    0.9      80
G. Contingency allowances
On items A. and B. /b             6.7    6.8   13.5       2.5     2.5    5.o
On all items /c                   7.5    7.0   14.5       2.8     2.6    5.4      55
Subtotal                       14.2  13.8   28.0        5,3     5.1  10.4
Total                          89.2  84.0  173.2       33.0    31.2   64.2      52
/a Rigitof-way amounting to LL 36 million (US$13.3 million) is not included.
7R About 10% physical.
74 About 10% price.



- 14 -
4.14      Construction cost of the expressway has been estimated by the CEGP
on the basis of completed detailed engineering by BCEOM-ACE-CEC, the amounts
of the contracts already awarded for Section 1 (para. 4.19), and unit prices
in recent bidding for similar works. They are satisfactory. Construction
cost estimates for the maintenance center in Batroun, are based on preliminary
engineering prepared by the consultants (BCFOM-ACE-CEC) and cost estimates for
equipment are based on items tentatively identified by these consultants.
Cost of consulting services have been estimated on the basis of preliminary
proposals received by the CEGP and on estimated man-months required.
4.15      Contingency allowances of about 20% for construction and 10% for
all other project items are considered adequate. For construction the con-
tingency provision allows 10% for increases in quantities and 10% for in-
creases of local and foreign prices. The latter is based on 5% average
annual increases in both foreign and local costs, from the time of receiving
bids, until completion of construction. The 10% physical contingency allow-
ance for equipment and consulting services -is for increases in quantities
and man-months respectively.
4.16      The foreign exchange component of construction has been estimated
by the consultants at 50%, based on the assumption that construction will
be carried out by foreign firms, in joint venture with, or subcontracting
part of the works to local firms. The estimates are reasonable. The foreign
exchange component of consulting services for construction supervision has
been estimated on the basis that this will be carried out by local firms,
coordinated by foreign experts (para 4.06). The foreign exchange component
for feasibility studies, detailed engineering and other studies has been
estimated on the assumption that these services would be provided by foreign
firms with some participation of local firms.
C.   Execution
4.17      Execution of the project will be the responsibility of two
Government authorities:
(a)  the CEGP for the Tabarja-Tripoli expressway, the maintenance
center, the procurement of maintenance equipment and the pre-
investment studies of the Beirut-Syrian Border Highway and
the Beirut Bypass; and
(b) the MPWT for the highway organization and maintenance study.
4.18      The consulting services under the project will be provided by
qualified and experienced consultants satisfactory to the Bank. During loan
negotiations the proposed terms of reference for the consultants' services
were agreed. The maintenance equipment will be procured on the basis of
international competitive bidding in accordance with the Bank's "Guidelines



- 15 -
for Procurement". For the purtose of bid evaluation domestic bids for main-
tenance equipment with a local value added not less than 20% would be accorded
a margin of preference by adding 15% of the cost or the actual custom duties,
whichever is lower, to foreign bids.
4.19      International competitive bidding for the construction of Tabarja-
Jbeil section was invited in April 1972 and proposals received in June 1972.
The CEG? awarded construction contracts to the lowest bidders: (i) Domiki
(Greece) US$8.5 million for earthworks and pavement, and (ii) Hourie-Kunz
(Lebanon-Germany) US$1.0 million for construction of major bridges. The
Bank has reviewed the awards and found them to be compatible with Bank re-
quirements. Construction works started in November 1972.
4.20      For the remaining sections of the expressway (Jbeil-Batroun,
Batroun-Chekka and Chekka-Tripoli) the CEGP will award unit price contracts
on the basis of international competitive bidding following the Bank's "Guide-
lines for Procurement". The proposed bidding arrangements were reviewed and
agreed upon during negotiations.
4.21      The CEGP proposes to divide the remaining works into five contracts
to stimulate competition and permit participation by various size contractors.
The sections are:
(a)  earthworks and pavement of the Jbeil-Batroun section
(estimated at about US$7.2 million);
(b)  major bridges on the Jbeil-Batroun section (estimated
cost about US$1.5 million);
(c)  all construction works on the Batroun-Chekka section,
including tunneling works and construction of the
maintenance center in Batroun (estimated cost about
IUS$17.0 million);
(d)  all construction works on the Chekka-Tripoli section
(estimated cost about US$11.7 million); and
(e)  miscellaneous (traffic signs, fencing, etc.) (estimated
cost about US$1.3 million).
It is preferable to execute the Batroun-Chekka section under a single con-
tract, as the earthworks and tunnelling on this section are closely inter-
related.  The size of the contract is expected to attract reputable firms,
experienced in the complicated tunnelling works under the Col de Hamat, for
which special equipment and expertise is required. Difficult construction
conditions in the built-up area near Tripoli will require temporary deviation
of existing roads, extensive utility relocations, etc. This kind of work
cannot be handled efficiently by more than one contractor and, therefore,
the Chekka-Tripoli section will be executed under a single contract.



- 16 -
4.22      Lebanon has a preferential tariff agreement with the League of
Arab States. However, no procurement under the loan is expected to be made
from the participating countries.
4.23      In its 1972 budget, the Government allocated adequate funds for
construction and right-of-way acquisition of the Tabarja-Jbeil section.
The right-of-way for this section has been acquired, and legal procedures
for such acquisition on the remaining sections have been generally completed,
although the actual transfer of title and payment to owners have not yet
taken place. During Loan negotiations the status of right-of-way acquisition
was reviewed with the Government and assurances were obtained that the
necessary right-of-way from Beirut to Trinoli will be acquired and made avail-
able to the contractors as and when needed.
4.24      Works on the Tabarja-Jbeil section were started in November 1972
(para. 4.19), while those on the remaining project sections are expected to
start in the first quarter of 1974. Construction is expected to be completed
by late 1976. Bids for maintenance equipment wTill be invited in early 1975
and procurement is expected to be completed early in 1976. All studies under
the project are expected to start in 1973 and to be completed by late 1976.
4.25      The rate of unemployment in Lebanon not a major problem; in fact
-there is a seasonal importation of laborers (up to 150,000 mainly from Syria)
for agriculture, construction of buildings, and industry. Furthermore, the
expressway construction does not lend itself to labor-intensive methods and
the Government has therefore decided that the method of execution would be
left to the discretion of the bidders, who are expected to use equipment-
intensive methods.
t1.   Financing
4.26      The foreign exchange costs of the project (US33.0 million) will
be financed by the Loan.  Local costs amounting to US$44.5 million equivalent
(including US$13.3 million for right-of-way) will be met by the Government
from budgetary allocations. The Government has asked the Bank for retroactive
financing of the construction of the Tabarja-Jbeil section, (including super-
vision of construction) which started in November 1972 (para. 4.19) and an
amount of US$800,000 has been included in the project for this purpose.
E.   Disbursements
4.27      Disbursements will be made on the basis of 50% of the cost of con-
struction contracts, 100% of the CIF cost of maintenance equipment and the
actual foreign exchange cost of consulting services. Based on this and on
the project execution schedule, an estimated Schedule of Disbursements has
been prepared (Annex). Any surplus remaining in the Loan Account on comple-
tion of the project should be cancelled.



- 17 -
V. ECONOMIC EVALUATION
A.   TabarJa-Tripoli Expressway
5.01      The proposed expresswav aims at alleviating congestion on the
present coastal road and providing a modern route that will satisfy the
increasing transport demand in the Beirut-Tripoli transport corridor. With-
out the proposed facility traffic conditions will become setiously congested
and impede economic development of the area served. The main beneficiaries
of the highway project will be the users of the exrnressway. Because the
project is located in one of the most populous areas of Lebanon and because
motorization is fairly high (one vehicle per 17 inhabitants or one per
every 3 families), the beneficiaries represent a significant portion of the
population. As highway transport is highly taxed (para. 3.13), part of the
benefits from the expressway pro4ect will be redistributed through the Govern-
ment budget, thus also benefiting other sectors of the economy.
5.02      In 1971 ADT on the present Tabarja-Tripoli road ranged from 11,100
to 13,600 (Table 7), with seasonal variations of 15% above and below these
figures.  The traffic was composed of 77% cars and taxis, 5% buses and 18%
trucks. The traffic figures correspond to average daily transport volumes
of about 30,000 passengers (of which about 12,000 are bus passengers) and
about 10,000 tons of goods. The traffic has no marked peak, but is more or
less evenly spread out over the day. Based on an origin destination survey,
it was determined that about 85% of the traffic was through traffic which
would divert to the new facility. Between 1961 and 1966 traffic on the
coastal road increased at an annual rate of 13%. Due to the Middle East war,
however, traffic declined by about 6% in 1967 but since 1968 it has increased
by an average of about 11% per year. The forecast of future traffic on the
Beirut-Tripoli route by the consultants, BCEOM-ACE-CEC, assumes an average
traffic growth rate between 1971 and 1996 of 5.6% per annum, ranging from
9.3% per annum in the first five years to 4.1% in the last five vears (Table 7);
this forecast is considered reasonable.
5.03      Various alternatives were examined for accommodating future highway
traffic volumes. Ungrading of the existing road on its present alignment to
four lanes was eliminated, since it would only provide a temporary solution
and at a cost exceeding that of the proposed expressway. Upgrading of the
railway to a modern facility would require major reconstruction of the exist-
ing poor alignment and substandard infrastructure as well as acquisition of
modern rolling stock. Although a detailed feasibility study was not under-
taken, this was not considered economically feasible since: (i) neither the
passenger volumes involved nor the distribution of traffic throughout the day
would justify a commuter railway line; and (ii) the distance between Beirut
and Tripoli (75 km) is too short and the transport volumes too small to justify
a modern mixed traffic railway line. In addition, a railway line by itself
would not improve traffic conditions in the Beruit Metropolitan Area or in



- 18 -
Tripoli, since railway passengers and goods would still require motor vehicles
to get to and from the railway stations.  While some time in the future
a modern railway line might be required to satisfy the increasing transport
demand, there is no economic justification for rail operations at the present
time or in the near future. The choice was thus limited to a highway on a
new alignment with or without access control. To accommodate the forecast
traffic, a four-lane expressway with full access control, to be used by
through traffic, combined with the existing highway for local traffic, will
provide the best solution.
5.04      In addition to the developmental asnects of the expressway in
satisfying future transport demand (para. 5.01), the following directly quan-
tifiable benefits would result from its construction:
(i)  reductions in vehicle operating costs and time savings
for the traffic, which would otherwise use the congested
coastal road;
(ii)  benefits resulting from the induced or generated traffic
which is made possible by the larger capacity and improved
service level provided by the expressway.
Vehicle operating costs and time costs of vehicle occupants are shown in
Table 8. Time savings are based on cost of time of professional drivers and
passengers travelling for business purposes. The benefits from induced traffic
become increasingly important as traffic on the existing coastal road gets
more congested and finally reaches its maximum capacity which is estimated
at an average annual daily traffic of 16,000 vehicles. Other benefits, which
have not been quantified, are the decongestion benefits for local traffic
on the coastal road; increase in safety and comfort for the traffic .on both
the coastal road and the expressway and reduction in maintenance cost of the
coastal road.
5.05      Economic evaluation shows the project construction to be well
justified and appropriately timed.  Based on an economic life of 25 years, a
constriction period of 3 years, and on the estimated economic cost of the
expressway, the maintenance center, construction supervision and right-of-
way acquisition, the Economic Return (ER) of the expressway has been estima-
ted at 21% and the first year return at 13%.  If benefits from time savings
are excluded from the analysis, the ER would be 15% (Table 9). To determine
the sensitivity of the ER to variations in the estimated construction cost
and traffic growth, an analysis was carried out assuming an increase or
decrease of 15% in construction cost and of 25% in benefits. The results,
shown in Table 9, demonstrate that under the most pessimistic assumptions
the project would still yield an ER of 16% (ranging from 17% to 14%) with
time savings and 11% (ranging from 12% to 10%) without their inclusion.



- 19 _
B.   Other Project Elements
5.06      Benefits from the preinvestment studies and the highway organization
and maintenance study have not been quantified. These elements, however, are
clearly justified since they will contribute to increased efficiency in high-
way administration, as well as assist the Government in the necessary improve-
ment, expansion and maintenance of its highway network.
VI. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECONIMENDATION
6.01      Agreement having been reached on the principal issues discussed
in Chapters II and IV, the project is recommended for a Bank loan of US$33.0
million to the Government for a 25-year term, including 4 years of grace.
March 29, 1973






TABLE 1
APPRAISAL OF
A HIGHWAY PROJECT
LEBANON
Traffic on Railways and at Beirut Port and Airport, 1961-70
Railway Traffic
Frei ht                                     Passengers
(thousand                                                     (million
Year       m tons)       ton-km)                        (thousand)        pass-km)
1961         523           33.7                              71              5.5
1962         509           36.9                              73              6.o
1963         590           43.0                              64              5.3
1964         660           49-.                              73              5.8
1965         559            39.5                             80              6.7
1966         561           45.6                              80              6.6
1967         491           38.0                              80              6.0
1968         489            37.6                             88              6.7
1969         313            24.5                             78              7.3
1970         258           20.1                              76              7.4
Beirut Port Traffic
Dry Cargo                                      Passengers
Yeaohousand  m ton                                 thousand)
Year     In       Out        Total                     In         Out       Total
1961    1,359     282        1,641                    38           30        67
1962    1,229     403        1,632                    42           28        71
1963    1,363     377        1,739                    53           33        86
1964    1,588     460        2,048                    53           36        89
1965    1,717     453        2,170                    68           37       105
1966    1,776     461        2,237                    77           45       122
1967    1,705     583        2,288                    42           29        71
1968    2,145     675        2,820                     36          43        79
1969    1,995     699        2,694                    33           40        73
1970    2,290     728        3,018                    32           36        68
Beirut Airport Traffic
Passengers
Freight           Nail                             (thousand)
Year    (thousand~            intons) (m tons)         Transit             Total
1961           n.a.            n.a.                     150                605
1962           n.a.            n.a.                     174                675
1963           n.a.            n.a.                     18                 796
1964           n.a.            n.a.                    19                   72
1965             30            1,044                    188              1,008
1966             33            1,325                    220              1,157
1967             38            1,254                    225              1,029
1968             51            1,842                    269              1,242
1969             54            2,424                    302              1,270
1970             58            2,478                    286              1,272
n.a. means not available.
Sources: Office des Chemins de Fer de 1'Etat Libanais and Recueil de
Statistiques Libanaises, No. 6, 1970; September 1972
March 9, 1973



TABLE 2
APPRAIsAL OF
A HIGHWAY PROJECT
LEBANON
Iength of Highway Network, 1963 and 1971
(km)
1963                   1971
Type of Road               Paved   Unpaved   Total  Paved  Unpaved  Total
International                570        0      570    570        0     570
Primary                    1,220       200  1,l420  1,320      100   1,420
Secondary and Local        2,950    1,270  4,220  3,310    1,100   4,410
Local Roads within towns     500      100      600    600      100     700
Total                  5,240    1,570   6,810  5,800    1,300   7,100
Source: Directorate General for Highways and Buildings; September 1972
March 29, 1973



TAELEU
APPRAISAL OF
A HIGHIAY PROJECT
LEBANON
Motor Vehicle Fleet, 1961-71
Vehicles in Fleet (Units)
Year          Cars          Taxis       Buses        Trucks      Total
1961          53,744        3,200       1,446        7,915      66,305
1962          62,355        3,200       1,512        8,849      75,916
1963          73,143        3,200       1,590        9,839      87,772
1964          84,349        3,200       1,898      10,833      100,280
1965          89,253        9,462       2,207       11,771     112,693
1966          95,901        9,504       2,088       12,009     119,502
1967         104,738        9,504       2,168       12,763     129,173
1968         113,246       10,645       1,645      13,404      138,940
1969         119,029       10,645       1,763      14,473      145,910
1970         125,371       10,645       1,794       14,795     152,605
1971         135,621       10,645       1,896       15,577     163,743
Average Annual Growth of Vehicles in Fleet (%)
Period        Cars        Taxis        Buses       Trucks       Total
1961-71       9.7          12.8        2.7          7.0          9.5
1961-66      12.3          24.3        7.3          8.7         12.5
1966-71       7.2           2.3      - 1.9         5.3           6.5
1969-71       6.7           0.0        1.5          3.7          6.o
Sourcet Recueil de Statistiques Libanaises, No. 6, 1970; September 1972
March 29, 1973



TABLE 4
APPRAISAL OF
A HIGHWAY PROJECT
LEBANON
Gasoline Consumption, 1961-71
Consumption (million 1)
Year                                                     Gasoline V
1961                                                       185.0
1962                                                       235.0
1963                                                       281.0
1964                                                       357.0
1965                                                       395.0
1966                                                       435.0
1967                                                      440. 0
1968                                                      481.6
1969                                                      477.5
1970                                                      501.3
1971                                                      552.7
Anrual Increase in Consumption (%)
Period                                                   Increases
1961-71                                                     11.6
1961-66                                                     18.7
1966-71                                                     4.9
1969-71                                                      7.6
1/ No details are available on diesel consumption.
Source: Conseil Executif des Grands Projetsl September 1972
March 29, 1973



T= 5
APPRAISAL OF
A HIGHWAY PROJECT
LEBANON
Highway Revenues and Expenditures, 1967-n1
(LL million)
Revenues                     1967    1968      1969      1970      1971
Import duties on vehicles    16.4    21.3      21.9      24.0     36.2
and spare parts
Import duties and taxes      84.1    88.3      96.5      98.3    111.2
on gasoline
Registration fees and        12.6    19.6      19.1      21.3      26.2
vehicle taxes                 -                 -
Total                     113.1  129.2         137.5     -    173.6
Expenditures
MPWT and CEGP
Construction and          10.7      9.2      7.4       5.1       8.2
improvement
Maintenance                7.9      8.7      7.6       7.7      18.0
Administration             3.2      3.1      3.3       3.8       4.6
Studies                    1.7      1.8      1.2       3.2       1.5
1/ 
Beirut City                  22.0    22.0      22.0      22.0      22.0
Total                      45.5    45.1                37.8     44.3
lJ Estimates (no breakdown available).
Sources: Directorate General for Highways and Buildings and
Conseil Executif des Grands Projects; September 1972
March 29, 1973



TABLE 6
APPRAISAL OF
A HIGHWAY' PROJECT
LEBANON
Design Standards for the Tabaria - Tripoli Expres,st:as
Type of Terrain
Item                                       Unit            Rolling    Mountainous
Geometric Design Standards
Speed                                  kn/h                100
Minimum iadius -of Curvature              m                350
Gradient,
Normal                                                      4 4
Exceptional (at approaches
of the Col de Hamat)          ,                              6
Roadway Features
'-1idth
Lanes                                   m                   3.50        3-50
Median (mini.mum)             -m                            3.00        3.00
Stabilized Shoulders on:
Outer lanes                           m                   2.50        2.50
Inner lanes                           m                   0.75  0.7      5
Climbing lanes                -                           1.00        1.00
Total Roadway
4-lane sections                       m                  23.50       --
4-lane sections, -wvIth provision
for widening to 6 lanes             m                  3050        --
4-lane sections with additional
- climbing lanes                       m                    _        25.0
Pavement Type:                   Bituminous Concrete
Axle-load for Pavement Design: 13 m tons
Bridge Design Standards:         Equivalent to HS 20-44
-- Means not applicable.
Source: BCEOM-ACE-CEC; September 1972
March 29, 1973



TABLE 7
APPRAISAL OF
A HIGHWAY PROJE3T
LEBANON
Traffic between TabarJa and Tripoli, 1971-96
Traffic Volumes (ADT)-
Section     Trafficj/  1971     1976     1981     1986     1991     1996
Tabarjs-    Through   12,550   19,460   25,590   32,820  40,370   49,1460
Jbeil      Local      1,000    1,390    1,890    2,1470    3,070    3,800
Total     13,550   20,850   27,480   35,290  43,440   53,260
Jbeil-     Through    8,630   14,000  18,220   23,200   28,380   34,640
Batroum    Local      2,420    3,370    4,540   5,940    7,390    9,140
Total     11,050   17,370   22,760   29,140   35,770   43,780
Batroun-   Through    8,630   14,000   18,220   23,200   28,380   34,640
Chekka    Local       2,590    3,600    4,870   6,360    7,910    9,790
Total     11,220   17,600   23,090   29,560   36,290   44,430
Chekka-    Through    9,750   15,560   20,330   25,950   31,810   38,870
Tripoli    Local      1,370    1,900    2,930    3,830    4,770   5,900
Total     11,120  17,460   23,260   29,780   36,580   44,770
Average Annual Traffic Growth Rate (%)
Section    Traffic       1971-76  1976-81  1981-86  1986-91  1991-96
All         Through        9.8      5.5      5.0      4.2      4.1
Local          6.8      6.8      5.5      4.5      4.3
Total          9.3      5.7      5.1  -4.2         4.1
1/ Traffic composition: cars-54%, taxis-23%, trucks-18%, and buses-5%.
7/ It is estimated that all through traffic will travel on the expressway.
Source: BCEOM-ACE-CEC, Etude Economique Additionelle de 1'Autoroute de
Tabarja-Tripoli, September 5, 1972; September 1972
M1rch 29, 1973



TABLE 8
APPRAISAL OF
A HIGHWAY PROJECT
LEBANEN
Vehicle Operating Costs,1976 1/
(LL/kn)
Coastal Road
Item                          Car        Taxi        Bus         Truck
Vehicle operating costs      0.0970      0.1249      0.3157      0.3275
Occupants' time costs         o.0584     0.0174      0.1243           0
Total                       0.1554     0.1423       0,4400     o.3275
ExpresswaYv
Item                         Car         Taxi        Bus         Truck
fehicle operating costs      0.0889      0.1026      0.3009     0.3115
Occupants' time costs        0.0280      0.0081      0.0789           O
Total                       0_1169     0.1107
Difference
Item.                         Car        Taxi        Bus         Truck
Vehicle operating costs       0.0081     0.0223      0.0148      0.0160
Occupantst time costs        0.0304      0.0093      0 0454      . 
Total                      0.038_     0.0316       0.0602     0.0160
1!  ixcluding taxes on vehicle use and ownership.
2/ Average speed of all vehicles 43 kIn/h.
3, Average speed of cars and taxis is 90 km/h and of buses and trucks
is 68 kim/h.
v  Vehicle operating costs on coastal road less vehicle operating
costs on expressway.
Sources: BCEOM-ACE-CEC: Economic Feasibility Study: Tabarja-Tripoli
Highway, June 1968, and Etude Economique Additionelle de
l'Autroute de Tabarja-Tripoli, September 5, 1972; September
1972
March 29, 1973



TABLE 9
APPRAISAL OF
A HIGHWAY PROJECT
LJEBANON
Estimated Economic Returns of Construction of TabarJa-Tripoli Expressway'A
Sections and Numbers
Tabarja- Tabarja- Jbeil-   Batroun- Chekka -
Tripoli   Jbeil   Batroun  Chekka   Tripol
Assumptions                              All        1        2        3
Including Passenger Time Savings
Best EsUimate of Construction Costs,and
Most likely value of benefits             21        22      21       21        19
25% increase in benefits                  24       25       24       24       22
25% decrease in benefits                  17       18       18       17       16
Assumed Increase in Construction Costs (15%). and
Most likely value of benefits             19        20      19       19        18
25% increase in benefits                  22.      23       22       22       20
25% decrease in benefits                  16       17       16       15       15
Assumed Decrease in Construction Costs (15%)and
Most likely value of benefits             23        24      23       23        21
25% increase in benefits                  26       28       27       27        25
25% decrease in benefits                  19       20       19       19.      18
Exccluding Passenger Time Savings
Best Estimate of Construction Costs, and
Most likely value of benefits             15       16       15       16        14
25% increase in benefits                  17       18       17       18       16
25% decrease in benefits                  13       13       12       13       11
*         Assumed Increase in Construction Costs (15%), and
Most likely value of benefits             14        15      13       14        13
25% increase in benefits                  16       17       15       17        14
25% decrease in benefits                  11       12       11       12       10
Assumed Decrease in Construction Costs (15%). and
M4ost likely value of benefits            17       15       18       16        18
25% increase in benefits                  19       17       20       18        20
25% decrease in benefits                 .14       13       15       14       15
1/ The *oonomic analy is was bLaed on construction costs and traffic costs
prevailing at the time of appraisal, Sentpmber 1972 .
.%iirce: Mission RdstimatAs  DecTovber 1972
__t   o  1i a7't






ANNEX
APPRAISAL OF
A HIGHWAY PROJWET
LEBANON
Estimated Schedule of Disbureements
Bank Fiscal Year                                 Cumulative Disbursement
and Quarter                                      at end of Quarter
(US$ thousands)
1972/73
June 30, 1973                                             1,200
1973/74
September 30, 1973                                        2,000
December 31, 1973                                         3,500
March 31, 1974I-                                          5,000
June 30, 1974                          -                  7,500
1974/75
September 30, 1974                                       10,500
December 31, 1974                                        13,500
March 31, 1975                                           15,000
June 30, 1975                                            18,500
1975/76
September 30, 1975                                       21,500
December 31, 1975                                        24,500
March 31, 1976                                           27,500
June 30, 1976                                            30,500
1976/77
September 30, 1976                                       32,000
Dacember 31, 1976                                        33,0O0
Source: Mission Estimates, Dbcember 1972
March 29, 1973






LEBANON
ORGANIZATION CHART OF THE
"CONSEIL EXECUTI F DES GRANDS PROJETS"
BOARD
OF                                    PRESI DENT
D    A RECTORCS
CENTRAL
INSPECTION        DIRECTOR GENERAL
UNIT        _FO R
ADMINISTRATION
FINANCIAL CONTROL_,
ADMINISTRATIVE  |AFFAIRS                                                TECHNICAL  AFFAIRS
I.a~~ENRL UNITS                                                        EXCTN1NT
VVAY        TRATION        ING         LEGAL       BULDNG        LWCITYVVAYS                                                     MMING
World Bank - 7147 (R)






LEBANON
ORGANIZATION CHART OF THE
MINISTRY OF PUBLIC WORKS AND TRANSPORTATION
|OFFICE DES CHEMINS L               MIISE          n m L        CONSEIL EXECUTIFI
DIRECTORATE GENERAL                                                      DItRECTORAT  GENERAL  DIRECTORATE                                          GENERAL
FOR TFiANSPORTAT IONI FOR URBAN AFFAIRS                                     FOR HIGHWAYS    I.                                          FOR ADMINISTRATION
G       I                                        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AND BUILDINGS I
D I R ECTO RA TE  I            I           -                            -         I    AND PRO-              DIRECTORATE
FOR                            ADVISERS                I   ADVISERS               GRAMMING                NORTHERN
CIVIL AVIATION                                                                            UNIT                  LEBANON
OFFICE FOR                                                               DIRECTORATE                 DIRECTORATE             REGIONAL
LAND AND                    ADVISERS                 IES                     FOR                        FOR                DIRECTORATE
MARITIME                                                                  BUILDINGS                  HIGHWAYS               SOUTHERN
TRANSPORT                                                                                                                    LEBANON
MUNICIPAL                            I         I   PLANNING    I       |   REGIONAL
DIRECTORATE
PROJECTS                STUDIES                      AND                     MOUNT
UNIT                              I         l FROGRAMMING                 LEBANON
REGIONAL
CONSTRUCTION               ENGINEERING              DIRECTORATE
BEKAA
W CONSTRUCTION  1
IMAINTENANCE1
| HIGHWAY    L
I SAFETY      r
|LABORATORY
World Bank  7148 (R)






IBRD 10229
'Y~~~~~~~~~~~                      /~ 
f? ~ ~ ~  ~     ~    ~    ~ ~ v 
0011-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
9~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
oobl,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-  4~r 
j~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Z
6-0~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~I >- 
U - ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~   ~   ~   ~    ~   ~   ~   ~    ~   ~   ~   ~   ~    ~   ~   '
o z~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
<                                                                V~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1
0
JANqUARY 1973



