Docuent of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-4237-CHA
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$30.0 MILLION
TO THE
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
FOR THE
LIAODONG BAY PETROLEUM APPRAISAL AND TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
May 5, 1986
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit  =    Renminbi (RMB)
$1.00          =    Yuan (Y) 3.2
Y1.00          =    $0.31
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 cubic meter (CM)              =        35.3 cubic feet (CF)
1 thousand cubic meters (MCM)  =         35.3 thousand cubic feet (MCF)
1 million cubic meters (MMCM)  =         35.3 million cubic feet (MMCF)
1 billion cubic meters (BCM)   =         35.3 billion cubic feet (BCF)
1 thousand cubic meters of
natural gas                   =        9.31 million kilocalories
1 ton oil equivalent (TOE)      =        10.2 million kilocalories = 1000
kilograms oil equivalent (kgoe)
1 barrel (bbl) of 0.85
specific gravity crude oil   =        0.135 ton
1 barrel (bbl)                  =        42 US gallons = 0.159 cubic meter
1 Megawatt (MW)                           1 million watts
1 Terawatt hour (TWh)           =        1 trillion watts/hour
1 meter (m)                     =        3.28 feet
1 kiLometer (km)                         a 0.62 mile
1 square kilometer (m2)         =        0.39 square mile
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BOC       -   Bohai Oil Corporation
CNODC     -   China National Oil Development Corporation
CNOOC     -   China National Offshore Oil Corporation
CODC      -   Chengbei Oil Development Corporation
Elf       -   Societe Nationale Elf Aquitaine
GOC       -   Government of China
ICB       -   International Competitive Bidding
IOC       -   International Oil Company
JCODC     -   Japan-China Oil Development Corporation
LIB       -   Limited International Bidding
MCI       -   Ministry of Chemical Industry
MOPI      -   Ministry of Petroleum Industry
SOE       -   Statement of Expenditure
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
CHINA
LIAODONC BAY PETROLEUM APPRAISAL AND TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
Loan and Project Sumnary
Borrower:          The People's Republic of China
Beneficiary:       Bohai Oil Corporation (BOC)
Amount:             $30.0 million equivalent
Terms:             20 years, including 5 years grace, at standard variable
interest rate.
Relending
Terms:           Loan will he relent to BOC on the same terms and conditions
as the Bark loan; BOC will bear the foreign exchange risk.
Project
Description:     The primary objectives of the project are:  to assist in
the appraisal of BOC's oil and gas condensate discovery in
Liaodong Bay in northeast China and in the planning and
financing of an optimum program for its development; to
help develop local capabilities in all aspects of offshore
petroleum operations; and to strengthen China's position as
a joint venture partner in these activities. The project
comprises: (a) processing and interpretation of some 5,000
km of 3-D seismic data recently acquired in the project
area; (b) drilling and testing of five appraisal wells and
installation of offshore facilities to enable long-term
production testing; (c) provision of equipment to
strengthen BOC's data processing facilities, well testing
and core analysis capabilities; (d) carrying out special
tests, Laboratory work and a series of six studies to
assist in the evaluation and future development of the
discovery; and (e) training of BOC geologists and engineers
in offshore operations among other special petroleum
industry topics.
Project Benefits
and Risks:       The appraisal program under the project will bring the
level of knowledge about BOC's discovery to the point where
a development decision can be made, and at the same time,
will upgrade the level of information about the overall
prospectiveness of the Liaodong Bay area. The project will
further serve to develop a framework within which BOC could
mobilize new equity participation by the international oil
companies or other financial partners in the development of
the present prospect and/or future exploration activities
ThS document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorizaon.



in Liaodong Bay where HOC has so far been operating on its
own.
Given that the four wells drilled on the structure to date
have each tested oil and gas, the risk of not finding any
reserves is considered small. The main risk is whether the
discovery will prove to be commercial, particularly in
light of today's declining oil prices. The project has
been designed to minimize all potential technical risks by,
for example, using modern seismic technology, drilling a
sufficient number of appropriateLy tested wells,
introducing qualified service companies and consultants,
and cLosely monitoring all project activities. Despite the
preliminary nature of the data available and apparent
complexity of the reservoir, it is judged that there is a
reasonable chance of recovering about 7 million tons of oil
and nearly 6 billion cubic meters of gas (5 million TOE) in
the event of development, which wouLd give an acceptable
return under a reasonable range of long-run oil price
scenarios. With the appraisal program under the project
constituting less than 20% of the full development cost,
the investment risk is considered warranted and, in fact,
essential in deciding whether to proceed with development.



- iii-
Estimated Cost:
Local      Foreign      Total
($ million) -
3-D seismic processing                  0.3          1.4         1.7
Data processing equipment                0.3         5.5         5.8
Appraisal well drilling                 25.5        17.6        43.1
Well testing/lab equipment               0.3         2.8         3.1
Studies and consultancy                  1.4         7.5         8.9
Training                                  -          0.8         0.8
Base Cost /a                         27.8         35.6        63.4
Physical contingencies                  2.7          3.4         6.1
Price contingencies                     3.1          4.8         7.9
Total Project Cost                   33.6         43.8        77.4
Interest during construction              -          6.4         6.4
Total Financing Required             33.6         50.2        83.8
Financing Plan:                                  Local       Foreign     Total
_- (S million)
World Bank loan                                     30.0        30.0
Untied bilateral credit /b              (1.2)      (13.8)       15.0
BOC /b                                 (32.4)       (6.4)       38.8
Total                               33.6         50.2        83.8
Estimated Disburse-
ments:                  Bank FY           1987      1988       1989      1990
($ Tmillion) -
Annual             5.0      10.5       12.0       2.5
Cumulative         5.0      15.5       27.5      30.0
Economic Rate of Return: Not applicable.
Staff Appraisal Report: No separate report.
Map: IBRD No. 19497R
IBRD No. 19503
/a   Includes duties and taxes of $3.6 million on imported equipment and
materials not financed by the Bank.
/b   Breakdown of bilateral credit between foreign and local currency is
tentative; BOC will finance the balances.



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
FOR A LIAODONC BAY PETROLEUM APPRAISAL AND TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to the People's Republic of China to help finance a Liaodong Bay Petroleum
Appraisal and Technical Assistance Project. The loan for $30.0 million
equivalent would have a term of 20 years, including five years of grace, with
standard variable interest rate. The proceeds of the loan would be onlent to
the Bohai Oil Corporation (BOC) on the same terms and conditions as the Bank
loan; BOC would bear the foreign exchange risk. Cofinancing of $15 million
equivalent (untied credit) has been agreed in principle by-the Export Import
Bank of Japan.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        A country economic report entitled, "China: Long-Term Issues and
Options" (No. 5206-CHA) was distributed to the Executive Directors on
May 22, 1985.  Basic data on the economy are given in Annex I.
Background
3.        Since 1978, China has initiated economic reforms in both rural and
urban areas and in the external sector. Reforms have been greatest in rural
areas. Following some experiments with the abolition of collective farming in
impoverished areas, the Covernment implemented a comprehensive restructuring
of rural institutions based on various forms of the "production responsibility
system". By 1983 the farm household had become the fundamental unit of
management and production in agriculture, within a framework of collective or
state ownership of land and major fixed assets. Reforms have not yet proceed-
ed as far in the urban economy, but there have been significant changes in
enterprise management and finance. The scope for collective and individual
economic activities has been enlarged and state enterprises have been allowed
greater freedom in production, pricing and marketing above their mandatory
plan targets. State enterprises have also been allowed to retain some profits
and investment projects have increasingly been financed on a loan rather than
a grant basis.
4.        In international trade and investment, China has promoted opening up
to the rest of the world in recent years. Between 1978 and 1984, the share of
exports to GDP nearly doubled to about 10%, a ratio similar to other large
economies such as the U.S. and Brazil. Foreign investment has been encour-
aged, first through establishment of four Special Economic Zones and signing
of joint venture contracts for off-shore oil exploration, and more recently
through cpening of several coastal cities to foreign investment.



-2-
Growth and Stabilization
5.        Reforms have helped stimulate rapid development of the whole
economy. Real GDP growth averaged 5% p.a. between 1978 and 1981 and 1OZ p.a.
between 1981 and 1984. During these six years, per capita incomes in real
terms more than doubled in rural areas and increased by more than 502 in urban
areas. Agriculture has continued its remarkably strong performance, with
gross agricultural output value (excluding rural industry and commerce) rising
at nearly 11% p.a. between 1981 and 1984 and grain output at 8Z p.a. (reaching
over 400 million tons in 1984). Cash crops and animal husbandry, stimulated
by rising demand and attractive prices, have also grown rapidly. Gross indus-
trial output value grew at over 10% p.a. over the same period, with heavy
industry growing somewhat faster than light industry (12% p.a. vs. 9Z p.a.).
If rural industrial output is included, total industrial output value grew at
close to 12% p.a. in real terms between 1981 and 1984. The energy constraint
on industrial growth was eased by rising coal output (8% p.a. between 1981 and
1984), renewed increases in crude oil production (4% p.a. between 1981 and
1984) and improvements in the efficiency of energy utilization (primary
commercial energy consumption grew only 60% as fast as GDP between 1981 and
1984). Manufactured exports growth at 8Z p.a. between 1981 and 1984 was
slower than during the 1978-81 period but it started from a much higher base
and in the face of worsening world market conditions.
6.        The Government continues to face difficulties in combining system
reform and rapid overall growth with maintenance of economic stability.
During 1979 and 1980, China experienced large budget and current account
deficits combined with excessive investment and inflationary pressures. In
response, a strict stabilization program was introduced in 1981 relying mainly
on administrative controls on investment spending. The program slowed growth
but also helped lower the budget deficit from about 5% of GDP in 1979 to less
than 1% in 1981, reduce inflation to around 2Z p.a., and change China's
external position to one of current account surpluses averaging nearly
$4 billion during 1982-84. As a result, foreign debt and debt service ratios
remained at low levels ($6.4 billion and 5.5% respectively in 1983) and
China's foreign currency reserves (excluding gold) rose to $17 billion (over
7 months' imports) by mid-1984.
7.        This comfortable balance oi payments position, achieved at the cost
of drastic reductions in investment sp2nding and some recentralization of
investment decisionmaking, disappeared rapidly during the course of 1984 and
early 1985. Partly as a result of decentralization of decisionmaking and the
lack of effective indirect levers, there was a rapid acceleration of invest-
ment and consumption during 1984 and the first half of 1985 causing the
economy to overheat. Real GDP grew by 142 during 1984, while average wages in
state-owned enterprises rose by 20% and domestic credit grew by 36%. The
retail price index rose by only 3% in 1984, but inflation is expected to be
higher in 1985. Imports of capital goods increased from e4 billion in 1983 to
over $7 billion in 1984, with most of the increase occurring in the second
half of the year. There was also a rapid expansion in consumer goods
imports. These trends continued during early 1985. As a result, foreign
exchange reserves (excluding gold) had fallen to about $10 billion by
July 1985 (equivalent to 3.1 months of exports), and the current account



3-
deficit for the year is likely to be in the range of $10 billion. The Govern-
ment has responded quickly by launching a strict stabilization program that
includes further increases in interest rates as well as a series of adminis-
trative directives governing bsnk credit and project approval. As a result,
aggregate credit and demand as well as new import orders have begun to slow,
though total imports will continue to rise as past orders are filled.
Recent Reforms
8.        The Central Committee of the Chinese Communist Party issued a major
document on "reform of the economic structure" in October 1984. Recent reform
developments have been fully in accordance with the directions indicated in
the October decision: (a) state enterprises should be made fully independent
units which pursue profits and are responsible for losses; (b) the scope of
mandatory planning should be reduced and replaced by indicative planning while
the focus of planning should shift from annual to medium- and long-term
guidance planning; (c) a more rational price system should be introduced by
reducing the role of state-controlled prices and increasing the role of
"floating" and free market prices; and (d) the tax system should be improved,
finance and banking should be reformed and a larger role should be given to
indirect macroeconomic regulation through instruments such as tax, credit and
pricing poLicy.
9.        Rural reforms have continued to progress more rapidly than reforms
elsewhere in the economy. There has been a remarkable spread of nonagri-
cultural activities like processing, transport, and commerce. "Specialized
households" (which concentrate on cash crops, animal husbandry, or nonagri-
cultural activities) and pooling of capital by small groups of househoLds in
various types of ventures are becoming increasingly common forms of economic
organization in China's rural areas. Wholesale markets for some agricultural
products have emerged. To encourage investment in land improvement and devel-
opment, farming contracts between collective and peasant households for the
use of land (which typically had been fixed for no more than 3-5 years) can
now be extended to as long as 15-20 years. In early 1985, the system of
agricultural procurement was changed. Previously the Government purchased
quota output of grain and other crops at relatively low prices and stood ready
to purchase all above-quota output at a higher price. Under the new system,
procurement up to a certain amount (below former quota procurement) is based
on contracts concluded voluntarily between peasants and procurement agen-
cies. Prices for these purchases are based on the relatively high average
price of past years. Output above the contracted amount must be sold by
peasants directly on the free market, but the Government will intervene to
purchase grain if the price falls to the original low quota procurement
price. Thus a considerably larger portion of basic crop production will be
produced for and traded on markets with flexible prices.
10.       The momentum of urban reforms has revived, with significant progress
on several fronts. In enterprise management, the focus has been on broadening
and delineating the decisionmaking authority of urban enterprises. Profit
retention now extends to virtually all state-owned industrial enterprises and
to nonindustrial sectors like transport, commerce, construction, and other
services. Urban collectives and individual enterprises, as well as a variety



-4-
of joint ventures between them and state enterprises, have grown rapidly (the
number employed in urban individual enterprises rose from 150,000 in 1978 to
2.31 million in 1983).
11.       In financial reforms, the most important new development has been
the implementation of a profit tax system to replace profit remittances by
state enterprises to the government budget. Though most enterprises have
switched to this system, the benefits have been limited because of the
application of a different effective tax rate for each enterprise, to offset
the impact of distorted relative prices and other factors. Similar problems
have resulted in the abandonment of an attempt to impose a fee or charge on
the fixed capital provided to state enterprises by the Covernment, and they
have hindered the shift from grant to loan financing of new fixed invest-
ment. Financial discipline at the enterprise level remains weak, in spite of
efforts to strengthen accounting and auditing systems and more strictly
enforce existing financial regulations.
12.       Some progress has been made with price reform.  The majority of
agriculture commodity prices were decontrolled even before the recent change
in pricing and procurement of grain. Prices of many minor consumer goods are
also set by negotiations between producers and conmnercial units. "Floating
prices" (up to 20Z above or below official prices) are now allowed for many
industrial producer goods (either for all output or for output above the
mandatory plan target). Price adjustments for key energy products and raw
materials (which in many cases are severely underpriced) and for subsidized
basic consumer goods like grain and edible oil have proven more difficult to
implement, hindered by th. potential impact of price changes on urban living
standards and on the finances of energy-using enterprises. Nevertheless, some
price rises have occurred (e.g., for coal and petroleum), and moreover the
share of free market transactions, at largely uncontrolled prices, has
increased in recent years. Gradually over time, and onLy partly as a result
of conscious policy, a two-tier system is emerging; a large but shrinking
share of the total supply of most important goods is subject to mandatory plan
allocation and administratively set prices, while at the margin a substantial
and 1,rowing share is allocated by the market mechanism, largely at flexible
prices. This pattern may permit China to "grow out of the plan" in a rela-
tively smooth transition, though there are obvious threats to this strategy
arising from the strong incentive for arbitrage between planned and unplanned
realms.
13.       The Covernment recognizes the need to develop new tools of indirect
macroeconomic management and has taken some steps to do so. The People's Bank
of China was established as a separate central bank at the beginning of 1984,
with its commercial banking functions taken on by the newly created Industrial
and Commercial Bank of China. In 1985, new methods of credit planning and
control were introduced and lower-level and specialized banks were given
significant redeposit requirements. Interest rates (including deposit rates)
were also raised in 1985, with some move toward unification of rates and
development of a term structure resembling that in other countries. Technical
transformation loans with a maturity less than one year and loans for working
capital now carry the same 7.9% interest rate while loans of longer maturity
carry higher rates, up to 10.8% for 10-year loans. However, interest rates on



budgetary capital construction loans (formerly grants) remain low and there
are a variety of directed credit schemes. On the external side greater use is
now being made of the exchange rate. The old internal settlement rate was
abolished at the beginning of 1985 and between January and end-October 1985
the rate against the U.S. dollar declined by over 13%. Despite these changes
progress in developing new indirect levers of control has been slow. Recent
difficulties in securing macroeconomic balance highlight the need to
strengthen institutions and macroeconomic management tools (including
monetary, fiscal, and exchange rate instruments) for a decentralized and more
market-oriented economy.
Long-Term Issues and Prospects
14.       In September 1985 a national party conference adopted a proposal
which will be the basis for drafting a new Seventh Five Year Plan covering the
period 1986-90. The proposal reaffirms a political commitment to economic
reform and provides guidelines for future reform and development. One of the
main objectives of the plan will be to create a favorable environment for
reform which, in turn, will set the stage for future development. Target
growth rates (7% p.a. for industry, 6% for agriculture, a little over 7% for
CNP) are below rates of growth achieved with the Sixth Five Year Plan, invest-
ment is to be restrained in the next few years, and emphasis is to be placed
upon quality rather than quantity of output. It is felt that slower growth
will facilitate reform.
15.       The plan proposal identifies three main areas of reform.  First,
enterprise management and incentives are to be improved by: giving enterprises
greater autonomy in production, pricing, and employment decisions; lowering
and equalizing taxes; increasing competition; increasing accountability for
performance; and reforming personnel procedures. In addition, some small
state enterprises will be turned over to collective or individual management
through contract or lease. Second, the role of the market is to be extended
and market networks strengthened. The scope of mandatory planning will be
further reduced and markets for capital, technology, and labor will gradually
be developed. Third, the emphasis of planning will shift from detailed admin-
istrative control to indirect macroeconomic control through economic policy.
To this end a series of mutually reinforcing reforms in the planning, pricing,
fiscal, banking, and labor and wage systems will be introduced during the plan
period.
16.       Implementation of the plan proposal will help foster an environment
in which fundamental reforms can be gradually implemented in a coordinated
way. But specific policy measures will take time to design and then to imr'-
ment. Many of the reforms required will be difficult, particularly since
reforms in different areas are closely interrelated, and thus appropriate
sequencing and coordination are essential. For example, price reform in the
absence of improvements in enterprise financial discipline will have limited
benefits, yet the more profit-oriented behavior that would result from tighter
financial discipline would exacerbate the adverse impact of distorted
prices. Similarly, reform of the labor allocation system will be incomplete
without eliminating many of the "social responsibilities" of enterprises
(which now provide housing, medical care, and pensions for their workers and



-6-
in many cases education and jobs for workers' children) and replacing them
with Government-supported social service programs. The plan proposal suggests
moving in this direction by commercializing housing.
17.       China's objective of quadrupling the gross output value of industry
and agriculture between 1980 and 2000 (which means GDP growth of well over 6Z
p.a.) will require significant improvements in efficiency as well as continued
high saving and investment rates. The plan proposal recognizes there must be
major structural changes in the economy over the next two decades, including a
reduction in the share of agriculture, a rise in the share of industry and
services (which at present is unusually low), and substantial urbanization.
There will also be a shift within agriculture, away from grain and basic crops
and into cash crops and animal husbandry. The new plan will emphasize
development of the service sector, mainly through removing restrictions on
collective and individual activity. Urban development will focus on small and
medium sized cities and towns while restrictions on growth of large urban
areas will continue.
18.       Certain physical/technical constraints will hinder the attempt to
achieve China's targets for the year 2000 and its longer-term goal of catching
up with developed countries. Despite rapid growth and substantial improve-
ments in efficiency in recent years, agriculture may again become a constraint
on overall growth, since land in China is severely limited. In energy, short-
ages of fuel (primarily coal) and electricity may continue to constrain growth
in transport and com-ercial infrastructure. Without large new investments and
improved efficiency, economic growth will lag. In mobilizing resources in all
these areas, China could profitably make use of foreign borrowing. Finally,
the rising share of the elderly in China's population (related to the slowdown
in population growth) means that more resources will have to be devoted to
maintaining their consumption levels, especially in the decades after 2000.
19.       Poo  motivation and inefficient utilization of labor in the state
sector of the economy are major problems which can be solved only by coor-
dinated reforms in labor allocation, the wage system, enterprise management,
and social services, among other things. Reforms in the system of education
and training to develop China's "human capital" potential also are crucial.
Backward technology and inefficient use of existing technology must be
addressed by a combination of reforms, appropriately directed investment, and
transfer of advanced foreign technology. Irrational location of factories,
suboptimal scale of many plants, and poor utilization of physical capital in
general are related problems.
20.       If reforms successfully transform the economic system, with a bene-
ficial impact on growth and efficiency, a new set of issues will come to the
fore, as the plan proposal recognizes. Management of a reformed economy with
indirect fiscal, monetary, and other instruments is a major issue (see para.
13 above). In this context, maintaining an adequate saving rate (if the
Government no longer accounts for the bulk of aggregate saving) and avoiding
inflation (as well as deep cyclical downturns) will be major goals. Assuring
an adequate minimum standard of living for the population and an appropriate
level of social services will become a major challenge as enterprise and rural
communal responsibilities in these areas are reduced. The problem of poor,



backward rural areas in various parts of the country will continue to require
attention. Redistributing financial resources to these areas through the
fiscal system, easing restrictions on migration out of the poorest areas, and
lowering nonagricultural wages to make investment in them more attractive are
some options for alleviating poverty.
21.       In order to mobilize the external resources needed for rapid,
sustained growth the plan proposal calls for export growth of 40-50Z over the
next five years, greater efforts to attract foreign investment, and increased
commercial borrowing.  If exports grow at 8Z p.a. between 1984 and 1990 an:
imports grow at 9% p.a., China would have a relatively modest current account
deficit of around $4-5 billion p.a. during the remainder of this decade,
equivalent to about 1Z of GNP. This implies that the present debt service
ratio would increase only moderately by 1990. If China's exports grow more
slowly, imports will probably have to be cut back because a higher borrowing
target, though feasible in terms of debt service indicators, would probably
run into supply constraints as China would become one of the largest
developing country borrowers. This highlights the need for continued export
growth in order to meet other plan objectives and service greater comxercial
borrowing. The plan proposal recognizes that greater use of exchange rate and
pricing policies will be needed to encourage export growth.
22.       Even with continued good export performance, China will have
substantial external capital requirements during the remainder of the
decade. Under the trade growth assumptions outlined above (exports growing at
82 p.a. and imports at 92 p.a. during 1984-90), the current account deficit
would be over $5 billion in 1990 and the gross borrowing requirement would be
about $6.5 billion. If export growth fell to 6% p.a. during this period and
imports continued to grow at 9% p.a., the current account deficit would reach
$14 billion by 1990. Although the plan proposal calls for increased borrowing
at commercial rates, access to concessionary capital will play an important
role in sustaining China's growth. China also has a claim to concessionary
lending because it is still one of the poorer countries of the world. But
China's access to concessionary capital for financing development and
modernization is limited; apart from Bank Group funds, a significant amount of
concessionary capital is likely to come only from Japan and a few other
bilateral donors and will probably average no more than $500-600 million p.a.
during the rest of the 1980s.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS
23.       To achieve the target growth rates envisioned in the Seventh Five-
Year Plan, to increase efficiency, and to maintain equity in distribution,
China will need continuing economic reforms. China will need to import more
technology, increase trade, and expand investment.  In the next few years,
therefore, the Bank can best assist China by increasing its access to foreign
technology and capital and supporting the implementation of reforms that will
help to increase the efficiency of resource use and reduce poverty.



-8-
24.       To address China's objective of updating technology, the Bank will
play the role of an intermediary. In transportation, energy, industry,
agriculture and social sectors, the Bank will contribute to technology
transfer by bringing the Bank's experience to bear on project design and
implementation and by helping China to seek appropriate technical solutions
through international competitive bidding, training, and foreigr technical
assistance.
25.       Bank assistance will be closely linked with the Government's reform
efforts. There are five major elements common to both rural and urban reform
in China that will be the focus of the Bank's involvemenc. First, institu-
tional change, involving both the separation of economic and administrative
functions and further decentralization of decisionmaking, will extend to every
sector in which the Bank is involved. Second, financial sector reform,
primarily development of financial institutions, has become a focus of Bank
assistance. Third, improving planning and project analysis will be critical
to reform in sectors such as agriculture and industry, where decisions are now
being made by households and independent enterprises, as well as in
infrastructure where direct government involvement will be required. The Bank
will therefore continue its emphasis on introducing appraisal methods and
financial planning as well as analysis of intersectoral issues. Fourth, the
Bank will be involved in the Government's major program of price reform and
development of indirect levers such as control via money, credit and fiscal
policies. And finally, the Bank will support reforms in health, education and
other social services and measures, in particular, to address the problems of
poor regions.
Economic and Sector Work
26.       The Bank's economic and sector work in China aims at expanding the
understanding of the structure and direction of the Chinese economy and
introducing to the Government new tools of economic management. This work
provides a foundation for Bank Group lending and for the dialogue with the
Government on development options and policies. Past work has included two
major economic reports, studies on sectoral investment analysis and planning,
and collaborative research with Chinese institutions. The Bank has also
organized seminars on macroeconomic and sector issues.
27.       Over the next two years, the Bank will carry out a large program of
studies to follow up on issues identified in the most recent economic
report. In this program, the Bank will examine alternatives for developing
the financial system, foreign trade and investment. It will also analyze
issues of intersectoral investment coordination and development of resource-
poor regions. One such study is already under way in Gansu province to
formulate programs for increasing interregional resource flows, improving the
efficiency of investment and reducing poverty. Research on urban development,
transport planning, and regional industriaL development will also be under-
taken to form the basis for project preparation. Collaborative studies with
Chinese research institutions will continue. An ongoing study of management
and guidance of state-ownedi industrial enterprises will be followed by a study
of collective enterprises, which are expected to become increasingly important
industrial organizations in the reformed system.



-9-
Lending Operations
28.       Since China's change of representation in the Bank Group in May
1980, 37 projects involving lending of $3,709.9 million to China have been
apDroved. Of the projects, twelve have been in the agriculture sector, seven
in energy, six in transport, four in industry, four in education, two in
technical cooperation and one each in health and water supply. In FY85, IFC
made its first investment in China of $17.02 million in automobile
manufacturing. Annex II contains a summary statement of these loans, credits
and IFC investment as of March 31, 1986.
29.       In addition to the proposed project and the already approved second
rural credit, third industrial credit, second technical cooperation, provin-
cial universities, third railway, port development and fisheries projects, we
expect to present to the Board this year two power projects and a health
project. For FY87 and beyond, we expect the lending program for China to
continue to grow from current levels. Infrastructure projects in energy and
transport will remain priorities. Technical renovation of enterprises,
particularly in industry, will be given greater attention and support as will
the regional approach to project development, now being used to assess the
needs of Cansu province.
30.       In the energy sector, future Bank lending will be aimed at improving
efficiency of energy consumption and expanding energy production. For
example, in the coal subsector, we will assist in upgrading the facilities and
operations of existing mines and in transferring improved technology for mines
under construction or in operation. In power, we will assist China in tech-
nology transfer, staff training and institution building. Through a power
tariff study, we will seek to introduce a tariff system based on marginal cost
and to increase the awareness of the need for a nationwide power system devel-
opment progre-.  In the petroleum subsector, the rationale for project
involvement will lie in the identification, packaging and transfer of
specialized technologies as well as in the strengthening of investment plan-
ning and management capabilities.
31.       Future transport projects will both upgrade technology and
strengthen institutions. In roads, major changes in organization and
financing will be required as a result of administrative decentralization and
introduction of the production responsibility system in rural areas. In rail-
ways, we will focus on technologies to improve domestic production of railway
equipment and materials in addition to our work on line construction and
electrification. We also intend to broaden our involvement in ports to
include coastal shipping and inland water transport. For all transport
subsectors, we will support efforts to improve financial analysis and
investment planning.
32.       Agriculture lending will focus on developing institutions to provide
services to individual farmers and to monitor and stimulate change in the pace
and pattern of agricultural development. The shift from grant to loan finance
and the increased autonomy of the rural banking system will be supported
through rural credit projects. We will continue to assist with the training,
research, extension, and other service activities of the ministries concerned



- 10 -
with agriculture. In addition, we expect to finance programs for specialized
agricultural development such as livestock and fisheries, and for irrigation
and area development.
33.       Bank lending in industry, as in agriculture, will focus on strength-
ening of financial intermediaries which provide credit to state and collective
enterprises. In addition, we expect that there will be large regional
projects in fertilizer, cement and machine tools and other subsector projects
concerned with upgrading technology and improving organization and management.
34.       Bank lending in education will gradually be broadened beyond the
present concentration on higher education. For exampLe, we will finance
vocational and technical education which is now being given great emphasis in
China. In view of the Government's recent decision to universalize access to
primary and lower secondary education, another major aim of education lending
will be to assist with basic education, particularly in poor rural areas. In
this context, support for teacher education will be given priority.
35.       Project preparation in the urban sector is currently concentrated in
Shanghai  *n efforts to improve services, especiaLly in environmental upgrading
and housing, and development of municipal institutions. Future lending is
expected to include support for development of medium-size and small urban
areas in specific provinces. In addition, we expect to continue lending for
rural water supply. Bank lending in health will provide access to new medical
technologies for more efficient health care in both the lingering problems of
communicable disease, primarily in poor rural areas, and the emerging problems
of chronic disease. This will involve further support for medical training
and planning and management of service delivery systems. Projects will also
support the reform of systems for supplying and financing health services.
36.       Cofinancing with multilateral and bilateral agencies has been
arranged for projects in coal, power, agriculture and rural water supply and
will remain a feature of our assistance program. We will explore further
options for cofinancing with export credit agencies. Commercial bank
cofinancing and the use of B-loans also appear viable, particularly as China
increases the overall volume of its foreign borrowing. In technical assist-
ance, we will continue to incorporate into projects components for training,
overseas study, and access to foreign expertise. In addition, we will be the
executing agency for a second UNDP umbrella project in China. EDI activities
remain an important element of the Bank's program and in coming years will
provide an extensive program of policy seminars for senior Chinese officials,
and economic and financial management courses and sector-specific training for
officials from core and line agencies.
Implementation
37.       Project implementation is generally proceeding well.  Most project
agencies, as well as the Ministry of Finance and the State Planning
Commission, have established and staffed offices to handle Bank projects.
Disbursement performance has also been satisfactory. Special accounts have
been established for a majority of the approved projects and have helped to
speed disbursements. In October 1985, the Bank opened a resident office in



- 11 -
Beijing to support further expansion of the lending program, accelerate
project preparation, improve project implementation and further economic and
sector work.
PART III - THE ENERGY SECTOR 11
Energy Overview
38.       China's commercial energy sector is dominated by coal and oil.
While coal is the most important energy source, comprising about 70% of
commercial energy consumption today, oil has also become important, accounting
for about 18Z of commercial energy use and 20% of export earnings in 1984.
China now exports about 20% of its oil production and 1Z of its coal
production. Natural gas, hydroelectric power and limited quantities of shale
oil and geothermal power supply the balance of domestic demand for commercial
energy. Non-commercial resources (biomass) provide-energy equivalent to about
40X of China's domestic supply of commercial energy.
39.       China's achievement in developing its energy resources over the last
three decades has been remarkable. During the period 1952-84, annual
production of coal increased from slightly over 60 million to 760 million
tons, oil from 0.1 million to 114 million tons and electricity generation from
1.3 to 377 TWh; total production of primary commercial energy grew at an
average annual rate of 9% over this period. If China is to maintain a high
rate of economic growth in the future, it will need to continue to increase
significantly the production of all types of energy resources although the
growth rates will be substantially lower than in the past. For the petroleum
industry in particular, this presents a major challenge, since the largest
onshore oil fields have either reached or will soon reach their peak
production rates, and although there have recently been some encouraging oil
discoveries offshore, they have yet to be declared commercial. In addition,
serious sectoral constraints which exist in various aspects of technology,
logistics, management and financing need to be overcome.
40.       Because of these constraints, adequate energy supply may become a
serious obstacle to further economic growth for the remainder of the century,
unless measures are taken to improve the efficiency of the sector both in
terms of discovering and developing new sources of supply and in terms of
energy conservation and demand management. This will require improved long-
term planning and intersectoral coordination as well as increased reliance on
market forces to provide incentives to producers and to control demand. The
Government in its Sixth Five-Year Plan (1981-85) accorded high priority to the
development of two inter-related sectors, energy and transport, and these
1/    dditional information on the energy sector is given in Chapter 4 (Energy
Development) and Annex C (Energy) of the recent economic report China:
Long Term Issues and Options, issued May 22, 1985 (Report No. 5206-CHA).



- 12 -
objectives will continue to be emphasized in the Seventh Five-Year Plan
(1986-90).
41.       Resource Endowment.  China is well endowed with primary energy.  Its
coal and lignite reserves, believed to be the largest in the world, are
concentrated largely in the north and northeast which have about 70% of the
country's total reserves (estimated at over 640 billion tons). Future plans
call for still further increases in coal production and pose serious
challenges for transportation development as well as for upgrading and
modernization of coal production, beneficiation and utilization technology.
Biomass fuels, primarily fuelwood and crop by-products, are the second most
important source of energy in China and are the dominant source of household
fuel in the rural areas. Recoverable reserves of oil are estimated at 6-15
billion tons onshore and another 3-10 billion tons offshore. Recoverable
reserves of non-associated gas are currently estimated at about 85 billion
cubic meters (BCH), about 90% of which are located in the Sichuan Province;
associated gas reserves are additionally estimated at just over 40 BCM.
However, the 125 BCM of currently known gas reserves (about 115 million tons
of oil equivalent (TOE}) could be only a small fraction of the full potential;
recent gas discoveries onshore in the North China Basin (at Zhongyuan) and
offshore in the South China Sea and Bohai Gulf, as well as potential future
discoveries, are likely to augment significantly the present estimates.
Unofficial estimates of oil shale in China place reserves at about 400 billion
tons, with current production from two mines amounting to about 300,000 tons
per year.
42.       China's hydropower potential, among the largest in the world, is
estimated at 1900 TWh annually, of which only 87 TWh have been developed to
date. A major constraint is that the bulk of the undeveloped potential is in
four major basins in the southwest and northwest where large-scale development
would require transmission distances of 1200-1500 kilometers to major
industrial load centers. The known uranium reserves in China are sufficient
to sustain 15,000 MW of nuclear power generation for 30 years. Although
potential sources of high temperature geothermal energy are abundant in the
mountainous southwestern part of the country, their development has not been
extensive and their role is likely to remain limited due to their distance
from major load centers.
43.       Efficiency of Energy Use.  Total commercial energy consumption in
China in 1984 reached 485 million TOE or about 470 kilograms oil equivalent
(kgoe) per capita, which is somewhat above the average for developing
countries (425 kgoe in 1983). China's consumption of energy per unit of GDP
is well above that of any major developed or developing country. Several
factors contribute to this high intensity of energy use in China, among them
the high share of industrial output in GDP, structure of industrial produc-
tion, scale of industrial plants, raw materials used, technology employed and
current industrial organization and operating practices.
44.       In the late 1970s, it became evident that this high rate of energy
consumption could not be sustained. To date, the Government has relied
principally on a series of administrative measures to promote efforts to
improve energy efficiency, including tightening of energy supply quotas,



- 13 -
provision of energy conservation bonuses, and creation of conservation centers
to provide technical assistance to units in adopting energy efficient measures
and technology. Coupled with changes in industrial structure, the result to
date has been an impressive improvement in the overall level of energy effi-
ciency in China: after increasing steadily during 1970-77, primary commercial
energy consumption per unit of gross value of industrial and agricultural
output (GVIAO) has been dropping since 1978 at an average annual rate of
nearly 5%. However, the task of fine tuning the current system to provide
suitable economic signals to consumers and incentives for further improvements
in efficiency will be increasingly difficult. In order to achieve further
energy savings, it will be necessary to move from the current system of
administrative controls toward a more flexible allocation system, which
provides more autonomy for individual entities and increasingly relies on an
energy price structure which reflects the relative scarcity of each source of
energy. It will also be necessary to continue to replace outdated energy-
intensive technologies and to further improve the use of energy-intensive
goods and thereby adjust the structure of industry away from the energy-
intensive sectors.
Oil and Gas Subsector
45.       After declining in 1980-81, China's oil production has climbed to
125 million tons in 1985, with notable increases of 8% in 1984 and a further
9% in 1985, particularly in the Shengli area; China exported an estimated
35 million tons of its domestic production in 1985, making it the largest oil
exporter in Asia. These increases in production have been attributed to a
combination of: (a) improved field productivity brought about by means of an
intensive campaign of infill drilling and well stimulation; and (b) the
discovery of new fields in established oil producing provinces through a
successful program of drilling on the periphery and continuing exploration in
the vicinity of producing fields. While the initial results have certainly
been promising and it appears there may be more scope than previously expected
for further production increases in some of the newer fields and maintenance
of production in others, the investment requirements will be substantial.
Moreover, over the longer term and certainly in the 1990s, sustained or
increased production will depend on new oil discoveries, which in turn will
require stepping up the level of exploration in prospective areas both
offshore and onshore.
46.       China's production of natural gas has also shown some increase in
recent years, about 2% a year since 1982. Although China produced 12.7 BCM of
natural gas (about 11.6 million TOE) in 1985, this was some 12% less than its
peak production in 1979. About half of the natural gas produced is non-
associated gas, 902 of which comes from the Sichuan Basin where production has
fallen by nearly 20% over the Last 5 years and rehabilitation measures to
arrest the decline are presentLy under evaluation; the recently approved Bank
loan for the Weiyuan Gas Field Technical Assistance Project (Loan No. 2580-
CHA) is helping to support this effort. While most past exploration has been
directed toward the discovery of oil, the Government now recognizes that
natural gas could contribute significantly to domestic energy supply and is
starting to re-evaluate its policies toward gas exploration and development.
In particular, the Government is actively considering the development of a



- 14 -
domestic market for its recent gas discoveries both onshore and offshore,
which suggest a reasonably encouraging long-term prognosis for diversification
of gas supplies, provided a number of complex institutional issues, including
pricing, can be overcome in the near future.
47.       Exploration and Production Strategy.  Continuing to increase
production of oil and gas will require a very large and sustained effort in
exploration and production in China. This calls for a three-pronged approach
on the part of the Government: (a) to formulate and promote major new
initiatives in exploration both offshore and onshore to identify new reserves
which could be brought into production in the next two decades. This would
require, in addition to current policies, a more systematic evaluation of
China's geological potential and a more aggressive exploration strategy in
areas which are difficuLt geographically and geologically; (b) to continue
exploration around the presently producing oil and gas fields and undertake a
series of well-balanced infill drilling, rehabilitation and enhanced recovery
programs in these fields to ensure recovery rates comparable to those obtained
in the Western hemisphere; and (c) to better assess the potential of gas prone
areas and promote gas market development in those areas where reserves have
already been discovered. Difficult as the task may be, the Government has
made considerable progress toward establishing an appropriate policy framework
and has taken important steps to achieve the first two objectives by opening
up the offshore and more recently some onshore areas to foreign oil companies
and by introducing advanced technology and modern exploration/production
practices and management structures in the regional petroleum bureaus which
manage the existing oil and gas fields. Considerable work and policy
development nevertheless remain to be done to ensure efficient exploration,
development and marketing of natural gas.
48.       Since 1979 when China first began to open up its offshore for
exploration by international oil companies (IOCs), production sharing
contracts have been concluded for 31 areas (as of early 1986); these include
23 contracts from the two rounds of bidding (initiated early 1982 and late
1984), 3 extensions of first round contracts and 5 bilateral contracts
negotiated during 1980-82 (for which 2 small oil developments in the Bohai and
Beibu Gulfs are now underway). Until the recently announced oil discoveries
in the Pearl River Mouth Basin (Phillips/Pecten and Agip/Chevron/Texaco),
however, the results of the IOCs' exploration efforts had been generally
disappointing, the main encouragement having been the Arco gas discovery in
the South China Sea and several tests/shows of oil and gas in wells drilled.
Under Governmental regulations established in 1982, the IOCs bear the cost of
all exploration investment and accompanying risks, and once a commercial
discovery is made, the foreign contractor and China Na onal Offshore Oil
Corporation (CNOOC) invest jointly in its development.-   An important
difference in the contract terms between the two rounds of bidding was the
elimination (in the second round) of the 12.5% royalty on fields producing
less than one million tons per year. The Chinese have also demonstrated
2/   CNOOC was also created in 1982 to invite/evaluate bids and enter into
offshore petroleum agreements with the IOCs.



- 15 -
flexibility in the extensions of some of the first round contracts whereby the
IOCs have apparently been able to shift exploration drilling comitments to
prospective areas outside their original blocks. The bids for the second
round are currently being evaluated, and although four contracts had been
concluded by the end of 1985, continuing flexibility in contract terms/work
requirements will be an important factor in the successful conclusion of
further contracts during this period of declining oil prices and limited
availability of risk capital for exploration in the oil industry. It never-
theless seems clear that China is keenly interested in maintaining a high
level of activity offshore and that its comitment to an open-door policy is a
long-term one; in fact, CNOOC has recently indicated that more rounds of
bidding can be expected and that it may also be willing to discuss some areas
which have not been formally demarcated.
49.       In the interest of accelerating its onshore exploration program as
well, but recognizing its own budgetary and technical limitations, China
Announced in March 1985 that it intended to make available to foreign oil
companies onshore acreage in 136 sedimentary basins covering about 360,000 km2
in 10 southern provinces. The China National Oil Development Corporation
(CNODC) has been formed in parallel to CNOOC to handle onshore activities with
the IOCs, and data packages have already been made available on some areas
within the opened provinces. By end-1985, one onshore contract (Hainan
Island) had been concluded and others were under discussion. It appears that,
at least initially, the formulation of contractual and operational particulars
for the onshore areas will be handled through individual negotiations with
interested foreign parties rather than through the more formal bidding rounds
used for the offshore. Expediency and flexibility in negotiating terms suited
to each particular area are cited as the primary reasons for this decision,
although it is also expected that CNODC will deveLop some form of general
agreement as a basis for negotiations. While the onshore area opened to date
is large, virtually unexplored and geologically interesting, it is the north-
western part of China which is considered to be highly prospective and of
particular interest to the industry; the Chinese are apparently considering
opening parts of the northwest as well but logistics remain a major
constraint.
Energy Pricing
50.       Energy in China continues to be largely allocated administratively,
with market forces playing a secondary role. In general, prices for energy
allocated under the State plan are not set according to international prices
and are low in relation to economic costs, with the exception of certain
petroleum products and electricity for residential consumers. It should be
noted, however, that comparisons of these prices in China with international
prices are extremely complex and must be interpreted with caution, particu-
larly because of difficulties in analyzing energy prices in isolation from
domestic prices of other commodities and uncertainties about the level of the
exchange rate appropriate for such comparisons. Improvements are being made
by permitting market-related prices for above-quota fuel supplies which give



- 16 -
more appropriate signals at the margin to their producers and users.3/
Nevertheless, under the present pricing structure, while significant economic
rents are generated from some fuels (e.g., oil), average operating costs are
barely covered for others (e.g., coal). The Government is well aware that
some energy products are under-priced and significant progress has been made
during the past few years in movement toward prices reflecting full ecouomic
costs, particularly in the case of coal. Moreover, the Government is planning
a general reform of the price system, although the first priority for reform
is consumer goods (e.g., agricultural products) and only later industrial
products prices. Rationalization of energy prices to increasingly reflect
economic costs will continue to be an important aspect of the Bank's ongoing
dialogue with the Government.
51.       A summary comparison of domestic petroleum prices with international
prices is given in Annex rv. Since the 1983 increase in domestic product
prices, gasoline prices have generally been at or above international prices,
and the prices of kerosene 1ad diesel oil have been in the range of 80-90% of
international price levels.-   With the recent sharp decline in international
oil prices, domestic prices of all three fuels are presently well above inter-
national levels. The prices of crude oil and fuel oil, on the other hand,
have remained considerably below the international level, although since 1982
a special tax of Y70/ton has been levied on both when used as fuel; moreover,
above-quota crude/products production and consumption are priced at inter-
national levels. As for natural gas prices, the wellhead price of both
associated and non-associated gas was standardized at Y50 per thousand cubic
meters (MCM) until 1982 when the price of non-associated gas in Sichuan was
raised, first to Y80/MCM and then in 1984 to Y130/MCM (about $41/NCM or
$1.15/MCF). Because of the Government's interest in accelerating gas develop-
ment, it appears that consideration will now be given to such increases for
new gas projects on a case-by-case basis until broader adjustments can be made
within the loqger term price reform. In equivalent calorific terms, the end-
users price .' of gas in Sichuan is about 20% higher than that of fuel oil and
2-3 times the price of coal, the main alternative sources of fuel for indus-
trial use, but is significantly below prevailing prices of light petroleum
chemical feedstocks. This is consistent with the Government's policy to accord
priority to feedstock over fuel uaage in rationing the presently scarce supply
of natural gas.
3/   That is, the producer receives a higher, market-related price for goods
he produces above his production target, and the consumer must pay a
higher, market-related price for goods he consumes over and above his
allotted consumption.
4/   Although the Yuar has been devalued since the 1983 increase in domestic
product prices, this has been offset to some extent by the gradual
decline in oil prices on the international market in recent years.
5/   Including a gas distribution fee of about Y40/MCM.



- 17 -
Institutional Framework
52.       The Ministry of Petroleum Industry (MOPI) generally oversees all
activities in the oil and gas subsector, including policy making and overall
planning, exploration, development, production, transportation, distribution,
research and design, and training. Responsibility for the country's onshore
oil and gas fields is divided regionally among several administrative bureaus
under MOPI, while CNOOC and CNODC have been created as corporations attached
tc the Ministry with responsibility for entering into petroleum agreements
with the IOCs for the offshore and onshore concession areas, respectively.
The organization of the petroleum industry has been in a state of nearly
continuous change since the 1970s which has resulted in some blurring of lines
of responsibility and considerable overlapping of functions among MOPI, the
Ministry of Geology and the Ministry of Chemical Industry (MCI). To address
some of these problems, the Petrochemical Corporation of China (SINOPEC) was
created in September 1983 with responsibility for most petroleum refining
(plants -with capacities of 1 million tons or more a year) and petrochemicals
production based on liquid petroleum feedstocks; MCI handles those petro-
chemical plants using natural gas and coal as feedstocks and the remaining
small-scale petroleum r.pfineries. As a further step toward strengthening the
planning and management of the gas subsector, the Natural Gas Corporation was
created under MOPI in 1984 but has so far directed most of its attentiou
toward gas supply issues; integrated planning of gas supply and use remains an
area where greater intersectoral coordination is needed.
53.       CNOOC, formed on February 15, 1982, has been given the exclusive
right to explore, develop, produce and market offshore oil and gas resources
in cooperation with foreign enterprises; in addition to signing contracts with
IOCs and directing/organizing its regional branches and specialized affiliates
in implementing these contracts, CNOOC's rights include making plans/organi-
zing projects for downstream utilization of offshore petroleum, assisting its
subsidiaries/affiliates in arranging contracts with foreign partners for
supplying oil field equipment and services, and raising financing for offshore
petroleum exploitation for which present government policy is to provide only
limited budgetary resources. Although CNOOC comes under the leadership of
MOPI, it holds the rank of a bureau directly under the State Council. It has
a registered capital of Y6 billion, of which Y1.8 billion had been paid in by
end-1984, and pays income taxes like any foreign oil company in China. In
addition to its rour regional corporations (Bohai, South Huanghai, Nanhai East
and Nanhai West Oil Corporations), CNOOC has numerous specialized corporations
and joint venture companies (with foreign/Chinese partners) providing services
(e.g., drilling, geophysical, well logging, offshore positioning, mud logging,
vesseL services) to the offshore industry. The Bohai and Nanhai West Oil
Corporations existed before CNOOC was created and carry out a limited amount
of exploration on their own in the Bohai and Beibu Gulfs, respectively, in
addition to their joint venture operations with the IOCs. The Bank has found
the overall institutional arrangements for offshore petroleum exploration &nd
development activities in China to be generally satisfactory, and CNOOC's own
organization and involvement in the o'fshore in particular to have worked well
to date.



- 18 -
Sectoral Lending Strategy and Role of the Bank
54.       China's petroleum industry is in transition.  It has depended so far
on a limited number of large fields onshore which have been exploited success-
fully in spite of some harsh climatic and geographical conditions and the
technological constraints of the Chinese. While the prospect for significant
new discoveries outside of established oil producing provinces is still good,
they are likely to be located in more remote areas (northwestern China) and
will take a long time to explore and develop. It is, therefore, unlikely that
discoveries of this kind onshore will contribute significantly to China's oil
supply in the next 5 to 10 years. Moreover, offshore exploration, which has
been very active over the past four years in China, has not yet produced any
sizeabLe discoveries although two consortiums have recently announced what
could be commercial oil finds. The contribution of the offshore to China's
oil production will also not be of significance until the 1990s.
55.       In the near to medium term, therefore, China has to rely on already
discovered reserves to meet its internal requirements and to generate an
export surplus which wouLd continue to provide a sizeable source of foreign
exchange. At the same time, it has to encourage exploration by both private
and public sector companies to ensure that new discoveries will replace
existing reserves when they are depleted. The policy followed by the
Government is responsive to these needs:
(a) Over the past 5 years, China has encouraged, and plans to continue
to encourage, offshore exploration by international oil companies
through innovative contract arrangements and a flexible approach to
contract terms;
(b) China has recently opened onshore areas, on a limited scale, to
foreign exploration and is considering opening up the large
unexplored basins in the northwestern part of the country;
(c) MOPI, over the last several years, has undertaken a program of
modernization of the petroleum bureaus and has promoted the
introduction of modern concepts and technology in oil exploration
and production to ensure that already producing basins are fully
explored and recovery from existing reserves is maximized. These
efforts have already yielded results, and oil production has
increased from about 101 million tons in 1981 to 125 million tons in
1985; and
(dj More recently, MOPI has started to place increased emphasis on the
development of natural gas, which has played only a minor role in
energy supply in the past, but whose potential as a domestic source
of energy appears promising.
The Government's strategy in the sector has been pragmatic and, despite some
operational problems, largely successful.
56.       Over the past four years, the Bank has supported the Government's
petroleum strategy, primarily in the modernization of onshore production, by



- 19 -
assisting several bureaus in their efforts to introduce modern technology and
management techniques and to develop new exploration concepts. The main
objective of the Bank in four successive operations (Loan Nos. 2231, 2252,
2426, 2580-CIA) was to review development plans, suggest alternative
approaches to both exploration and production methods and develop technical
assistance packages which would address the main conceptual, managerial and
technological gaps and expose the Chinese oil industry staff to state-of-the-
art techniques. To the extent possible, the technical assistance packages
were designed to be replicable under similar circumstances in order to
encourage cross fertilization. In addition, the Bank's involvement in project
identification, preparation and implementation has helped to introduce China's
oil field entities and MOPI to improved methods of project analysis, invest-
ment programming and monitoring of project implementation.
57.       In parallel, through informal discussions, seminars and one project,
the Bank has also increased the awareness of the Government to the potential
of natural gas outside the present main producing area (Sichuan). Increased
attention is now being directed toward more fully utilizing the associated gas
and exploring for and developing non-associated gas resources in several of
China's onshore oil fields. In the case of natural gas, the main objectives
of the Bank are not only technical but also institutional, particularly in
such areas as gas market development, rationalization of pricing and regional
planning of development (since it is much too early for gas to be considered
on a national scale). The Bank has been instrumental, for example, in
convincing CNOOC that the offshore gas discovery in the South China Sea could
be developed to serve the domestic requirements of southern China.
58.       Over the past two years, the Bank has maintained an active dialogue
with CNOOC, although no project was financed offshore. The main areas of
discussion were gas utilization and the need for CNOOC to plan for the large
financial requirements which would be needed to meet its obligations in the
development of offshore resources. The presently proposed technical
assistance and appraisal project for CNOOC's regional corporation, the Bohai
Oil Corporation (BOC), will be the Bank's first operation with CNOOC. BOC has
discovered what appears to be an oil and gas condensate field in the northern
part of the Bohai Culf (Liaodong Bay) in northeast China and has requested
Bank assistance in its appraisal. If coumerciality is confirmed, other
similar structures aLong a roughly north-south axis in Liaodong Bay would also
need to be tested. In addition to providing needed services and technical
assistance to help establish BOC/CNOOC as fully competent operators and
enhance their effectiveness as joint venture partners with the IOCs, the
project will provide an opportunity: (a) to develop a framework for
mobilizing new equity participation in BOC's future exploration/development
program in Liaodong Bay where BOC has so far been operating on its own; and
(b) if the appraisal program under the project is successful, to mobilize
financing for its development which would minimize the debt burden of the
Government.
59.       As for our experience with past lending in the subsector, tnis can
be summarized as follows in the case of the four projects financed by the Bank
to date. While there have been some start-up delays particularly in the first
two projects (Loan Nos. 2231, 2252-CHA), physical implementation of all four



- 20 -
projects has generally been on schedule and within budget, and project
objectives are being met. The main difficulty, which has shown considerable
improvement in the last two years, has been slow procurement because of lack
of experience with Bank procedures, insufficient coordination among the
various entities concerned and delays in starting studies due to rather
protracted discussions over the terms of reference, etc. This should be less
of a problem in the case of the proposed project because CNOOC/BOC have
greater autonomy in procurement than the petroleum bureaus, a special project
implementation team has been set up to coordinate the project, and project
preparation is well advanced.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
60.       The project was identified in September 1985 and prepared by the
Bohai Oil Corporation with assistance from Bank staff. It was appraised in
December 1985. Negotiations were held in Washington in April 1986 with a
delegation consisting of representatives of the Government of China, CNOOC and
BOC and led by Mr. Luo Qing, Deputy Director, External Finance Department,
Ministry of Finance. No separate Staff Appraisal Report has been prepared.
Supplementary project data are contained in Annex III.
Background and Project Origin
61.       The Bohai Gulf covers an area of approximately 73,000 square
kilometers (kn2) off the northeast coast of China. The western part of the
Gulf covers the northern extension of the North China Basin which contains a
number of major oil fields in its onshore portion. About 40% of China's
current oil production comes from these onshore fields; however, no major
discovery has yet been made in the offshore area. Exploratory efforts in the
Bohai Gulf date from 1959. The initial surveys and studies were carried out
by the Ministry of Geology. In 1965 the Bohai O'} Corporation was formed to
undertake offshore exploration and exploitation.-   BOC initiated exploratory
drilling in 1967, and by the end of 1980 about 100 exploration wells had been
drilled and both oil and gas had been discovered in commercial quantities.
62.       In 1980 the Government opened the Bohai Gulf to international oil
companies in order to bring in foreign investment and technical expertise.
BOC subsequently concLuded cooperation agreements with the Japan-China Oil
Development Corporation (JCODC) and the Societe Nationale Elf Aquitaine (Elf)
for exploration in the southern part of the Gulf and with Chengbei Oil
Development Corporation (CODC, a subsidiary of JCODC) for development of the
Chengbei oil field discovered by BOC in 1972. Due to disappointing results in
three deep exploratory wells, Elf relinquished its participation in 1984,
although BOGC continues to look for a new partner(s). JCODC is carrying out an
active exploration program in its 25,500 km2 concession area with some
6/   BOC became a regional corporation of CNOOC when CNOOC was formed in 1982
and BOC's area of operation was limited to the Bohai Gulf.



- 21 -
positive results, and Chengbei field commenced production late in 1985 with
CODC as operator.
63.       At the time of opening the Bohai Gulf to the industry, the Govern-
ment decided to allow BOC to retain opera orship in the smaller northern part
of the Gulf - an area of about 12,000 km in Liaodong Bay - so that (a) BOC
could gain direct operating experience in offshore technology in an area where
the expLoration risk is relatively limited, and could develop the requisite
level of technical and managerial skills to maintain continuity in China's
offshore activities, but aLso because (b) the Chinese consider this to be a
strategic area where foreign participation would be limited to a non-operating
financial participation with full access to all data instead of the more usual
situation of the IOC assuming responsibility as the operator. BOC has since
been carrying out a small expLoration seismic and drilling program on its own
in Liaodong Bay. In May 1985, BOC requested a Bank loan to help finance the
combined appraisal and development of its first discovery in the Bay, the
Jinzhou 20-2 (JZ 20-2) structure discovered in 1984. Two ridges of buried
hills known from the onshore Liaohe field extend some 160 km into Liaodong
Bay, and the JZ 20-2 structure is located at the northern end of the western
ridge close to established production onshore (see Annex V for details on the
petroleum geology and potential of the area). The JZ 20-2 structure is a
complex faulted anticline having a closed area of approximately 30 km over
three separate highs. Four wells have been drilled to date (three on the
southern high and one on the central high), and each has tested oil, gas and
condensate at various depths ranging from 1,615 to 2,227 meters subsea.
64.       The JZ 20-2 structure is located about 45 km from shore where the
sea is relatively shallow (about 20m). The drilling of wells presents no
major difficulties, although there are some overpressured zones in the
Tertiary and pre-Tertiary sections; also weather conditions can be severe and
the sea freezes during the January-March period necessitating the suspension
of drilling operations for three months in the winter. Based on the results
of the first wells, the reservoir conditions of the JZ 20-2 structure appear
to be relatively complicated. Both the structural and stratigraphic
conditions appear to govern oil accumulation at different levels; the
reservoirs are difficult to correlate because of the complex geology; the
petrophysical characteristics of the reservoirs show considerable variation
from one well to another; and different oil/water contacts have been
deteripined in the same producing formation on. different highs indicating
separate accumulations. Because of these complications, the oil and gas
reserves of the JZ 20-2 structure can presently be only roughly estimated by
statistical methods. An analysis based on the Monte Carlo simulation
technique -/ indicates the most likely in-place reserves to be on the order of
7/   A statistical technique whereby a set of possible volumes of oil and gas
with the attendant probabilities of their occurrence is derived based on
quantitative judgments of the explorationists involved as to the chance
of occurrence of certain main parameters governing the occurrence of
hydrocarbons (e.g., presence and characteristics of source rocks, reser-
voirs, structures).



- 22 -
33 million tons of oil and condensate (7.0 million tons recoverable) and 9.2
BCH of gas (5.7 BCM recoverable). If proven, these reserves would justify
developing the JZ 20-2 structure for annual plateau production rates of about
750,000 tons of oil and condensate (15,000 barrels daily) and 600 million
cubic meters (MMCM) of gas (58 MMCF daily).
65.       Taking into consideration that BOC has already borne a substantial
portion of the exploration risk itself and the limited nature of the informa-
tion presently available on reserve and reservoir conditions of the JZ 20-2
structure, the Bank proposed a two-stage approach for the appraisal/develop-
ment of the discovery: that is, the Bank would provide immediate assistance
for the assessment of the resource, the design of its development and use and
related studies and training, to be followed by full-scale development of the
field if justified by the results of the first stage. While the chances of
BOC reaching a mutually satisfactory agreement on a non-operating equity
participation with a private oil compan-y would not be promising at this stage,
the chances would substantially improve upon completion of a rOroperly executed
appraisal/delineation of the discovery, which is well within BOC's implementa-
tion capability and will be carried out under the proposed project. BOC
accepted the Bank's two-stage approach and also indicated that it is prepared
to consider a minority financial participation from a foreign partner(s) in
the development stage. The Bank's further involvement in the development of
the field would depend upon the results of the appraisal program as well as
the financial and participation arrangements for its development. In the
event of additional discoveries in its own ongoing exploration program in
Liaodong Bay, BOC has also indicated that it is interested in finding IOCs to
farm-in as non-operators to participate in further e-ploration/appraisal and
development.
Project Objectives and Scope
66.       The specific objective of the proposed project is to assist BOC in
the appraisal of the JZ 20-2 structure and in the planning and financing of an
optimum resource development and utilization program.  In view of the
possibility of a series of similar structures in Liaodong Bay, the project
would also provide an initial assessment of the overall potential of the area
and could serve as a model for the appraisal and development of the other
structures. By thus upgrading the quality of the prospect and level of
information about the overall prospectiveness of the area, the project would
provide BOC with a stronger basis for consideration of equity participation by
international oil companies or other financial partners in the development of
the JZ 20-2 structure and/or further exploration in Liaodong Bay and various
other financing schemes, including limited recourse financing, which may be
applicable in BOC's future developments as well as those of CNOOC with Arco in
the South China Sea and other possible joint ventures. Finally, the project
would help BOC/CNOOC to develop improved local capabilities - technical,
financial and managerial - in all aspects of offshore petroleum operations
and to strengthen China's capabilities as a joint venture partner in these
activities. Provided the appraisal program proves sufficient reserves in the
JZ 20-2 structure to make it a viable production venture, the proposed
technical assistance project would facilitate the rapid implementation of the
full-scale development of this structure and the associated facilities for
production, transportation and utilization of the resource.



- 23 -
Project Description
67.       The proposed project would comprise the following components:
-    3-D Seismic Data Processing.  The processing and interpreting of
approximately 5,000 km of 3-D seismic data acquired by BOC over the
JZ 20-2 structure in 1985;
-    Strengthening of BOC's Data Processing Facilities.  The provision of
computer hardware and software needed for seismic data processing
and interpretation and reservoir engineering applications;
-    Appraisal Well Drilling.  The drilling and testing of three deviated
and two vertical appraisal wells, approximately 2,600-3,200 m deep,
and the construction and installation of two subsea templates and
one -ellhead platform to enable long-term production testing;
-    Improvement of BOC's Well Testing and Core Analysis Capabilities.
The provision of down-hole test tools and surface test equipment
(separators, meters, controls, etc.) and of special core analysis
equipment (to measure capillary pressure, wettability, relative
permeability, etc.);
-    Special Tests and Studies.  Conducting with the assistance of
foreign experts, specialized tests (crushing strength, bending
failure, etc.) on ice samples to be taken from the Liaodong Bay and
petrophysical and reservoir fluid analyses on core and fluid samples
to be obtained from appraisal wells; and preparing with the
assistance of consultants, six studies related to the evaluation and
future development of the JZ 20-2 structure including Regional
Petroleum Geological, Reservoir, Gas Utilization, Field Development
Engineering, Feasibility and Financing of Development and
Computerization Studies;
-    Training.  The trainirg of approximately 80 BOC engineers and
geologists outside of ehina on special petroleum geological,
geophysical and engineering subjects, offshore oil industry
practices and managerial and economic aspects of petroleum
operations (details of proposed training appear in Annex VI).
68.       The appraisal program under the project, comprising seismic, wells
and studies, will bring the level of knowledge about the JZ 20-2 structure,
particularly its potential reserves, to the point where a development decision
can be made. If the commercial soundness of the development is proven, an
optimum plan to develop the field and produce and use the reserves, including
alternative schemes for financing the development, will also be produced under
the project.  In the event of noncommerciality, which is not considered
likely, the appraisal program will serve to minimize outlays for development,
and in fact, certain studies included in the project (e.g., Field Development
Engineering and Feasibility and Financing of Development Studies) will be
reduced in scope or eliminated as appropriate and the loan reduced by a
corresponding amount. The Regional Petroleum Geological and Gas Utilization



- 24 -
Studies, as well as parts of the other studies, will additionally go beyond
the confiues of the JZ 20-2 structure with a view toward formulating a
strategy and investment program for future exploration/development in Liaodong
Bay and assessing the potential market/distribution network for utilization of
natural gas in the surrounding onshore area. Finally, there is a substantial
component of institution building and technology transfer in the form of
technical assistance, training and equipment to strengthen BOC's capabilities
in offshore petroleum operations.
Project Cost and Financing
69.       The total financing required for the project is estimated at $83.8
million, of which $50.2 million or 60% would be in foreign exchange. Detailed
estimates of project costs appear in Annex VII. The costs include physical
and price contingencies ($14.0 million), interest during construction ($6.4
million) and import duties and taxes ($3.6 million). The estimates are based
on detailed lists of equipment, materials and services prepared by BOC and
using end-1985 prices. A physical contingency of 10% was applied to the base
costs. For local engineering and consultancy services, the average cost to
BOC of such services was used. *For the various-foreign consultancy and
engineering services, it is estimated that about 400 man-months of services
will be required. The average cost of training outside of China (about 41
man-years) is $19,500 per man-year. Price contingencies were calculated on
the basis of a three year implementation schedule and expected annual
inflation rates of 7.2% in 1986 and 6.8% in 1987-88 for both local and foreign
expenditures. No contingencies were applied to the base cost of 3-D seismic
data processing for which a fixed-price contract was awarded in January 1986.
70.       The proposed Bank loan of $30.0 million would finance about 38% of
the total cost (net of duties and taxes) and 60% of the foreign exchange re-
quirements of the project. BOC expects to finance $15.0 million of the
project costs through the untied credit from the Export-Import Bank of
Japan. Should this cofinancing fail to materialize, however, BOC would bear
the cost. The balance of the foreign exchange and local cost requirements and
any cost overruns incurred in project execution would be financed by BOC's
internal cash. The Bank loan would be made to the Government for a period of
20 years (including 5 years of grace) at the standard variable interest
rate. The Government would in turn onlend the loan proceeds to BOC on the
same terms and conditions as the Bank loan; BOC would. beqr the foreign
exchange risk. In addition to the Loan Agreement with the Government, a
Project Agreement would be entered into with BOC. Conclusion of a satis-
factory Subsidiary Loan Agreement between the Government and BOC and approval
of the Loan Agreement by the State Council would be conditions of loan
effectiveness.
Project Implementation
71.       The project would be implemented by the BOC, and BOC's Deputy
General Manager for Exploration and Development would be responsible for
overall project management. In the day-to-day management of project
activities, he would be supported by two assistants, one responsible for the
technical aspects of the project and the other for the financial and economic



- 25 -
aspects. These assistants in turn wouLd oversee and coordinate the project-
related work of the BOC managers (or deputy managers) responsibLe for
exploration, drilling, evaluation and research, engineering design, procure-
ment, and cost control operations. The Deputy General Manager, his two
assistants for the project and six managers along with their staff assigned to
work on the project would make up the project implementation team. BOC's
staff numbers about 15,000 in total, of which some 1,100 are engineers,
geologists and other specialists and 1,600 are managerial staff; the profes-
sional staff are well quaLified and familiar with oil industry practices. In
its 20 years of operation, BOC has developed capabilities, on its own and
through joint venture arrangements with foreign contractors/suppliers, in most
routine offshore operations including geophysical surveys, drilling and well
services, prefabrication and installation of offshore structures and requisite
support services and supply base; these services have been used in BOC's own
operations and contracted out on a competitive basis to other oil companies in
the Bohai, Yellow and South China Seas. BOC has also gained valuable
experience through its more recent cooperation agreements with foreign oil
companies, particularly in the development of the Chengbei oil field with
CODC. An organization chart for BOC is provided in Annex VIII. Assurances
have been obtained from BOC that it would maintain the project implementation
team under the direction of the Deputy General Manager for Exploration and
Development with competent staff in adequate numbers throughout the project.
72.       The appraisal wells under the project will be drilled by the
Drilling Company of BOC which has nine active offshore drilling units and
undertakes contract drilling on a competitive basis for foreign oil companies
operating in China; in fact, the company has successfully drilled about 100
wells since 1980 for BOC's joint venture activities and various other IOCs.
The templates and welihead platform will be designed, fabricated and installed
by the BOC subsidiaries specializing in these areas (Design Company, Platform
Fabrication Plant, Offshore Engineering Company and Shipping and Towing
Service). These groups have close to 20 years of experience and more than 20
offshore platforms to their credit. Offshore logistics and well services will
be supplied by BOC's specialized subsidiaries (towing, supply boats, helicop-
ters, drilling including directional drilling, drilling mud services and
cemen_ing), by joint venture companies established in cooperation with
reputable international service companies (soil survey, rig positioning and
tie-back, mud logging and logging of three project wells), and by interna-
tional service companies (well testing and logging of two project wells).
Assurances have been obtained from BOC that it would: (a) consult with the
Bank on the location of each well under the project before commencing drilling
operations for the particular well; and (b) review with the Bank the findings
and test results of each well upon its completion.
73.       Of the 5,000 km of 3-D seismic data, about 3,800 km will be
processed by an international geophysical service company and the balance
(about 1,700 km to allow sufficient overlap) will be processed in house by the
BOC Data Processing Center for the purpose of training and developing its own
capabilities in processing. The results will then be integrated and inter-
preted by the foreign contractor together with BOC geophysicists. Ice
sampling will be done by BOC operating departments with the assistance of
foreign consultants, while the ice tests and special core and reservoir fluid



- 26 -
analyses will be entrusted to foreign companies speciaLizi.ag in these
areas.   The purpose of the ice tests is to provide data needed to design
offshore platforms and related facilities to withstand winter conditions in
Liaodong Bay where the ice can reach one meter in thickness. The Regional
Petroleum Geological, Feasibility and Financing of Development and Compu-
terization Studies will be prepared by BOC's Engineering aud Financial
Departments with assistance from foreign consultants; the Reservoir, Gas
Utilization and Field Development Engineering Studies will be entrusted to
international consultants/engineering companies. The primary objectives of
each of these studies, with target start/finish dates, are briefly as follows:
-    The Regional Petroleum Geological Study will be a synthesis of che
geological, geophysical and geochemical data and will aim at clari-
fying the petroleum geology of Liaodong Bay including distribution
of source and reservoir rocks and structural relationships (January
1, 1986/December 31, 1987).
-    The Reservoir Study will determine the reserves and optimum pro-
duction characteristics of individual reservoirs, study the feasi-
bility of recycling of gas condensate reservoirs, recommend optimum
field development and well completion schemes taking into considera-
tion the relative importance of different reservoirs, expected pro-
duction profiles and secondary recovery/pressure maintenance
requirements (January 1, 1987/October 31, 1987).
-    The Gas Utilization Study will analyze alternative uses of natural
gas produced from Liaodong Bay under various scenarios of potential
supply and demand (April 1, 1987/September 30, 1987).
-    The Field Development Engineering Study will comprise the optimiza-
tion of offshore installations taking into consideration predicted
production performance, ecological conditions, existing infrastruc-
ture, etc., and the basic design of the installations including the
preparation bf bidding documents (July 1, 1987/August 31, 1988).
-    The Feasibility and Financing of Development Study will assess the
economic feasibility of various phased development scenarios and
optimum financing arrangements available to BOC (November 1, 1987/
March 31, 1988).
-    The Computerization Study will investigate the optimum configuration
for the data processing facilities which are already available or
will be available to BOC (June 1, 1986/August 31, 1986).
Draft terms of reference for the major studies have been discussed and
substantially agreed with BOC along with a detailed schedule for inviting
proposals and carrying out the studies (see the project implementation
schedule in Annex IX). Assurances have been obtained from BOC that it would
carry out the studies in accordance with the terms of reference agreed with
the Bank and the overall schedule above and would appoint qualified
consultants to carry out/assist BOC in these various studies in time to
initiate work in accordance with the agreed schedule. Finally, assurances



- 27 -
have been obtained from BOC that it would: (a) keep the Bank informed as to
the progress of each study at appropriate intervals and review with the Bank
upon completion of each study its overall findings and consequent action plan;
and (b) in the particular case of the Reservoir Study and conceptual design
phase of the Field Development Engineering Study, review with the Bank the
preliminary findings of both at least one month before the scheduled start of
the basic engineering phase of the Field Development Engineering Study in
order to decide whether to proceed with the study as planned.
74.       Technology transfer, both in the form of training and introduction
of state-of-the-art materials, methods and equipment for offshore petroleum
operations, will be an important outcome of this project. Counterpart BOC
staff will be associated with all project activities for on-the-job
training. Some training outside of China will also be provided by suppliers
of equipment and materials (special core analysis), by consultants and
engineering companies (seismic stratigraphy, reservoir engineering, offshore
engineering) and by international service companies (log analysis) in connec-
tion with the work undertaken by these groups under the project. A limited
amount of training (petroleum economics, structural analysis of offshore
structures, etc.) will further be obtained through graduate college courses
and internationally organized seminars. An outline of the proposed training
as discussed and agreed with BOC is given in Annex VI. The training program
for 1986 has been agreed with BOC, and assurances have been obtained that BOC
would submit to the Bank by September 1 of each year a proposed training
program for the next year and would implement the program as agreed with the
Bank.
75.       As for the status of project preparation, the location and drilling
program of the first appraisal well (JZ 20-2-5), as well as the overall
rationale and tentative locations of the other four appraisal wells (JZ 20-2-
6, -7D, -SD, -9D) under the project, were discussed with Bank staff during
appraisal. The major portion of materials required for drilling have been
procured, and BOC has concluded contracts for three offshore drilling units to
be used in its Liaodong Bay program. Appraisal drilLing of well JZ 20-2-5
will start in June 1986. The final locations of the four remaining wells will
be determined based on the results of the 3-D seismic data processing which
has been underway since early March 1986; preliminary results of the
processing are expected to be available by June 1986, in time to locate the
remaining wells. Major bidding documents and terms of reference for studies
were discussed with BOC during appraisal/negotiations and are now being
finalized in accordance with a detailed project implementation schedule agreed
with BOC during negotiations (Annex IX). The proposed project is basically a
continuation of BOC's ongoing appraisal program for the JZ 20-2 structure (3
wells were drilled in 1985) and has a substantial appraisal drilling component
as well as the studies and training components which are more typical of the
Bank's oil and gas technical assistance projects. For the reasons outlined
above, the three year implementation schedule given in Annex IX is considered
to be reaListic and more appropriate for this project than the five year
schedule which reflects the Bank's past experience with oil and gas technical
projects.



- 28 -
Procurement
76.            Detailed procurement arrangements and items proposed for Bank
financing are tabulated in Annex X. Procurement of materials and equipment
proposed for Bank financing (S11.5 million) will be through international
competitive bidding (ICB) according to Bank guidelines, with the exception of
not more than $0.8 million of specialized goods for which there are a limited
number of qualified suppliers worldwide and whose quality and timely delivery
are critical to project implementation and which will be procured through
limited international bidding (LIB). In addition, about $3.7 million of
specialized well services will be obtained through LIB because of the rela-
tively low value of the individual contracts and the limited number of
qualified companies worldwide capable of supplying these services. For items
to be procured through LIB, quotations will be solicited from at least three
suppliers from at least two different countries. Local manufacturers will be
eligible to bid under ICB and would be granted a 15Z margin of preference or
the prevailing customs duties, whichever is lower, in the evaluation of
bids. Services for experimental logging of two appraisal wells, approximately
$2.9 million, will be obtained through direct contracting from one
(Schlumberger, U.S.) of only two companies worldwide offering a full line of
well logs. BOC has access to the logging technology of the other company
(Dresser-Atlas, U.S.) through both a subsidiary of CNOQC and a joinc venture
between CNOOC and Dresser-Atlas, and has so far relied exclusively on their
services. The purpose of the experimental logging under the project is to
provide a basis for comparing the services of the two companies and to help
BOC determine an optimum logging program for its future wells. Consultancy,
engineering and training services, about $11.9 million, will be obtained
according to Bank guidelines for the use of consultants.
77.       It is estimated that the number of bid packages for bank financing
will approximate 30. Prior Bank review of the bidding and contract documents
of all packages costing $500,000 or more will be undertaken. The procurement
of the items to be financed by the Bank will be the responsibility of the
Procurement Department of BOC. Procurement of 3-D seismic processing services
and certain essential well services, materials and ice sampling equipment are
on the critical path if BOC is to meet its planned schedule for project imple-
mentation. BOC conducted, in consultation with the Bank and in accordance
with Bank procedures, an international bidding for the 3-D seismic and awarded
a contract ($1.4 million) to Compagnie Generale de Geophysique (France) in
January 1986. The total amount of advance contracting under the project is
not expected to exceed $7.6 million (25% of proposed Bank loan) and will have
been procured in accordance with Bank procedures.
78.       Among the items not financed by the Bank (see Annex X), oil field
equipment and materials ($12.5 million) will be procured under BOC's own
procurement practices. Of these, locally procured goods ($4.1 million) will
be obtained from Chinese enterprises which are the assigned suppliers to BOC;
imported goods will be obtained through China National Machinery Import Corpo-
ration which procures such items in bulk through international shopping.
Although somewhat slow and inflexible, local procurement procedures are
reasonably efficient for the procurement of standardized goods. Well services
($19.2 million), offshore construction ($3.8 million) and local engineering



- 29 -
($1.9 million) will be provided by BOC and its subsidiary companies. Addi-
tionally $5.7 million of well services will be obtained from joint-venture
service companies estaDlished in China.
Disbursements
79.       Disbursement of the Bank loan would be made against 100% of the
foreign exchange cost of imported equipment, materials and well services; 100%
of the ex-factory cost of equipment and materials manufactured locally and
procured under ICB; 70Z of the cost of imported equipment and materials
available through local suppliers and procured under ICB; and 100X of the cost
of consultancy and training. in order to assist BOC to meet expenditures in a
timely manner, it is proposed that a special account be opened in US dollars
in a bank acceptable to the World Bank with an initial deposit of $2.5 million
which corresponds to four months' average disbursements; replenishments will
be made quarterly or when the special account is drawn down to 50% of the
initial deposit, whichever occurs first. Disbursements for training and
contracts for goods and services each valued at less than $200,000 equivalent
would be made on the basis of Statement of Expenditures (SOEs). Documentation
supporting the SOEs need not be sent to the Bank, but would be retained in the
project office in Tanggu and made available for review by the Bank's super-
vision missions. In line with the proposed advance contracting for Bank
financed services, materials and equipment, retroactive financing of up to
$3.4 million (11Z of proposed Bank loan) is recommended for qualifying
expenditures incurred after appraisal (December 1, 1985). Because of the
ongoing nature of the project and scope of work, the disbursement schedule for
the Bank loan (Annex XI) is based on the project's three year implementation
schedule rather than the Bank's standard profile for oil and gas technical
assistance projects. Disbursement of the Bank loan is e-pected to be
completed by December 31, 1989.
financial Aspects, Accounts and Audits
80.       Details on BOC's finances are given in Annex XII.  BOC has performed
in a financially responsible manner and its finances are expected to remain
satisfactory over the medium term. Until 1988, BOC's operating revenues will
continue to be derived mainly from the contracting of petroleum services.
From 1988 onwards, its revenues are expected to be enhanced significantly by
the Chengbei joint venture. Over the longer term, BOC's revenue position will
be critically dependent on the results of its exploration/appraisal activities
in the Liaodong Bay. Based on the reasonable expectation that there will be
commercial discoveries from the Liaodong Bay, BOC's net income is forecast to
inc-ease significantly from some Y52 million in 1985 to Y132 million in
1990. Over the next five years, BOC's internal cash is projected to meet
almost 30% of its total financing requirements and cover the debt service
(excluding interest during construction) at least 1.3 times. Its debt/equity
ratio is expected to remain satisfactory even though it is expected to in-
crease substantially from 10/90 in 1985 to 52/48 in 1990.
81.       In general, BOC is required to follow the "Accounting System for
State Enterprises" enacted by the Government, except for joint ventures with
foreign companies in which case internationally accepted accounting practices



- 30 -
are followed. Further discussions of BOC's accounting practices are given in
Annex XII. BOC's accounts have thus far been kept satisfactorily. However,
while heavy emphasis is placed on the annual budget as a controlling tool, the
present financial practice in China does not provide for financial planning
beyond one year. With a view to promote prudent financial management,
assurances have been obtained from BOC that it would: (a) extend the horizon
of its financial planning to no less than five years and furnish the Bank with
projected financial statements based on a five-year rolling plan; (b) review
annually with the Bank by October 1 of each year its current and future
financial plans, focussing in particular on its investment program and related
financing arrangements; (c) not incur long-term debt without prior agreement
by the Bank unless future debt service coverage (excluding interest during
construction) based on a reasonable forecast is at least 1.2 times in 1986 and
1987 and 1.5 times from 1988 onwards; and (d) maintain a debt/equity ratio of
no more than 60/40.
82.       As in the case of other Bank-financed projects, external auditing of
BOC will be undertaken by the Foreign Investment Audit Bureau of the State
Audit Agency. Assurances have been obtained from BOC that it would maintain
separate accounts for the projec.; in addition, the project accounts and BOC's
accounts would be independentLy audited and the audited financiaL statements
sent to the Bank within six months after the end of each fiscal year. The
content and format of the quarterly project progress report has also been
discussed and agreed with BOC.
Environnmental Impact and Safety
83.       China's Safety Regulations for Offshore Installations of 1984
covering both fixed platforms and mobile drilling units are very strict and
impose the same safety measures required for the protection of installations,
human life and marine environment in the more advanced areas of the world.
BOC, as any other offshore operator, is under the legal obligation of main-
taining adequate safety standards and so far has had a good safety record.
China's Marine Environmental Protection Law of 1982 holds offshore operators
strictly liable for oil spills, blowouts and control of discharges. However,
the law is general in nacure and does not stipulate what constitutes allowable
waste discharge thresholds for drilling cuttings and other emissions.
Although the National Bureau of Oceanography is empowered to issue standards
governing waste discharges, so far it has determined only the maximum allow-
able oiL discharge (30 ml/l). During appraisal BOC agreed to adhere to envi-
ronmental standards acceptable to both the Government and the Bank until such
standards are promulgated by the Government. The standards recommended by the
Bank have been discussed with '-.C and an assurance has been obtained that BOC
would compLy with such standards.
Project Benefits and Risks
84.       The appraisal program under the proposed project is an essential
step in assessing the future production potential of the Liaodong Bay area,
and more particularly, in ensuring the technical, economic and financial
soundness of BOC's proposed development of the JZ 20-2 structure and
potentially opening the door to private equity participation in its later



- 31 -
development. The appraisal program itself is expected to amount to only 15-
20Z of the full-scale development cost and at least some of the wells could be
used for development.   In addition, the project contains a substantial
element of institution building and technology transfer which would enable
BOC/CNOOC to guin direct experience in offshore technology and develop the
requisite level of technicaL, financial and managerial skills in order to
maintain continuity in offshore activities in China, become more effective
joint venture partners with international oil companies and properLy monitor
the ongoing and future petroleum activities in offshore China. In the event
of a commercial development of the JZ 20-2 structure, the oil and condensate
could be exported or refined and used domestically. The natural gas would
most likely be used domestically, with the potential market including
feedstock for industries in the developed coastal area, household use in
cities and fuel for power/industry, depending upon the volume and timing of
supply; the Gas Utilization Study under the project would analyze alternative
uses for the gas.
85.       The project carries risks normally associated with oil and gas field
appraisal programs. The first risk is that there is no petroleum to be found;
given that each of the four wells drilled on the structure to date has tested
oil and gas, however, this risk is considered small. The other main risks are
technical and economic: (a) that the appraisal program will be insufficient
to delineate fully the details of the structure, and (b) that the discovery
wiLl prove to be noncommercial. The project has been designed to minimize
these risks. Seismic data acquisition was carried out in the 3-D mode with a
data density that is toward the upper limit of economically achievable data
density, and the processing/interpretation will be done by an experienced
international contractor. In addition to the four wells drilled to date, five
more deep wells will be drilled under the projecr which will mean there will
be 3-4 wells located so as to test completely the prospectivity of both the
southern and central highs and at least one welL testing the smaller northern
high. The use of modern seismic technology, appropriate testing and
evaluation of well results before spudding the next well and introduction of
qualified service companies and consultants, as well as close monitoring of
all project activities by the project management and Bank staff, will serve to
minimize the number of dry holes and amount of investment required for the
appraisal of the structure and to optimize the planned field development.
Finally, the structure is close to shore in shallow water and driLling
conditions are normal which will further help to minimize implementation
difficulties and the cost of getting the hydrocarbons onshore.
86.       The main economic risk pertains to the complexity of the reservoir
conditions of the JZ 20-2 structure, and hence uncertainty as to the estimate
of the in-place reserves and their recoverability with a minimum investment in
offshore platforms and wells, particularly in this period of declining oil
prices. The structure is located at the northern end of the western ridge of
buried hills close to established production onshore in the Liaohe field.
Based an a preliminary estimate of reserves made by BOC using the results of
its first two wells and a tentative development plan for daily plateau
production rates of some 15,000 barrels of oil and 58 million cubic feet of
gas, the proposed development would still have a real rate of return of 12% at
an oil price of $12/barrel (1985 prices) throughout the life of the field.



- 32 -
BOC's reserve estimates have been reviewed by the Bank and are considered to
be reasonably conservative both because they have already been discounted to
take into consideration the preliminary nature of the data available as well
as the concerns about reservoir continuity, and because they do not include
the results of the third well drilled on the central high which found oil in a
new horizon (Dongying sands) which is productive further south in the Chengbei
field. It is also likely that some reduction in development costs will be
possible if a series of structures along these ridges of buried hills can be
developed in succession and some common facilities shared. In this respect,
this project could also serve as a practicable model for the exploration,
development and financing of the other structures in Liaodong Bay. On
balance, the investment risk involved in the appraisal program is judged to be
reasonable given the encouraging results to dat4 for an economic development
of the JZ 20-2 structure and potential for further discoveries in the Liaodong
Bay.
PART V - RECOMMENDATION
87.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank and recommend that the Executive Directors approve
the proposed loan.
A. W. Clausen
President
Attachment
May 5, 1986
Washington, D.C.



-33_                                                 ANNEX I
Page 1 of 7
CHllA. P0PLrS RP. oF - SOCIAtL IUNICAATO  OATA US
OIIrA. PEoPLr8 REP. or              BEPCCn lOc    P C iOUF8 swICE  AWACKS) j
MOST                     (MMS REICET  STIMAT) lb
17L  RDCOI'T            W  IllCOt           lABlLg t10
1L9tfl     j97     c 3sta8/h        ASIA   PACtIrIC        ASIA 6 PACIFIC
AI cumi  SQ. KM
TOTAL                            9561.0      9561.0      9561.0
AIUCN..URLUL                     3257.6      3812.0      3865.9
oW   uCGTA (U)                          ..          ..       300.0             278.3                    1011.1
CKILOCRMS OF OtL EQUIVALEINT)     202.0       239.0       441.9             285.7                    566.6
P8PSATCN MM VITAL muTansI
POPrUATflON*ID-TEAR CHSMANDSI 651000.0   615160.0  1019102.0
L1IN POPULATION CE or Taint,        16.4 IA     ..         21.0              22.3                      35.9
POPULATIOU PROJECTIONS
POPUlION IN TEAR 2000 CHILL)                           1242.3
STATIONARY POPULATION (HILL)                           1571.0
POPULATION HamENTUM                                       1.6
POPULATION DESITY
PE  SQ. KR.                       bl.1       85.3       106.2             173.8                     3B6.9
PER Sq. M. AGI. LAIID            I".8       210.0       260.8             353.3                    1591.2
POPULATUOI ACE STRUCTURE CZ)
0-14 TRS                         38.9       31.6        32.0              36.3                      36.2
1W-64 YRS                        56.2        57.2        63.1              39.4                      57.7
bS AND AOV                        4.7         5.0         5.0               4.3                       3.5
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (Z)
TOTAL                              1.1        2.2         1.7               2.0                       2.3
MN                                 ..         ..          ..                4.1                       4.1
CtUDE RICH IRATE (PE  TUNS)         39.2 Id    35.7        18.6              27.5                      30.1
CRUDe DCATH RATE (PER TRailS)       23.5 7ir    8.8         7.1               10.2                      9.4
CROSS REPRODUCTON RATE              2z. 7l      2.3         1.0                1.7                      1.9
FAMILY PLAtISI
ACCePTORS. ASDAL (THOUS)
USERS CZ or tMrED WHEN)                                  71.0               9.4                      56.5
w  AD i    m u
lNDEX OF OOD PROD. PER CAPITA
(1969-71-100)                        ..       100.0       123.0             116.6                     124.4
PER CAPtTA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES CZ OF REQUIREKIT)        94.6 Id    101.6      119.6              106.3                    t15.7
PROTMIS CCRAS PEM DAM)            53.0 7if    56.2       69.7              60.1                      60.3
OF WHICH ALIMAL AND PULSE        12.5 7;i    13.3       15.9               14.4                     14.1
CHlLD (ACES L-4) DEATH RATE         13.5        6.5         2.0               7.3                       7.2
,STE
LIFE EXPECT. AT BIRTH (EARS)       41.0 /e    60.9         67.1              60.5                     60.6
NFANTIr MM. lATE (PER Taws)        165.0 Tdl    69.0       38.0              69.2                     64.9
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (IPOP)
TOrAL                                                     0.0              4 .2                      46.0
URBAN                                                    8.0               77.2                      57.6
RURAL                                                    0.0               34.6                      37.1
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL
(S OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                                     .                 7.8                      50.1
URBAN                              ..         ..          ..               28.                       52.9
RURAL                             ..          ..          ..                5.5                      44.7
POPUATION PER PN StCIL           7940.0 /f  3690.0 If  17o0.0 If           3318.0                    7751.7
POP. PER NURSING PERSON          3830.0      2760.0      710.0            4690.7                    2464.6
POP. PER N0SPITAL BED
TOTAL                           1040.0      760.0       440.0            1039.2                    1112.1
URBAN                            210.0        ..        160.0             299.1                     651.4
RUUtL                          10140.0        ..       1020.0            6028.2                    2596.9
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPtTAL ED                                                   52.3                     41.1
AVERSE SIZE O! HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                                                      .1
URAA                              ..          ..          4.I
RURAL                                                    53.4
AVERSE NO. OF PERSONSlROM
TOTAL
Qm                                 ..         ..          .                  ..
RURAL                              .           ..
PERCIZTME OP DWLLIJCS MWlT ELECT.
TOTAL
RUA                                ..         ..
RURAL                             ...



34-ANNEX I
Page 2 of 7
5 ~ ~~AU               G= tlWS%CSIP2tnlH D AVRum5) J
MIDT                      CM"WIN(1=T UCi  ESTIA) /b
f37CUUT             LOW INC=l             NItDLR 
iwoLk     iPUOLk  UnTIIuuLk           ASIA  PACInC           ASIA * PACInC
ADJSIU IUROLLW  EATIGI
PIU.IAMu   TOTAL                  109.0       110.0       L10.0               92.6                     100.7
MAUI...                                        123.0              105.5                     104.4
rCINAL z.                            ..         97.0               79.3                      97.2
SUOUNDAIR  TOTAL                   21.0        23.0        35.0               31.3                      47.6
MALE                                           I., .  .O           '0.6                      50.6
FEMALE                   ..          ..         25.0               21.9                      44.6
VOCATIONAL (  0    CO     )           ..          ..          2.2                3.2                      18.4
VUPZL-UEACU RATIO
URI                                 .          33.0        25.0               38.0                      30.4
se SmT                              .          22.0        16.0               17.4                      22.2
PASSENLR CARSITUOUSAND POP            ..          ..          a.1  j             0.9                      10.1
RaO    Nm /muOI   90                  ..         14.7       210.1              129U1                      172.9
Ty  mIIra I/TwuAD  PoP                ..          0.6        35.3               19.6                      56.5
NE0AE  ("DAILY CGNMAL
DumRSr IM CiOlAT1OE
FM TEDUS     POPULA                 ..          ..         33.4               25.7                      65.3
CINA AAL ATIEDA/CAPITA                ..          ..          ..                 6.0                       3.4
TOAL LAR Po=m  (TUSS)            32146A.   3B0555.0    470692.0
E6ALU (PERCE)                      38.3        38.0        37.3               33.2                      32.6
lIItUhE (PMc T)                     ..          ..        6U.9                69.6                      52.2
IZuOsI  (PERCENT)                   ..          ..         16.7               15.8                       17.9
PARTICIPATIOU     (PECENT)
TOTL                               46.8        45.0        46.1               41.9                      36.9
CL                                 55.9        54.5        55.4               53.6                       50.8
FEM6RL                             37.0        35.0        35.1               29.1                      26.6
ECONOMIC  PEDENDCf RATIO              0.9         1.0         0.8                1.0                        1.1
INCONS DX6tinEUiW
mucm or mm DKX
lICTS 5S oF UOGUIOLDS               ..          ..         12.5 l              ..
"ST35 2010  BOFlUSEOIDB             ..          ..         39.3                ..                       46.0
LOVEST 201O0  HOF SEHOLDS           ..          ..          6.6                ..                        6.4
LOWEST 401 oF NOUSINOLDS            ..          ..         16.4         .       .                        15.5
-ow  TANGI ROP
ESTDUiD ABSOLU   POVED  DX0I
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
uUlI                                ..          ..          ..               133.9
URAL-                               ..          ..          ..               111.6                     151.9
EsTIAE  RELATIwE POVETY XNma
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPtTA)
DUS                                 ..          ..          ..                 ..                      177.9
RUALO                               *.          ..          ..                61.7                     164.7
ESTI)WES PP. uELouW ASLM
POVErT  icam  LVEL (E)
URD                                 ..          ..          ..                43.8                       23.5
URAIL                               ..          ..          ..                51.7                      37.8
ONO AVAXLABLE
NoT APPLICABLE
.  NO T*V Z
/a   Tih sroup averages f or  bch indictot are po,.atloo-uaSahtad aritl_tlc mama. Coerage of conries
amg the Indlatore depend. an aeYalality of data   is not uniform.
lb   0nless otbeovi_ noted. Data for 19600 refer to any7ew bemuse.19  and 1961; "Daa for 1970  be
1969 and 1971; and data for "Met  tcnt EatInste" betwe  1961 ed 1983.
Ic   1964; /d V955-65 averag;  to 1955-4  erage: if S _lr doctor of wstern medic.ns; &   Di.trLbutLa0
of peopl< ranked ay h      _ousho32  per eqpt Ineom. 1979 dec-; /h 1960.
JUNE. 1965



-35 -
Annex I
Page 3 of 7
Duuiwmots COF SOCIAL INICATOUS
Nec Ahou the data andawn 2ta  1110md  amy uird y imdauibtbfltaleandreJliabl. nii chould ahoe sed imithsy ny k be mmmmekasuly
_omumble basse or the lock of dmudad _ l d _fliiams ad camps mad by dilereum canus mi coltig she datn The damn ar. imhelkus m fIl mo 
bdet   ou ofmagnidm i di,ie_ h   daadc wedcnqm jomli rdseieua   h    em       . Ain.                                    |
The refusae sepe are Ill shetie amty grum dt the tW.comuss ad t21.* cesimy pom  wish vonwa hahsang e m.r.r*sen Imcam ty s F h zn;
porpa of esubpaoupry"emut for -tNi bashomeOil Ehpot  somp m sers -Middle le lkoe Nornh Anf mm*nd Mmid le Lss I bchuen t'xsmnc id savenger
sDoacml5s   awl). b   tube  pomp dna thle  mnt - popslnan wamhd anthdmm        means (or each timdmcalor and shown only when majirusy 
odrhcacounsm ia pomp ba da for the imdicor. Sw dhe covea  otcoa_rns amass she midmo  dependson tihe amsmllmmsy ofdau and mn "at mswom.
oum  n  be exwnd in mh st aups aroes immletor so anotlmr. lit averages ar ornly umfid in companmrmg she value at onr mindicator aia time amnons
the COWU NWi referenc u-MP 
AREA (thousnd sq.km.)                                            Crude MinhRuer c    maso r     - Numbcr ofilive births in the year
Teed-Total surface aresomprIsing lnduea and inland waters.       per thousand of mid-year population 1960. 1970. and 1913 data.
1960. 1970 and 1983 data.                                        Cps& Desk RNe (per tkausmad   Number of deaths in the year
Agade   wnl-Estimate or agriultural area used temporarily or     per thbousnd of mid-year population: 1960. 1970. and ;9S3 data.
permanently for crops. pastur  market and kitchen gardens or to  Gus Rew&rnno Rore--Average number of daugLhicrs a woman
lie fahlow  1960. 1970 and 1982 data.                            will bcar in her normal reproductive perimd if she experiees
presnt age-speafk- fertility rates usually five-year averages ending
GNP PER CAPITA (US3)--GNP per capita estimates at curmnt         in 1960. 1970. and 19U3.
market prces, cal-ulated by same conversion method as  Worl,d    Fee, fmig-A4ceprrs, Aamu  (tkapsamd.m   Unnual nsma,s
BaskhA irksr 1 1981-33 bases); 1913 data.                        her of acceptors of brth-control devices under auspaL ol national
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA-Annual apparent                    family planning progrm.
consumption of commnercisl primary energy (coal and lignite.      uFy  /PkaaiWrfUg'    (pn}ewrfmettd    nA  Thepr. rn
petroleum. natural gas and hydro-. nuclear and geothermal dcec-    utge o narried women of child-bemng age who ate pracamemmry air
tricntyl in kilograns of oil equivalent per capita. 1900. 1970. and  whosc hubnds are practiicng any form of vnsr.s.pmtm.r. Wonmec
1982 data,                                                       of'child-bearing agc are generally wonen aged 1549 although lor
somne countries conutraceptive usage ts ma.ured lar . tles age
POPULATION AND VITAL STATIMSlCS                                  groups.
Tinan P1h98dst. Mid-Tami (skinah&-As of July I; 1960. 1970.      FOOD AND NUITRMON
and 1983 data.
(IrIS &!PUSUkd   (perwwa of teEd)- Ratio of urban so itoal       Itzo~fhatdP'r&hAs iPS C.$ m(19l9-7'l -0iW   lndes.'-fprs
de!-nions of uJ-rban areas may      totl      capita annual produLtion of all food contmodiucs Prxmlucminn
population; different definions of urbans anal feed and sed for agn.ulture Fid cmmndis
ability of data among countries 190. 1970. and 1983 data.       include primary  mnerodities and  ;  ugarcane mrnteid cof sup:i
p.isd.a Aaesr                                                   which are edible and contain nurnenus Ic git .rm.irc and lea arc
Population nyear 2000-The projection of population for 2N00.     excludedi: the) comprise creals root crip0. pul%es. oil seed%.
made for each economy spartely. Starting with inforination on    vegetnbles. fruits. nuts. supreane and sugar beets. lsiestock. and
total population by age and sex, fertility rate  mortanty rates. and  livestock produws. Aggregate production o' each co untry ns based
international migration in the base year 1980. tdese ptrar.eters  on national average producer pnce weights: 191-165. 197l1. and
wre  projected at fie-year intervals on the basis of generalized  1982 data.
assumptions until the population bme stationary.                 Per.timS.1              s (pe*refem  freq!f Prr-wn  C(ornpuw-
Srauonsarr pepmdarimu-Is one in which ag- and se-specific mor-   ed from caloric equivalent of ner food supplies a% ..abk an country
taity rates have not changed over a log priod. while age-specific  per capita per day. Available supplies copsprise donestic produw-
fertility rates have simultaneously remained at feplacement level  tion. imports lss exports. and changes mn stock. Net supplies
(net reproduction rate - 1). In such a poputation. the birth rate is  exclude animal feed. seeds for use in agriculture. quantmties used in
constant and equal to the death rate, the ag  structure is also  food processing. and losses in distribulion. Requirements were
constant. and the growth rate is zero The stationar) population   stimated by FAO  uased on plsuyslogacal needs l.r normal acti6t.
size was estmnated on the basis of the projected characteritics of  and health consdering environmental temperatu  bud) weights.
the population in the year 2000. and the rate ofdeline of fertiliy  age and sex distribution of population. and allows. g 1It percent lor
rate to replacement level.                                       waste at household lerel: 1961. 1Q970 and 19\K2 data
opudarem Mmentswn-Is the tendency for population growth to       Pr Cppiarr Sotpp*  pe hf re (r w gram per daj  nip . smm consent .' 
continue beyond the time that replacenent-keel fertility has been  per capita net suppl) of food per dais Net supplp  o tm.o si. dthml
achieved: that is. even after the net eproduction rate has reached  as ahove. Requirements lor all -ountnrc cssablmhtmcd hi I D-iA
unity. The monentum ofa population in the yearit isneasured as   provide lbr msmmum alloswances of N grams mfnI ml l p;n'..lis r a
a ratio of the ultiatstnationary population tn the population n  day and 2U grans ot animial and puls proaein. ..i which Ill jsnm-
the yer r. given the assunption that fertisy remans at replae-   should be animal protean. These stndards are lmsvcr than thot ol
men level from year t onward. 1985 data.                         75 pamis of total protein and 23 grams of animal protein as an
Apri  Desb                                                       average for the world, proposed hy lAO in m k Third Wo.ild 1I .'ou!
Per sqkm.-Mid-year population per squaw kilmneter (10W h,-       Suprpy; 1901. 1970 and 1982 data
tares) of total aea; 1960. 1970. and 1983 data.                  hr Cpita Aote iSupply ft  uAaimdaad be- Protein supply
Per sqkm. agrincuwal laW-Computed as above for agricultural      orfood derived firom animals and pulses in grams rir day. 19 1 -65.
land only. 1960. 1970. and 1982 data.                            1970 and 1977 datd.
Ptp.fris Age Sa5nrue (prcett)- Children tO-14 years). work-      C'   (es I-4 Deth Rare (per trhs&aad   Niurtmr .Uin Jrn,ta
mg age (15-64 yeas). and retired (65 yes and over) as perentage  children aged 1-4 years per thous;and childresm min ihe snme age
of mid-year population; 1960. 1970. and 193 data.               gtroup in a grnen )ear Fi-r most delehopng ce.urrtrae- dists .kr;sa
Pbpemiauis GAmer Rote (pawaceiu)-teeaI-Annual growth rates if    from life tables: 19W. 1970 and 19143 dat.i
total mid-year population for 1950-60. 19 0-70. and 1970-83      HEALTH
P     bpmAmae Grwh Rare (per nti-w- Annual grwh rates            L* Exrpemiry r -   ink (jmsw     Number of year, a nwcborn
of urban population for 1950-0. 1960-70. and 1970413 data.      infant would lase if prea.limng patterns of m.notals%s tr all pc.-mk



36
Annex  I
Page 4 of 7
at the time of of its birth w-  to fy te smum throughout its life; :  N-rrher Raud - prbnry. and secoeudary-Total tudents en-
1960, 1970 and 1963 dat.                                      roled in poumary and  mecondry leels divided by numbers or
_ Msn ft  Rot (pe  lnd)--Number of infants who die    teachers in the corresponding levilt
bore reciq  one yer of ap per thouan live births in a given
. 190.fO970 and 1983 dam.                                     CONSUMIlON
Amn- Si So     he  (err  of pep)-4a4  -how and                hrsusgur C_s (per ti-me  pspuelaj-Passengeu can com
mut-Nthber of people (totd, um.bn, an ul) wih rasoble         prin motor cars sating ks than eight persons. excludes ambul-
a     to sale waer supply (includes tmted surfce waters or    anom hearses and miitary vdhide.
muated but u_osannnated wter such-  that frm procted          Radbio Reedun (pa' othopplutisa-All types of recei
boIrulo les sprinp and Sanitary wl) as peutmnaoftheir reqsec-    for radio broadcats to geral public per thousand of population;
tive popuaton In an urban am a public fountain or standpost    excludes un-licensed receivers in countries and in year when
located nmot -  thn 200 mete from a houe may be consdered     rsstntion of radio sts was in effec data for recent yea  my
- being within reonble sor  of tat houe. In runsl aa          not be comparable since mt countries abolished linng
reasonable ems would imply that the housewife or membes of the
bousdeold do not bave to spend a disprportioate pan of the day  tVo gr bl per th ndpopulation-T V;r O elrs unlcT
in fietchng shc fiunly's tmer nLto Fncrl public per tbound population; excludes unbeced TV
in fesehin thEer familys water !f4=i)-r  receiven in countries and in yea when registration or IV as was
Amcsi go Ercs. I'Mpomi (percen of asui lh.sion,               indet
ad mod-Number o people (total, urban. and rural) seved by
eacret disposal a pcentages of their rcspective populations.  AfW" Cndi  (per thousamdpapiuuj ?Ihow  ie aver -
Excreta disposal may incude the collection and disposal with or  age circulation of -daly general intacst ncwspaper' detintd a a
without tretmentt of hufan eeuta and waste-water by water-    penodical publiation devoted primarily to rcording eneal nws.
borne systems or the use of pit privies and similar installations.  It is considered to be -dailyf if it appears at lst four timen a week
_paltun per Pthsidav-Population divided by number of prac-    Cains Ainl ANteawer rr Cop  pr Ye- Ba.ed un the
tising physiians qualified from a medical school at university level,    number of tickets sold during the year. including admiions to
PpSsim per NsrsW P.b.-ftpulation divided by number of         drive-in cinenas and mobile units.
practicing male and fema  graduate nurses assistant nurses.   LARCFRCE
practical nurses and nursing auxiliaries.                       LABOR FORC
(total urba, an   rural) divided  by the-r respective pumberof  eluding armed forces and unemployed but excuding houswivese
sitalbed avail ble invpublic   by pter      ie nd   ed        students. etc. covering population of all ages. Definition i
hospitasadbrehsaikk pbiltaioandcrs  opitalsacre sablishments;-  various countiries are not comparable; 1960.1970 and 19b.3 data.
p_mendy staffed by at lea one physiciaL Establishments prow   Femalk (peraaf-Fale labor force as percentage of total labor
iding prinpally cuoal  e  ara e not included. Runl hospitals  force.
howe, include healh and medical cetncrsnot permanently suaffed  Auiatse (prree.t)--Labor force in farnning abrew'. bmantsr&r
by a phyican (bet by a medial assistant nurse. midwife, etc.)    and fishing as percentage of total labor force: 1960. 1970 and 19111
which offer in-ptient a_mmodation and provide a linited range  data.
ofnedical faciities,                                         indstry (percen)-Labor force in mining. construliul. ;u.-
A'la pr  forpita EM-Total number of admissions to or          facturing and electricity, water and gas as percentage ot Intsl Lb.kt
discharges from hospitals divided by the number or beds.      fore: 1960, 1970 and 1980 data.
Ph'rkaeic  Rar (pcs-re--ea4 mul. inadpink-rartiupation
HOUSING                                                       or aavity rates are computed as totiL male. and femule labor Ibrce
JIM ge  re f MH-        (n   pr imakl-e1a  she,               as percentage or totaL male and fCmale populatons f' dl a
indeed-A houeold consists ora gropofi dividualstwo share    respcidveyr ;.W. 1970. and 1983 data. Thes arc based on LO's
lvin quarers and thir ma  rnmals A boader or lodger may or    parniciplion rates refting ae-ea structure of the popuation. and
may not be included in the household for sutasal purpose     long time trend. A few estimates are from national iour
AWrne N_r of Pea    pr Boomt--al shin a  r_                   Ersunir Drepirndnp Roti-Rano of population ueukr i. and
Average number of pernos per room in all urban, and rural     65 and over, to the wrking age population (those aged 1544;.
occupied conventional dwellings respetively. Dwdlings exdude
non-pemant structures and unoccupied parts.                   INCOME DISTRIBUTlON
hneqr of DmrSgs with Elurrdefy--tuV4 sh_., i  owl -              rnrqr raw Te alspir laDw (boh in cas  -d Ld)
Convenional dwelings with eectricity in living quarers as peren-  Accruing to permentile groups orhouseholds ranked by total hkse-
tap of total. urban, and rural dwdlings rspetivedy.           hold income.
EDICATION                                                     POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
A4isud E u_        Rs                                         The following estimates are very a pproinmate measures of pokrvrlt
hfbWy srhoal - row,al.n e med fenaLe-Gross total, male and    klvls, and should be interpreted with consideaible cautin.
female enrollment of ld aes at the priay lvel as percentages of  Ease  AJhne Pe_ ny rr   m Lee (1 W per pr  --_
respective primary schoo-ge populationLs While many Lountries  an  emi-Absolute poverty income evel is that income k.e
conider primary school age to be 6-Il yc1m others do not. The  below which a minimal nutritionally adequate diet plus essential
differenes -L country practc  in the as and duration or school  non-food requiroemnts is not affordable.
ae reflc   in the ratio gin  For some countries with unrmal   ENi WAndelisiPe JII          LEWI ('SSpero ee j-as
education, porm enrollment may exced 10Dt per ent stnce some  adf  rwa--Rural relative poverty income lesel io tne-thirJ o f
pupils afe below or above the country's sttdartrd primay-hool  average per capita persoal income of the countr. Uirbdn level is
age.                                                          derived from the rural lekLv with adjustment for higher  ".t '.t1f
San'trr rshol - total. nine amd frA--Comnputed as above      living in urban areas
secondar oeducation requirs at kmt four years of approed pri-  Esrd   ftpohioi. B.bw AbreAst      ny Incom  Levelf per-
mary itgJdp  provides gefal vocatonaL or teacher traimng      eerj-.cAb  identS- Pacent of population turban and rural
intructions for pupils uslly of 12 to 17 yers of a8ge corrspond-  who are -absolute poor
ence courns are geneally exluded.
Voraterrd Esio0nnr permu rf sxnrmitn-Vocational irtilu-                 (omparmtiw Analyw. and tah Di%imion
tions incude technicaL industrial, or other progmms which operate    Economic Analysis and Projections Departnent
indndently or as depaments of secondy istitution.                                     Junr 19111



-37-
Annex I
Page 5 of 7
topulatiln    i 1 019  llIoe. (mid-1983)
UP VWtcapital $300 (1913)
CN1nA - ECONOIIC EWDICATOR
Amount - 1914                            A;nul arowith rates (2)
(LIlLoe US$ at               Actual                                     Projected
tndicator                  cureunt prtIc.)&  l980  1981   1982  1983  191./a  1985    1916    1987    1986          1989    2.990
NATIOAL AC       /.
Cross do asti prodact          281,260      6.6   4.9   7.8   9.6  14.0    10.4           6.8      6.8      6.8     6.8      6.1
Agriculture                  100,430     -1.7    6.4   11.2   9.0  13.9        6.0      4.9     4.9       4.9     4.9      4.9
tIdustry                    1253010      12.3   2.3   7.3  11.4  16.6    14.0           7.7     7.7       7.7    7.7       T.7
Servie                        55,820      8.2   8.9    3.3   6.5   7.7    10.0          7.9      7.9      7.9    7.9       7.9
Camaenptlan                   198,190       9.1   5.2   5.9   9.0  12.5    12.5           5.9      7.4      7.4     7.4      7.1
GCeo Lavastant                  83,100      1.3  -1.8   10.9  15.2  20.7        11.0      2.3      4.8      4.8    5.1       5.7
Exportt of CUIS /a              26,720     17.8  16.7   0.6   9.5  13.0          3.0      8.9     8.8       8.8    8.1       8.8
reports of CU7S 7              26.750      16.1  -6.7  -5.7  28.1  25.9    43.1          0.0      5.8       5.9    6.0       6.2
Cros netional savings          85.870      -0.2    3.6  17.0  12.0  17.0         5.0      2.4      5.1      5.1     5.6      S.Z
nicts
GDO deflator (1980 - 100)                  100.0  IO.8  101.7  102.9  107.6   113.1   118.7   124.7   131.0   137.5    144.4
Exchange rate (tYua/USS)                   1.50   1.70   1.89   1.98  2.32      2.84     2.81    2.84     2.84     2.84     2.94
Share of GOP at arket prtcas (2)                 Avera  annual nctrose (2)
lat curren  Prices)                        (at constaac 1981 pre I)
1960  1470  1975  1980  1985   190          t960-70  k70-75   975-8(  1980-8  19S4-9  t19*-94
Cross dommacic product /a      100.0  1O0.0  100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0      6.1       5.2      6.6     9.0      7.3      4.6
Agwiaadltt                    23.0  35.0  32.8  32.0  34.2  31.3           6.7       3.4      3.3    10.1      5.0      4.8
7Idutry                      48.0  41.0  45.8  4.0  47.9  49.9            7.8       7.5      9.9     9.4      5.6      7.4
Setrice.                     29.0  24.0  21.4  20.0  17.9  18.8             3.4     4.5      5.4      6.6      8.2      7.5
ConaWtion                      62.4  70.8  69.1  71.3  66.7  69.3            6.1      4.7      4.4      8.1      6.4      6.8
Gross inestmst                 37.8  29.2  31.1  30.0  34.4  30.9            9.5      6.9      9.7    11.3       5.1      6.1
Expor  of GYS                   4.8   2.8   5.3   7.1   7.7   8.5           -1.5      10.8      5.7    12.3      8.0      7.7
Ixpore of CWS                   5.0   2.7   5.5   8.4   8.8   8.6             1.2    13.9    13.0    12.2        8.4      7.4
Crosn natoal savings           37.7  29.2  30.9  28.9  33.6  30.7             Q.1      6.7      7.2    14.0      4.8      8.2
_As I of CDP
1957          1970           &q80           1963           1984
PIJULIC FflAZE
Cursnt rtoonus                                    28.7           29.6           30.6           27.8          26.7
Cartent expendttures                              15.1           15.7           23.1           21.6          20.1
Surplus (+) or deficit (-4 +13.6                                +l3.9          *7.5           -4.2           +4.6
Capital expsndLture                               13.7          1t.3            11.1            7.8           8.2
Foreign financitg                                  0.7            M.&.          0.5            0.2            0.3
1960-70    1910-75     1975-80     1980-84     198-9       1989-94
OTRER INICATORS
GNP growth rats (2)                               6.1         5.1        6.4          9.2         7.2        6.11
GCP per capita growth rates ()                    3.5         2.9        5.2           7.9       6.1         5.5
Energy consumption growth rcat (2)               -0.3         9.2        5.8          4.1        5.3         4.8
ICOIt                                             3.3         4.7        5.1          3.8        4.0         4.6
lrgiaIt saigs  rata                               0.4         0.4        0.3          0.3        0.2         0.3
apr elasticitcy                                   n.2         2.7        2.0          1.4        t.1         1.2
/a  Data for 1981 and 1982 are from differnct murces; dac ftor 1982 exclude re-exports.
East Aisa and Pacific Regional Office
February 7. 1985



-38  -                                              ANEX  I
ftpautloo   z: 1,019 .stLLIo  (indd-1903)                                                                  Page 6 of 7
CGP pee capita: $300 (1983)
CEIM - E2rTNNAL TRAM
boot - 198                  Amuas  vouwtb rates (2) (at constanc gricem)
(tellea US at a                        cuel                          ro.e-ted
current Prti)         1960    I9NL    19M2      191      1964      98      1990
E =TEAL TRAD  /a
Nerchandlse exports                     25.020            14.8    17.3      5.5    10.1    10.4        2.8     8.7
Friary                                11410             1.5    -1.4       3.9    14.6      9.6      3.3     6.8
Nesamfctur r                          13.610            32.2    36.2       6.6     7.0    11.1       2.4    10.4
Ibrchoadr L. ports                      26,740             6.8      7.2     0.2    29.7    22.3    47.1        6.2
Food                                   2.330             9.1    68.3    42.9   -30.9   -24.9        14.4      7.1
fttroleu                                 130            52.6   -65.5   130.0   -43.5    30.8         0.0    35.5
Nechionqy and equipment                8.420            16.4    19.0   -41.7    34.7    82.3    56.2          5.1
Otehrs                                1S.60              0.9   -13.5      7.1    71.7    16.6    19.9         6.3
PRIcES
1r :t price indox (1960-100)                              100.0   102.7    96.7   6s.6    90.5    68.0   126.0
Import pcice Index (1980-100)                            100.0   104.5    69.2    76.7    78.4    77.3   112.0
Ta.o of trade Index (1980-100)                           100.0    96.3   110.7   115.6   115.4   113.8   112.5
CopoeLtle of _rebhadil  trade (Z)                 Average cnael lacrease (X)
(at curse4t Drues)                            (at cOnse  prtces)
L978       1961        an         199      M1964-69                            19894
ExNports                      100.0       100.0      100.0      100.0       10.8              7.9                7.6
PrImary                      53.4       46.6        45.6       42.1        6.7              6.4               6.1
sinufactures                 46.6        53.4       54.4       57.9       15.2              9.4                8.2
Invorts                       100.0       100.0      100.0      100.0       14.9              6.5               7.5
Food                         12.8        17.4        8.7        9.7       13.9              8.9               8.5
fetroleim                     0.5        0.4         0.5        0.9       13.0             17.2               16.1
' chinery and equipmnc t     1.9         29.2       31.5       33.3       23.6             12.0               6.8
Othrs                        67.9        53.0       59.3       56.1       20.5              6.7               7.5
samre of trad  with       mohre of trde with        Share of trade with
aeo trial                 d 1lopla                 the USSR and
eouacto (2)              --auntelh  (2)          Eastern Europe (S)
1977    1980    1983    1977               t983    1977    1980    1983
DIRECTTON OF TRADE
Exports                                  36.4    4.7    42.1    46.8    66.7    53.2    16.8           6.6     4.7
Imports                                 63.1    73.6    69.0    20.7    19.7    24.5         16.2      6.7     6.5
/s  Dard on custo  sta clstlcs.  Exports, f..b.. t orcs, c.i.&.
Past Aia and Pacflic Regioal Offlce
Novemfbr 22. 1986



ANNEX I
39 -                                         Page 7 of 7
Population    :  1.01o  *il.on (mid-1983)
CGP per capita:  5300 (1983)
CHINA - bALANCC OF PArEN D  S   XTERIAL CAPrTAL AND DEBT
(Millions of USS at current prices)
Actual                                  10 jected
Imdlcator                                      1978    1979    1960    1981         1962       1983      1968 4V               19 0
3ALAIcE OF PAIEKNTS
Exporc otf  oods and montector services  10.370  14.983  20.324  24,423    23,637    23.186    26.716             26.840   58.590
Of which:  h rchandLse f.o.b. /a           9.607  13,658  186.92  22.027    21,125    20.707    23.905          23.900   52,130
L portc of goods and sonfactor mervicea   11.668  t7.759  24,058  23,44         16.900    20.711    26.741       38.290   63,180
Of  hilch:  r rchandile  f.o.b. /a        10.745  16.212  22.049  21.047    16,876    18.717    23,890          35.150   56,950
Not factor lncome from abroad                  -4      -77    -117    -200          452     1.253      1.620       1.140      -850
Not traunfer.                                  597     S58      640      464        530       436        304         300       300
Current account balance                       -709  -2.197  -3.211   1.241        5.719     4,164      1,892    -10,010   -5,140
Private dlrect lnwvetsant  (mat)                 -        -      57      265        430       636      1.100       1.650    1.950
Official grant aid (net)                         -        -      21      156        -44         75       137         140       140
?LT loans (met)                                549   3.815   1.069       310        301      .927       -145           0    4.450
Dieburu_ nCe                                 549   3.895   1.670   1.659        2.461     i.600        715         950    6.390
AmwtisatLao                                    -      s0      601   1.348       2.180       673        863         950    1,940
Other capital lb                              -628  -1.021   2.455       -47       -11s    -1.672    -2,869        2.330         -
Change In re_erves
C(-" indieating increase)                    788    -597    -391  -1,925    -6.291    -4.130           -95       5.890   -1,400
Internactoanl ree-rvem                       6.677   7.274   7.665   9.590    15.881    20#011    20.106          14.220   23,500
Of which:  Cold /c                         5.120   5.120   5.120   5.120        5.120     5,120      5.120       5.120    5.120
Ueearva -a montho of Liports                   6.2     4.5      3.5      4.8       10.1      11.7        9.1         4.5       4.2
EXTERNAL CAPITAL AND DEBT /d
Gross disbursimnt -..                                    ..      ..       ..
Official grants                               ..      ..       ..       ..         ..
Concsidonl loane                              ..      ..       ..       ...
DAC                                         ..      ..       ..       ..
Othbr                                       ..      ..       ..       ..
Nonconc.r donat loane                         ..       ..      ..       ..
Official expJrt credits                     ..      ..       ..       ..
IaSUN                                       ..      ..       ..       ......
Other multilateral                          ..      ..       ..       ..
Private                                     ..      ..       ..      ..
Ezcerma._ debt
Debe outstanding and disbursed               549   4.364   5.433   5.261       5.562      6.397      6.340
Official                                            ..       ..                  ..        .
Private                                     ..      ..
Uhdiobutsed debt                              ..      ..       ..       ..
Debt service
Total service payments                        ..      ..       ..       ..
Interest                                    ..      ..       ..       ..
Paymmats as 2 of export.                     0.4     2.7      6.3      9.0      11. I.9               5.0
Average interest rate of new loans (:)           -       -        -        -          -         -          -
Average maturity of new loans (yeaz-s)           -       -        -        -          -         -          -
/a  Data for 1978-81 are not comparable with thors of 1952-65 because of a dlfference  In cheir sources.  The latter *xclude
re-exports.
/b  Includes net usr of INF credlt and net flaw of short-tern capital.
72 Valued at USS402/troy ounce.
72_ Excludes *bort-term loans (one year or less).
Ease Asia and Pacific RegLonal Office
Noveaber 21. 1985



- 40 -
ANE  II
STATUS OP BANK  OUP nPERATIONS IN TIM PIOPLE'S REPURLIC OP CHNA
A. STATEMNT OY UNK LOAS AND IDA CREDITS
(as of Hat;ch 31, 1986)
Loan or                                                                                Un  million
Credit                                                                           ontt t Class cancellations)
Number   Tear Borrower                      Purpose                            eIak     IDA    Undisburseda
2021/1167    1981  People's Republic of China  University Devlopmnt               100.n   1O0.0         10.5
1261    1982  People's Republic of China  Worth China Plain Agriculture         -      60.0       15.2
2207    1982  People's Republic of Chime  Three Ports                         69.0       -        21.q
1297    1982  People's Republic of Chpiq  Agric. Education & Research           -      75.4       17.9
2226/1311    1982  People's Republic of China  Industrial Cradit                   40.6     30.0        26.5
2231    1983  People'e Republic of Chins Deqing Petrolam                     162.4       -        67.8
2252    1Q83 People's Republic of Chins Zhoquan-Uanitu Petrolem              100.8       -        66.2
2261/1347    1983  People's Republic of Chins  Ueilongjiang Lend Recleation        25.3     45.0        18.4
1411    1983 People's Republic of Chins Polytechnic/TV University               -      85.0       45.1
1412    1983  People's Republic of China  Technical Cooperation                 -       10.0       4.7
1417    1984  People's Republic of Chins Rubber Development                     -     100.0       54.8
2382    1984  People's Republic of China  Lubuge llydroelectric              145.4       -        114.1
2194    1984  People's Republic of Chins Reiluay                             220.n       -        117.0
1462    1984  People's Republic of China  Rural Cradit                          -      50.0       33.1
1472    1984  People's Republic of China  Rural Health & Medical Educ.          -      85.0       55.0
2426    1984  People's Republic of China  KIramy Petroleum                    99.5       -        77.7
2434/1491    1984  People's Republic of China  Second Industrial Credit           1n5.n     7n.0       131.1
2444/1500    1984  People's Republic of China  Second Agricultural Education       45.3    23.5        35.7
1516    1984  People's Republic of China  Second Agricultural Research          -      25.0        15.4
1551    1985  People's Republic of Chirn  Second University Development         -     145.0       159.7
2493    1985  People's Republic of ChinA  Second Power                       117.0       -        111.1
2501    1985  People's Republic of China  Changcun (lan) Coal MinnaR         126.0       -        123.4
1557    1985  People's Republic of China  Seeds                                 -      40.0       43.0
1578    1985  People's Republic of Chins  Rural Water Supply                    -      80.0       90.2
253911594    1985 'eople's Republic of Chine Righuy                                42.6     30.n        65.S
2540    1985  People's Republic of China  Second Railway                     235.0       -        235.0
2541    1985  People's Republic of Chins  Fertilizer Rahsbilitation and       97.0       -         96.5
Energy Saving
1605   1985  People's Pepublic of China  Forestry De"elopment                   -      A7.3        49.3
2579/1606    1985 People's Republic of China  Piuhlbag-adso  Area Development  17.0         75.n       98.5
25R0    Iq35  People's Republic of Chins Wsiyan Cas Yield Technical           25.0       -         25.0
Assistance
1642/b  198fi People's Republic of China  Second Rural Credit                   -      90.n       90.0
2659/16637E; 1986  people's Republic of China  Third Industrial Credit             75.0     25.0       100.0
16647E  19B6 People's Republic of ChinA  Second Technical Cooperation           -      20.0       20.0
16717r- 1986 People's Republic of China  Provincial Universities                -     120.0       120.0
Total                                                                           1.847.9  1.431.2
Total now held by Bank and IDA                                                  1847.9  1.431.2
Total Ondisbursed                                                               1.337.8  1.019.8    2,357.6
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTIYENTS
(as of March 31, 1986)
Amount in US$ million
Year    Obligor                                   Tpe of buiness                 Loan     Equity     Total
1985   CQangrhou and Peugot Auomobile Co.         Automobile                       15.0      2.0       177.
Total Cross Comitnants                                                             15.0      2.0       17.0
Lese cancellations. ter.ir.tion,.
repayment nd sales
Total Comitnts now held by lFC                                                     15.0      2.0        17.0
Tota lUndiebarsed                                                                  15.0      2.0        17.0
/s  As credits are denominsted in Sits (since IN Replenish_nt VI),  ndisbured SDR credit balances are con-
werted to dollars at the current exchange rate betwen the dollar and the SDR. In some cases. tberefore.
the undlebursed balance IndLcates a dollar mount greater thart the original prlncipal credit amount
expressed In dollars.
/b  Not yet effetive.
Note: The status of the projects lsted In Part A Is described in a separate report en all lantkIlA finncial
projects in execution. which is updated twice yearly and circulated to the Executive Directors on
April 30 and Oct, ar 31.



-4  -                             ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
CHINA
LIAODONG BAY PETROLEUM APPRAISAL AND TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken by the country to prepare project: Six months
(b) Agency which prepared the project: Bohai Oil Corporation
(c) First presentation to the Bank: May 1985
(d) Departure of appraisal mission: November 1985
(e) Completion of negotiations: April 1986
(f) Planned date of effectiveness: September 1986
Section II: Special Bark Implementation Actions
None
Section III: Special Conditions
(a) BOC would maintain a project implementation team under the direction
of the Deputy General Manager for Exploration and Development
throughout the project (para. 71);
'b) BOC would consult with the Bank on the location of each well and
review its findings upon completion of the well (para. 72);
(c) BOC would appoint qualified consultants and carry out the six
studies under the project in accordance with terms of reference for
each study and an overall schedule which have been agreed. BOC
would also keep the Bank informed of the progress of such studies
and review the findings/consequent action plan upon completion of
each study. In the particular case of the Reservoir Study and
coLceptual design phase of the Field Development Engineering Study,
BOC would review with the Bank the preliminary findings of both at
least one month before the scheduled start of the basic engineering
phase of the Field Development Engineering Study (para. 73);
(d) BOC would submit to the Bank each year a proposed training program
for the next year and would implement the agreed program (para. 74);
(e) BOC would extend the horizon of its financial planning to no less
than five years and furnish the Bank with projected financial
statements based on a five year rolling plan. BOC would also review



- 42 -
ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
annually with the Bank its current and future financial plans,
focusing in particular on its investment program and related
financing arrangements (para. 81);
(f) BOC would (i) not incur Long-term debt unless future debt service
coverage (excluding interest during construction) based on a
reasonable forecast is at least 1.2 times in 1986 and 1987 and 1.5
times from 1988 onwards, and (ii) maintain a debt/equity ratio of no
more than 60/40 (para. 81);
(g) BOC would adhere to environmental standards agreed between the Bank
and BOC and acceptable to the Government (para. 83).



43                                  ANEX IV
LIAODONG SAY PETROLEUM APPRAISAL AND TECHNCAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
Petroleum Prices
Domestic Price/
Domestic National Average   Internationaik/         Million
Retail Price        Price  (US$/ton)    Kilocalories
Petroleum Products (ton)      Ylton      UWSMton        1985      1986      _    USS)
Gasoline                       800           250         255        130         23.8
Kerosene                        735          230         256        185         22.3
Diesel Oil                     560           175         221        133         17.2
Fuel Oil
directly burnedt'           155            48         169         79          4.8
feedstock                    85            27         169        79           2.7
Crude Oil (directly burned)S/  186            58          -         -            5.7
Natural Gas (lCH)             YImCQ        US$/MCI
Non-associated Gas  /           170            3-                                5.7
Associated Gas !                100           31                                 3.4
SI Domestic rrices reflect current prices for allocations within planned
quotas, as opposed to the aboverquota use for which higher, market-related
prices are paid.
b/ FOB Singapore cargoes on Karch 29, 1985 and April 2, 1986. In view of the
recent sharp decline in international oil prices, 1985 prices provide a more
representative basis for comparison of domestic prices with international
prices in recent years.
c/ Includes special taz of Y70/ton for use as fuel.
d/ Includes trunk line fee of Y30/MCM and an additional Y10/MCN from the
trunk line to the end-users.
el End-users price varies depending on the distance from the oil fieLd and is
assumed, on average, to include Y20/MCH for gas treatment and Y30/MCM for
transport.



44 -                           ANEX V
~~ 44     ~~~~~ Page 1 of 3
CHINA
LIAODONG BAY PETROLEUM APPRAISAL AND TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
Petroleum Geology and Prognosis
Regional Setting: North China Basin
1.        The North China basin covers an area of some 300,000 km2 bounded by
the Taihang Swell in the west, Dabie Shan fold zone in the south, Jiaoliao
Swell in the east and Yan Shan fold zone to the north. In the North China
basin area, there are a large number of depressions which have locally
differing histories; however, the main structural features are very similar.
The features are the outcome of three major tectonic phases which affected the
North China platform: namely, the pre-Cambrian formation of the eastern
platform, Mesozoic folding and faulting and Tertiary faulting and continental
sedimentary deposition.
2.        The Formation of the Platform:  In the Proterozoic pre-Cambrian era
(older than 600 million years), marine sediments, mainly siliceous dolomitic
limestones, were being laid down over the whole area, with thicknesses of up
to 8,000 meters being developed on the northern part of the platform. During
the Lower Palaeozoic in the Cambrian and Ordovician period (some 430-600
miliion years ago), there were a series of marine transgressions which laid
down up to 2,000 meters of limestones, sandstones and shales on the
platform. In middle Ordovician times, the platform was uplifted and a period
of non-deposition and erosion took place. The platform subsided again during
the Upper Palaeozoic, and in Carboniferous and Permian times (250-350 million
years ago), an alternating series of shallow marine and continental
limestones, sands and shales up to 1,000 meters thick were laid down. These
are the formations found in the buried hills which form the deepest oil
prospects in the basin.
3.        Mesozoic Folding and Faulting:  In the late Mesozoic (65-100 million
years ago), the movement of the Pacific plate from the east against the
eastern edge of the Eurasian plate caused intense tectonic activity. On the
platform, Large scale uplift with intense folding and faulting and volcanic
activity occurred. The platform eventually broke up and the Proterozoic and
Palaeozoic limestones were subject to faulting and erosion which produced a
karst type topography of cavernous limestone hills which form the main
reservoirs in the buried hills structures.
4.        Tertiary Faulting and Continental Sedimentary Deposition:  During
the Tertiary (5-65 million years ago), as the subduction of the Pacific plate
below the Eurasian plate continued, a series of block faulted depressions
formed on the remnants of the platform in a continental environment. The main
faults forming the depressions trend roughly NE-SW. Within the depressions
the faulting formed NE-SW trending horst and graben structures which were
covered.



45 -                                ANNEX V
Page 2 of 3
5.        Continental, lacustrine and fluviatile sands and shales up to 10,000
meters thick were laid down in large lakes and rivers. These contained
sufficient organic material to form the source rocks which have since
generated most of the oil in the North China basin. The main source rocks are
in the early Tertiary formations of Eocene and Oligocene age (25-65 million
years ago).
6.        These source rocks feed oil into the pre-Tertiary reservoirs in the
buried hills which are estimated to contain some 20Z of the oil trapped in the
basin, and into the overlying Oligocene sandstones of the Sha-He-Jie formation
which are the main reservoirs in the area. Within the greater North China
basin, more than 80 depressions are recognized and most of them have some
hydrocarbon potential. A few of them such as Renqui, Dagang, Shengli, Linyi
and Liaohe onshore, and Chengbei offshore, are major commercial fields which
contribute some 40% of the total oil production in China.
Bohai Basin
7.        The northern extension of the greater North China basin, locally
nAmed the Bohai basin, covers an area of some 200,000 km. Two-thirds of the
basin is onshore and the rest offshore under the western part of the Bohai
Gulf. The basin was formed during the faulting in the late Cretaceous/Early
Tertiary period after the breakup of the East China platform. A series of
NNE-SSW trending faults broke up the Palaeozoic and Mesozoic sedimentary and
volcanic rocks which make up the floor of the basin and formed uplifted tilted
block structures. The uplifted tilted blocks are the buried hills features
which were later covered by the Tertiary shales and sandstones which are the
source rocks in the basin. Two types of geological features have been found
to contain oil and gas. The first are the deep pre-Tertiary buried hills
structures into which oil and gas appears to have migrated laterally from the
Tertiary source rocks. These structures are estimated to contain about 20% of
the oil and gas trapped in the basin. The second are the Tertiary sands
interbedded with the Tertiary source rocks which are believed to contain the
remaining 80Z of the hydrocarbons trapped in the basin.
8.        Liaodong Bay, the northern extension of the Bohai Gulf, is underlain
by a narrow graben comprising the northern extension of the Bohai basin.
There are two NNE-SSW trending uplifts which form two ridges of buried hills
in the pre-Tertiary formations. The tilted fault blocks which form the
uplifts dip eastward from the main fault in the west which has a throw of up
to 1,000 meters. The Tertiary sediments drape over these two uplifts to form
the Western, Central and Eastern depressions which are the areas where most of
the hydrocarbons are generated.
Liaodong Bay
9.        Location:  Liaodong Bay is the northern extension of Bohai Gulf,
west of Liaodong peninsula and north of the line linking Qinhuang Dao city and
Lushuen city. It has an area of 26,500 square kilometers, and lies in the
northeast part of the North China basin, situated between the Jiao-Liao rise
and Yanshan folded belt. The area covered by sea in Liaodong Bay and the
onshore Liaohe fault-depression north of Liaodong Bay are part of a single



ANNEX V
Page 3 of 3
geological structural unit. Onshore the Liaohe fault-depression is one of the
important oil and gas production areas in China; hence, the prospects for oil
and gas in Liaodong Bay are similarly considered to be very favorable.
10.       Geology:  During late Jurassic to early Cretaceoum times, there was
a period of vertical earth movements during which a faulted depression was
formed. -This depression then filled with a thick sequence of voLcanic rocks,
sandstones and mudstones, reaching a thickness of up to 3,000 meters. In late
Cretaceous times, the area was uplifted and a period of weathering occurred,
which improved the reservoir qualities of the pre-Tertiary rocks ezposed
during the early Tertiary (Eocene to Oligocene) by further faulting and
subsidence along a series of SSW-NNE trending faults. Up to 6,000 meters of
lower Tertiary sediments were deposited in the troughs which were formed.
11.       Seismic data indicates that there is a thick Eocene section in the
eastern part of Liaodong Bay corresponding to the Sha-He-Jie and Kong Dian
formation groups which are the main source beds in the North China basin.
These formations appear to be slightly thicker in the offshore than in the
adjacent onshore Liaohe hydrocarbon-bearing region. Later in the Quaternary
and more recent periods, a marine transgression took place and Liaodong Bay
was covered by the sea.
12.       The regional structure of the Liaodong Bay fault-depression is that
of a series of NNE-SSW trending uplifts and depressions. From west to east,
these uplifts and depressions are Liao Xi depression, Liao Xi upLifts, Liao
Zhong depression, Liaodong uplift and Liaodong depression.
13.       Petroleum Geology:  The offshore Liaodong Bay fault-depression and
the onshore Liaohe fault-depression belong to the same structural system.
Results from the Liaohe oil field projected out into the bay, using the
seismic data together with the drilling data from Liaodong Bay, indicate
that: (i} the main source rocks in the Sha-He-Jie formation and possibly the
lower member of the Dong Ying formation extend without breaking from the
onshore field into the offshore bay area; (ii) the known structures of the
onshore Liaohe field continue into the offshore Liaodong Bay fault-depression;
(iii) the geological history of the area indicates that Tertiary sediments
were carried into this basin by many short rivers which gave rise to deltas,
turbidites and subwaterfan deposits and some biologically formed build-ups
associated with uplifts, all of which are good reservoir rocks; (iv) the pre-
Tertiary carbonate rocks and Mesozoic volcanic rocks also appear to have
developed locally good porosities providing good reservoirs in the pre-
Tertiary section and forming the buried hills type traps; and (v) throughout
the Te.-;ary classic sequence there are shales which form good cap rocks
sealing the structures. All of these factors, taken together with the
generalLy shallow water depths in the area, make this an attractive and highly
prospective area.



-47-                             ANNEX VI
CHINA
LIAODONG BAY PETROLEUM APPRAISAL AND TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
General Outline of the Training Program
No. of                         Location of
Subject                    Trainees   Duration                Training
Seismic Stratigraphy          1       6 months   Geophysical Service Co.
3-D Seismic Processing and
Interpretat.on             9        6 months   Geophysical Service Co.
Petroleum Geology             2      12 months   University/Consultants
Engineering Geology           1      12 months   University/Consultants
Geological Modeling           2      12 months   Consultants/Oil Companies
Petrophysics                  3    6-12 months   Int'l. Core/PVT Laboratories
Log Analysis                  4    6-12 months   Consultants/Service Craupanies
Reservoir Engineering         4      12 months   University/Consultants
Numerical Simulation          4       6 months   Consultants
Production Engineering        4    6-12 months   Consultants/Oil Companies
Offshore Engineering         18    2-12 months   Consultants/Oil Companies
Natural Gas Engineering       4       4 months   Consultants/Oil Companies
Project Management            6    6-12 months   Oil Companies/University
Petroleum Economics           2       6 months   University
Offshore Petroleum
Operations                 20        1 month   Study Tours



CHINA
LIA8DONG BAY PETROLEUM APPRAISAL AND TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
PROJECT COST ESTIMATE    (a)
Thousand US S                          Thousand Yuan
L.C.     F.E.    TOTAL                L.C.      F.E.    TOTAL
I   3-D Seismic Data Processing                      284    1,354    1,638                  909    4,333    5,242
2.  Computer Hardware and Software                   294    5,545    5,929                  909   17,744   19,653
3.  Well Drilling and Testing         (b)         25,496   17,640   43,126               B1,555   56,448  138,003
4. Well lTsting and Other Eqpt
Downhole lost Tools                                        715       715                       2,258    2,288
Production Test Equipment                        341    1,302    !,643                1,091    4,166    5,259
Laboratory Equipment                                       727       727                       2,326    2,326
Ice Sampling Equipment                                      38       39                          122       122
F. Studies and Consultancy
Ice Sampling                                      90        36      116                 256      115       371
Laboratory Tests                                  71       392       453                227    1,222    1,450
Regional Geological Study                        170       455      625                 544    1,456    2,000            1
Reservoir Study                                  lt)3    1,364    1,467                 330    4,365    4,694           P.
Gas LUtiliration Study                            24       364      398                  77    1,165    1,242           0
Field Dev't Engineering Study                    909    4,764    5,673                2,909   15,245   19,154
Feasibility & Financing Study                     25        90       115                 90      288       369
Cnmputerization Study                              2        70        72                  6      224       230
6   Training                                                   800       got                        2,560    2,560
Project Base Cou                        27,779   35,646   63,425              889,93  114,067  202,960
Contingencies:  Physical   (c)            2,750    3,429    6,179               8,799   10,973   19,772
Price       (dl         3,tl3    4,761    7,974                9,962   15,236   25,199
tntal ProJect Cost                       33,642   43,836   77,478             107,653  140,276  247,930
Interest During Construction                       6,360    6.360                        20,351   20,351
Total Fl ancing Rmquirements            33,642   50,196   83,893              107,653  160,629  268,281
(a)  End-1985 prices.
Ib)  Includes 30% import duties and taxes on materiels and equipment not financed
by the Bank (amounting to USS 3.563 million).
(c)  lOX on all items (except 3-D seismic processing).
(d)  7.2X in 1986 and 6._X in 1967 and 1989  - for both local and foreign expenditures
(except 3-D seismic prormssing).



CHINA
LIAOOONG BAY PETROLEUM APPRAISAL AND
TECHNICAL ASSITANCE PROJECT
Bohal 01 Coiorptlon Organization Chad
aU LEA
|UIlY ICNCEAL MA|ASONS (5)
-    N|9H,,70l, Ail^Slst2 ^t
0 OAL 0911VICCI-~ ~ ~ ~ CCIl
F o-o --1~~-- -                                    - x
0        I~~COu~I; I        I~~o :ZOCt0                           :j! eo X
LT~~~L
RUN~~~~~~~~I
1~~~~~~~~~~~~ -e" -le            - -  - - -Ctil                          - - -er.We^ -
L ------- m  -------~~~~~~~~~~~~~ASICL 
-tes2JtY           1                                                     4  esu,, 
IOUC OMMA NY40
WORLD SANK 30346A



LI : MY FW lIlBH AMLAL HO 1YJNWL AML11W     FRKI
PROJCT DIDhhWATSIO  SCRIDULE
195                              1996                                          1917                                          Iqm
718 9 10 11 12 1 2 1 4 5    76                           in  it   1 22345i71                                       1 111212 214 A5 fi 7      | 1 12
OaDutPlor Vimo. &                                                                                                                                    I 1111  11    1   T
wel l b_--                                                                    * --|
Well 4  2D-2-TD                                                           a
Well Z 20-2-61                                                                    k
V.1I1J.2 )--2-%) 
fmitalftd1ueocii
amdtmt &wiaw 
Cam IkitUmaiont                                                                  a                      c
Field Divrt. RtMIertqN                                                              a                                                                                                                    0 
Feasibilityo                                                                         a inig                                                                    nt 
Traltdma
Study TOiU"
MEt ad wall Test 9ervies                                            a~       b
test, etc.)
Rid dliralawB
Bid eva1tua (on
Awzi reoat wlw/IRw*
cOttrwt alinliW
a - iniwtation to bid  h  bid evaltugloa  c *coct rct idgnij  * *      ma.law Azrrirc mlowua,tgtm
Be*  viwlw drtwrg pmair -nt  IAhlea ottlrise lfvuleie, ae)hbiIe for mil.daaaon to Pra& for uwlew of ptaculn"t tot m fallou (t) 1MA doemirt at 1e   I.'1 alt. befom  bid tiud2ie' (2 WROw in
case of Field Dev't. EaWg. Study~ ail o.puter Rivata) ml (it) "emite of bid evaluation ad ruomuilam  for emxtrat mmad at least 2 smtt. W ta.     tov   atr ut4ti  (3  ittu in cm of Yield In't.
"'go. 'tLdy aMlu amh w fr DUT and V11 Tint Seurvices).
ledi l



- 51 -
CRIXA ~   ~      ~      AUEI
CHINA
LIAODONC BAY PETROLEUM APPRAISAL AND TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
Procurement Arrangements and Items Proposed for Bank Financing
Total
Project Element                        ICB      LIB      Other      N.A.      Cost
Oil Field Services                     --       3.7       27.8      -        31.5
-      (3.7)      (2.9)     -        (6.6)
Materials and Equipment               10.7      0.8       12.5      -        24.0
(10.7)   (0.8)       --        -      (11.5)
Offshore Construction                  --       -          3.8      -         3.8
Engineering and Consultancy            --       -         12.8      --       12.8
--      -        (10.9)     -       (10.9)
Training                                        -          1.0      -         1.0
== -              (1.0)              (1.0)
Duties and Taxes                       --       -          -        4.3       4.3
OTAL                             10.7     4.5       57.9       4.3     77.4
(10.7)   (4.5)    (14.8)      -       (30.0)
Note:     Figures in parentheses are the respective amounts financed by the
Bank. Physical and price contingencies are included in cost
estimates for various project elements.



- 52 -
ANNEX XI
CHINA
LIAODONG BAY PETROLEUM APPRAISAL AND TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
Estimated Disbursement of Bank Loan
(US S million)
IBRD FY                       Amount                Cumulative           Cumulative
& Quarte.r                     Disbursed         Amount Disbursed        Z Disbursed
1987    T r                        0.0                   0.0                   0
'I                         3.4                    3.4                  11
III                         0.6                    4.0                  13
IV                          1.0                   5.0                  17
1988 / I                           1.5                   6.5                  22
II                          2.0                    8.5                  28
III                          3.5                   12.0                  40
IV                          3.5                   15.5                  52
1989 / I                           3.5                   19.0                 63
II                          3.5                   22.5                  75
III                           3.0                  25.5                  85
IV                          2.0                   27.5                  92
1990 / I                           1.5                  29.0                  97
II                           1.0                  30.0                 100
TOTAL                             30.0
Note: As discussed in paras. 75 and 79 of the report, the disbursement schedule for
the loan is based on the project's three year implementation schedule
(Annex IX) rather than the Bank's standard profile for oil and gas
technical assistance projects because of the ongoing nature of the project
and scope of work.



-53-                            ANNEX XII
Page 1 of 5
CHINA
LIAODONG BAY PETROLEUM APPRAISAL AND TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
Financial Aspects
I.   Accounting Practices
1.        In general, BOC is required to follow the "Accounting System for
State Enterprises" enacted by the Government of China, except for joint
ventures with foreign companies in which case internationally accepted
accounting practices are followed. BOC does not consolidate any of its joint
ventures with foreign companies on a line-by-line basis; its joint ventures
for E&P activities as well as domestic joint ventures for petroleum services
are reported under long-term investment on its balance sheet.
2.        Contrary to the practices of onshore petroleum bureaus in China,
BOC's accounting treatment of exploration expenses are generally in line with
international practices. Specifically, under the existing financial
framework, MOPI bears the expenses and risks of onshore exploration; the
onshore companies essentially act as contractors for MOPI and exploration
expenses are not reflected as part of the companies' operating costs. On the
other hand, while BOC has in the past received MOPI/CNOOC allocations for
financing exploration, such a source of funding is expected to be limited in
the future and BOC is held responsible for raising the necessary funding as
well as bearing the risks of exploration. BOC essentially applies the "full
cost" method in reporting its exploration expenses; the total cost of
exploration/appraisal in the Liaodon-g Bay has been capitalized and will be
amortized upon the commencement o'. production.
3.        Except for the accounting treatment of exploration expenses, BOC's
accounting/financial practices are largely similar to those of the onshore
petroleum bureaus in China. Special features of the Chinese practices
include:
(i) Two separate sets of accounts are maintained for the same legal
entity - one set for capital construction and the other for pro-
duction. Since these two sets of accounts are not being con-
solidated, the balance sheet for production does not include work-
in-progress and the related financing; and
(ii) While heavy emphasis is placed on the annual budget as a controlling
tool, the entities generally do not undertake financial planning
beyond one year.
4.        Given BOC's increasing scope of activities and financiaL respons-
ibility, particularly in regard to debt management for large and compLex pro-
jects over the medium term, it is imperative that its financial management be
strengthened. Towards this e-ad, BOC    ld need to reformulate its financial



- 54 -                            ANNEX XII
Page 2 of 5
planning based either within the ezisting financial set-up or on the develop-
ment of a new financial planning unit with the objective of producing rolling
financial plans of no less than five years. In addition to training, close
coordination among the financial/planning and geological/engineering depart-
ments would also be required to strengthen its investment programming. To
further facilitate BOC in effective financial management, its capital
construction accounts should be consolidated with production accounts in order
to provide an overall financial position of the company.
II. BOC's Finances
Past Finances and Present Financial Position
5.        BOC's income statements and balance sheets over the period 1982-84
are sumnarized below and presented in detail in Attachmeats 1 and 2.
(In Million Yuan)                   1982              1983                 1984
Revenues                             189               331                  285
Net Income                             0                 3                    3
Net Fixed Assets                     909               682                  613
Long Term Investment /a              351               332                  505
Total Assets                  1,771             1,519                1,634
Current Ratio (times)                1.4               2.8                  2.6
Debt/Equity Ratio                   9/91             10/90                 9/91
/a   Includes joint ventures for E&P activities and domestic joint ventures
for petroleum services.
6.        Over the past three years, BOCts operating revenues have mainly been
derived from the contracting of petroleum services to foreign operators, and
to a far lesser extent, domestic sale of c--dz.  A limited quantity of
offshore crude, amounting to some 46,000 tons p.a. in 1984, has been produced
from the formerly Sino-French cooperation area in the Bohai Gulf. Until the
adjustment of offshore crude price in 1985, the domestic price of Bohai crude
had remained at Y130/ton which was inadequate to cover the cost of offshore
production. Nevertheless, the operating losses on crude sales have been more
than offset by the profits on petroleum services and interest income, and BOC
reported a modest net income of some Y3 million in 1983 and 1984.
7.        As debt financing was only recently introduced in China, BOC has
thus far maintained a low debt position. By end-1984, BOC's debt/equity ratio
was 9/91, reflecting the dominance of equity contributions by MOPI/CNOOC and
BOC's internally retained funds. As in the case of other state enterprises in
China, BOC has been allowed to retain a portion of internally generated funds,



-5 -                            AlNNE XII
Page 3 of 5
entitled the "Special Fund". BOC's Special Fund has essentially been derived
from provisions for overhaul and depreciation (70% of annual depreciation
through 1984 and 1002 thereafter). The only long-term debt which BOC has
incurred so far is part of an energy sector loan from the Export-Import Bank
of Japan on-lent by the Bank of China. The above loan helped BOC to finance
its 51% share of the Chengbei joint venture with the Chengbei Oil Development
Corporation (CODC).  BOC's financial position has been satisfactory.
Future Finances
8.        BOC has performed in a financially responsible manner and its
finances are expected to remain satisfactory over the medium term. BOC's pro-
jected income statements, balance sheets and funds flow statements over the
period 1985-90 are set out in Attachments 1, 3 and 4. Salient features high-
lighting BOC's projected finances are summarized below:
(In Million Yuan)           '985     1986    1987      1988      1989      1990
Revenues                     308       1'6     140       187      187       619
Net income                    52         8       8        52       52       132
Total assets               1,534    1,708   2,179    2,912    3,907    4,634
Total equity               1,150    1,305   1,450    1,639    1,828    2,097
Long-term liability          132       152     458      993    1,789    2,266
Operating Ratio             0.97     0.92    0.93      0.70      0.71      0.64
Current Ratio               2.03      1.62    1.53     1.54      1.29      1.25
Debt/Equity Ratio          10/90    10/90   24/76    38/62    49/51    52/48
Revenue Position
9.        In 1985, BOC's net income is estimated to increase significantly to
Y 52 million. This is mainly because of a substantial increase in contracting
petroleum services as well as an increase of domestic offshore crude price to
Y 475/ton. However, BOC's net income is projected to decrease sharply to some
Y 8 million in 1986 and 1987. This reflects a substantial decrease in
revenues from contracting petroleum services as BOC increasingly diverts its
own service companies to support its exploration and development activities in
the Liaodong Bay. Nevertheless, from 1988 onwards, BOC's revenue position is
forecast to be enhanced by the export of crude from the Chengbei oil field
which commenced production in October 1985. Under its agreement with the
CODC, BOC would start sharing the revenues from Chengbei in 1988; however,
BOC's share would initially be limited to the amount of repayment for its
energy loan from the Export-Import Bank of Japan. BOC's limited share of the
Chenghei revenues is not expected to be increased over the medium term based
on the agreement which allows CODC maximum up-front cost recovery. Over the
longer term, BOC's revenue position will be critically dependent on the
results of its exploration and development activities in the Liaodong Bay.



- 56 -
ANNEX XII
Page 4 of 5
Under the assumption that production from the Liaodong Bay will commence in
1990 at 1 million tons p.a. and the crude will be exported to Japan along with
the Chengbei crude, BOC's net income in that year is forecast to increase
significantly to about Y 132 million.
Funds Flow
10.       BOC's investment program over the period 1985-90 is forecast to
total some Y 3.8 million before interest during construction. The investment
program is estimated to be broken down as follows:
(In Million Yuan)          Z
Petroleum Service Contracting                         547                   14
Liaodong Bay                                        3,011                   79
of which:    exploration/appraisal               (1,450)                 (38)
development                        (1,561)                 (41)
Sino-Japanese Joint Venture                           256                    7
Total                                         3,814                  100
11.       Depending on the results of exploration/appraisal, BOC's investment
program could vary considerably over the medium term. The above investment
program is based on the reasonable expectation that BOC's exploration/apprai-
sal activities in the Liaodong Bay and Sino-Japanese cooperation in the Bohai
Gulf would result in commercial discoveries. Including interest during
construction estimated at some Y 200 million, BOC's investment program would
amount to about 94% of its total financing requirements over the period
1985-90. Of the total financing required, about 54% is expected to be met by
long-term debt, including the proposed IBRD loan (2Z), and 22 from short-term
loans. MOPI/CNOOC allocations are foxecast to meet 14Z of the total financing
requirements. The balance, about 30%, is expected to be largely met by BOC's
internal cash which is projected to cover the debt service (excluding interest
during construction) at least 1.3 times throughout the forecast period.
Capital Structure
12.       To ensure the continued solvency and financial viability of BOC, it
is prudent financial management to limit its long-term borrowing. In this
context, it should be noted that the appropriate balance between equity and
debt is closely related to the magnitude of geological and financial risks
which BOC wciuld need to bear. In order to facilitate BOC in effective debt
management, it is imperative that: (i) its medium to long-term financial
planning be strengthened; and (ii) for purposes of internal management, its
capital construction accounts should be consolidated with production accounts
in order to provide an overall position of BOC's capital structure
(para. 4). In addition, the Bank would assist BOC in financing planning,
including exploring the possibility of such techniques as limited recourse



- 57                 ~             ANNEX XII
Page 5 of 5
financing and mobilization of foreign equity participations. Based on the
projected funds flow noted above, BOC's debt/equity ratio is expected to
remain satisfactory even though it would increase significantly from 10/90 in
1985 to 52/48 in 1990.
Recommendations
13.       With a view to promote prudent financial management, assurances have
been obtained from BOC that it would: (i) extend the horizon of financial
planning to no less than five years and furnish the Bank with projected
financial statements based on a five-year rolling plan; (ii) review annually
with the Bank by October 1 of each year its current and future financial
plans, focussing in particular on its investment program and related financing
arrangements; (iii) not incur long-term debt without prior agreement by the
Bank unless future debt service coverage (excluding interest during con-
struction) based on a reasonable forecast is at least 1.2 times in 1986 and
1987 and 1.5 times from 1988 onwards; and (iv) maintain a debt/equity ratio of
no more than 60/40.



- 58 -
ARNEM XXI
Attachment I
CHINAb
LIMN6 MY fEINLN IPF-.JL AND lECUICIL MISTAIIPIECT                                       . .
Ml OIL CORIPOTION (ME)
INDIE STITEIENTS 19192-W0
(In N11111    Yunl
ACTUAL                                       PIERECTED
192        1913      I19          19B5       1916        1997       193         1919       m9
Sales                                 151.0      295.0      223.0       250.5      120.0       125.0      171.4       171.6      627.1
Lsm  Sal. ta                          (I.0I       14.01      (4.0)       16.51       (3.41      (3.61       (1.01      (4.12     127.1)
Net Sal. Renu.                      152.0      279.0       217.0      244.0       116.7      121.3       147.7      147.6      40.1
Otbhr lnc                              37.0       52.0       61.0       64.0        19.0        19.0       19.0        19.0       19.0
Total Revenues                      19.0       331.0       235.0      3.0         135.7      140.3      196.7       146.4      U19.1
Operating Cat                          71.0      132.0       105.0      124.1       55.6         0.9       64.5        65.4      136.5
IhK Ciati.                            115.0      155.0       130.0      112.2       51.2        52.1       53.2        51.3      244.4
Other Expen                            3.0        41.0       47.0         L7         3.6         3.6        3.6         3.6        3.4
lotal Exphus                        199.0      323.0       292.0      240.0       110.4      114.4       121.3      123.3      39.5
IMe lifer lnteret                        0.0         3.0        3.0        U.l        25.2       2S.4        45.4       63.3       232.6
Iterest                                                                 (16.2)     (17.12      (15.52     (13.92      (11.7)    (100.52
Nat I                                    0.0         3.0        3.0        51.9        B.1        8.1        51.5       51.4       132.1
_u           -    = =~~                                  =              a    u 



- 59 -
ANXE XII
CHINA                                    Attachment 2
LIAODONG BAY PETROLEUM APPRAISAL AND TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
BOHAI OIL CORPORATION (BOC)
BALANCE SHEETS (1982-84)
(In Million Yuan)
ASSETS                            1992         1983        1984
Fixed Assets
Groas  Fixed Assets                    1,200.9      1,269.4     1,307.7
Lessi Acc. Depreciation                  (292.2)     (586.3)      (695.2)
Net Fixed Assets                       908.7        682.1       612.5
Long Term Investment                       351.3        332.4       505.4
Current Assets
Inventory                                 92.5         74.4        62.1
Accts recble & advance payment (a)        177.9        82.4        92.9
Cash                                     230.9        329.7       349.9
Total Current Assets                   501.2        486.5       504.8
Special Fund Assets                          10.0        19.2        11.1
TOTAL ASSETS                       1,771.2      1,519.2     1,633.9
LIABILITIES AND EQUITY
Equity
Fixed Asset Funds         (b)          1,il3.8        886.1       902.5
Working Capital Fund                      22.0         20.0        20.0
Special Fund                             134.1        306.7       387.0
Total Equity                         1,269.9      1,212.8     1,309.5
Long-term Liabilities       cc)             132.0       132.0       132.0
Current Liabilities
Short-term loan                            16.7        12.9        55.0
Accts payable & receipts in advanc       343.4        103.4        91.2
Other current liabilities                  8.6         58.2        46.1
Total Current Liabilities              368.7        174.5       192.3
Total Liabilities                    500.7        306.5       324.3
TOTAL LIABILITIES AND EQUITY       1,770.6      1,519.3     1,633.9
Current Ratio (times)                         1.4         2.8         2.6
Debt/Equitv Ratio                           9/91        10/90        9/91
(a) Adjusted to include products in transit.
Cb) Adjusted to include Construction Bank loan on which debt service
is covered by CNOOC.
(c) Adjusted to exclude the above Construction Bank loan which is
serviced by CNOOC.



CHINA
LIADDONG BAY PETROLEUM APPRAISAL AND TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
BOHAI OtL CORPORATION (BOC)
PROJECTED SOURCES AND USES OF FUNDS (1985-90)
(In Current Million Yuan)
1985        1996         1987         1996         1989        1990
SOLJRCES
Income Before Interest                     69.1         25.2         23.6         65.4        63.3        232.6
Add provision for,
Depreciation                           112.2         51.2         52.1         53.2         54.3       246.4
Overhaul                                28.1         12.8         13.3         13.3         13.9         13.9
Othiers                                   1.5         1.5          1.5          1.5          1.5          1.5
Internal Cash Retained                    209.9         90.7         90.5        133.4        132.8       494.3
MUPI/CNOOC Allocation                       01.1        113.0       101.9        101.9        102.9        101.4
Short-term Loan (net)                       50.5         10.0        25.0         10.0         10.0        (20.0)
Long-term Loan                                          59.7        346.7        574.6        836.0       517.9
Inc1Decl in Special Fund                  115.0         20.0         20.0         20.0         20.0        20.0
Inc(Dec) in Acrts Payable                  (40.2)      (11.0)        (5.0)
TOTAL SOURCES                      416.2        292.5        579.2       839.9      1,101.8      1,113.5                  Ch
USES
Investmpnt - 011                          216.4        241.0        410.4        628.6       914.9        855.2
Investment - Contracting S                106.4         85.5         96.9         89.0         99.5        90.8
Interest during construction                             2.2         17.4         51.9        104.7        61.7
1otal Capital Expenditure               322.8        329.7        514.7        769.4      1,109.1     1,007.7
Debt Service
Interest                                 16.2         17.1         15.5         13.9         11.7       100.5
Repayment fort  Long-term Loan                        40.1         40.1         40.1         40.1         40.1
Total Debt Service                  16.2         57.2        55.6         54.0         51.9        140.6
Inc(Dec) in Inventories                     (5.11
Inc(Dec) in Accts Receivable               23.2          9.0         (4.0)       (11.0)         5.0
Inc(Dec) in Cash                           59.1       (112.5)        12.9         29.5        (64.21       (34.7)
TOTAL USES                         416.2        282.5       579.2        939.9      1,101.8      1,113.5
..an_       u====        =====        =====                        ======= 
DEBT SERVICE COVERAGE (EXCL IDC)           11.22        1.36         1.39         2.22         2.30        3.42
Ne D          erc ore cd orup io
Notei Debt service coverage excludes overhaul provisions.



CHINA                                                        ATTACHMENT 4
LI IAI')RNG  nAV PETROLEUM APPRAISAL AND TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT                           ------------
RnHAI OIL CORPORATION I(OC)
F'ROJECTED BALANCE SHEETS (1985-90)
(in CLurrent Million Yuan)
19B5        1996          1987         1988         1999         1990
ASSF TS
ri *ed &)q,elt                            1,7.26.0     1,411.5      1,499.4      1,506.4       1,675.9     3,901.7
L.t; AcruL Dopreciation                      9 27.0       9379.2       9'0.3        993'.5      1,037.9      1,264.2
Not Fm,r.rl AN5etF                         499.0        533.3        569.1        6C2.9        639.1      2,517.5
\'rruPtrI; In rrnqre .q                       i':'e.o     351.2        779.0      1,443.5      2,309.4       1,029.9
lc.lnl NPt Faptid Asets                    607.0        994.5      1,347.1      2,046.4      2,947.6      3,546.4
lInq Tern Invp%Imont                          95.i'       395.0        395.0        410.9        564.6         727.0
Luirr .it Assets
Itivernt rr  P5                             57.0l        57.0         57.0         57.0         57.0         57.0
Accounts Receivable                        116.0        125.0        121.0         110.0        115.0        115.0
(ael.                                      3h6.7        224.2        237.0        265.6        201.3         166.6
Trtal CLtrrent Assets                    509.7        406.2        415.0        4-2.6        373.3        339.6
Speuial Fuindl Asqeti                         22.')        .22.0         22.0         22.0         22.0         22.0
TOTAL ASSFTS                     1,533.7       1,707.7     2,179.1      2,911.9       3,907.5     4,634.0
.....   * --.. .......    ..... ....... ..... =_
IIA.DABlITIES S, EOLIITY
Eq4LuIt ~V
F1  ed Apt'P Fuinrd                        630.0        765.4        990.3      1,059.5      1,229.3      1,477.1
Worimnq Capital Fund                        19.0          18.0        18.0          19.0         18.0         19.0
';pwcial Fuind                             502.0        522.0        542.0        562.0        582.0        602.0
Total Fqulty                        1,150.0      1,305.4      1,450.3      1,639.5      1,929.3      2,097.1
Lnno larm Debt                                132.2        151.7       459.3        992.8      1,788.7      2,266.4
Ctiurr Pt I tabilitias
Short-term loan                            105.5        115.5        140.5         150.5       160.5         140.5
Acrts payable ?, receipt; in advanc         51.0         40.0         35.0         35.0         35.0         35.0
luther cLurrpnt liabulitte                  95.0         95.0         95.0         95.0         95.0         95.0
Intal Cuirrent Liabilities               251.5        250.5        270.5        280.5        290.5        270.5
Intal Ltabilitie%                      393.7        402.2        728.8      1,273.3      2,079.2      2,536.9
TnTAL LIAPILITIES & EOUITY       1,533.7      1,707.7      2,179.1      2,911.8      3,907.5      4,634.9
*ccsc        urnus        mumus        -u-rn-       rn.s .   rns.. 
Itirrpnt r,%tiv                               2.03          1.62         1.53         1.54         1.29         1.25
Debt/Fquity Ratio                            10/90         10/90       24/76        39/62        49/51        52/48
Intal Li8bmlitmrc/Equlity Ratio              25/75        24/76        33/67        44/56        53/47        55/45



IBRD 194971
'7-~~~~~~~~~~i
1 ~ ~ ~ ~  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~                                     L- -  m c I   A     GD           A L< IS A
SOVIT  U N                                    NN O R                        N O R T Ho
ru   1= -- 
-A, ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ Ci
S O U T H W E S TX          .gg                                                                     ,
A t h 9D Cu i: J  -                  4      'A     -
7  Bwg c~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ A-                                                       Sb- ,  A                   A     AT
A    F
AA'-ALA J                                                                                                    V   I   'V LACPEOLE 
DEMOCR. ~ ~ ~ ~    ~     ~    ~     ~    ~    ~    '             EOCAI
AFGIIANISTA  -'-Us'.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IE
OIL AND GAS SECTORILAN



IBRD 19503
C H I N A
LOCATION MAP OF JINZHOU-20-2 STRUCTURE
Liaodong Bay
Lioodong Bay
/1:   -a7 KT    777 ._________-
2:-* ~ ~ ~ ~    ~ ~ ~ ~  
JZ-   2-M
.                  ~~~~~~~~~Project:                           L ,LdI
*P           0     ~~~~~~App,cimol Welts (Tertfutwvel ;1
-- P                 ~~~~~~~~I .silng
! - 1 D0,IMed WellI
Y.,iIv:. Sea
Depth n  het,.r% to 11, ermzon       4.
4 4   ',I t,



