Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICLAL USE ONLY
Report No. 14450
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
TOGO
THIRD TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
(CREDIT 1600-TO)
MAY 5, 1995
Country Operations and Industry & Finance Division
Central-Western Africa Department
Africa Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EOUIVALENTS
Currency Unit      =         CFA Francs (CFAF)
Calendar 1985         May 1995
US$1.00            =         CFAF 320               CFAF 493.8
CFAF 1.000         =         US$ 3.13               US$ 2.03
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
PPF           Project Preparation Facility
PMU       =   Project Management Unit
OTP       =   Office Togolais des Phosphates
OPAT      =   Office des Produits Agricoles au Togo
MISE      =   Ministry of Industry and State Enterprises
BEA       =   Bureau of Economic Adviser for the Ministry of Planning
FISCAL YEAR
Republic of Togo and OTP               January 1 to December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Office of Director-General
Operations Evaluation
May 5, 1995
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT: Project Completion Report on Togo - Third Technical
Assistance Project (Credit 1600-TO)
Attached is the Project Completion Report on Togo - Third Technical Assistance Project (Credit
1600-TO), prepared by the Africa Regional Office, with Part II contributed by the Borrower.
The main objectives of the project were: (a) to provide continued technical support for the
ongoing structural adjustment program; and (b) to develop the capacity of Togolese staff and institutions
in the areas of planning, coordination of agricultural research and extension, and management and
restructuring of public enterprises.
Implementation began well, and the project contributed significantly to the eventual adoption
of more realistic public investment programs, flexible agricultural pricing policies, and liberalized trade.
The state enterprise component gave new impetus to the reform of the parastatal sector through activities
which improved parastatal management and included support to a program of public enterprise
restructuring and divestiture that eventually privatized sixteen enterprises and prepared the sale of
government holdings in a large number of mixed enterprises. These achievements were, however,
interrupted by a political crisis which triggered a major economic recession. The upheaval had a
particularly devastating impact on the performance of the parastatal sector, which became the main
contributor to the current financial sector crisis. Furthermore, the formal training component, which
was not well prepared or supervised, failed to achieve its objectives, and the resident advisers often
performed the work of ministry staff, rather than training staff to take their places. New methodologies
for planning, investment programming and monitoring, accompanied by training sessions for ministry
staff, showed few results in the public investment planning process. Altogether, despite some successes,
the project failed to achieve substantial improvements in its major areas of concern.
The project outcome is rated as unsatisfactory, its sustainability as unlikely and the institutional
development as modest. Among the lessons to be learned are that government "ownership" is as critical
to the success of technical assistance/capacity building as it is to policy reform; that divestiture is the
best way to prevent public enterprises from once more becoming a burden to the state; and that the need
for quick technical assistance to support policy reform must be balanced with the need to increase the
country's absorptive capacity.
The PCR is of excellent quality. It provides a comprehensive and candid assessment of the
project's performance and draws important lessons of experience. No audit is planned at this time.
Attachment
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performnance of their official duties. Its contents
may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
TABLE OF CONTENTS
PREFACE ........................................................i
EVALUATION SUMMARY . ..............................................
PART I: PROJECT REVIEW  FROM  THE BANK'S PERSPECTIVE   ....................  I
Project Identity ................................................... 1
Background ....................................................  1
Performance of TA I and II ..........................................  2
Preparation of the Third Technical Assistance Project ..........................  3
Objectives and Design of TA III .......................................  4
Project objectives   ..........................................  4
Project components ..........................................  4
Project Cost and Financing ...................  6
Project Organization ...................  6
Project Implementation ...................  7
The "Environment" ................... 7
The first three years of project implementation  .........................  8
The period 1989-93 .........................................   11
Impact and Results  ...........................................                                       13
Technical support for the ongoing adjustment process ....................  13
Institutional development .......................................  14
Performance of IDA   .............................................  15
Performance of the Borrower ........................................   15
Lessons Learned ................................. 16
PART II: PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE .18
Introduction .19
Project Preparation .19
Project Management .22
Impact and Results of TA III .26
Impact of technical assistance .26
Impact of training .28
Impact of studies .29
Lessons Learned from TA III .29
Lessons learned in project preparation and implementation .29
Institution building .30
Type of technical assistance .31
Management capacity .31
Internalization of the project .32
Relationship between the Government and the Bank .32
Future Prospects: Orientation and Strategy .33
Institution building .33
Management capacity .34
Technical assistance .35
Improving Bank procedures .36
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
|official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



-2-
PART III: STATISTICAL INFORMATION   ...................................   37
Annex 1: Related Bank Credits .......................................   37
Annex 2: Project Timetable              ......................................   38
Annex 3: Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbursements   .....................   39
Annex 4: IDA-financed Project Expenditures  ..............................   40
Annex 5: Allocation of Proceeds and Actual Disbursements by Category and Semester  ...  .  41
Annex Sa: Disbursements by Category and by Semester  ........                       ...............  42
Annex 6: Use of Bank Resources  .....................................   43
Annex 7: Status of Credit Covenants  ...................................   44



-i-
TOGO - PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
THIRD TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
(Credit 1600 - TO)
PREFACE
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Third Technical Assistance Project, for which a SDR
6.3 million credit, equivalent to US$ 6.2 million, was made to the Republic of Togo. The project was
designed to help the government implement its structural adjustment program and to improve its capacity
in the field of macroeconomic management. Assistance was provided to the Ministries and agencies in
charge of Planning, State Enterprises, Rural Development and Tourism.
The credit was approved on May 30, 1985, signed on June 24, 1985 and became effective on October 25,
1985. It was closed on June 30, 1993, three years after the origina. closing date. The last disbursement was
made on November 16, 1993 and there is no undisbuised balance.
The Preface, the Evaluation Summary, and Parts I and III of the PCR were prepared by the Country
Operations Division, (then) Occidental and Central Africa Department (AFI), Africa Regional Office. Part
II was prepared by the Borrower.
Preparation of the PCR started in May 1994 and is based, inter alia, on the President's Report, the
Development Credit Agreement, Project Supervision Reports, correspondence between the Bank and the
Borrower, interviews of Bank staff and consultants involved in project implementation and internal Bank
memoranda. Interviews were also conducted in the field by a Togolese consultant under the supervision of
the Office of the Resident Representative.






-ill-
TOGO - PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
THIRD TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
(Credit 1600 - TO)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Objectives
1.    The Third Technical Assistance Project (TA III) had two principal objectives: (i) to help the
government implement macroeconomic and sectoral policy reforms singled out as essential to the
country's economic recovery in the context of the ongoing structural adjustment program; and (ii) to
develop the capacity of Togolese staff and institutions in the fields of development planning, coordination
of agricultural research/extension services, and public enterprise management.
Project Implementation and Results
2.     The performance of the Project Management Unit and the resident advisers was mixed. Initially,
the Project Management Unit did not play a major role in the coordination of project activities and the
Training Officer encountered major difficulties in the preparation of a formal training program.
Eventually, a new Project Director was able to organize a more effective mechanism of follow up and
reporting on project activities.
3.     The resident advisers working for the Ministries of Planning and Rural Development helped the
government implement macroeconomic and sectoral policy reforms planned in the context of SAL 11 and
111. They strengthened the three-year public investment programming process introduced during the SAL
I period and helped prepare a rural development strategy for presentation to a donor consultation meeting.
They also helped mobilize resources in the context of macroeconomic and sectoral round-table
conferences. By and large, the Planning and Rural Development components of the project were
implemented as substitution T.A. operations. Their impact was limited in terms of staff development and
capacity-building. Eventually, TA III financed institutional diagnoses (of three key economic ministries)
which are expected to serve as a basis for a more comprehensive institutional development program such
as envisaged by the Government's as part of its 1994-1995 economic recovery program
4.     The State Enterprise component was generally more successful both in terms of technical support
to the adjustment process and institutional development.  Under the leadership of a new Minister
determined to accelerate implementation of the reform of the parastatal sector and with the help of the
former manager of a large private enterprise who allocated about half of his time to the project and acted
as the principal public enterprise restructuring adviser, a well coordinated team of Togolese and
expatriates undertook a series of activities aimed at making the Ministry itself a more efficient agency,
stimulating communications within the Ministry, introducing a comprehensive "parastatal sector
management information system" and training the staff of the Ministry (and the public enterprises) on
how to manage and utilize the system. They also developed a new legal framework for the management
of public enterprises, used the study fund of TA III to launch detailed financial and operational audits of
virtually all state-owned and mixed enterprises, and organized a public enterprise restructuring and
divestiture program which eventually privatized sixteen state enterprises and prepared the sale of
government holdings in a large number of mixed enterprises.



-iv-
5.     A final judgment on the results of the TA III cannot be separated from an evaluation of the
overall impact of three IDA-financed SALs implemented during the TA III period. TA III formed part
of a major effort of the government to reorient its policies and programs, which yielded significant
benefits in terms of resource mobilization and improved macroeconomic indicators. However, most of
what was achieved during the late 1980s was more than offset by the pervasive impact of a major political
crisis in the early 1990s which paralyzed economic activity and reduced per capita income below the level
reached before the beginning of the adjustment process. In the parastatal sector, measures adopted to
improve the management of public enterprises did not prevent a sharp deterioration of their performance.
The sector is riddled with cross-debts and arrears and its financial problems are the main factors behind
the current crisis of the Togolese banking sector.
Lessons Learned
6.     The most important lessons learned during implementation of TA III concern the relationship
between structural adjustment lending, technical assistance and capacity building.
7.     A SAL-assisted policy reform program often needs the support of a modest
technical assistance program. TA III does not pretend to be a major capacity-building operation, but
finances a wide variety of macroeconomic studies, sectoral reviews and enterprise audits that were
necessary to provide the data base and the analytical framework for the design and implementation of
reforms. A flexibly managed "study fund" can be one of the most appropriate instruments to provide
the specialized expertise the government and the Bank need to review complex macroeconomic and
sectoral issues and to organize the "policy debate" around facts, figures and analyses shared by all the
participants. TA Ill was partly used in this manner and TA 111-financed studies and audits were among
the most effective management tools provided by the project.
8.     Concentration on a small number of institutional development/capacity building objectives are
important conditions for the success of SAL operations. Well designed SALs and SECALs, based on
adequate consultations with the people concerned, provide the policy focus which is often lacking in
traditional technical assistance projects. They can therefore guide the promoters of capacity building
programs in the design of institutional and staff development objectives, which are closely coordinated
with the economic management priorities of the country.
9.     Sometimes, however, SALs and SECALs have themselves too many objectives and are based on
benchmarks and deadlines which are not compatible with the slower pace of the capacity building and
institutional development process. The experience of TA III shows that the need to complete studies,
reviews, reform measures and other activities within particularly tight deadlines may have encouraged
the government to use "substitution technical assistance" to perform tasks that should have been assigned
to nationals.
10.    A delicate balance, therefore, should be observed between the need to accelerate the reform
process and a realistic evaluation of the country's absorptive capacity. This also militates in favor of
organizing longer term capacity building operations as self-contained projects based on a realistic
assessment of the country's institutional development and human resource constraints and independent
of often short term adjustment measures provided for under SALs or SECALs.



-1-
TOGO - PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
THIRD TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
(Credit 1600 - TO)
PART I: PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
Project Identity
Project Name:    Third Technical Assistance Project
Credit No.:      1600-TO
Amount:          SDR 6.3 million (US$ 6.2 million equivalent)
RV Unit:         Africa Region
Country:         Togo
Sector:          Technical Assistance
Subsectors:      Macroeconomic Management; Public Enterprises; Rural Development etc.
Background
1.    Togo is a small country (with a population of 3.8 million), well-endowed in terms of agricultural
and mineral resources. After independence, the Togolese economy experienced high rates of economic
growth averaging 6.4 percent p.a. for a decade and a half through the early 1970s. The quadrupling of
phosphate prices in late 1974 led the government to initiate an over-ambitious strategy involving high levels
of public investment and the development of a large parastatal sector. The boom based on high international
prices was of short duration. Togo's financial position deteriorated rapidly and the country entered the 1980s
with large internal and external macroeconomic imbalances and a high level of external indebtedness. GDP
growth rates declined to 1.5 percent p.a. during 1980-83.
2.    In 1983-85, vigorous stabilization and adjustment measures implemented with the support of the
IMF and the World Bank (SAL I in 1983 and SAL II in 1985) led to significant reductions in the current
account and the overall public finance deficits. Increases in the producer prices for Togo's export crops
and the liberalization of food grain marketing had a positive impact on farmers' output and income. The
good performance of the rural sector reactivated economic growth which reached 6 percent p.a. in 1984-
85.
3.    In 1986-87, another sharp drop in the world market prices of Togo's main export commodities
and large overruns in government spending led to a significant deterioration of the country's domestic
and external position. By the end of 1987, however, the government was able to take important measures
aimed at restoring financial stability and accelerating structural reforms for a recovery of growth in an
altered external environment. A new IMF agreement and a third IDA-financed structural adjustment
program were approved in March 1988.
4.    SAL III continued ongoing efforts to improve macroeconomic policies, public investment
programming and public enterprise management. It also emphasized fiscal reforms, a new system of
industrial incentives and a more flexible approach to agricultural pricing. The current account and the
public finance deficits went down from respectively 12.7 and 8.8 percent of GDP in 1987 to 10 percent
and 6.2 percent in 1989. Real GDP rose by 6.2 percent in 1988 and 3.8 percent in 1989. A fourth
structural adjustment credit was approved in 1990.



-2-
5.     The performance of the 1990s was dominated by a difficult transition to a more democratic
political system. Following violent street riots and mass civil disobedience, a national conference was
convened in 1991 and led to the formation of a transition government pending parliamentary and
presidential elections. Political violence interrupted the electoral calendar. Delayed elections led to a
general strike and bilateral aid was cut off.
6.     The combination of the general strike and the drying up of external aid led to the collapse of the
economy. Frequent work stoppages paralyzed the industrial and mining sectors. The rise in insecurity
also affected domestic services and transit trade. Overall, GDP declined by 22 percent in 1990-93.
Exports declined by 30 percent.   With the collapse of economic activity and an increased
"informalization" of transactions and businesses, government revenue fell by close to 60 percent from
1991 to 1993. Despite a sharp decline in current and investment expenditures, the public finance deficit
rose to 7.5 percent of GDP in 1991 and 12.7 percent in 1993.
7.     After more than ten years of macroeconomic and sectoral policy reforms, the Togolese economy
is in very bad shape.  Critical adjustment measures were introduced during the 1980s, including flexible
agricultural pricing and marketing policies, liquidation or privatization of about half of the existing public
enterprises, elimination of import monopolies, improved tax and trade policies and the establishment of
export processing zones. However, the benefits derived from the reforms were more than offset by the
pervasive impact of the political crisis and the overvaluation of the currency. The rehabilitation of the
Togolese economy will depend mainly on developments on the political front. While President Eyadema
won the presidential elections in 1993, the legislative elections in February resulted in the victory of a
coalition of opposition parties. The leader of one of the opposition parties was appointed Prime Minister.
An encouraging development is the recent devaluation of the CFA franc, which should help recreate an
environment favorable to a rapid economic recovery and to the development of a dynamic private
enterprise sector.
Performance of TA I and II'
8.     Preparation/implementation of IDA-financed technical assistance projects in Togo was closely
linked with the progress of the structural adjustment process. The first technical assistance project, in
1979, financed a senior economist who helped prepare the first SAL. The second technical assistance
project, in 1982, financed a team of macroeconomic and sectoral policy advisers in the fields of public
investment programming, rural development planning and public enterprise management - three critical
development issues which were at the center of the country's structural adjustment programs.
9.     The performance of the first and second Technical Assistance Projects was affected by: (i) delays
in recruiting some of the project-financed resident advisers; (ii) inadequate qualifications of some of the
advisers; and (iii) changes in the organization and staffing of the Ministries assisted by the projects etc.
Nevertheless, the two projects achieved a number of significant objectives: (i) a cumbersome five-year
planning process was replaced by a more manageable three-year rolling public investment programming
mechanism; (ii) the analysis of the structure of export crop prices enabled the government and the Bank
to recommend significant increases in producer prices; and (iii) audits of public enterprises provided
essential inputs for initiating the country's public enterprise restructuring policy.
' See the Program Pcrformance Audit Report and the Compiction Report (dated June 30, 1986) on the First Structural
Adjustment Credit and the First and Second Technical Assistance Credits.



-3-
10.   The project was de facto managed by the expatriate Senior Economic Adviser to the Minister of
Planning. A "Bureau of Economic Advisers" (BEA) was created within the Planning Ministry which
operated as an "in-house think tank" for senior officials of the government. While the creation of the
BEA improved communications within the advisory team, it was perceived by many Togolese as a
parallel structure which competed with line Departments and had a negative impact on their prestige,
motivation and performance.
Preparation of the Third Technical Assistance Project
11.   In July/August 1984 an IDA mission visited Togo to help the government prepare TA III and
SAL II. It was followed by a series of appraisal and post-appraisal missions in November/December
1984 and in February/March 1985. The two Credits were negotiated in April 1985 and approved in June
1985.
12.   The preparatory work was thorough and comprehensiv&. Most of the activities envisaged in the
preparation report were intended to support critical policy and institutional reforms initiated under SAL
I which would be continued under the SAL II. A major effort was also made to understand some of the
concerns of the government and to take into account lessons learned curing implementation of TA I and
II:
- Early on, Togolese officials recommended that the BEA should be dismantled and that most
of the expatriate personnel should be assigned to specific Departments, a recommendation
which was endorsed by the preparation team. Working within Technical Departments, the
resident advisers would be encouraged to collaborate with all the staff of the department
instead of mainly doing substitution work for the Minister and the Director General and
limiting their on-the-job training role to their "homologues".
- A Project Management Unit - led by a senior Togolese official - was expected to be created
within the Ministry of Planning to manage the project in close collaboration with other
Departments concerned. A senior training officer was to design and manage a formal training
program for all the agencies involved in the Technical Assistance Project.
13.   It is clear, however, that there were diverging views in Togo about the need for another major
input of technical assistance:
- Many senior Togolese officials praised the competence of the expatriate personnel already in
place and were asking for additional T.A. positions. The newly created Ministry of State
Enterprises urged the Bank to finance a large team of resident advisers to accelerate
implementation of a major reform of the Togolese parastatal sector.
- Others, however, particularly in the Ministry of Planning, were hostile to the prolonged
involvement of foreign advisers in the design of the country's macroeconomic policies. They
felt that the role of resident experts should be limited to the introduction of new planning and
programming methodologies and to the training of nationals.
2 Except for the preparation of the training program, which was not carried out before project approval, and was expected
to be completed by the future Training Officer.



-4-
-  In some cases (recruitment of a management adviser for Togograin), confrontation between
the management and the adviser was virtually unavoidable, as the proposed technical
assistance position was perceived as an instrument of the World Bank to further reduce the
mandate, the staff and the activities of the agency3.
14.    In April 1985, the Minister of Planning wrote to the Bank a letter requesting a "PPF" which
would finance: (i) the extension of ongoing technical assistance activities; and (ii) final preparation of TA
III. Apparently, the Minister wanted to use the additional preparation time to better define the role of
resident advisers and the structure of the staff training component of the project. The message of caution
sent to the Bank by the Minister of Planning was in contrast with the attitude of other Togolese officials -
particularly the Minister of "State Enterprises" - who kept urging the Bank to expand the scope of TA
III and to accelerate its implementation. With hindsight, however, it seems that the recommendation of
the Planning Minister had considerable merit. Better preparation of the capacity-building component of
the project could have improved both its administrative effectiveness and its political acceptability.
Objectives and Design of TA III
Project objectives
15.    TA III was expected to accomplish two major development objectives:
-  The first objective was to continue the technical support already provided - under TA I and
11 -to the Ministries and Departments responsible for Economic Planning, Rural Developnient,
State Enterprises and Tourism and to help these agencies perform tasks deemed essential to
complete policy reforms identified in the context of the country's structural adiustment
program (improved public investment programming, formulation/implementation of a more
effective rural development strategy, restructuring of the parastatal sector, etc).
-  The second objective was to develop the capacity of Togolese staff and institutions in the
fields of economic development planning. coordination of agricultural research/extension
services, and public enterprise management.
Project components
16.    The Project, as appraised, included four major components:
a) provision of nine long-term resident advisers4:
Togograin is a govemment-owned food marketing agency which, in the context of the SAL 1, saw its role reduced to the
managemcnt of a modest stock of cereals for food security purposes.
' A total of 17 staff-years of resident advisers. It should be noted, however. that most of the Technical Assistance positions
financed by TA III supported the extension of ongoing activities. TA Ill added only two positions of resident advisers: (i) the
managemcnt adviser for Togograin; and (ii) the tourism adviser (who was never recruited).



-5-
(i)    an "investment programmer" (for two years) and a "project adviser" (also for two
years) in the Ministry of Planning5;
(ii)    a "rural development planning and coordination adviser" (for two years) and an
"agricultural research adviser" (for one year) in the Ministry of Rural Development;
(iii)   a "management adviser" to Togograin (for two years);
(iv)   a "state enterprise restructuring adviser" (for two years), an "economic and financial
analyst" (for two years) and a "financial management adviser" (also for two years) in
the Ministry of State Enterprises; and
(v)    a tourism adviser to the High Commissioner for Tourism (for two years).
b) two different categories of short-term consultancies:
(i)    30 staff-months of short-term consultants to meet a wide variety of technical assistance
needs, including: elaboration of monthly macroeconomic indicators; preparation/review
of development projects; and other studies (industrial incentives, credit for artisans and
small-scale enterprises, etc); and
(ii)    80 staff-months of short-term  consultancies to conduct company audits. management
and organizational reviews, and tasks related to the government's privatization
program.
c) training programs, including:
(i)    on-the-job training provided by the resident advisers;
(ii)   in-country seminars in planning techniques (particularly project evaluation; state
enterprise management and accounting); and
(iii)   fellowships for studies in agricultural sciences, economics, business management and
hotel administration.
d) equipment. office machines and supplies, vehicles and travel.
The rationale for the continuation of ongoing technical assistance to the Ministry of Planning was to improve the quality
of the recently introduced 3-year PIP process, and to "internalize" the processus through staff training and better team work.
Another consideration was the fact that an overambitious public investment program was largely responsible for the deterioration
of the country's economic and public finance performance. It was hoped that competent advisers could help the Planning
Ministry find the most effective technical arguments to defeat proposals for the implementation of low-priority public investment
projects.



-6-
Project Cost and Financing
17.   Total project costs were estimated at US$6.8 million, including foreign costs estimated at US$4.6
million. In view of the country's financial difficulties, the contribution of IDA (SDR 6.3 million,
equivalent to US$ 6.2 million) was expected to cover 91 percent of total costs6. The government
contribution (US$610,000) was expected to finance salaries of local staff, rental of office space and costs
of communications.
18.   The selection, qualifications, experience, terms and conditions of employment for resident
advisers and consultants would be according to Bank Group guidelines and subject to prior approval by
IDA. Equipment, vehicles and office supplies (totalling US$210,000) would be procured according to
local procedures satisfactory to IDA.  The credit was expected to be disbursed over five years, from
FY86 to FY90. A special revolving account of up to US$100,000 would be maintained by the project
management.
Project Organization
19.   The Ministry of Planning was expected to be responsible for project execution. As mentioned
in paragraph 12, a Project Management Unit - including a Project Manager, a Training Officer and an
accountant - would be created in the cabinet of the Minister of Planning. During implementation of TA
I and II, the resident advisers working for the Ministry of Planning had been assigned to the cabinet of
the Minister. In the context of the TA III, the investment programmer was assigned to the Planning
Coordination Directorate and the project adviser to the Department of Development Planning.
20.   In 1983, the government had created a rural development planning unit and an agricultural
research coordination unit. Under the TA III the two units were expected to be merged. Both the rural
development planning and coordination adviser and the agricultural research adviser would report to the
Director General of Rural Development.
21.   While the state enterprise restructuring adviser was expected to be assigned to the cabinet of the
Minister, the economic and financial analyst and the financial management adviser would work directly
with the heads of the relevant technical departments in the Ministry of State Enterprises. The tourism
adviser would report to the High Commissioner.
22.   Assigning most of the resident advisers to specific Departments was viewed as critical to
strengthen the training component of the program. Resident advisers were expected to work closely not
only with a small number of "homologues" but with a larger team of local staff (drawn from the Ministry
and, where relevant, other agencies and public enterprises).
23.    Other important aspects of the project emphasized training and capacity building. Within three
months of their arrival, the advisers were expected to submit to the Project Manager training program
proposals for the local staff working in their respective units. A Project Monitoring Committee, which
6 All the foreign costs and 73 percent of local costs.



-7-
would include the Project Manager, the Training Officer and the Directors involved in project
implementation, would meet every two months to evaluate the progress of the project, including training
of local staff.
Project Implementation
7he 'Environment"
24.    Togo has always been apprehensive of all forms of external interference in the management of
its political and economic affairs. Proud of its economic achievements during the sixties and most of
the seventies, the country welcomed technical assistance in specific fields, but was somewhat reluctant
to accept macroeconomic advice and policy guidance from expatriate personnel and international agencies.
Significant policy reforms were initiated in the context of SAL I, but most of the measures implemented
during that period had to be negotiated at the highest level and were the result of tough bargaining
sessions between the Bretton Woods institutions and the government.
25.   In this context IDA-financed technical assistance was often viewed as the being imposed by the
Bank. Thus it was not "owned" by the Government. As a result, resident advisers found it difficult to
gain the confidence of Togolese senior officials; some were never able to establish an effective
professional relationship with their Togolese supervisors and colleagues.
26.    Despite these formidable constraints, implementation of TA III coincided with a period during
which the World Bank was able to intensify its policy dialogue with the Togolese government, used its
leverage to influence decisions on a wide variety of economic policy and institutional issues, and faced
considerable resistance in some areas but eventually achieved meaningful results. Although initial
implementation of SAL II was difficult7, the government and the Bank were able to work out
compromises. SAL III was prepared in 1987 and was approved in 1988. The second tranche of SAL
III was released in 1989; SAL IV was approved in 1990; it was declared effective in 1991. In other
words, during most of the TA III implementation period, there was always in the background the need
to find a solution to potential conflicts between the Bank and the government, to identify new policy
reforms that would justify another SAL and to implement measures that would trigger the release of first
and second tranches of ongoing operations.
27.    Such circumstances had both a negative and a positive effect on the relationships between the
Togolese government and its advisers. Although often viewed as the representatives of the Bank, resident
advisers were also used by the Togolese to smooth the relationship with the World Bank and to help the
government find practical solutions to seemingly intractable problems. In addition, IDA-financed
technical assistance provided both parties with a flexible instrument of macroeconomic analysis and policy
dialogue, as it financed studies, reviews and diagnoses which established the analytical framework for
the design of new policies.
' The policy debate became particularly acrimonious by mid-1986, when IDA criticized the 1986-88 PIP, challenged
politically sensitive projects and required increases in producer prices that went much beyond what the government was ready
to concede.



-8-
28.    While the Togolese government often challenged the policy recommendations of the World Bank,
there were also a few privileged areas in which the government and the Bank fully shared the same
objectives and were able to develop a strong, mutually confident, cooperation, which greatly facilitated
implementation of specific TA III activities. By 1985, the government had come to recognize the
negative impact of a large and inefficient parastatal sector and was ready to move forcefully to restructure
strategic enterprises and to privatize or liquidate others8. The newly appointed Minister of State
Enterprises counted on the support of TA III to initiate a major reorganization of his Ministry, develop
a comprehensive public enterprise management information system, revise the legal framework for the
management of the parastatal sector and carry out a significant privatization program. These favorable
circumstances nmade the State Enterprise component of TA III an effective instrument of policy dialogue
between the government and the Bank and, eventually, institutional development.
7he first three years of project implementation
29.     The Project was declared effective on October 25, 1985.  Despite delays in meeting the
conditions of effectiveness, project implementation began reasonably well9.  The Bank and the
government commented positively on progress achieved in 1985-86:
a) Within the Ministry of Planning, the dismantlement of the BEA"0 was unanimously
considered as a major step forward; while the performance of the TAII or III financed Project
Adviser was viewed as mixed", the Minister praised the contribution of the "Senior
Economic Adviser"'2; the "Investment Programmer" was cited by the Director General as
an example to be followed for the quality of his work and for his close collaboration with the
staff of the Ministry.   Methodology documents on economic projections and planning,
investment programming and monitoring were produced by the Ministry of Planning.
Seminars were organized periodically for the staff of the Ministry and for the Planning Units
in the Technical Ministries.  In other words, efforts were made to "internalize" the
procedures and processes introduced by the resident advisers. Conflicting views have been
expressed on how effective these efforts really were.
As noted in the performance audit report of SAL III, the govemmcnt was reluctant to extend the rcform to the two most
important public enterprises of the country: the export crop marketing agency (OPAT) and the phosphate mining company
(OTP). However, the government eventually agreed to launch comprehensive financial and operational audits of OPAT and OTP
which wcre financed by TA 111.
9 As evidenced by: (i) the conclusions of the firsi. supervision report (December 1985 mission); (ii) the recommendations
of an Aide-Memoire left by the mission with the govemment; and (iii) exchangc of views and correspondence between the
govemment, the resident mission and headquarters.
'° See paragraphs 10 and 12.
" Arrived in Togo in April 1985. His contract cnded in December 1985 and was not cxtended. Incidcntally the
"evaluations" of rcsident advisers are based on: (i) comments from the govemment as reported by Bank staff (Resident
Representative and supervision missions), (ii) comments from Bank staff, and (iii) recent interviews of Togolese officials by a
Togolese consultant recruited by the Resident Mission.
2 Financed by the Special Technical Assistance Program for IDA countries.



-9-
b) TA III also played a major role in the preparation of the Rural Development strategy which
was presented to a Rural Development Sectoral Consultation meeting in 1986. The "Rural
Development Planning Adviser" developed an excellent cooperation with his Togolese
colleagues, shared responsibilities with his "homologues" and was able to consolidate the
cohesion of the Planning Team in the Ministry of Rural Development. Unfortunately, the
adviser became ill and left Togo at the end of 1986's.
c) The State Enterprise component of the project was also progressing satisfactorily. Initially,
most of the work was done by the resident advisers in cooperation with their Togolese
counterparts"4. While some of the tasks assigned to the "Financial Analyst"'5 were day-to
day managerial activities that should have been performed by the staff of the Ministry, the
Financial Management Adviser developed an effective professional relationship with the
relevant Technical Departments. He selected a small group of "qualified" staff members to
review jointly with him the accounts of state-owned and mixed enterprises. With the help of
the new team, he was able to complete a large number of "accounting diagnoses" within
extremely tight deadlines.
d) The key position of "state enterprise restructuring adviser" was initially financed by the
Special Technical Assistance Program for IDA countries and a staff member of IFC was
seconded to the government. His performance was disappointing and he left Togo after about
one year. The Minister also asked the former manager of a large foreign private enterprise
to visit Togo from time to time to help him think through his public enterprise restructuring
and privatization program. The new expert spent about half of his time in Togo, worked in
tandem with the IFC staff member, and eventually took over the functions of the
"restructuring adviser" when the latter left the country.
30.    Major implementation problems, however, appeared in 1986-87:
a) The Project Management Unit kept its books in order but did not play a major role in the
coordination of project activities, which were essentially managed by individual agencies.
Reports on project activities were not prepared systematically. The project accounts were not
audited until 1988. Agreed procedures for the purchase of equipment and supplies, for the
launching of new studies and for the selection of consultants were not always implemented.
b) An analysis of the structure of actual expenditures showed that the government was in fact
working on the basis of allocations of project funds which were not consistent with the
allocations provided for in the credit agreement. Apparently, the Project Management Unit
" As a result of his illness, the Rural Development Planning Adviser stayed only 15 months instead of 24 months initially
planned. He was not replaced. The performance of the agricultural research adviser was rated as "average" by the Togolese
government and the Bank.
" Virtually no funds were disbursed under Category 5 (Short tern consultants for the Ministry of State Enterprises) prior
to 1989.
" Referred to in the President's Report as the "Economic and Financial Analyst" (See also paragraph 16 a) (iv) above).



-10-
and the Ministries involved in TA III were using allocations (by Ministries) which had been
prepared during the February/March 1985 appraisal mission, but were modified during credit
negotiations. For instance, the "categories" used by the PMU provided more for equipment
and supplies and less for training than the final allocations agreed in Washington.
c) The Training Officer encountered maior difficulties in the preparation of a comprehensive
training program'6.   A  short-term  consultant was recruited  in  1986 and helped the
government design a program of overseas training in economic analysis, public sector
management and business administration. Eventually, a number of (mainly short-term)
academic and practical training programs were organized. As the government was reluctant
to use borrowed funds for overseas training, the project tended to be a last resort source of
funding for training activities which could not be grant-financed by other agencies.
d) As could be expected, the Togograin component of TA III was not successful. The first
management adviser was unable to gain the confidence of the Ministry of Rural Development
and left after one year. He was replaced in 1987 by another adviser, who never exercised
significant influence on the management of the agency.
e) Following the departure of the Senior Economic Adviser in August 1986, the "Investment
Pro2rammer" was increasingly used by the Planning Ministers as a macroeconomic policy
adviser, who helped them analyze critical SAL-related development issues. While this new
task was important, it was exercised at the expense of the staff training and methodology
development function of the adviser.
f) The TA Il-financed project adviser was replaced by another resident adviser (financed by TA
III) who worked in Togo from  1987 to 1991; his performance was rated as "average".
31.    Significant efforts were made by the government and IDA to analyze implementation problems
and to work out appropriate solutions:
a) In June 1987 a supervision mission recommended changes in credit allocations, with a view
to: (i) harmonizing legal arrangements and actual expenditures, and (ii) increasing allocations
for equipment and supplies'".
b) In July 1988, a joint mission supervised TA Ill, SAL 11 and the recently approved SAL III.
16 These difficulties were probably linked with: (i) the lack of authority of the Project Managcment Unit ovcr the other
Ministries involved in the project; (ii) the availability of other sources of funding for training programs; and (iii) inadequate
monitoring of the training component by the rcsident mission and IDA supervision missions.
17 While Technical Assistance projects helped improve the public investment programmine process, efforts made to improve
the proicct identification/nreparation performanee of the Ministry of Planning were less successful.
is One of the justifications for an increase in the equipment component of the project was the higher cost of: (i)
computerizing the operations of the Ministry of Planning and (ii) launching and operating the public enterprise management
information system.



-11-
It recognized that the appointment of a tourism adviser was no longer of high priority and
recommended a refocussing of TA III on macroeconomic analysis and public/parapublic
sector management activities. It also emphasized the need for improved monitoring and
reporting and clearer indications about future project activities.
c) In September 1988, a new Project Director was appointed. The project accounts were audited
and the Project Management Unit was able to organize a more effective program of periodic
reporting on project activities. Eventually the project allocations were officially revised in
June 1989, taking into account the recommendations of the June 1987 and July 1988
supervision missions'.
32.    Little was done, however, to give a new impetus to the training component of the project. By
the end of 1988, only SDR 135,000 had been disbursed for training, i.e. 10 percent of the original
allocation to the category. In other words, as it had evolved during its first three years, TA III was
executed as a traditional technical assistance project, produced significant results in terms of support for
implementing SAL II and preparing SAL III, but relied mainly on the quality of the professional
collaboration between foreign advisers and Togolese officials to achieve the training/human resource
development objective of the project.
The period 1989-93
33.    In 1989-90, project activities changed significantly. By the end of 1988, more than 75 percent
of the funds initially allocated to resident advisers had been disbursed and the government was reluctant
to further extend expatriate technical assistance. TA III continued to finance the investment programmer
(for one year) and the project adviser (for two years) but the Rural Development component of the project
was discontinued' and the Tourism  component definitely abandoned. From  then on the Ministry of
State Enterprises became the principal user of project funds.
34.    Under the leadership of a strong Minister, assisted by a particularly effective part-time
consultant2", a well coordinated team of Togolese officials and resident advisers undertook a series of
project activities aimed at making the Ministry itself a more efficient institution, stimulating
communications, exchange of views and active collaboration between the cabinet and the technical
departments, creating the data base and designing the procedures for the development of a comprehensive
'9 The "recentrage" of June 1989: (i) reduced the allocation to resident advisers and A/B/D consultants from SDR 2.98
million to SDR 2.75 million; (ii) reduced the allocation to training and fellowships from SDR 1.32 million to SDR .82 million;
(iii) increased the allocation to equipment from SDR .22 million to SDR .83 million; and, finally, (iv) increased the allocation
to audits and other "State Enterprise" consultants and studies from SDR .81 million to SDR 1.04 million.
20 Eventually, the Bank used its involvement in specific agricultural projects to influence the rural development strategy of
the country.
21 See paragraph 29 d) above. The private sector experience and the managerial talent of the part-time restructuring adviser
proved to be a major asset for the reform of the public enterprise sector.



-12-
"parastatal sector management information system"', training the staff of the Ministry - and the public
enterprises concerned - on how to manage the system and how to utilize its findings, and acquiring the
equipment and the software necessary for computerizing the operations of the Ministry (including the
M.I.S.). They also developed a new legal framework for the management of public enterprises, used TA
III funds to launch comprehensive financial and operational audits of virtually all state-owned and mixed
enterprises', and organized a public enterprise restructuring and divestiture program which eventually
privatized sixteen state enterprises and prepared the sale of government holdings in a large number of
mixed enterprises'.
35.    The Ministry of State Enterprises was not the main beneficiary of the training program  which
began its expansion in 1989'. However, a wide variety of other measures - including the reorganization
of the Ministry along functional lines, better definition of staff assignments, improved procedures and
processes, access to information, team work, production of methodology papers, organization of
seminars26 and other organizational improvements - were probably just as effective as would have been
a more traditional training program to develop the capacities of many staff members of the Ministry.
36.    The end of the project implementation period coincided with a political crisis which triggered a
major economic recession, had a particularly devastating impact on the performance of the parastatal
sector and disrupted the ongoing public enterprise restructuring and privatization program.  The
government and IDA, however, continued to use TA III as an instrument of policy analysis to prepare
an eventual reactivation of the adjustment process. Based on a critical review of the experience of three
technical assistance projects, capacity building is now viewed by the government and the Bank as a top
priority. During the past two years, TA III financed institutional diagnoses of key economic management
agencies27, which are expected to serve as a basis for a well-focused institutional development and
capacity-building program within the not too distant future.
2' The Management Information System was developed in three successive phases. During the first phase, the State
Enterprise team conceived and tested the initial design of the system. It then helped individual enterprises provide the data and
analysis required in the context of the new M.l.S.. The third phase was the "exploitation phase" during which the Ministry and
the enterprises learned how to effectively utilize the data and analysis provided.
2 Including detailed financial audits and operational diagnoses of OPAT and OTP in 1992.
24 The project also helped prepare a new legal framework for privatization operations which was recently adopted by the
Togolese government.
' SDR 550,000 - three quarters of total expenditures under Category 3 - were disbursed for local and overseas training
during the period 1989-92. A high proportion of the TA 3-financed training programs was for the staff of the Ministry of
Planning.
2 An interesting aspect of these seminars was that they involved and trained not only the staff of the Ministry but the
managers and the staff of public enterprises. They helped create an environment favorable to the development of a consensus
on the objectives and the implementation modalities of the reforrn of the parastatal sector.
I The Ministry of Planning, the Ministry of Economy and Finance and the Ministry of Trade and Transport.



-13-
37.    The project was scheduled to be completed by December 31, 1989 and the original "closing date"
was June 30, 1990. It was extended three times to June 30, 199328.
Impact and Results
38.    The impact of the project should be evaluated against the two main goals of the project: (i)
technical support for the ongoing adjustment process, and (ii) development of local capacity in the field
of macroeconomic policy analysis and public sector management.
Technical supportfor the ongoing adjustment process
39.    TA III achieved many of its original objectives in terms of t3chnical support to the adjustment
process.   Resident advisers, short-term  consultants, financial/operational audits of enterprises,
organizational diagnoses, macroeconomic and sectoral studies made available to t'he government and the
Bank data, analyses and policy recommendations which proved to be most useful during preparation and
implementation of SALs II, III and IV. The quality of the analytical work produced by the experts, the
consultants and the working groups was uneven. By and large, however, these analyses served their
purpose and helped design policies, programs and procedures which tie government and the Bank found
appropriate and were able to implement. The eventual adoption of more realistic public investment
programs, flexible agricultural pricing policies, reduced rates of effective protection, creation of export
processing zones, and measures taken to restructure and/or privatize several public enterprises are
decisions which benefitted from significant inputs provided by TA III. Even when the data and analysis
made available by TA III came too late to be integrated into the policy framework supported by IDA-
financed adjustment loans, it provided critical insights which are likely to influence future policies29.
40.    Consequently, a final judgment on the results of TA III cannot be separated from an evaluation
of the overall impact of the three structural adjustment credits financed by IDA in Togo during the TA
III period:
-  Seen from that angle, TA III formed part of a major effort of the Togolese government to
reorient the country's policies and programs; until 1990, this effort yielded significant benefits
in terms of GDP growth, mobilization of domestic and external resources and improved
macroeconomic and public finance indicators'.
- However, most of what was achieved during the late 1980s was more than offset by the
pervasive impact of the political crisis of the 1990s which paralyzed economic activity and
2' These extensions were justified by the need to complete (i) the institutional diagnoses of three key economic management
ministries, and (ii) audits of enterprises slated for restructuring or privatization, including OPAT and OTP.
9 It is clear, for instance, that the financial and operational audits of OTP carried out at the end of TA III provided a useful
analysis of the technical strengths and the commercial vulnerability of the country's phosphate mining operation which should
be taken into account in any future plan aimed at rehabilitating the financial position of the enterprise: "recapitalization" of the
company; provision of new "equity" (either public or private).
30 See paragraphs 2-4 above.



-14-
reduced per capita incomes below the level reached before the beginning of the adjustment
process.
41.    On the other hand, the recent political and economic crisis has made it apparent that past TA
effort have often not been sustainable. The current position of the parastatal sector - which absorbed a
substantial proportion of the funds provided by TA III - is a good illustration. Not only the measures
adopted under the previous TA project to improve the management and the viability of the enterprises
did not prevent a sharp deterioration of their operational and financial performance, but the sector is now
riddled with cross-debts and arrears, and its financial problems are the main factor behind the current
crisis of the Togolese financial sector. A significant portion of the portfolio of the Togolese banks has
been seriously compromised and several financial institutions are technically bankrupt. The rehabilitation
of the Togolese economy will require another round of externally financed policy and institutional reforms
to restructure and reactivate both the parastatal and the financial sectors.
Institutional development
42.    As indicated earlier, most of the components of TA III were in fact implemented as traditional
technical assistance operations with a limited institution-building and capacity-development element.
Despite the integration of resident advisers assigned to the Ministry of Planning in specific Technical
Departments, they worked mainly with a comparatively small group of officials and often did substitution
work by giving priority to the timely delivery of statistics, programs, economic and operational reports
and policy papers over the training of their Togolese colleagues.
43.    The formal training program, which was also expected to be a major component of the project,
did not achieve its objectives. Its preparation took much longer than initially envisaged. The criteria for
the selection of institutions and candidates were never clearly articulated.  Project monitoring and
supervision paid little attention to the tollow up of ongoing training activities.
44.    For a while, the state enterprise component of the project financed a wide variety of activities
which included most of the elements of what would now be called a "local capacity building project".
T'he Ministry of State Enterprises was a small - and comparatively new - institution whi-h had little
practical experience with enterprise management, was organized along legal rather than functional lines,
and was not well prepared for assuming the responsibility of a major public enterprise restructuring and
privatization program. As indicated in paragraph 34 above, the Ministry took advantage of the TA III
project to reorganize its own structure, review and better define staff assignments, develop more effective
procedures and processes, create a comprehensive management information and monitoring system, and
train its staff and the staff of public enterprises on how to operate the system, in other words, to address
all the main organizational and managerial issues which influence the performance of an institution.
45.    The effort was worthwhile and the Ministry was able to give a new impetus to a reform of the
parastatal sector which until 1985 had progressed very slowly"1.  The initial success of the State
Enterprise component was largely the result of effective team work. A recent evaluation by Togolese
officials of the performance of TA IlI-financed experts show that three of the four resident advisers
3' Out of 16 privatization operations which had been completed by mid-1992, 15 were carricd out during the TA III period.



-15-
working with the Ministry of State Enterprises were viewed not only as competent technicians but also
as excellent "trainers"32 who organized their work as a shared responsibility. They were able to develop
the capacity of a number of Togolese specialists who eventually took over the functions previously
assumed by the advisers.
Performance of IDA
46.    As indicated earlier, the project was reasonably well prepared, with the exception of the training
component. As a result of delays in the preparation of the training program, implementation did not
really begin before mid 1988.
47.    Although strongly committed to the objective of capacity building, the IDA preparation and
appraisal team allocated close to 80 percent of project funds to the financing of advisers and consultants.
It analyzed competently some of the implementation problems that the project would probably encounter
in the Togolese "institutional environment" (such as the competition between the BEA and the line
departments responsible for investment planning and programming). However, it did not address
systematically all the organizational and operational issues which were likely to affect the performance
of the Ministry of Planning and other agencies concerned. As indicated in paragraph 39, comprehensive
institutional diagnoses of key economic management agencies were initiated at a much later stage (and
financed by TA III) when IDA eventually recognized the need for a more systematic approach to the
discussion of institutional issues.
48.    The preparation and appraisal team was attentive to the reactions of the Togolese government and
incorporated in the design of the project most of the comments and suggestions made by the various
Ministries concerned. However, as indicated in paragraph 14 above, a new Planning Minister, who had
his own views on important aspects of the project, wanted more time to formulate his proposals. IDA
should have seized that opportunity to better "internalize" the project preparation process and to
strengthen the commitment of the government to the objectives of the project.
49.    The close links established at all stages of the project cycle between the country's adjustment
program and the needs for technical assistance had both a positive and a negative impact on the
performance of the project. The main advantage was that TA III was frequently supervised by SAL
review missions (and by the Office of the Bank's Resident Representative in Lome). However, many
missions were more interested in the progress of policy reforms than in the institutional development
objective of TA III. The training component was virtually never supervised by IDA. The only important
initiative taken by IDA in this area was to offer the services of a short-term consultant who visited Lome
in 1986 and made useful suggestions on the organization of overseas training programs.
Performance of the Borrower
50.    Like IDA, the government accorded a higher priority to SAL-related policy issues than to the
technical assistance project. Nevertheless, it used the project funds effectively whenever implementation
32 Particularly the part-time "restructuringadviser" (who helped conceivethe overall program) and the "financial management
adviser" (who designed the information management system).



-16-
of the ongoing adjustment program required either specific inputs from the advisers or the launching of
specific studies which could not be financed from other sources.
51.    Neither the first Project Director, nor the Training Officer were able to coordinate effectively the
management of the project and the preparation of an adequate training program. The new Project
Director appointed in 1988 proved to be more assertive and was able to establish a reporting mechanism
which provided useful information on the work of the advisers and other important project activities.
52.    The initial success of the State Enterprise component was essentially due to the leadership of the
responsible Minister who had a clear vision of the project objectives, selected personally his key adviser
and encouraged team work between advisers and Togolese. In this sector, the linkages with the
adjustment program considerably strengthened implementation of TA III. The State Enterprise component
was able to address at the same time some of the key policy reform and institutional issues of the sector
and was de facto implemented as a coherent institutional development and capacity building project.
Lessons Learned
53.    The most important lessons learned during implementation of TA III concern the very special role
of technical assistance in the design and implementation of policy reforms and, therefore, the relationship
between structural adjustment lending, technical assistance and capacity-building.
First Lesson: "ownership" is. of course, the principal condition for the success of both SAL-
supported policy reform programs and the technical assistance/capacity building element of these
programs.
54.   In the case of TA III, the strong leadership of the Minister in charge of State Enterprises, his own
previous experience as the manager of a large private enterprise, and the confidence he enjoyed from the
highest authorities in the country enabled him to accelerate implementation of the ongoing reorganization
of the parastatal sector and to create an environment favorable to the development of national capacities.
Nationals and foreign advisers operated as a team. The Minister encouraged them to design and introduce
the institutional reforms, the information and monitoring systems and the procedures and processes
necessary to increase the operational efficiency of the Ministry and to influence the management style of
public enterprises.
55.    The other policy and institutional reforms initiated during implementation of TA III did not get
the same level of commitment from the Togolese government and, as a result, were significantly less
successful. The TA III experience is just another example of the importance of doing the utmost
(particularly at the preparation stage) to facilitate the emergence of a national consensus, even if it means
that the project preparation process will take much longer than initially planned.
Second lesson: SAL-assisted policy reform programs often need the support of a modest technical
assistance project which operates as a "study fund" and does not necessarily involve the provision
of resident advisers,
56.   Implementation of a comprehensive macroeconomic or sectoral adjustment lending operation
requires macroeconomic and sector-specific studies, institutional diagnoses, financial and operational



-17-
audits which are necessary to establish the data base and the analytical framework - in other words, the
"intellectual foundations" - for the design and implementation of the reforms. The provision of resident
advisers is only one of the possible methods to achieve this objective. The use of short-term consultants
(with the support of national working groups and task forces) is less controversial and can be just as
efficient as the recruitment of resident advisers33. A flexibly managed "study fund", which does not
pretend to be a capacity building project, can therefore be the most appropriate instrument to provide the
specialized expertise the government and the Bank need to review complex macroeconomic and sectoral
issues and to organize the policy debate around facts, figures and analyses shared by all the
participants'.
Third lesson: strone linkages between adjustment lending and technical assistance could have both
a positive and a negative impact on the capacity building element or TA projects.
57.    Concentration on a relatively small number of critical capacity building and institutional
development objectives are important conditions for the success of these operations. Well designed SALs
and SECALs, based on adequate consultations with the people and institutions concerned, can provide
the policy focus which is often lacking in traditional technical assistance and institutional development
projects35. They can guide the promoters of capacity building projects in the determination of the most
critical institutional and staff development objectives in line with the current economic management
priorities of the country.
58.    Sometimes, however, SALs and SECALs have themselves too many objectives and are based on
benchmarks and deadlines which are not compatible with the slower pace of capacity building and
institutional development. The experience of TA III shows that governments have been encouraged to
rely on "substitution technical assistance", because they felt it was the only way to complete - within
agreed deadlines - studies, policy reviews, structural reforms and other activities, which should have been
performed by nationals. A delicate balance should be observed between the need to accelerate the pace
of the reform process and a sound evaluation of the country's absorptive capacity. This probably
militates in favor of organizing capacity building projects as self-contained operations, based on a realistic
assessment of the country's institutional and human development constraints.
3 The main drawback of short-term consultants is the lack of continuity. In this regard, the effectiveness of the State
Enterprise component of TA III was considerably enhanced by the availability of an outstanding consultant who was not working
full time on the project but was able to allocate 120 days/year to a series of long missions planned in agreement with the
Minister and the rest of the team.
3' This is the way TA 111 was eventually used during the last three years of project implementation when most of the resident
experts had left the country and project funds financed mainly studies, audits (and equipment).
3 In the case of Togo, SALs II, III and IV provided clear indications about the scope (restructuring of specific strategic
enterprises; privatization of others; sale of government holdings in mixed enterprises) and the instruments (new legal framework;
financial and operational audits; management information system etc.) of the reform of the parastatal sector. These indications
provided the framework for the reorganization of the Ministry and helped the Minister, his Togolese colleagues and their
advisers to define their work programs and their operational priorities.






REPUBLIC OF TOGO
MINISTRY OF PLANNING AND LAND DEVELOPMENT
PLANNING AND DEVELOPMENT DEPARTMENT
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
TA mII: CREDIT 1600-TO
PART II
DECEMBER 1994






-19-
Introduction
1.    Towards the end of the 1970s, Togo called on the IMF and the World Bank to help it out of the
serious economic and financial crisis in which it was mired. The objective of the Structural Adjustment
Program was to put in place a financial stabilization plan that would reduce the external deficit and lay
the foundation for rapid, sustained growth compatible with the country's balance of payments constraints.
Togo received outside technical assistance to help it implement the structural adjustment measures.
2.    The technical assistance projects financed by the World Bank began in 1979 with a first project,
TA I (credit 980-TO) for US$2.4 million. The second technical assistance project, TA II (credit 1270-
TO) for US$3.5 million, became effective in November 1982 and was designed to complete the activities
initiated under TA I.
3.    After gaining valuable experience with TA I and II, the Togolese government negotiated a third
technical assistance project, TA III, with the World Bank.
4.    This project completion report submitted by the Togolese government has three objectives:
- To present a retrospective view of the circumstances in which TA III was prepared;
- To analyze the impact of the project on its various components during implementation;
- To draw lessons from the experience of this third technical assistance project so as to define
a new orientation and strategy for the future.
Project Preparation
5.    In light of the lessons learned from the preceding technical assistance projects, the Togolese
authorities wanted to make sure that Togolese officials would be closely associated in the preparation of
the third project, to facilitate its internalization. The involvement of nationals in the process of assessing
needs would promote the acceptance of local technical assistants, and a situation in which the latter would
become mere implementation agents or perform substitution tasks could be avoided.
6.    It was the view of the Togolese authorities that the third technical assistance project should try
to create conditions in which the outside assistance would be well assimilated by the recipient institutions.
With this in mind, the government proposed that attention be paid to the following:
- The process already initiated to bring the technical assistance closer to the staff in the three
ministries to which it would be provided;
- The need to make the procedures for mobilizing the study fund more flexible;
- The importance of the project's logistical management and coordination function.
Unfortunately, in the World Bank's planning paper for the project, TA III hardly differed in conception



-20-
from the second technical assistance project; in fact it appeared as An extension of it.
7.    In its analysis the World Bank identified four areas where it believed that technical assistance
would be appropriate:
- Economic management and government finance, with special attention to institutional and
administrative reforms;
-  Definition of a development strategy and the introduction of planning in the rural sector;
-  Design and implementation of an industrial promotion policy; and
-  Transformation and management of the parastatal sector, including the hotel subsector.
In practice, none of these areas was covered in the proposed project, which for the most part pursued
activities already initiated.
8.     Following this outline of TA III, the first talks between Togo and IDA took place from July to
August 1984. The government reacted and gave its opinion.
9.     From the government's standpoint, the project outline proposed during the World Bank mission
in March 1985 was not based on an in-depth analysis of the situation. Furthermore, the government had
not yet considered the project in detail.
10.   It was apparent to the government at that time that further thought needed to be given to the
project, so that the technical departments could define more precisely the nature of their needs for
technical assistance and reflect on how to provide for the training of Togolese personnel working together
with the experts and consultants contracted under the project. The document drafted by the Bank was
deemed to be inadequate and could therefore not be used as a basis for negotiations.
11.   According to the World Bank mission's timetable, presentation of the project to the Bank's
Executive Board was scheduled for May-June. Togo felt that this timetable was overly ambitious,
especially since some issues related to SAL 11 had not yet been resolved and might well delay the
timetable significantly, by 3 to 6 months.
12.   Since the technical assistance loan [TAL] would be presented to the Executive Board at the same
time as the structural adjustment loan [SAL], the Togolese authorities wanted to take advantage of this
anticipated delay to better prepare TA III.
13.   Consequently, in a letter sent by the Minister of Planning and Industry to the Division Chief
(WA2DA) on April 1, 1985 requesting a PPF advance for preparing the third technical assistance project,
the following points were made:
a) Technical assistance under TA II, whose funds would lapse at the end of July 1985, should
be partially extended;



-21-
b) The studies and actions to meet the objectives of SAL II should be undertaken as soon as
possible;
c) The government should be given the additional time needed for its technical departments to
define more precisely the nature of their "barebone" needs for technical assistance, as the list
of assistants proposed by the Bank was considered indicative of the projected financial
envelope for the project. The way in which training could be provided for the national
personnel working with the resident advisers and consultants must also be defined, it being
the government's understanding that the third technical assistance project was designed to
support the economic recovery efforts outlined in the adjustment program.
d) More specifically, since the third technical assistance project would be pursuing the efforts
initiated in the first two projects, the government was of the view that its main goal should
be to strengthen the capabilities of the Togolese administration in the following areas:
(i)    Macro-economic and financial management, including planning and programming of
public investment, preparation of a report on the medium-term economic outlook, and
improving statistics, among other things;
(ii)   Defining and implementing an industrial promotion and financial intermediation policy;
(iii) Managing the government enterprises and semi-public corporations sector.
14.   The same World Bank team prepared both SAL II and TA III simultaneously during its mission,
although the two programs had nothing in common. This ambivalence on the part of the team was even
apparent in the negotiations, since they were keen on having the TA III credit agreement signed on the
same day as the SAL II.
15.   Positions were not unanimous even within the government. In fact, while the Minister of
Planning was relatively cautious, the Minister of Industry and State Enterprises wanted the credit
agreement signed as soon as possible, since he was in charge of the portfolio of state enterprises, and so
the SAL measures affected his ministry more.
16.   Because of this impasse, the government was forced to accept the project as it was, despite the
reservations voiced. In fact, the Bank made the signature of TA III a condition for granting the structural
adjustment credit.
17.   In these circumstances, the government, which was urgently seeking a credit to support its efforts,
had to accept the project as prepared, despite the above-mentioned strong reservations.
18.   Finally, TA III (credit No. 1600-TO for $6.2 million) was signed on June 24, 1985 and was
planned to become effective in September or October 1985 and be completed by December 31, 1989.
It was scheduled to close on June 30, 1990.
19.   Later, during project implementation, it became apparent that the reservations expressed by the
Minister of Planning were well justified. The problems which arose could in large part have been



-22-
avoided and the project could have been taken over more easily by the Togolese administration.
20.   The responsibility, however, must be shared. The government now realizes that there was some
confusion in defining the objectives of TA 111. In fact, the request for a 6-month extension of technical
assistance under TA 11, which had lapsed, created a situation that the government did not know how to
handle.
21.   This initiative by the minister had subsequent repercussions on the functioning of TA III. In
principle, once TA II was completed, the government should have taken steps to put an end to that
project, since another one was being negotiated. All the contracts for assistants under TA II should have
been terminated, but that did not happen.
22.   The technical assistants on the job were for the most part reappointed to the various posts created,
even if their profile did not match the new jobs. This process was facilitated by the fact that the
consulting firms involved were the same as those that had been contracted to provide experts following
the earlier bidding competition. This situation, which the government now regrets, explains the
impression that TA III was only a continuation of the previous technical assistance project, with the same
implementation procedures.
Project Management
23.   The government made the Minister of Planning and Mines responsible for project implementation.
The technical assistants were assigned to the technical departments of the ministries.  A project
management unit was created by ministerial order dated October 18, 1985.
24.    A Togolese government official was put in charge of the project on May 8, 1985, and was named
manager, and a coordinator of training programs was appointed.
25.   The project management unit was made responsible for technical implementation, financial and
accounting management of the funds allocated to TA III, and for drawing up quarterly status reports and
project completion reports.
26.   Further, in April 1986 the government set up a TA monitoring committee. This committee was
in charge of evaluating the progress made by the project, especially in the field of training, and had the
following members:
-  the manager of the technical assistance project
- representatives of the project at the Ministry of State Enterprises, Rural Development, and
the High Commission for Tourism
- training coordinators for all the departments involved.
27.   There were three stages of project implementation:
- The start-up period, which ran to July 1988, i.e. before the "refocussing;"



-23-
- The refocussing period, up to 1990;
- The period running from 1990 to the end of the project.
October 1985 to July 1988
28.   During this stage, the monitoring committee did not function effectively.  The project
management encountered a number of problems in directing activities.
29.   At the outset, the management team did not have a clear idea of Bank procedures, and found itself
faced with Bank requirements and administrative formalities that had to be complied with.
30.   The committee was not very active, and would meet only occasionally, instead of every two
months as stipulated in the order establishing it. Moreover, it was more interested in
supervision problems than in serving as a real tool for the ongoing evaluation of project activities.
31.   The government recognizes that the ineffectiveness of the monitoring committee had to do with
its membership. Since its members were high government officials, they were not always available when
they were supposed to meet.
32.   Consequently, the Minister of Planning became overly involved in project implementation; the
project manager appointed by the government was not really responsible for directing the project.
33.   The opinions of the minister prevailed over the manager's initiatives. The manager always had
to consult with the minister before making any decision, but the minister was not always available because
of his other duties and responsibilities.
34.   In the course of the first three years of implementation, the project's training coordinator was
unable to develop a real policy for training Togolese personnel.
35.   In this area, the government is aware of the fact that there has never been a career development
plan to train government employees in the Togolese administration. The transfer of know-how, which
should have generated an improvement in the performance of the administration, did not occur as the
government would have wished.
36.    Moreover, the guidelines for selecting consulting and audit firms and for financial management
were not always applied.
37.   The work of the experts contracted under the project was not rigorously monitored. At the time,
in fact, Togolese officials did not pay much attention to preparing and monitoring the planning of project
activities, with specific deadlines and results to be achieved at each stage.
38.    Further, monitoring duties were scattered and the agents working directly with the advisers were
not necessarily informed as to the content of the terms of reference and the contractual obligations of the
technical assistants.



-24-
39.   Since the government was unable to monitor the expatriate assistants closely to make sure that
they were completing their work within the deadlines set, missions which for the most part were expected
to last 24 months were extended to three or four years, or even five years in some cases, because the
contractual objective had not been achieved.
40.   The government did not have methods and procedures in place for selecting technical assistants.
As indicated earlier, the credit agreement only provided a sketchy outline of the terms of reference of
the technical assistants to be recruited.
41.   The government had counted heavily on the project management committee to fill the posts in
question, but unfortunately that did not occur.
42.    Consequently, the government had to hire the experts, and some of them did not always have the
required experience, either because they were too young, or because the candidate company bidding on
the post was not competent in the area in which the government needed expertise.
43.    Aside from the Office of the High Commissioner of Tourism, the government filled all the posts.
When it came time to implement the project, the Togolese authorities decided to recruit a technical
assistant for the Ministry of Economy and Finance instead of the expert for the tourist sector, as planned.
44.   The government believed that national civil servants could carry out the rehabilitation in the
Office of the High Commissioner of Tourism. However, the situation in this subsector is just the same
as it was in the past.
45.   The technical assistants were assigned to the technical departments so that they could work
effectively with their counterparts within a unit.
46.    As for training, the coordinator of this component was not successful in drawing up a training
program based on the real needs of the trainees. The problems anticipated by the Minister of Planning
during project preparation became a reality. This project component, which had not been completed
before TAL III was signed and which was deliberately left in the hands of the future training coordinator,
was never really developed.
47.   In fact, for a long time the government was reluctant to use the credit to finance foreign-based
training programs for Togolese officials, an attitude which did not help the work of the training
coordinator.
48.   It is important to bear in mind that from August to October 1986, the government had the
services of an international consultant assisted by two nationals to evaluate the Togolese government's
training needs and to propose mechanisms for monitoring the training process.
49.   Unfortunately, the question of monitoring this process was never taken up. Thus the evaluation
and the monitoring of training programs were deficient.



-25-
50.   Even during this period, the various Bank supervision missions did not include among their tasks
that of monitoring the activities of the training unit to make it more efficient. As a result, the situation
remained unchanged for a long time.
51.   During this same period, the project accounts were never audited. Similarly, the quarterly reports
on expenditures incurred were not produced, especially the statements on the use and allocation of
advances.
52.   Up to July 1988, there was no appropriate system to substantiate that the expenditures made under
the project were actually within the bounds specified in the credit agreement, and this handicap was
difficult to overcome. In addition, the accounts were frequently audited well after the stipulated time
periods.
53.   Further complicating the picture was the fact that the government did not always have timely
access to the funds in the special accounts. There were delays in replenishing the special account, which
forced the project management to have recourse to bank overdrafts to pay for some of its day-to-day
operations. In fact, there were a number of intermediaries between the project management unit and the
disbursement office in Washington, and the procedures for requesting transfers of funds were time-
consuming.
54.   Moreover, the Bank required many explanations and a great deal of justification on the part of
the government. Greater involvement of the resident mission in Lome in reviewing beforehand the
documents to be sent to Washington could facilitate the later audits and help reduce the delays.
55.   As far as procurement is concerned, the government regrets the time it took the Bank to give its
"no objection". This procedure required several exchanges between the Bank and the government before
any action was taken, and at times this would be detrimental to an activity because a deadline could not
be met.
56.   As far as the government's own performance is concerned, it regrets the sluggishness of its
financial departments. The internal processing of documents is sometimes slow. The circuit of signatures
required on withdrawal applications involves the project management unit, which prepares the request,
the Treasury and Government Accounts Department, and the Department of Financing and Control of
Implementation of the Plan. In the last two departments, payment orders take some time to be signed
and sent to the resident mission so that they can be transmitted to Washington.
57.   It is the opinion of the Togolese government that the Bank's requirement that vouchers or
supporting documents be produced before funds are released is well-founded. As we indicated earlier,
the government was not able to put in place the appropriate procedures for financial management of the
project before the latter started up. The lack of a financial management chart for the credit was an
obstacle that it took the government some time to overcome.
58.   All these problems had a negative impact on the project during the first three years. This state
of affairs led the Bank to call for measures to refocus the project following the July 1988 supervision
mission. These measures were to include a new, more effective mechanism for project management.



-26-
September 1988 to March 1990
59.    To meet the Bank's requirements, the government appoint .d a new manager, who began work
on September 17, 1988. He was responsible for ensuring that all p)j act activities were operational. The
authorities also appointed a high-ranking accountant to maintain the project accounts.
60.    This refocussing of the project gave the government an opportunity to catch Up on the training
program, which was lagging behind. The restructuring of project activities improved the coordination
between the ministerial departments participating in TA III and the project management. At the end of
1988, agents were appointed in each ministry, their tasks being governed by specific terms of reference.
61.    Because of the lack of incentives and the significant turnover of government workers as a result
of transfers or resignations, most of these agents left and were replaced before the project was completed.
This situation had an ad verse effect on the continuity of the activities undertaken.
From March to the closing of the credit
62.    During this period, project management procedures improved substantially, and tangible effects
were noted. The government appointed a third manager on March 28, 1990.
63.    Unfortunately, following this appointment, Togo embarked on a period of social and political
unrest. During this time, it was virtually impossible to conduct any effective restructuring or staff
training program.
64.    Even before all this happened, the project was operating in a relatively complex institutional
environment. In fact, during the eight years TA III was in effect, there were five Ministers of Planning,
three project managers, and four development credit paymasters on the Togolese side.
65.    On the Bank side, the government's experience was that there were too many organizational
changes affecting TA III. There were numerous different participants in Bank supervision missions, and
various division chiefs and country officers were directly involved in implementing and monitoring the
project. During implementation of TA 111, there were four resident representatives and a dozen or so
country officers and economists.
66.    The Togolese government noted that these different Bank officers did not all have the same views
on the underlying philosophy of and the approach to the project. Project evaluation during the various
missions proved to be difficult since the departments receiving the technical assistance were not always
entirely clear as to whether TA III was a project for strengthening and developing institutions, or whether
it was designed to provide assistance for implementing the structural adjustment program.
Impact and Results of TA III
67.    The govern ment recognizes that TA III has helped put in place certain tools and procedures which
should enable the T'ogolese government to complete the economic and institutional reforms.



-27-
Impact of technical assistance
68.   Technical assistance under TA III made the most significant contributions in the Ministry of
Planning and Mines and the Ministry of Industry and State Enterprises.
69.   In the Ministry of Planning and Mines, experts assigned to the department helped initiate the
Togolese personnel in how to prepare the basic documents required for implementing or monitoring
management processes and economic reform. The same is true in relation to the project planning and
programming process, where a new approach based on the master plan for the multiyear program and
the PIP was introduced. This also led to a new project restructuring procedure.
70.   Under TA III, a system for projecting and monitoring the main macroeconomic aggregates was
set up, and a number of other tools were also developed.
71.   With the technical support of TA III, the Togolese authorities decided that it was time to
introduce a macroeconomic approach, improve sector analyses and diagnoses, ensure detailed project
analysis and preparation, and institutionalize the project monitoring and impact evaluation processes.
72.   However, the Togolese officials did not benefit from the results achieved because of poor
coordination and the lack of a permanent structure, and because no procedural manuals had been
prepared. The situation was further aggravated by a high degree of turnover among Togolese personnel
and the fact that the nationals who were supposed to be working with the technical assistants were never
available.
73.   In the Statistics Department, the assistant who was expected to set up procedures for gathering
and analyzing statistical data was never hired. This represented a serious obstacle to improving the
systems for macroeconomic analysis.
74.   In the rural sector, technical assistance focused on setting up a rural development planning unit
and an office for coordinating agricultural research.
75.   The planning unit is in operation and the Togolese staff have completely mastered the process.
Even though the technical assistants were there for only a very short period of time, the unit constantly
performed well after they left, with the result that it has since become a department in the ministry.
76.   The unit, however, is adversely affected by the fact that planning system was not computerized
before the technical assistant left. In addition, the assistant did not manage to produce a paper setting
out the methodology for designing the planning process.
77.   The three nationals who were working in the unit are no longer with the new Rural Development
Planning Department. They did, however, manage to train other personnel who are currently handling
the activities of that department.
78.   The two technical advisers contracted one after the other for the post of management adviser to
the Director of TOGOGRAIN did not perform to the government's satisfaction at all. They both left
Togo before their assignments were finished.



-28-
79.   In fact, the recommendations made by the advisers for restructuring this agency were never
implemented, while its management believed it was capable at the l.ime of carrying out the measures by
itself. Now the agency is faced with the same problems as before TA III.
80.    As for the Ministry of Industry and State E.nterprises (MISE), the technica assistants made
positive contributions in the following areas:
- Restructuring the ministry;
- Setting up the management information system (MIS).
Impact of training
81.    TA III was expected to upgrade the capacity of Togolese personnel by training them and
improving their skills. V1arious activities were carried out in this area, including both long- and short-
term training programs involving seminars both in and outside Togo.
82.    Very few government officials were trained in these programs, and especially in the post-
university programs, w:Iich were meant to give nationals an opportunity to specialize in specific fields.
For lack of this training, the Togolese administration was unable to take advantage of this opportunity
to develop highly qualified cadres who might in future effectively replace the technical assistants and
reduce the overdependence on foreign expertise.
83.    Even among those who did receive on-the-job instruction in the form of a retraining seminar, the
new skills acquired were not used to advantage, because there was no program to monitor or follow up
on the newly trained personnel.
84.    Since there is no career development plan in the Togolese administration, civil servants are left
to themselves most of the time and tend to change jobs, to the detriment of the function they performed
before. These frequent staff rotations have adversely affected the continuity of know-how and skills
acquired in the technical departments.
85.   In principle, one of the objectives of TA III was to remedy this state of affairs by promoting the
"internalization" of the project. However, this never happened, because the training component was not
given the special attention it deserved during the project preparation phase.
86.   In fact, the government recognizes that because of the rush to sign the credit agreement, the
Togolese administration was not able to become as closely involved in identifying national training needs
as it should have been.
87.    Togolese officials were not prepared to welcome the expatriate technical assistants, and tended
to regard them as specialists who were substituting for them.
88.    The assistants made themselves so indispensable that when their contracts ended, the government
realized that they had not fulfilled their missions, and it was forced to extend or renew their contracts.



-29-
Impact of studies
89.   TA III financed accounting audits of the holding companies. As the recommendations in the audit
reports were applied, these enterprises began improving their management and their record-keeping.
90.   The research carried out with TA III financing had positive repercussions on the economic
reforms and helped improve the Togolese government's capacity to manage the economy.
91.   In fact, the restructuring of the MISE and the holding companies was carried out very smoothly.
The recent instability in the country as a result of the social and political disturbances has partially
undermined the tangible results the government had achieved.
92.   The end of TA III unfortunately coincided with this political unrest. It was difficult to carry out
the recovery measures or institutional reforms.
93.   This is true among other things of the recommendations for the institutional strengthening of the
three ministries--planning, economy and finance, and commerce and transportation.
94.    Nonetheless, the studies had a positive impact, since the recommendations contained therein had
to be implemented before the successive tranches of the structural adjustment credits could be released.
Lessons Learned from TA III
95.   The Togolese government learned various lessons from its experience with TA III:
- in the area of project preparation and implementation;
- in strengthening Togolese institutions;
- in project management capacity;
- in internalizing the project and ensuring that Togolese personnel could take it over; and
finally
-  in relations between the government and the Bank.
Lessons learned in project preparation and implemnentation
96.   The results obtained from TA III both before and after the "refocussing" confirmed to the
government that its cautious approach during the final planning stage was right.
97.   In fact, if the project preparation missions had taken the time to analyze all the components of
the project, and especially the part having to do with training, the Togolese officials involved would have
been able to take the steps needed to establish an appropriate training program from the outset of the
project.
98.   There is no doubt whatsoever that more attention should have been paid to the Minister of
Planning's cautious approach at the time, since any improvement in the skills of the local personnel
depended on the success of the training component.



-30-
99.    Project implementation suffered from the start from poor management of the technical assistance,
training, and credit.
100.  In future, the government should set up a dynamic structure for recruiting technical assistants.
Detailed planning will be required, as will a precise timetable for completing the various activities
planned.
101.  In addition, the personnel in charge of project management should be initiated in the Bank's
procedures, so that they are in a position to fulfill Bank requirements for handling IDA credits. Study
missions to the Bank in Washington could be organized for that purpose.
102.  The Togolese government did not supervise the management process closely enough towards the
end of TA II. Similarly, the selection of consulting firms and recruitment of technical assistants were
not given all the attention they deserved.
103.  The government is now aware that when the terms of technical assistants run as long as or more
than 24 months, there is a danger that they will be regarded as government agents. In future, the
government intends to implement a strict policy for monitoring the work of technical assistants, and to
make sure that their terms are not automatically extended without proper justification.
Institution building
104.  TA III made the Togolese government more aware of the urgency of the country's economic and
financial problems. By implementing the refocussing measures, the Togolese authorities showed that they
were determined to make the structural adjustment program a success and at the same time to develop
the expertise of their nationals.
105.  TA III played an important role in restructuring the MISE and the state enterprises.
106.  It is precisely in this area that the technical assistance project helped the Togolese government
to implement the structural adjustment measures, as the Bank made their application a condition for
releasing the various credit tranches.
107.  The government has noted that some of the institutional problems that the Togolese administration
faced prior to implementing TA III still persist.
108.  In fact, among the shortcomings identified ten years ago, the following ones still remain today:
- Unstable government and administrative structures and failure to define the functions of
government agencies and civil servants;
- Cumbersome administrative procedures and complex bureaucratic controls which paralyze the
operations of institutions;
- A high turnover among civil servants, because of transfers and resignations;



-31-
- Poor circulation and inadequate use of economic and sectoral information in making
decisions, and in applying and monitoring them;
-  Need for the national government to establish career plans for all government workers and
to ensure the continuity of activities undertaken.
7Tpe of technical assistance
109.  Without a doubt, Togo needs the expertise of technical assistants who are well versed in
development policies. However, people's perceptions regarding technical assistance need to be redefined
to ensure that nationals will take over the work of the expatriate assistants. All technical assistance
should be in response to a real need expressly indicated by the recipients.
110.  In the specific case of Togo, the government believes that, following these three technical
assistance projects, the Togolese administration is in a position to carry or. the macroeconomic and
sectoral reforms. Looking ahead, this administration will neei technical assistants who can design the
methodology to be used and draft procedural manuals and economic management tools.
111.  This technical assistance will also require monitoring and control mechanisms to be in place
throughout the implementation period. The purpose of these mechanisms is to avoid any waste of
resources, cost overruns, or deviation from the terms of reference in the technical assistance contract.
They are also designed to assure the government that better management skills and the capacity to apply
the new methodology will be successfully transferred to Togolese nationals.
Management capacity
112.  Experience with TA III has shown that development is a long-term, iterative process. Togolese
personnel, in their constant desire to ensure an efficient administration, will have to become familiar with
all aspects of designing a development management plan. In this way, technical assistance will respond
more fully to the concerns of the ministerial departments receiving the support of the assistants in
question.
113.  In the specific case of TA III, the introduction of data processing in some technical departments
of Togolese government institutions was a positive contribution by the project. But to take full advantage
of this asset, the tools thus put in place will have to be used wisely.
114.  To this end, the government intends to promote the emergence of a group of high-level staff
interested in making a career in their positions, to ensure the continuity of the work being done and to
encourage the development of an institutional memory.
115.  Some officials in the MISE and the Planning Ministry who early on requested that local
professional groups, such as accounting or consulting firms, be involved in the project, have
unquestionably promoted the national capacity-building effort.
116.  As a result, the government had to make only very limited use of otutside technical assistance
when it was preparing for the Second Conference of Donors. The bulk of the conference documents were



-32-
prepared either by the administration alone, or by the administration in conjunction together with local
consulting firms.
117.  TA III therefore led to a growing awareness of the urgency of the reforms to be undertaken and
of the need to base the entire medium- and long-term development process on an effective and dynamic
partnership between available local expertise and outside specialists.
Internalization of the project
118.  Since local capacity-building is one of the imperatives of technical assistance, the degree of
internalization is unquestionably the most important issue for the government to address in the future.
Technical assistance could be arranged by department in such a way that each one could independently
manage the experts involved, which would considerably reduce the numbers of intermediaries involved.
However, there is a danger of fragmented results at the sectoral level.
Relationship between the Government and the Bank
119.  To avoid giving the impression that projects are designed and imposed by the Bank staff, the
Bank should in future agree to work at the government's pace so that the project includes all the details
required to make it a success. It is true that designing a technical assistance program that meets the needs
of the government, the ministerial departments, and the civil service is an exercise in flexibility that
neither the administration nor the civil service is ready to undertake. The task requires experience and
know-how.
120.  The World Bank should adapt to changing circumstances and it should recognize that one of the
requisites for a successful technical assistance program is the development of a very close rapport between
the government and Bank staff, through consultations and exchanges of views, so that any initial or
subsequent misunderstandings are avoided.
121.  The Bank's disbursement office should try to reduce as far as possible the number of
intermediaries involved and the delays in replenishing the special accounts. In this way, the government
would be sure of receiving on time the funds needed carry out its operations.
122.  The frequent changes among the Bank's country officers have caused delays in implementing
programs. Every time a staff member is reassigned, there is a downtime, or period of inactivity while
the new officer becomes familiar with the project, before operations can resume.
123.  In fact, during implementation of TA III, there were no less than four resident representatives
and a number of different country officers. The project supervisors also changed from one mission to
the next. The recommendations made by these supervision missions, which were sometimes similar,
could not be applied to the letter.
124.  The government is also looking into the possibility of using either a local consulting firm for
supervision missions, which would work closely with the resident mission and Washington, or else the
formula used by UNDP, which employs a local consultant to work with an outside consultant on project
evaluation tasks.



-33-
125.  There is no one model that works in every situation. However, the desire to do better than in
the past will make it possible to improve the design of all project components and to manage and
supervise them more effectively on both sides.
Future Prospects: Orientation and Strategy
126.  The three preceding technical assistance projects have enabled the Togolese authorities to acquire
useful experience and to define as of now the desirable shape of any future technical assistance program.
127.  The Togolese government endorses the new approach designed by some development assistance
agencies, and specifically UNDP, for national planning and analysis of technical assistance (NATCAP).
However, the government believes that steps should be taken to strengthen the Togolese administration
and improve its management capacity as well as the technical assistance management system.
Institution building
128.  The government intends to introduce incentives to encourage national staff to assume
responsibility and to prepare them to take over the work of the technical assistants. It plans to do this
by setting up organization charts that provide a framework for a better distribution of functions and for
staff development.
129.  Although the government is clearly determined to move the administration in this new direction,
highly stable institutions must be guaranteed. The government intends to take steps to limit the frequent
transfers of staff in positions of responsibility that are so damaging to efficiency. In practice, the rapid
rotation of personnel does not give them a chance to put their newly acquired skills into practice.
130.  The government intends to establish a career plan for every permanent official and to define the
responsibilities of each technical department more clearly.
131.  This should reduce conflicts over jurisdiction and the cumbersome administrative procedures that
frequently slow down the decision-making process.
132.  In this process of correcting the problems of the Togolese administration, the government plans
to initiate a systematic job description process, including the profile and qualifications required by the
person to occupy the post. The job description will make it possible to spell out the needs and criteria
for recruiting or assigning staff.
133.  The Togolese government believes that the initiation of this interactive process will launch its
national capacity-building policy and will help it to design a training and institution- building program.
Once this policy is in effect, the administration will be able to devise a program to train Togolese staff.
This training will in future be highly selective; in other words, it will focus only on those staff members
whose professional responsibilities are such that they need additional training to bring them up to the
required skill level.
134.   After the introduction this new approach technical assistance will yield better results, since it will
be effectively playing its role as a technical and methodological tool. In this way, Togolese staff can be



-34-
trained on the job. The expert will be contracted on the basis oe his technical qualifications and his
abiiity to convey his know-how effectively to nationals; this kind of . aining will give them an opportunity
to use their newlv-acquired skills.
135.  UJnder this new approach, the government will be required to designate counterpart personnel who
have the qualifications to assimilate the material they are being taught.
136.   ro avoid wasted effort and ensure continuity, these counterparts will be selected on the basis of
their availability. Preference will be given to those whose responsibilities are such that they will be able
to give at least 3/4 of their time to their new functions.
Management capacity
137.  The Togolese gk vernment will encourage the introduction of new methodological tools. In the
ftiture, therefore, experts contracted under a technical assistance program must have the skills to design
toois and procedural manuals tha.t are easy to follow.
138.  In this context, the Togolese government intends to take the following steps:
-  Strengthen the Statistics Office so that it can produce the national accounts with the TEE and
the TES;
-  Further encourage Togolese officials to take responsibility and train them to take over the
work of technical assistants, by establishing realistic organization charts in the departments
which give staff the incentive to take initiatives and at the same time develop their skills;
-  Effectively combine technical assistance oriented toward producing tangible results and
assistance designed to strengthen institu ions, through the active participation of qualified
nationals in activities conducted by consultants;
-  Rapidly develop procedural manuals, after determining the nature, type, and number of
manuals to be prepared. In this connection, use can be made of short-term consultants or
experts who will be responsible for implementing methodology and guidelines and applying
the procedural manuals;
-  Reinstate as soon as possible the sectoral planning units, train them and give them adequate
resources;
-  Introduce macroeconomic simulation models to establish a reliable basis for development
projections and scenarios;
-  Introdu.e methodology for determining the country's long-term prospects and perspectives;
-  Train a select group in the fields of economic and financial management, statistics, public
adminiwiration, anthropology, and social demography;



-35-
- Save foreign exchange in connection with the technical assistance project by using local
specialists as much as possible. This would entail use of individual national experts who
would be paid out of the project budget;
- Make increasing use of Togolese consultants to carry out studies and missions and even to
train nationals;
- Use a rational selection process in hiring government employees, so that "every man is in the
right place;"
- Promote the development of national expertise by creating a local consultants' 'industry".
The government could even ask national consulting firms to submit candidates for
international consultant posts in projects;
- Set up macroeconomic and sectoral data banks and management information systems that can
be easily updated.
139.  A system of this sort entails a broader field of action, and a unified macroeconomic and financial
structure obtained by integrating budgetary, financial and statistical data.
140.  The system will act as an operational management support tool, and will include interrelated data
on the national accounts, sector statistics (covering areas such as agricultural and industrial production,
employment, prices, and incomes, among others), the PIP and the budget, the balance of payments,
financial accounts, and internal and external resources, including debt and foreign aid.
141.  The government also intends to systematize the preparation of social performance charts to
monitor the impact of economic policies on the people.
Technical assistance
142.  If technical assistance is to produce results, it must be planned, managed, and executed efficiently
to meet the country's priority needs and to contribute to achieving its autonomous development objectives.
143.  The government also intends to do the following:
-  Spell out the objectives of the technical assistance program, clarify its status, determine its
place in the administration, define forms of cooperation or integration with local authorities,
the type of training required, and the material and equipment to be provided, and establish
coordination with other assistants;
- Compare the technical skills of the experts with the profile sought, and take into account their
understanding of national requirements and the local institutional environment. It is especially
important to prevent technical assistants from falling into the trap of being converted into
government agents or staff;



-36-
- Make sure that experts can work independently and remain unaffected by any political
considerations, so that they can make rational and practical recommendations and proposals;
- Make requests to withdraw funds to remunerate experts contingent on presentation of their
quarterly progress reports.  This requirement would force all experts to fulfill their
contractual obligations to produce reports within the specified deadlines;
- These reports will also make it possible to evaluate the expert's contributions and/or to draw
the beneficiary department's attention to the terms of reference and to the need for work
planning, so that any inconsistencies among the different elements of the terms of reference,
personal problems, or other kinds of difficulties can be identified early on.
144.  In this context, efforts are currently under way to improve the coordination of technical assistants'
activities. Having exper-s' contracts signed by high-level staff of the technical departments receiving the
assistance will link the two more closely. Supervision and coordination committees will be informed of
the contractual obligations of technical assistants so that their planning activities can be monitored, in
accordance with the terms of reference contained in each contract.
Improving Bank procedures
145.   Aware of the importance of "suppression" [sic] in project management and implementation, the
Togolese authorities would like to work in closer collaboration with Bank staff in planning supervision
missions.
146.   Nationals would work with the Bank supervision team to define the objectives of the missions and
establish a consensus as to the content of reports, by working together to draw up a detailed plan to solve
implementation problems.
147.  The government believes that one way to help improve supervision would be to have the resident
mission play a greater role in monitoring and supervising projects.
148.   Moreover, the government will make sure that the content of agreements between Bank staff and
the Togolese administration is mutually understood, to avoid any future divergences in the interpretation
of the steps to be taken during implementation of the project.
149.  Periodic project reviews will also make it possible to monitor the status of the projects and define
timely and appropriate solutions to problems arising during implementation. These reviews will also be
useful for preparing new projects.
150.  To facilitate procurement, the government will, with the Bank's agreement, set up effective and
transparent procedures for preparing and issuing bidding documents, maintaining the accounts, ensuring
controls, and reponing, to make sure that the funds are used for the purposes specified.



-37-
T0CUR~-A. 123
PART III: STATISTICAL INFORMATION
ANNEX 1
Related Bank Credits
TStle                                  Purpo.                                T"r                   Stat,
.......................      ------- -----------------_-- ----------------___- - W,_____
930-TO Technical Assistance         Technical Assistance                    1979                 Completed
(USS2.2 million)                    to the M.2nistry of Planning
1270-TO Technical Assistance II  Technical Assistance to the                1982                 Completed
(USS3.5 million)                   Ministries of Planning and
Rural Development
1365-TO & 3-TO SAL I                Structural Adjustment                   1983                 Completed
(US$20 million & USS20 million)
1599-TO SAL II                      Structural Adjustment                   19B5                 Completed
(USS27.8 million)
37.8 million according to PR SAL IV
1892-TO SAL III                     Structural Adjustment                   1988                  Completed
(USS45 million)
2194-To SAL IV                       Structural Adjustment                   1990       Completion Delayed
(US$55 million)                                                                        by Political and
Econor,ic Situation



-38-
ANNEX 2
Project Timetable
Activity                       Date Planned                    Revised Date                    Acta   Date
Identification:                                                                      March/April 1984
Preparation:                                                                         July/August 1984
Appraisal:                                                                           November/December 1984
Post Appraisal:                                                                       February/March 1985
Negotiations:                                                                        April 1985
Board Approval:                                                                      June 1985
Credit Signature:                                                                    June 24. 1985
Credit Effectiveness:           September 30. 1985             October. 30 1985    October 25. 1985
Credit Closing:                 June 30. 1990                  June 30. 1991
June 30, 1992
June 30. 1993         June 30. 1993
Last Disbursement: November 16, 1993



-39-
ANNEX 3
Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbursements
(SDR million)
FP 86 FY 87 FY 88  y89  90  Y 91 FY 92 FY 93 FY 94
Appraisal Estimate       1.2  3.3  4.9  6.1  6.3
Actual                   0.5  1.6  2.7  3.7  4.5  4.9  5.5  6.1  6.3
Actual as % of Estimate 45 %  50  56  60 %  71 % 79%  87 %  97%  99 %
Date of First Disbursement:                      1st quarter CY 1986
Initial Credit Closing Date:                      June 30, 1990
Actual Credit Closing Date:                       June 30, 1993
Date of Last Disbursement:                      4th quarter CY 1993



-40-
ANNEX 4
IDA-financed Project Expenditures
(SDR million)
Appraisal             Actual
1) Long-term advisers and
Consultants for Planning, Rural
Development and Tourism:                  3.0                 2.6
2) Project Audits; Other studies:         0.3                 0.7
3) Training of Local Staff:               1.3                 0.7
4) Equipment:                             0.2                 1.2
5) Studies/Short-term Consultants for
State Enterprises:                        0.8                 1.1
6) Contingencies/Unallocated:             0.7                  -
TOTAL                                     6.3                 6.3
No information is available on the share of the local costs financed by the government.



-41-
ANNEX 5
Allocation of Proceeds and Actual Disbursements
by Category and Semester
(SDR thousands)
Semest.                         Category
-----------------------------------------------------------------
Fund2   Cat. 13  Cat.2'   Cat.35   Cat.46  Cat.57  Total
1986-1    87.7   455.7                                         543.4
1986-2            682.0     22.3               24.1            728.4
1987-1           287.5      35.4      22.9     11.8            357.6
1987-2            121.6     92.6      33.8    134.5            382.5
1988-1            519.6     41.9      23.9     54.9    58.3   698.6
1988-2            193.9     39.7      54.7    167.5    88.3   544.1
1989-1            126.8     24.3      65.9     91.1   121.5   429.6
1989-2             89.0      3.9      60.2    103.0   151.8   407.9
1990-1             58.8     37.9      23.2    195.4    84.6   399.9
1990-2             17.3     10.7      79.9    120.3    23.0   251.2
1991-1                      96.7      34.3     70.1      1.0   202.1
1991-2                     101.2      42.3     19.7    67.6   230.8
1992-1   -84.7              35.1    158.5      98.8    92.2   299.9
1992-2    87.0              58.2      86.1     45.5   167.4   444.2
1993-1   -71.1              80.2      49.8     19.0    99.2   177.1
1993-2   -20.4              16.0       8.6     41.4   129.5   175.1
TOTAL:    -1.5  2,552.2   696.1    744.1  1,197.1 1,084.4 6,272.4
Compare with:
Original
Allocation8     2,980.0   310,0  1,320.0    220.0    810.0
Amendments:
- June 1989   2,750.0   695.0    820.0    830.0  1,040.0
- Apr. 1991   2,545.0   745.0    930.0  1,100.0    980.0
- Aug. 1992   2,540.0   678.0    727.0  1,200.0  1,155.0
2A Special Revolving Account managed by the Project Management Unit.
3All Resident Advisers + Consultants for Planning. Rural Development and Tourism.
Project audits. miscellaneous studies.
Training of local staff.
6 Equipment and supplies.
Studies and Short-term consultants for State Enterprises.
8Fxcluding Unallocated Funds.



-42-
Annex 5-A
Disbursements by Category and oy Semester
(In thousands of SDRs)
Semester                    Category
Fundl    Cat.1   Cat.2    Cat.3   Cat.4    Cat.5  Total
-------------------------------------____-__-_____--------------__
1986-1   87.7  455.7                                       543.4
1986-2          682.0    22.3               24.1           728.4
1987-1          287.5    35.4    22.9    11.8              357.6
1987-2          121.6    92.6    33.8    134.5             382.5
1988-1          519.6    41.9    23.9    54.9    58.3   698.6
1988-2          193.9    39.7    54.7    167.5   6,8.3   544.1
1989-1          126.8     24.3    65.9    91.1   121.5   429.6
1989-2           89.0      3.9    60.2   103.0  151.8   407.9
1990-1           58.8    37.9    23.2   195.4   84.6   399.9
1990-2           17.3     10.7    79.9   120.3   23.0   251.2
1991-1                    96.7    34.3      70.1    1.0   202.1
1991-2                   101.2    42.3      19.7   67.6   230.8
1992-1  -84.7             35.1    158.5    98.8   92.2   299.9
1992-2   87.0             58.2    86.1    45.5   167.4   444.2
1993-1   -71.1            80.2    49.8    19.0   99.2    177.1
1993-2  -20.4             16.0      8.6    41.4   129.5    175.1
TOTAL:   -1.5 2,552.2  696.1   744.1  1,197.1 1,084.4  6,272.4
Compare with:
original 
Allocation     2,980.0   310,0  1,320.0    220.0    810.0
Amendt 06.89:   2,750.0   695.0    820.0    830.0  1,040.0
Amendt 04.91:   2,545.0   745.0   930.0  1,100.0    980.0
Amendt 08.92:   2,540.0   678.0    727.0  1,200.0  1,155.0
A Special Revoiving Account managed by the Project Management Unit.
2Excluding Unallocated Funds.



-43-
ANNEX 6
Use Of Bank Resources (Staf f Inputs)
Stage of Project Cycle                                                          Staff Weeks
Planned                           Actual
Through Appraisal                                                    n/a                             23.0
Board Approval Through Effectiveness                                 n/a                              8.6
Supervision                                                        45.9                              46.3
TOTAL                                                                 _                              77.9
Missions
Activit         NbothtTemr   NokP.rsons  Ro.Ueeks  SDecialization  Rating Status  TVD  of Probl_
Identification March/Apr. 84        2          n/a        Economists            -                  _
Preparation    July/Aug.  84        2          n/a        Economists            -                  _
Appraisal       Nov./Dec.  64       2          n/a    Econom./L.Offic.          -                 _
Post-Apprai2tl Feb./March 85   n/a             n/a            n/a               -
Superviaion    June         as    1                   Economist               na.               aa.
Supervision    October    85       1                   Consult.                 2                n.a.
Supervision    Dec^mber   85        1           2      Consult.                 2                 aa
Supervision    June          87     2           1      Econom./                 3                 M
Supervision    July          88    1            2       Loan Officer            2                 M
Superviaion    December   68        2          n/a     L.Off./ ra.a                              n..
Supervision    July          90     1          n/a      L.Off.                  2                 M
Supervision    May           91    1           n/a      Economist               2                 M
Follow-up by                        -           _
Rcsid.Mirsion  1992-93                                                           4(March 92)  M.Pr.Tr.
3(Sep.93)    Av.Funds
Notes:
M   managerial; Pr. * Procurement; Tr. - Training: Av.Funds * Availability of Project Funds
n/a = not applicable



-44-
ANNEX 7
Status of Credit Co enants
Cov enat           Subject                           Deadline                    Status
,  -__-  ............................., .--__-......______----___-................................................................----- ---.__
Section 3.01 b)   - Establish/Maintain               Effectiveness/           Comp'led with.
Project Management Unit.          Ongoing
- Enploy qualif'ed PMU           Effectiveness/           Complied with.
Manager.                          Ongoing
- Appointment of Training        Effectiveness/           Complied with.
Officer.                          Ongoing
Section 3.01 c)   - Maintair within relevant         Ongoing                  Complied with.
Ministries functions entrusted
to DPD. DFCEP. DCP. DESA.
Section 3.02 b)   - Resident Advis. to prepare   3 months after               Presumably complied with,
trcaining programs for staff    arrival in Togo           but with delays.
working closely with them.
- Project Manager to submit    1 month after              Presumably complied with,
training programs to IDA.         receipt                  but with delays.
Section 3.02 c)      Establish Project Monitoring September 1985/             Implemented with delays
Committee which should meet    Ongoing                    Committee did not meet
every 2 months,                                           as often as planned.
Section 3.03 b)   - Confirm in positions             Upon completion of        Only a few 'homologues'
relinquished by Resid.Advis.   Project                     were trained by Project
Togol. staff whose $erformance
has been judged satisfactory.
Sections 3.04      - Submit for approval by IDA   Ongoing                    Generally complied with.
and 3.05 a)        proposals for training.
itudies & techn. assistance
Section 3.06       - Submit to IDA copies of         Ongoing                 Generally complied with.
Project-financed studies
Section 3.07        - Merge agricultural research  October 1. 1985            Ministries responsible
unit with MDR planning unit,                             for Agriculture and Rural
-           Development were
- Reorganize agricultural                                 significantly reorganized
research function.                                       during project
implementation
Section 4.01 b)   - Audits of Project accounts   Each year                   First audit in 1988.












IMAGING
Report No:       14450
Type: PFR



