Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
CR'. /1     '-a
epoKrt No. P-4063-TO
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT CREDIT OF
SDR 6.3 MILLION (US$6.2 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF TOCO
FOR A
THIRD TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
May 1, 1985
Thi dowument bas a restricted disbibution and may be aed by recipients nly in the perfonmance of
their officia duies. Its contnts may mot otherwise be disclosed withut Wodd Bnk authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit      =         CFA franc (CFAF)
US$1.00             =        CFAF 490
(West Africa Regional Rate for April 1985)
SYSTEM OF WEIGHTS AND MEASURES: METRIC
Metric                       US Equivalent
1 meter (m)                  =        3.28 feet (ft)
1 square meter (m2)          =        10.76 square feet (sq ft)
1 cubic meter (m3)           =        35.30 cubic feet (cu ft)
1 kilometer (km)             =        0.62 mile (mi)
1 square kilomenter (kM2)   =         0.39 square mile (sq mi)
1 hectare (ha)               =        2.47 acres
1 metric ton (t)             =        2,205 pounds (lb)
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ACP       =      African Caribbean and Pacific States
BCEAO     =      Banque Centrale des Etats de l'Afrique de l'Ouest
BOM       =      Bureau of Administrative Organization and Methods
CIMAO     =      West African Clinker Company
DCP       =      Directorate of Plan Coordination
DESA      =      Agricultural Statistics Directorate
DFCEP     =      Directorate of Plan Financing and Execution Control
DGDR      =      Directorate General of Rural Development
DPD       =      Directorate of Development Planning
DRDR      =      Regional Rural Development Office
IMF       =      International Monetary Fund
IOTO      =      Vegetable Oil Processing Company
ITP       =      Plastic Manufacturing Company
ITT       =      Togo Textile Industry
HCT       =      High Commission for Tourism
MAR       =      Ministry of Rural Works
MDR       =      Ministry of Rural Development
MPI       =      Ministry of Planning and Industry
MSE       =      Ministry of State Enterprises
MTC       =      Ministry of Transport and Commerce
OPAT      =      Export Crop Marketing Board
OTP       =      Phosphate Marketing Board
PMU       =      Project Management Unit
RNET      =      Togo Water Board
RPT       =      Rassemblement du Peuple Togolais



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
SAC       -      Structural Adjustment Credit
SODETO    -      Togo Detergent Manufacturing
SOPROLAIT -      Dairy Processing Company
SOTEXMA  -       Agricultural Equipment Company
SOTOMA    -      Togo Marble Mining Company
SDR       -      Special Drawing Right
TA               Technical Assistance
TOGOFRUIT -      Togo Fruit Company
TOGOGRAIN -      Togo's Grain Marketing Board
TOGOTEX          Togo Textile Company
TOGOROUTE        National Trucking Company
UNDP      '      United Nations Development Program
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
IbThis doum   h a mresrcd dsibuton and may be ued by reiPients onlY in the Performance ofI
their offic  dute Its actents may not otherwise be disdined wnthout World Bank authoration.



REPUBLIC OF TOGO
THIRD TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
Credit and Project Summary
Borrower:      The Republic of Togo
Amount:        SDR 6.3 million (US$ 6.2 million equivalent)
Terms:         Standard
Project
Description:   The proposed project is designed to help the Government
implement and consolidate the second phase of its structural
adjustment program agreed with IDA under the second
structural adjustment credit (see President's Report No.
P-4064-TO dated May 1, 1985). It includes the provision of
short and long-term technical assistance services and
related logistical support to prepare and execute reform
measures in macroeconomic management and policy formulation,
planning of rural development and the restructuring and
privatization of unprofitable or badly managed state-owned
enterprises and hotels. Within the Government itself, the
program would attempt to achieve a greater degree of
efficiency of the public sector by strengthening the
organization and management of key Ministries and the High
Commission for Tourism. An important objective of the third
technical assistance project is to intensify the training of
Togolese staff with a view to assuring a gradual replacement
of foreign advisers in the medium-term. Specifically, the
project would provide for:
(a) long-term advisers (2 years) to the Ministries of Planning
and Industry (2 positions), Rural Development (3 positions),
State Enterprises (3 positions) and the High Commission for
Tourism (1 position);
(b) short-term consultancies (142 manmonths) for various studies
connected with the implementation of the economic adjustment
program and the proposed state enterprise restructuring
measures;
(c) training (on-the-job and formal) of the local staff;
(d) fellowships, office equipment, micro-computers (4), and
other supplies and vehicles.
This report is based on the findings of IDA appraisal missions that visited
the Republic of Togo from November 30 to December 14, 1984 and from
February 15 to March 8. 1985. The missions' members were Messrs. L. Boya
(Loan Officer and mission leader), I. Thiam (economist). J. Nellis
(economist) and Ms. Triche (consultant).



- ii. -
Benfits
and Risks :   Project benefits include an increased Government capacity to
prepare and implement sound, comprehensive and consistent
macroeconomic policies, and to pursue adjustment policies
in crucial areas such as rural development, state
enterprise reforms, and public investment programming. The
main risk of the project comes from the anticipated
difficulties in finding advisory personnel who are both
suitably qualified and sufficiently adaptable to provide
training to the local staff, without which the
institution-building goals of the adjustment process would
not be achieved. In selecting the long-term advisers for
the project, care would be taken to ensure that the experts
have the profile and background necessary to enable them to
train nationals.



- iii -
Estimated Cost                                       US$ thousands -
Local        Foreign         Total
(1) Long-term advisers to the
Ministries of Planning and
Industry. Rural Development,
State Enterprises and the High
Commission for Tourism                 -          2,040           2,040
(2) Short-term consultants for
studies                               440         1,260           1,700
(3)  Training of local staff             1,000           300           1,300
(4) Equipment (micro-computers,
office machines), supplies             -            210             210
and vehicles
(5)  Supplementary studies and              -            300             300
future project preparation
(6) Local salaries, office space
rental and communications             610            -              610
(7) Price contingencies for
consultants and support services      205           411             616
Total (net of taxes)             2,255         4,521           6,776
Financing Plan                           -        US$ thousands -
Local       Foreign           Total
IDA                                      1,645         4,521           6,166
Government                                 610             -             610
Total                             2,255         4,521           6,776
Estimated Disbursements                        US$ thousands --
FY86     FY87      FY88       FY89      FY90
Annual                         1.200    2,000     1,600      1,200       200
Cumulative                     1,200    3,200     4,800      6,000     6,200
Estimated Completion Date: December 31, 1989
Staff Appraisal Rep6rt:     Not applicable
Map: IBRD 13601R
West Africa Programs II
May 1985



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT CREDIT
TO THE REPUBLIC OF TOGO
FOR A THIRD TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
1.       I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
development credit to the Republic of Togo for SDR 6.3 million (US$ 6.2
million equivalent) on standard IDA terms to help finance a third technical
assistance project.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.       An economic report entitled "Togo: Country Economic Memorandum"
(3416-TO) was distributed to the Executive Directors in January 1982. Its
assessment of the country's economic prospects has been updated by recent
Bank missions and is reflected in the following paragraphs.  Annex I
provides basic country data.
Introduction
3.       Togo is a small country (56,800 km ) with a population of about
2.8 million and a per capita GNP of US$280 (1983). Between 1980-84.
phosphate mining accounted for more than 40 percent of exports in recent
years, and contributed to about 17 percent of government revenues.
The three main agricultural export crops (coffee, cocoa and cotton)
accounted for 25 percent of exports and about 10 percent of government
revenues. Political stability has prevailed since 1967, when General
Eyadema became President after a military coup. The Government has
gradually become civilian. The politburo of the Rassemblement du Peuple
Togolais (RPT), the country's only political party, is the center of power.
The party is making cautious political overtures, starting with the
competitive elections held in March 1985, during which 77 representatives
to the National Assembly were elected for the first time out of more than
200 candidates. Togo's external policy favors regional and international
cooperation. The country hosted the signing of the three Lomei conventions
between the African, Caribbean and Pacific States (ACP) and the European
Economic Community.



Background
4.        Until 1974. the Government of Togo pursued cautious economic and
financial policies and succeeded in achieving rapid economic growth, with
an average annual growth rate of growth domestic product (GDP) of 7 percent
in real terms, while maintaining internal and external financial
equilibria. This economic growth was based on a significant change in the
structure of the economy, with the share of mining and trade increasing
rapidly while agriculture declined. The expansion of retail trade
activities stemmed from the role of Togo as a regional trading center for
Nigeria, Ghana, Burkina Faso and Niger. The growth of the mining sector
was the result of increased phosphate rock production which reached 2.6
million tons in 1974 from 1.5 million tons in 1970. In agriculture, Togo
largely achieved food self-sufficiency, except in years of severe drought.
Concerning export crops, cotton production has grown significantly since
1970, even during the drought years; but production of other export crops
(cocoa and coffee) stagnated in the early 1970s due to insufficient
incentives for farmers and poorly conceived investment projects in the
sector. Despite this rapid economic growth, consumption and investment
were kept under control. The economy became more and more export-oriented,
mainly due to the significant development of phosphate rock exports. The
balance of payments was in equilibrium while the public finance deficit
remained modest and was financed on a sustainable basis.
5.        In 1979, government revenues doubled as a result of a fourfold
increase in phosphate prices. The Government embarked on an ambitious
public investment program and undertook expansionary fiscal and monetary
policies. A number of state-owned enterprises were cr-mated, and new
investments were implemented in the social sector, infrastructure, luxury
hotel construction, public buildings and industry. Many of these proved
unprofitable and contributed little to long-term growth. Most investments
were financed by foreign borrowings, in part on comercial terms. Economic
growth was initially boosted by the investment program. However, by the
end of the 1970s and the beginning of the 1980s, the economy started to
slow down and then declined, while serious imbalances occurred in public
finance and balance of payments. The gross domestic product (GDP) declined
in real terms by 4.1 percent per year on average between 1980 and 1983. As
early as 1978, the Government began to accumulate payment arrears to
external creditors as well as to its local suppliers. By 1979, the overall
fiscal deficit had reached 14.3 percent of GDP and the balance of payments
current account deficit 23.1 percent of GDP. Under two IMF-supported
financial stabilization programs, Togo negotiated external debt
reschedulings in 1979 and 1981; the Government began to reduce its
investments and to limit the growth of its current expenditures.
Consequently, the fiscal deficit and the current account deficit were
reduced significantly in 1982 to 6.9 percent of GDP and 11.7 percent of GDP
respectively. Nevertheless, the stabilization programs were not fully
implemented and the external debt service continued to increase as well as
domestic and external arrears.



- 3 -
6.        Faced with a worsening economic and financial situation, the
Government recognized the need for a more comprehensive recovery policy.
In 1983 and 1984, it adopted additional and more stringent financial
stabilization programs supported by IMF stand-by arrangements and a first
structural adjustment program supported by a SDR 36.9 million IDA credit in
May 1983. Togo made good progress in implementing the first structural
adjustment program and in achieving the objectives of the financial
stabilization programs.
LNF-Supported Financial Stabilization Programs
7.        The performance criteria under the 1983/84 and 1984/85
IMF-supported financial stabilization programs were met and successfully
implemented. The Government made all purchases provided under the 1983/84
and 1984/85 stand-by arrangements (SDR 21.4 million in 1983/84 and SDR 19.0
million in 1984/85). The last purchase was made in March 1985 on the
strength of the December 1984 performance criteria. Under the financial
program for 1984, a further debt rescheduling of about CFAF 23.4 billion of
external debt service obligations falling due in 1984 was arranged with the
Paris Club, including 50 percent of principal amounts of debt previously
rescheduled in 1979. The objectives of the 1984 stabilization program were
more than met with the reduction of the overall fiscal deficit to 2.2
percent of GDP compared to 4.0 percent programmed and that of the balance
of payments current account deficit to 5.0 percent of GDP, compared to 9.6
percent programmed. These results were obtained from a combination of a 14
percent increase in gover.ment revenue, strict limits on the current
expenditures for both personnel and operating spending, and large inflows
of grants.  This enabled the Government to eliminate all its external
arrears while reducing its domestic arrears by CFAF 12.1 billion. For
1985, the Government and the IMF have agreed on another stand-by
arrangement of SDR 15.4 million to be considered by the IMF Board of
Directors on May 17, 1985. A meeting of the Paris Club to consider
rescheduling Togo's 1985 debt is also scheduled for the week of May 20-24,
1985.
8.        A general assessment of the macroeconomic policies in Togo
indicates that significant improvement has taken place since the end of
1982. However, deficiencies remain in national economic mangement  d the
reforms in policies and public sector institutions initiated under SAC I
need to be completed. With regard to the exchange rate, Togo's currency,
the CFA franc, has depreciated substantially since 1981, in line with the
French franc to which it is pegged. The nominal exchange rate against the
US dollar was depreciated by 16.6 percent per year between 1980 and 1984
and the real exchange rate by 13.2 percent. Therefore, the exchange rate
is probably not seriously overvalued. Neverthelese, distortions still
exist between the prices of tradable and non-tradable goods and between the
urban and rural sectors. In particular, the system of industrial
incentives does not encourage exports, and further substantial rises in
agricultural producer prices will be required to unlock productive
potential in the rural sector. The Central Bank has maintained positive
real interest rates since 1980, and Togo has succeeded in attracting large



- 4-
foreign deposits in its banking system, mainly to finance its regioual
reexport trade. Price controls are limited to fixing profit margins for a
number of basic products. Utility tariffs are periodically adjusted in
relation to costs and there are no subsidies on fuel, electricity and
water. Finally, the Government is improving public investment programming,
public enterprise sector management and its fiscal policy. A renewed
effort is underway to attract private investments in Togo. As a result of
these macroeconomic policies, resource allocation is being improved and the
external current account deficit and budget deficit have been significantly
reduced.
Recent Economic Developments and Prospects
9.        Despite the significant progress made under the Bank and  IMF-
supported programs and the related substantial non-project external
assistance, Togo's economic and financial situation and prospects remain
precarious. In 1983, the combined adverse effects of the drought, the
reduction in regional trade, and the worldwide recession, caused the GDP to
fall by 5.3 percent in real terms. In 1984, improved economic performance
in certain sectors were offset by a decline in others. On one hand, owing
to favorable weather, food crop, cocoa and cotton output rose. In
addition, phosphate rock production and export increased. On the other
hand, economic growth was hampered by the closure of the Nigerian borders,
the suspension of production by the multinational cement clinker plant
(CIMAO), and the sharp decline in coffee output. Overall, the real GDP
stagnated in 1984 and the economic growth rate over the medium-term will
rise only slowly while external debt service will continue to be high. In
the depressed economic conditions of 1983 and 1984. the share of
consumption in GDP declined as well as the investment ratio. As a result,
the resource gap/GDP ratio decreased in 1983 and 1984 and the current
account deficit decreased from 11.7 percent of GDP in 1982 to 10.5 percent
in 1983 and 5.0 percent in 1984. Regarding the capital account and the
overall balance of payments, large inflows of short-term capital from
neighboring countries together with accelerated SAC I disbursements and the
Paris Club debt reschedulings more than offset the current account deficit,
leading to a balance of payments overall surplus of CFAF 18.7 billion in
1983 and CFAF 15.1 billion in 1984.
10.       Over the medium-term, the balance of payments projections
indicate a deterioration in the current account deficit. The projections
depend on the world market prices of phosphate and agricultural products,
and on the ongoing construction of the Nangbeto hydroelectric dam. Along
with the deterioration of the current account, the projections of the
capital account show a decrease of capital inflows due mainly to the
expected reduction of short-term capital inflows from neighboring countries
because of the persistent recession in the area and the continuing closure
of the Nigerian borders. Moreover, government revenues will continue to be
insufficient to cover current expenditures, maintain an adequate level of
public investment and meet its substantial debt service obligations.
Therefore, the need for external financing of the balance of payments and



- 5 -
the public sector will remain strong over the next few years, in the form
of both non-project aid and debt rescheduling.
11.       Based on this assessment, the Government with assistance from the
Association has prepared the proposed second phase of the structural
adjustmenc program. The IDA credit would support measures aiming at
consolidating and expanding the progress achieved under SAC I with regard
to government finance, the public sector investment program and public
enterprise rehabilitation. It also calls for initiating the reorganization
of key economic ministries. SAC II would also support an action program to
achieve a substantial expansion of output in the agricultural sector which
contains the main supply potential of the economy. This action program
includes a rise in real producer prices of export crops in order to give
farmers the incentives to increase output, yields and acreage cultivated,
as well as an improvement of the system of extension services and input
supply to give both producers of cash crops and food crops the means to
respond to price increase incentives. IDA is also playing a catalytic role
in helping mobilize external financial assistance for Togo's development in
the context of both traditional project lending and non-project lending.
The Government plans to hold a Donors' Round Table from June 26 to 28, 1985
under the joint sponsorship of the UNDP and the World Bank in order to
mobillize further assistance for Togo.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN TOGO
12.       Bank Group lending in Togo totals 23 credits, including eight
fully disbursed, amounting to US$239.74 million of which US$95.13 million
is undisbursed, and two fully disbursed loans totalling $53.0 million. IDA
lending has financed roads; agriculture (cocoa, coffee, cotton and food
crops); education; technical assistance to the Ministries of Planning,
Rural Development and State Enterprises; a regional DFC operation; and
credits for the feasibility studies for a phosphate fertilizer project and
for the Nangbeto regional hydroelectric power project and a further credit
for the development of the Nangbeto hydroelectric project. The two Bank
loans (US$3.5 million to Togo and US$49.5 million to CIMO0 jointly and
severally guaranteed by Ghana, Ivory Coast and Togo) have provided
fiuancing for the CIXAO regional clinker plant. Annex II contains a
summary statement of Bank Group operations as of March 31, 1985.
13.       In the past, project lending has dealt with development needs and
policy issues in specific sectors. However, following the deterioration of
the overall economic situation in the late 1970s, sector-specific actions
are not sufficient and therefore emphasis in our lending to Togo has
shifted. A more comprehensive approach supported by policy-based lending
such as that envisaged under the first and the second structural adjustment
programs is required. Moreover, in a smAll country like Togo. where it is
not possible to be involved in all sectors, structural adjustment lending
provides an opportunity to support development in a broad range of sectors.
In those sectors where the Asscciation is already involved, not only has
project lending been consistent with the goals of the structural adjustment



-6-
program, but in addition, components of new projects particularly in
agriculture and transport will be designed to prepare for and support the
adjustment measures.
14.       The first and second technical assistance projects have helped
the Government to formulate sound investment and macroeconomic policies.
Through these projects, the Association initiated a fruitful policy
dialogue which has been essential for the preparation of the first and
second structural adjustment programs. Consultant studies of several
state-owned enterprises were financed in order to determine their potential
viability, and in the case of those which are, to identify measures
necessary to improve their performance. A capacity to conduct project
evaluations and to monitor the performance of ongoing development projects
has been established in the Planning Ministry.  A plsnning unit is
established in the Rural Development Ministry to analyze agricultural
project proposals. Under its auspices, a review of all rural development
projects was conducted last year in order to provide the basis for the
formulation of a long-term rural development strategy. In addition, a
price analysis and monitoring unit located in the agricultural marketing
board, OPAT, and a research group in the Ministry of Rural Development have
been created.
15.       IDA has supplied credits for agricultural projects designed to
stimulate food crop production and to increase farm incomes through the
development of major cash crops such as cocoa, coffee, and cotton. Under
the latest such credit for the Second Rural Development Project in cotton
areas, subsidies are being phased out and producer prices are being
adjusted annually.
16.       A water supply project approved in FY83 improved Lome's water
supply and contains provisions for future project preparation and other
studies. The water and severage agency (RMET), an economically viable
state enterprise, is being strengthened as a result of the project. The
four credits in the road sector supported efforts to build up an efficient
maintenance service, upgrade the country's main roads, and start
comprehensive transport planning and coordination. A separate project for
feeder road development provides for improvement works and rural
maintenance operations. The first education project finrnced the
construction of teacher training facilities and expansion of existing
facilities and fellowships. A second educational improvement project
(Credit No. 1568-TO) signed on April 29, 1985 seeks further improvements of
the education system througb teacher training, organizational and
management reforms.
17.       Togo's performance with respect to project implementation and
disbursement is generally satisfactory. The Government is now familiar
with IDA's procurement and disbursement procedures. Delays in disbursement
are frequent, however, because of the cumbersome administrative regulations
governing public contract award in Togo and recently established procedures
for withdrawal application processing. The Government has been made aware
of this problem and is working with the Bank to find appropriate means to



simplify the procedures. There have been a few cases of project delays
caused by shortages of counterpart funds.
PART III - PAST AND ONGOING TECMNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECTS
18.       In the past, technical assistance (TA) to Togo was usually
limited to technical ministries and public agencies, and to directly
operational positions in managerial and technical fields. Recently.
however, the Government has shown increasing interest in extending the use
of technical assistance to the provision of policy advice, mainly with
respect to economic planning. This change in attitude can be explained in
part by the economic and financial crisis, following the phosphate boom of
the mid-1970s, which suddenly presented Government policy makers with a
much more difficult task of managing the short and long-term effects of the
crisis. Since 1978, the shortcomings of Government in economic planning in
general and project preparation and analysis in particular, have become
apparent, not least to the Government itself. These circumstances made the
Government more favorably disposed to policy-oriented technical assistance
supplied by foreign advisers provided, however, that such assistance also
included substantial provision for training of local counterpart personnel
in order to ensure lasting effects in Togo, and to justify the high cost
involved.
19.       The difficulties encountered in implementing the first
comprehensive Development Plan (1976-80) pointed to the priority areas in
which a need for more systematic technical assistance had emerged: on the
macro level, investment planning and monitoring; and on the micro level,
project analysis and implementation. Deficiencies in these areas had
resulted in significant differences between the outcome of the 1976-80
Development Plan and original forecasts. Not only were the projects
selected different from those planned, but they were often chosen without
sufficient analysis of their economic and financial soundness. Cost
overruns and delays in execution were frequent. Partly as a consequence of
inadequate preparation, the state-owned industries created in the aftermath
of the phosphate boom of the mid-1970s were unable to generate sufficient
revenues to service their debt, and the Togolese Treasury as guarantor had
to assume the servicing of debt. The Ministry of Planning and Industry is
gradually beginning to influence investment de-isions and their
implementation. However, the Ministry is still not equipped to define and
implement policies appropriate to the present situation, and to devise a
selective and productive investment program to cover the next few years of
financial stringency.  It is particularly important that the Ministry of
PlAnning develop and sustain its capability to carry out these activities
effectively, and to play a critical role in the process of improving the
quality of the investment program.
20.       An improving dialogue with the Bank and the growing need for
technical assistance in the Ministry of Planning prompted the Government to
request technical assistance in late 1978. The two previous technical
assistance credits to Togo (Credit No. 930-TO of 1979 and Credit No.
1270-TO of 1982) had the following basic features: under Credit No. 930-TO



- 8 -
(a) an economic adviser for three years, whose main tasks were to assist in
investment programming and economic policy formulation, and to help bring
about improved coordination between the budgeting process and the plan;
(b) a project adviser for three years, whose main tasks were to assist in
project preparation and selection of new projects; (c) short-term
consultants for 130 manmonths to undertake project-related and more general
studies; (d) training of economists; and (e) support services. Credit
No. 1270-TO financed a public investment programmer, two planning experts
in rural development, two financial analysts and about 110 manmonths of
short-term consultancies and vehicles.
21.       Under the first technical assistance credit, the economic adviser
attached to the Ministry of Planning and Industry in 1979 facilitated the
deepening and broadening of the policy formulation of the Government.
Nevertheless, because of the shortage of skilled staff in the Ministry and
their general unfamiliarity with macroeconomic concepts, the adviser became
primarily a project adviser, especially in view of the delays experienced
in recruiting the project adviser. The position of project adviser
remained vacant for a long time, owing to the difficulties of finding a
person with the requisite broad range of skills who was willing to assume a
three-year assignment in Loms. A good candidate became available only in
September 1982. The economic adviser subsequently devoted most of his time
to economic work, until his replacement by an IDA-seconded adviser in
.%ugust 1983. These delays are in part responsible for the slow
disbursement profiles of the Togo technical assistance projects compared
with the Regions's average. The second technical assistance program placed
more emphasis on the accomplishment of specific tasks by expatriate experts
('firefighting") working with one or two local counterpart staff rather
than training of all local staff involved in the respective units. In most
cases, technical assistants were assigned to the Ministers' inner cabinets
rather than to the technical departments. As a result, Ministers tended to
rely on expatriate advisers to the exclusion of local staff from the
process of problem-solving and decision-making. Performance under the
state enterprise component of the project was impeded because of an
institutional vacuum created by the abolition of the former Ministry of
Industry and State Enterprisesr and because the profiles of the two experts
originally retained under this component were not satisfactory.
22.       To sum up, we can conclude that the principal objective of the
TA I and II credits was to help Togo cope with the immediate effects of the
impending financial and economic crisis at that time. The projects enabled
the Government to meet the performance criteria for the IMF stand-by
programs and IDA first structural adjustment credit. The training
objective was implied, but the mechanisms for providing and monitoring
training were not clearly identified. It was assumed that the counterpart
system (technical assistance experts working with one or more designated
local staff) would ipso facto result in skills transfer.
23.       Notwithstanding the above difficulties, the past technical
assistance projects were a useful vehicle for providing a wide range of
consultants' services to meet specific needs promptly. Consultants were



- 9 -
financed to prepare the phosphate engineering and the Nangbeto
hydroelectric projects and the second rural development project.
Consultants also examined the prospects for selected state-owned
enterprises, and provided short-term policy assistance to the badly
understaffed Ministries of Plan and State Enterprises. Prospects for the
development of small scale private industry have been studied by
consultants. In addition, consultants assisted in making operational an
agricultural price analysis and monitoring unit for cash crops. The unit
now routinely prepares annual price recommendations for these crops.
Another important contribution of the technical assistance effort is the
ongoing computerization of Government financial operations.
24.       As a result of the increased needs of the Government and the
expanding use of consultants, especially in connection with the preparation
of the first and second structural adjustment programs, funds under the two
ongoing projects are expected to be fully committed by May 1985.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
25.       The proposed third technical assistance project was appraised in
November/December 1984 and February/March 1985 by IDA missions, following
initial project preparation in July/August 1984. A project and credit
summary is provided at the beginning of the report. Annex III contains
supplementary project data, and Annexes IV and V provide selected draft
terms of reference for the project long-term advisers and an implementation
schedule. Negotiations were held in Washington D.C. on April 29, 1985 with
a Government delegation led by H. E. Yaovi Adodo, Minister of Planning and
Industry.
Project Objectives and Description
26.       Background. The need continues for further technical assistance
in a variety of fields. Consultants and certain specialists are still
needed to help the Government cope with the present difficult financial and
economic situation. The Ministry of Planning and Industry will continue to
need some form of economic advisory assistance after the departure of the
present IDA-seconded economic adviser in August 1986. Specialized
consultants and an investment programmer and a project analyst are needed
for the elaboration of an effective investment plan. The Ministry of State
Enterprises, which is seriously underataffed, cannot devise and implement a
recovery program for the state enterprises without technical assistance.
The Ministry of Rural Development needs assistance in planning, project
preparation and monitoring, data collection and coordination of applied
research to rekindle growth in agriculture and to tap the unused potential
of the sector. The newly created High Commission for Touri3m, responsible
for improving the performance of government hotels requires assistance in
hotel management contract negotiations, in devising and implementing a
sector promotion policy and in monitoring the operations of the
rehabilitated hotels. Other important factors to consider are needs to



- 10 -
prepare future structural adjustment programs, and to address the technical
and managerial difficulties encountered by the Government in implementing
the IMF-supported financial stabilization programs.
27.       Bank-financed technical assistance would concentrate on areas in
which little or no other foreign expertise is made available or sought.
Close cooperation would be maintained with other bilateral and multilateral
sources of technical assistance, which is provided mainly through advisory
positions in the Government ministries and agencies, in order to avoid
duplication.
28.       The primary goal of the third technical assistance project is to
foster institution-building and not merely to provide short-term remedies,
hence the emphasis on training of Togolese and institutional reforms of the
key Government functions (economic development planning, investment
programming, strengthening of extension services, agricultural research
coordination, etc.). The other objectives of the proposed project are to
assist the Government in preparing and executing the reform measures under
the second phase of its structural adjustment (see President's Report No.
P-4064-TO dated May 1, 1985) and financial stabilization programs through
the provision of short- and long-term technical assistance services and
related logistical support; and to improve the institutional arrangements
for planning and policy formulation; and strengthen the skilns of local
staff so as to promote more effective macroeconomic planning, and improved
management of key sectors in the medium- and long-term. To this end, the
project targets four areas for intensive assistance as follows:
(i) macroeconomic and financial management;
(ii) agricultural sector planning and policy formulation;
(iii) state enterprise restructuring and management; and
(iv) tourism promotion policy and reorganization of the High
Commission for Tourism.
29.       Technical assistance would be provided to the key ministries
involved in structural adjustment for periods ranging from a few weeks to
up to two years. To ensure that the work of the expatriate advisers has a
lasting and tangible impact, and in view of the importance attached to
training by the Togolese Government and the Association, the terms of
reference of consultants selected would contain explicit provisions for
training responsibilities. Systematic on-the-job training of counterpart
local staff would be a substantial component of the annual work programs of
the expatriate advisers, and their selection would be based both on their
expertise as advisers and on their suitability to perform such training.
vJithin three months of their arrival, the experts, to be deployed in the
line units, would submit to the project manager, training programs for the
local staff working in their respective units. Progress in training of
counterpart staff would be reviewed by the Association and the Government
during supervision missions. The overall goal of training would



- 11 -
be the gradual replacement of the foreign advisers by Togolese counterparts
by the end of the project (Section 3.03 of the Development Credit
Agreement).
Detailed Features
A.  A Macroeconomic and Financial Management
30.       Development Planning and Investment Programming:  The Ministry of
Planning and Industry (MPI) is responsible for overall development planning
and preparation of the public investment program. The Ministry of Planning
recently took steps to involve its three technical directorates and the
regional planning offices in the planning process. The Directorate of Plan
Coordination (DCP) is now responsible for overall coordination of the
planning process and for elaborating the macroeconomic projections. The
Directorate of Development Planning (DPD) is responsible for liaison with
the technical ministries in the elaboration of sector strategies and for
assuring that projects are adequately evaluated and documented, and are
consistent with the macro projections. The Directorate of Plan Financing
and Execution Control (DFCEP) is responsible for monitoring investment
disbursements and ex post evaluation of projects.
31.       MPI's role as an active central authority for coordinating
investments and administering external financing was recently reaffirmed.
In the past, technical ministries obtained and administered external
financing for projects with very little centralized control. Investment
programming was introduced in 1982 for the preparation of the 1983
investment program, and a three-year rolling Investment programming system
was inaugurated during the preparation of the 1984-86 investment program.
The division of responsibilities both within MPI and between MPI and the
technical ministries is still evolving, and communication channels still
need to be clarified and developed. For the last two years, the
establishment of the investment programming system was managed by an
expatriate hired for that purpose. Regional offices are to play a fairly
limited role, consisting of initiating project briefs for mini-projects and
monitoring the physical execution of projects.
32.       To assure the continuation of investment programming on a sound
basis, the proposed credit would finance the services of an investment
programmer in the Ministry of Planning and Industry for two years to advise
the Togolese technical staff of the above-mentioned directorates on ways of
improving the investment programming system and carrying out macroeconomic
projections. The programmer would report to and work closely with the
Togolese head of the Planning Coordination Directorate.
33.       The technical ministries are expected to participate in the
formulation of sector strategies and provide inputs for the investment
progranmmng process in the form of project briefs, evaluation and
monitoring data, but there is no uniform planning mechanism in these
technical ministr I ts, and the division of responsibilities between MPI and
the technical ministries is not clearly defined. Some improvements are now



- 12 -
being introduced in the rural development sector in the context of our
structural adjustment lending; in the transport sector in connection with
SAC II preparation and our project lending; in the energy sector as a
result of the Nangbeto hydroelectric project; and in the education sector,
through the first and second education projects. But planning in other
social sectors such as health, population and urbanism remains weak.
34.       To help improve project preparation capacity, the project would
provide financing for the services of a project adviser to be assigned in
the Ministry of Planning and Industry for two years to strengthen project
evaluation and monitoring. The project adviser would work closely with the
sector planning staffs in MPI and sector planning missions in the
identification and evaluation of projects for the investment program. The
adviser would also assist the Director of Development Planning to formulate
recommendations for the division of labor and establishment of clear
channels of communication between MPI and the technical ministries as
regards the investment programming and monitoring process. Finally, the
project adviser would identify the skills gaps of local staff responsible
for planning, monitoring and evaluation, and help develop appropriate
methodologies and training schemes in close consultation with the project
training officer to be appointed under the project.
35.       In additlon to the long-term advisory services, short-term
consultant missions would be organized under the project to work with staff
of sector divisions of MPI and with the technical ministries to formulate
or refine sector (and regional) investment strategies consistent with the
macroeconomic goals, and to identify and evaluate projects for the sector
investment programs.
36.       In the short-term, emphasis would be placed on enabling the
existing structures to function better, but eventually it may be necessary
to reorganize the Planning Ministry itself and the other key technical
ministries. There is also a need to improve the incentives and the morale
of the civil servants. To achieve these objectives. the Government has
decided to undertake a reform of the key economic ministries. This is
obviously a long and politically sensitive exercise which would require
careful preparation. The Government plans to start with an organizational
study in 1985 in order to prepare these reforms. As a first step in this
direction, the Bureau of Administrative Organization and Methods (BOM) in
the Planning Ministry would have to be strengthened so that it can carry
out the necessary background studies. Project funds would be used to
accomplish this initial task. The Association would be consulted on the
terms of reference of the preparatory studies and their progress, and would
be prepared to finance limited technical assistance services under the
proposed credit.
37.        National Accounts. A serious constraint to improvements in the
areas of macroeconomic analysis, overall development planning and the
formulation of sectoral strategies and policies is the lack of systematic
data collection and analysis. The Directorate of Statistics in MPI is



- 13 -
responsible for collecting and analyzing economic data and preparing the
national accounts. In the past, it has been unable to perform this
function properly, since its data collection channels were not well
developed and its technical expertise and access to methodologies were
inadequate. The Central Bank (BCEAO) collects data and prepares national
account projections for its own use, but these do not necessarily satisfy
the needs of the Government, nor are they always available to the
Government. It is intended to use the short-term consultant resources
under the project to improve the data base and its collection, and
preparation of national accounts for the purpose of overall development
planning.
B.   Agricultural Sector PlannE!g and Policy Formulation
38.       Rural Development Planning and Management.  Rural development in
Togo is characterized by a large number of discrete projects financed by a
multiplicity of foreign donors. Such diversity fosters creativity and
experimentation but since national and regional management is weak, little
has been done to reap the potential benefits of this diversity and to
extract its lessons. Responsibility for the sector is divided between two
ministries: the Ministry of Rural Development (MDR) and the Ministry of
Rural Works (MAR). As a result, the sector suffers from fragmentation and
a lack of coordination. National priorities have not been pursued in a
coherent fashion. Key national support services such as extension and
research lack the resources and expertise to become effective, a situation
that is perpetuated by the fact that the major projects have created their
own such services In an effort to ensure the achievement of individual
project goals.
39.       To deal with these problems, the Government has recently
established a planning unit within the Ministry of Rural Development (MDR),
has undertaken a review of the sector, and is beginning to formulate a
global sector strategy. A detailed rural development program designed to
implement the strategy is being prepared. To ensure the success of this
program, Government will have to assume increasing responsibility for
planning and coordinating rural sector activities. This will require
strengthening of the Government's administrative apparatus and a
broad-based improvement in the technical expertise of local staff at both
the central and regional levels. Such improvements can be brought about
only in the medium to long-term, and will probably require a reorganization
of the sector administration, particularly the regional rural development
offices (DRDRs). In the short-term, the planning unit of the Ministry of
Rural Development should continue to establish methods for strategy
formulation, investment programming and project evaluation.
40.       The proposed project provides for the services of a rural
development planning and coordination adviser for two years in the Ministry
of Rural Development. The expert would report to the Director General of
Rural Development and would assist the Togolese staff of the planning unit
to define sector strategy, master methodologies for project identification,
monitoring and evaluation, and strengthen communication links between the



- 14 -
regional DRDRs and the central directorates in Lomc, and between the three
Ministries of Rural Development, Rural Works, and Planning and Industry.
Since a large part of this work has already been initiated under the second
technical assistance project, the planning adviser would devote more time
to training of local staff in the future. The adviser would identify staff
and skill requirements of MDR and MAR for the planning process, assess
skill levels and recommend appropriate training programs (including
on-the-job training for the planning unit staff and the staff of the
technical directorates in MDR and MAR), and reorganization options aimed at
enabling the Government to manage effectively rural development and
coordinate external aid in pursuit of a coherent rural development
strategy.
41.       Agricultural Research.  Four ministries are currently involved in
research: MDR, MAR, the Ministry of Commerce and Transport (MTC), and the
Ministry of National Education and Scientific Research. Most major
projects have an applied research component and several international
organizations are sponsoring research in Togo. As a result of lack of
coordination, the allocation of research funds is inefficient. Moreover,
research activities are not always linked to extension programs, and a few
important problems (e.g. forestry) are not being studied at all. To
resolve this problem, the Government created in 1983 an agricultural
applied research coordination unit attached to the Directorate General of
Rural Development (DGDR) and the Ministry created an agricultural research
committee responsible for defining the Governmentts research policy and
designing work programs. Despite some overlap in responsibilities between
these two bodies and confusion as to their respective roles, no serious
problems have arisen since the latter committee is large and unwieldy (with
nine working commissions), and lacks the material resources to function
effectively.  On thc other hand, the small two-person research coordination
unit has already made .ts mark. It has undertaken an inventory of ongoing
research activities in Togo, proposed a medium-term research strategy and
recommended institutional reforms necessary to improve planning and
coordination. It has also intensified contacts with external research
agencies, particularly at the regional level.
42.       Over the next two years this unit should concentrate on practical
improvements in the effectiveness of ongoing research activities by
advising the stations on research activities to be undertaken and on
dissemination of results in collaboration with the regional extensior.
services. It should continue to prepare and evaluate new research
projects, assist in identifying funding sources and study and recommend
ways of reorganizing and strengthening the agricultural research function
in the Ministry. Under the proposed project, the research coordination
unit would be merged with the planning unit of the Ministry of Rural
Development not later than October 1, 1985 (Section 3.07 (i) of the
Development Credit Agreement). The project would finance the services of a
research adviser for one year to assist the Government in defining an
agricultural research policy and the means of implementing it. In
addition, the adviser would help identify and prepare new research projects
and define future research programs.



- 15 -
43.       TOCOGRAIN. The Government's foodcrop marketing board, TOGOGRAIN,
which never controlled a significant portion of the foodcrop market In Togo
has over the last few years incurred large operating losses as a result of
poor management and storage losses. Under the first structural adjustment
program, the Government agreed to limit the role of TOGOGRAIN to :he
maintenance of a security stock which should not exceed 10,000 tons at any
given time, as part of the Government's stated policy of gradual
liberalization of food crop marketing and export. A complete elimination
of that agency poses sensitive political problems for the Government in a
region prone to droughts and periodic famine. To carry out its streamlined
role in an efficient manner, and to reduce its operating losses, TOGOGRAIN
would need technical assistance to improve its management and establish new
operating guidelines.  This assistance would be financed by the proposed
project through the services of a management adviser to TOGOGRAIN for two
years to help improve operational and financial management. The adviser's
work would be carried out in three phases (page 6 of Annex IV) and he/she
would play an important role in the proposed redefinition of TOGOGRAIN's
operating guidelines.
44.       In connection with its decision to limit the role of TOGOGRAIN,
the Government agreed to engage in other activities that promote food
security, including crop forecasting and the collection and dissemination
of market information. The Directorate of Agricultural Statistics (DESA)
in the Ministry of Rural Development has a network of data collection
agents and collects market information regularly. An agricultural survey
was completed in 1982/83. The Directorate needs to establish a data bank
and improve the ability of its staff to analyze and interpret the data for
its use. Assistance is also needed in the area of crop forecasting. The
project would finance the cost of one four-wheel drive vehicle for DESA's
data gathering work and provide short-term consultancies for studies in
these areas.
C.  State Enterprises Management
45.       Many of the seventy-three Togolese state-owned enterprises are
poorly managed, and their accounting and auditing are inadequate. The
number of employees is often excessive. Operating losses are common.
During the last two years, the Government addressed these problems on a
case-by-case basis. Several entities have been closed, a few others
studied in detail, and restructuring plans are being designed. The steel
mill and the oil refinery storage tanks have been leased to private
operators and negotiations for the privatization or leasing of two or three
others, including the textile units, are underway.  In carrying out these
exercises, the Government had to use the services of international experts
and consultants.
46.       The administrative arrangements for dealing with state
enterprises underwent a series of changes in the last two years which
resulted in uncertainty and lack of a coherent strategy for the sector.
The Government has now clarified the situation by reconstituting the
Ministry of State Enterprises as of September 1984, giving it a mandate to



- 16 -
divest in all but a handful of strategically and socially important
entities. To this end, the emphasis on diagnostic studies and formulation
of restructuring plans would be continued, but with greater participation
by the local staff. In addition, the Government would need assistance in
identifying private partners and in negotiating participation agreements
with them. The third technical assistance credit would be used to finance
consulting and technical assistance services as follows:
(i)  a state enterprise restructuring adviser for two years to
assist the Minister's cabinet in the review of diagnostic
data and studies, monitoring of the restructuring program,
and to assist in identifying potential private partners and
in the negotiation of proposals for their participation;
(ii)  an economic and financial analyst in the technical
departments of the Ministry of State Enterprises (MSE) for
two years to assist and train staff in undertaking company
diagnostic studies, defining performance criteria and in
guiding analytical studies of enterprises not already
examined; and
(iii)  a financial management adviser for two years in the
technical departments of MSE to establish a management
information system and train staff in its operatiou and use.
47.       As regards those state enterprises which will be retained in the
Government's portfolio, after the restructuring process, three key
conditions must be met to establish the basis for long-term Improvements in
their management and control. First, their institutional and legal status
must be clarified so that an appropriate balance can be struck between the
autonomy needed for efficient operation on one hand, and the accountability
necessary to ensure adherence to national objectives on the other. Second,
tariff or price policies consistent with lorg-term cost recovery should be
adopted and rigorously applied.  Third, financial management should be
improved through carefully targeted training programs for the financial
staff of borh the Ministry as well as the state enterprises. If
large-scale investmerts are needed to carry out restructuring programs for
selected state enterprises, they could be financed under a separate
project, once basic improvements in financial management and the policy
environment have been achieved.
48.       The Government Privatization Program.  While the search for
privatization partners continues for the state enterprises studied under
the second technical assistance credit (TTT, TOGOTEX, ITP, IOTO, SODETO,
SOTONA, TOGOROUTE, SOPROLAIT, etc.), the Government has identified a second
batch of twenty state-owned enterprises for which restructuration programs
need to be prepared. A medium-term framework has been agreed with the
Government to accelerate their privatization. Bearing in mind the
anticipated difficulties of finding suitable partners to take over the
assets in view of their structural weaknesses, and the need to reorganize
some of the companies in order to make them attractive to private



- 17 -
investors, the following work program and timetable have been adopted by
the Government: (i) completion of the ongoing general classification of
public enterprises by type of restructuring action required by December
1985 and start of the search for private investors for companies to be
privatized by March 1986; (ii) completion of restructuring plans before
privatization and closure of companies to be liquidated by March 1986;
(iii) start of the search for private investors for restructured companies
by September 1986; and (iv) completion of the restructuring/privatization/
liquidation exercise by December 1988.
49.        The proposed project would finance about 80 manmonths of
short-term consultancies to conduct company audits and management and
organizational reviews as necessary, and to perform specific tasks related
to the Government's efforts to privatize under the most favorable
conditions the large number of idle companies it owns. The short-term
consultancies would help carry out financial and management audits,
accounting and management information systems, as well as other
expenditures relating to privatization, liquidation proceedings and
closures. The explicit identification of this subcategory is to underline
the importance of this component in the overall public sector efficiency
goals of structural adjustment.
50.       The assistance proposed would also consist of the provision of
short- and long-term expert services to enable the Ministry to identify
privatization partners and negotiate deals, and, for the remaining
state-owned units, to prepare and implement an appropriate Government
policy with respect to the enterprises to be restructured, characterized by
clear objectives, priorities and performance criteria. Each long-term
adviser and the short-term consultants would work closely with a team of
local counterpar- staff drawn from the staff of the Ministry, and, where
relevant, from other ministries and key state enterprises. The state
enterprise restructuring adviser would report directly Lo the Minister of
State Enterprises, whereas the other two experts deployed in the
directorates would report to the heads of their respective line un-Lts.
D.   The Tourism Sector
51.       Although Togo's investment efforts in tourism have as yet only
shown modest results, the establishment of an extensive and high-class
hotel infrastructure has been a constant preoccupation since 1970. Since
tourism is the third largest export revenue earner (after phosphate mining
and agriculture), the objective is to enhance the hotels' earning potential
by improving the cuality of services and equipment available to tourists,
conference organizers and international meetings. The Togolese hotel
infrastructure includes two thousands rooms divided amongst forty or so
establishments, twenty of which are in Lome. There are a number of
high-class hotels: Hotel de la Paix, Hotel Sarakawa, Hotel du 2 Fevrier,
Hotel Tropicana ir. the capital, Hotel de la Kara, Hotel de Fazao, and other



- 18 -
hotels throughout the country. The state-owned hotels account for about 70
percent of the lodging capacity.
52.       Less conclusive, however, is the economic success of the sector,
which burdens the country's budget in two ways: (i) tae financial expenses
linked to the investments; and (ii) the recurrent deficits of the hotels
which are charged to the State. Between 1977 and 1982, the gross operating
loss of public hotels (excluding depreciation and reserves) accounted for
an annual deficit of close to US$1 million. This deficit comes from a few
luxury hotels which, with a low occupancy rate, are unable to balance their
operating accounts, even though depreciation of invested capital and debt
service are directly borne by the Treasury. Considering the impact that
these hotels will continue to have on the overall profitability of tourism,
the objective is to restructure the sector and to reform the financial
management of key hotels. Bookkeeping would be improved, and annual
financial audits initiated for each hotel.
53.       Under the second technical assistance project, a comprehensive
study of the sector was carried out which led to specific recommendations
for improving the performance of the Government hotels. As a result,
measures were taken to increase their efficiency and to avoid a price war,
and a new strategy for the hotel sector as a whole was developed. The
strategy aims to impiove the financial performance of the hotels by making
their accounting systems uniform, by establishing performance criteria and
by renegotiating management contracts for the large hotels. Privatization
of some of these hotels is a possibility in the long run, but under the
present conditions of very low occupancy rate, such an effort is unlikely
to bear fruit. Instead, the Government intends to concentrate on limiting
the hotel losses and to optimize the chances of their possible
privatization by taking measures to improve the business environment and
operational efficiency of the hotels.
54.       To achieve these objectives, the Government has adopted a program
of hotel contract negotiations to be implemented during the second
structural adjustment period as follows: a first negotiation has been
completed for the Hotel de la Paix in Lome. The agreed contract which wan
reviewed by the IDA appraisal mission, stipulates that the remuneration of
the managing company would be based on operating profits. This contract
would be used a model for future hotel contract negotiations according to
the following timetable: international bids for contracts would be
received and reviewed by the Government not later than December 31, 1985.
Negotiations of contracts for the Hotel du 2 Fevrier, Hotel Sarakava, and
Tropicana would be concluded by June 30, 1986.
55.       Under the third technical assistance project, the Government
would take three kinds of policy measures to support the above-mentioned
hotel sector reforms:
(i) An institutional reform which would strengthen the technical
and human resources of the High Commission for Tourism to



- 19 -
exercise its promotional role an& sectoral control functions
more effectively. New administrative measures governing the
tariffs in the hotels and the statutes and salaries of
personnel in the tourism sector have been adopted recently.
The proposed project would finance the services of a tourism
adviser to the High Commissioner for Tourism for two years
to assist in the internal reorganization of the Commission,
formulation and implementation of a sector promotion policy,
and monitoring of the operations of the hotels.
(ii)  A promotional plan to attract more tourists to Togo through
the opening of two new tourism offices abroad and the
creation of a travel agency with the participation of
private partners, and by negotiating charter flight
arrangements. A study of air access would be undertaken for
improving tourists' access to Togo. Local handicrafts
intended for tourists would be developed, especially by
strengthening the distribution centers for Togolese
handicraft items.
(iii)  Sector human resources development would be strengthened by
the accelerated training of five high-level Togolese in
hotel management, two high-level managers in marketing, and
three managers in general tourism administration. Project
funds would be used to reorganize and finance the promotion
of Togolese tourism in the major foreign markets, and to
provide expert services and chort-term consultancies for the
execution of these tasks.
E.   Supplementary Studies and Future Project Preparation
56.       In order to enable the Government to meet a wide variety of
technical assistance needs, some of which are not yet identified, the
proposed project provides for 30 manmouths of short-term consultancies.
The resources would be used for, inter alia, preparation and review of
future development projects, economic studies of private sector incentives
in industry and of domestic financing of the artisan and small scale
industry sector, aid coordination activities elaboration of a system of
monthly macroeconomic indicators, and various analyses related to the
implementation of the Government's program of economic and financial
reforms. The consultants would carry out only high-priority studies
defined by the Government agencies involved in the project, which would be
selected in accordance with criteria to be agreed upon between the
Government and the Association. These would include relevance to current-
and long-term economic issues, consistency with the policy reform demands
of the structural adjustment process, and absence of alternative sources of
funding on better-than-IDA terms. The studies would be determined by the
Government with the prior approval of the Association (Section 3.04 of the
Development Credit Agreement).



- 20 -
F.   Training Programs
57.       To achieve the training objectives, the Government would deploy
the technical assistance experts in the line units instead of the
Ministe,'s inner cabinets so as to impact on a larger pool of local
trainees.  The project would set up an instituti3nal mechanism for
administering this and future technical assistance projects (whether
IDA-financed or not) through the creation of a technical assistance project
management unit, comprising staff and procedures to plan, organize and
monitor all on-the-job training activities. As training would be a main
theme of the third technical assistance project, it was agreed that a
training officer responsible for planning, organizing and monitoring of all
training activities under the project take up his position within the
project management unit as a condition of credit effectiveness (Section
5.01(c) of the Development Credit Agreement). In addition, the Government
would provide for explicit training responsibilities in the contracts of
the TA experts (see Annex IV), including preparation of annual work
programs for training.
58.       The on-the-job training to be provided by the resident advisers
would be supplemented by more formal training programs which would be
designed for each of the Government agencies targeted by the project. The
programs would be designed and implemented with the assistance of
specialized training consultants under the supervision of the project
training officer. The resident advisers would collaborate in identifying
training needs and in providing on-the-job follow-up. To the extent that
they are available, World Bank training resources would be called upon to
assist in these efforts as part of project supervision. The project would
also provide for fellowships for short and long-term studies abroad in
agricultural sciences, economics, business management and hotel
administration. A total of ten fellowships would be financed for
specialized graduate degrees overseas.  In-country seminars in planning
techniques, particularly project evaluation, and state enterprise
management and accounting would be carried out under the project.    The
pedagogical thrust of the project would be achieved through a careful
selection of long-term advisers and the preparation within three months
after the advisers' arrival in Togo of annual training programs for the
Togolese staff (Section 3.02(b) of the Development Credit Agreement).
G.   Equipment, Office Machines and Supplies; Vehicles and Travel
59.       Computerization.  Micro-computers could be  effective too's for
data processing and upgrading statistical work for the purpose of
macroeconomic planning and management throughout the Government.  A few
micro-computers have recently been acquired and are proving useful for
limited and specialized tasks such as debt management, state enterprise
account recording, expenditure control, etc. Government financial
operations are now being computerized with technical assistance provided
under the IDA-financed second technical assistance project, complemented
with hardware provided by the French Government. Although additional



- 21 -
equipment should continue to be acquired, care should be taken to ensure
that hardware is suited to needs, duplication is avoided and that adequate
training in computer use is provided. The project therefore includes
provision for four micro-computers to be allocated at the rate of one each
to the Agricultural Marketing Board (OPAT), the High Commission for
Tourism, the Directorate of Statistics of MPI and the Ministry of State
Enterprises. The project would also finance, as necessary for the
successful implementation of the various components, photocopiers and
typewriters, office supplies and five cars to be allocated at the rate of
one each to the Ministry of Planning and Industry, the Ministry of State
Enterprises, the High Commission for Tourism and two vehicles to the
Ministry of Rural Development. Limited in-country and international travel
for the project consultants, training equipment and materials would also be
financed.
Project Cost and Financing
60.       The cost of the proposed third technical assistance project is
estimated at about US$6.8 million, including a foreign exchange component
of 67 percent. The proposed IDA contribution of SDR 6.3 million (US$6.2
million equivalent) would cover the foreign costs and about 73 percent of
the local costs. IDA financing of this proportion of local costs is
justified by the Government's current financial difficuilties. The
Government would contribute US$610,000 equivalent in the form of salaries
of counterpart staff and the project local staff, rental of office space
and costs of communications, representing 9 percent of total costs.
Coutingencies of about 10 percent have been applied to all project items
based on an expected average annual inflatton rate of 10 percent during the
project period.
Project Management Arrangements
61.       Overall responsibility for project execution would rest with the
Minister of Planning and Industry, as in the past. rhe first and second
projects were managed by the IDA-seconded economic adviser with the
assistance of a Togolese counterpart. This arrangement presented two
problems: discontent among the Togolese and the fact that project
management is time-consuming and detracts from the time the economic
adviser spends on macroeconomic policy analysis. The advantage of this
arrangement was that the economic adviser knew the Association procedures
and policy. Transferring responsibility to Togolese staff would
undoubtedly entail some loss of efficiency and may slow down project
implementation (e.g. the processing of contracts for short-term
consultancies) until the new project manager (para 62) becomes more
familiar vith project prncedures. Nevertheless a gradual transfer of
responsibility is necessary for the ultimate success of the project.



- 22 -
62.       As a special condition of effectiveness of the IDA credit, a
project management unit would be created in the cabinet of the Minister of
Planning and Industry to oversee the operations of the proposed project and
a Togolese project manager and a training officer would have taken up their
positions in MPI (Section 5.01 of the Development Credit Agreement). The
unit would also include an accountant, two secretaries and a messenger/
driver as full-time project local staff.
63.       In most cases, technical assistance experts would be assigned to
work with the Togolese technical directors who would organnize and direct
the work of the advisers and associated Togolese staff or working groups.
By September 1, 1985, the Government would establish a project monitoring
committee which would consist of the project manager and the participating
Togolese directors. The project monitoring committee would meet every two
months to evaluate the advancement of the project, including t-aining of
local staff (Section 3.02 (c) of the Development Credit Agreement).
64.       The possibility of retaining outside agencies, such as the U.N.
Department of Technical Cooperation, to assist in recruitment and
logistical support would be investigated, and the Government would be
encouraged to consider subcontracting some of the training programs abroad
to experienced bilateral agencies.
65.       Togolese counterparts, with qualifications acceptable to the
Association, would be associated with the work of the resident advisers in
the line units (Section 3.03 of the Development Credit Agreement).
Responsibility for the execution of each part of the project would rest
with the Ministry concerned. The project is expected to be completed by
December 31. 1989 and the credit closing date would be June 30, 1990
(Section 2.03 of the Development Credit Agreement).
Procurement and Disbursement
66.       The selection, qualifications, experience, terms and conditions
of employment for all resident advisers and consultants unde; the proposed
project would be according to Bank Group guidelines and subject to prior
approval by the Association (Section 2 of Schedule 3 of the Development
Credit Agreement). Separate accounts would be maintained by the Government
agencies concerned for all project activities and centralized at the
project management unit (PMU) by the project manager, and would be audited
each year by auditors acceptable to the Association. All disbursements
from the credit account would be fully documented except for small
expenditur2s not in excess of US$5,000 equivalent for gasoline, vehicle
maintenance, in-country travel which would be disbursed against certified
statements of expenditure. Copies of supporting documentation would be
held by the Borrower and made available for inspection by IDA supervision
missions and the project auditors. The statements of expenditure would be
audited by independent auditors. Equipment, vehicles and office supplies
(totalling US$210,000) would be procured according to local procedures
satisfactory to the Association.



- 23 -
67.       The proceeds of the IDA credit would be disbursed against
100 percent of the total cost of the resident advisers, short-term
consultants, and fellowships; and 100 percent of the total cost of training
equipment and materials, office equipment and supplies, vehicles and
travel. A special revolving account of up to US$100,000 would be
maintained by the project management unit to cover eligible project
expenditures. A CFAF account would be opened by the Government in a
commercial bank or at the Central Bank as a condition of IDA's initial
deposit in the special revolving account. The account would be replenished
by IDA on the basis of Government withdrawal requests aggregated into
applications of not less than US$20,000 equivalent for submission to IDA.
The special revolving account would be operated under terms and conditions
acceptable to IDA (Section 2.02(b) of the Development Credit Agreement).
The Government would be responsible for reimbursing the special revolving
account for any expenditures not acceptable to IDA.
Reporting and Auditing
68.       The project management unit would maintain separate accounts for
the IDA credit and for the Government's counterpart financing where
appropriate. During negotiations, the Government gave assurances that: (a)
the project special revolving account and statements of expenditure would
be audited annually by independent auditors acceptable to IDA; (b) the
Government would submit the accounts and auditors' reports to IDA within
six months of the end of the Government's fiscal year; and (c) the
auditors' reports would be of such scope and in such detail as IDA might
reasonably request (Section 4.01 of the Development Credit Agreement). The
PMU would in addition submit quarterly progress reports to IDA on project
implementation and expenditures, and a final report on the implementation
experience and project outcome within six months of the credit closing
date.
Benefits and Risks
69.       The benefits to Togo from the proposed project include an
increased capacity to prepare and implement sound macroeconomic policies
and to pursue adjustment policies in crucial areas such as rural
development, state enterprises reform and public investment programming.
The main risks of the project include the possible difficulties in finding
advisory personnel who are both suitably qualified and sufficiently
adaptable to gain and retain the confidence of the Government, and train
the local staff without which the effectiveness of the resident advisers
would be greatly reduced. The Government's awareness of the need for
improved technical assistance in support of its economic reform program is
reflected by the first and second technical assistance projects and by its
commitment to continue an improved and streamlined technical assistance
effort. To ensure the success of the training component, the project
provides for special arrangements to facilitate training of local staff.



- 24 -
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
70.      The draft Development Credit Agreement between the Republic of
Togo and the Association, and the Recommendation of the Committee provided
for in Article V, Section 1 (d) of the Articles of Agreement of the
Association, are being distributed separately to the Executive Directors.
71.      Features of the draft Development Credit Agreement of special
interest are listed in Section III of Annex III. A special condition of
effectiveness is the creation of a project management unit within MPI to
oversee the operations of the technical assistance project, including the
appointment of a project manager and a training officer to serve on the
unit.
72.       I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
73.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
credit.
A. W. Clausen
President
Attachments
Washington, D.C.
May 1, 1985



- 25-                                      ANNEX I
TABLE                                          (Page I of 5)
TOGO                     SOIAL INDlICATOS DATA Sti
TOGO                                 mEfhZNCa GhMPst (WEIGHTE  AVERAGE) I
NOST                     (nOST imcsw zsTITz) /b
9 CCENT        LW IlNCOltE AOICA         mDDLE To-a
l9e/A     197tDgb CSTIETCab        SOMt o  SAUNA         AFRcA s. or SANARA
mu      t  )Nom    -0                                                               -
TOTAL                                 36.8        56.8     56.8
AGRICULTUAL                           11.5       16.1      16.2
e   a  carni (CI)                        70.0      150.0    340.0                249.1                   1112.9
a111t ammrm mt ca
(KILOCRE OF OIL EQUIVALENT)           15.0       43.0    127.0                 62.8                    529.0
fmnATm  M  VirrL  STASTIsCS
POMUATO.NIUD-TEM CYnDUDs)           1506.0     2020.0   2754.0
URBAN POPULATION CZ 01 TOTAL)          9.8       13.1      21.2                19.2                     29.7
POPULATilON POJTIONS
POPUATION WN lEAR 2OO0 (HILL)                             6.9
STATIONAY POULATION (MILL)                               16.7
POPULATION  CHlENTlI                                      2.0
POPULATION 0t1lTY
PER SQ. 1M.                         26.5        35.6     46.9                32.5                      53.8
PER sq. 4. AGRI. LAND              131.2      125.5    164.0                119.2                    l11.5
POPULATION AGE STICTU0R (I)
0-14 ns                            44.0       45:3      46.5                45.6                      45.4
15-64 n3s                           53.4       52.0      50.6                51.5                     51.7
65 AMD AIOVC                         2.6        2.7       2.7                 2.9                       2.9
POULATION GROR  RATE (E)
TOTAL                                2.2        2.9       2.6                 2.8                       2.6
13A                                  5.2        3.9       6.6                 6.2                       5.2
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER TW1O5)          50.8        50.1     49.6                48.6                      47.0
CQuDE DALIa RATE (PMR TIOUS)          23.1        19.8     19.0                17.7                      15.2
GROSS RE"ODOCTION RATE                 3.3        3.3       3                   3.2                       3.2
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNA  (THOUS)              ..          ..
USERS (2 OF HIARRIED WOlN)
Fo A nTin
INDEX OF FOOD PROD. PER CAPITA
(1969-71-100)                         ".0        102.0     89.0                65.8                     91.6
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (2 OF KEQUIRENTS)          97.0       95.0      83.0                66.4                     98.2
PROTEINS (CANS PER DAT)             46.0       46.0      41.0                49.9                     56.7
O*F UNIC  ANMAL AN  PULSE         11.0        12.0     12.0 /c             18.3                      17.0
CHILD (AGES 1-A) DEATH RATE           55.0       38.0      25.0                23.8                     18.7
LIFE  EPCr. .iT SITH (YEARS)          41.0       41.5      47.3                48.4                     51.7
INANT HORT. SATE (PR THOUS1          20L.0      164.0    122.0                117.5                    102.7
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (ZPOP)
TOTAL                                 .         17.0     16.0 /d             21.8                      35.6
UiN                                   ..         ..      49.0 Id             61.5                     54.1
RURAL                                 ..        5.0      10.0 rd             14.2                     27.3'
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL
(: OF POPJIATION)
TOTAL                                 ..         1.0     15.0 Id             32.0
URW                                   ,,        4.0      36.0 7d             69.2
RURAL                                 ..        1.0      12.0 1W             24.8
POPULATION PER PHYSICLN            47060.0    28860.0  18100.0 /e           27477.8                  11948.3
POP. PER tRSIEN PERSON              5340.0 It  4310.0   1430.0 r             3396.2                   2248.9
POP. PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                              750.0       670.0 /z 750.0 i.           1089.0                    986.9
URBAN                              210.0 /f   160.0    250.0 ic             395.2                    368.7
RURAL                             1030.0 it  1500.0   1190.0 re            3094.0                    4012.1
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL OED             ..       24.3
AVERACE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                                 ..         5.8
URBAN                                       ..        ..
RURAL                                 *                    -'
AVERAE  NO. OF PERSONS/IROO
TOTAL                                                     ..                 ..
URBA                                   .         ..
RURAL                                 ..          ..
ACCESS TO ELECT. (E OF DWELLlNGS)
TOTAL                                 ..          ..
ULi                                   ..         ..        .                    ..
RURL                                  ..         ..        .                    ..
UnA .



- 26 -
ANNEX I
T A B L E  3A                                (Page  2  of  5)
TOGO                    - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEUT
TOCO                                   REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVERAGES) /a
HOST                      (HOST RECENT ESTIMATE) /b
RECENT          LOW INCOME AFRICA          MIlDDLE TICOME
19n1tb      1970Lk ESTIMATE/b        SOUTH OF SAHARA        AFRICA S. OF SAHARA
onUCATIOE
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:  TOTAL                       44.0        69.0     111.0                 69.2                       91.0
MALE                      63.0         95.0     135.0                 78.8                       90.5
FLmALE                    24.0         43.0      87.0                 57.6                       73.6
SECONDARY: TOTAL                       2.0         7.0      31.0                 13.1                       17.4
MALE                       *.0         11.0      46.0                 17.6                       23.7
FEMALE                      1.0         3.0      16.0                  8.3                       14.8
VOCATIONAL (X OF SECONDARY)             10.1         9.6        5.3                 7.2                        5.3
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PgRIARY                               60.0        58.0      52.0                 46.1                       38.6
SECONDARY                               ..        25.0      40.0 Ic              25.9                       24.3
ADULT LITERACY RATE (Z)                  9.7 If     15.9       18.0 lh             44.3                       35.6
COusIUIlPTl
PASSENGER CARStTHOUSAND POP              1.9 /1      3.6         .                  3.8                       20.7
RADIO RECEIVERS/THOUSAND POP             3.5        19.8     213.3                 41.9                      100.6
TV RECEIVERSITHOUSAND POP                 ..          ..        3.9                 2.0                       18.5
NEWSPAPER (-DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST-) CIRCULATION
PER TWUSAND POPULATION                 1.3         6.4       2.8 /l               5.4                       17.2
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTESDANCE/CAPITA          0.2 /I       *         1.0 Id              1.4                        0.3
LABR rRCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUS)              690.0       885.0    1101.0
FEMALE (PERCENT)                      39.2        41.3      41.3                 36.5                       33.8
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)                 80.0        73.0      67.0                 77.4                       57.1
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                     8.0        11.0      15.0                  9.8                       17.4
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                 65.8        43.8      40.0                 61.0                       36.3
MALE                                  56.8        52.3      48.9                 52.1                       47.6
FEMALE                                35.3        35.6      31.8                 30.2                       25.1
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                1.0         1.1        1.2                 1.2                        1.4
INCOIE D7STRIDUTON
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 52 OF HOUSEHOLDS                ..
HldEST 202 OF HOUSEHOLDS               ..
LOWEST 20: OF HOUSEHOLDS                ..
LOWEST 40t OF HOUSEHOLDS                ..
POVET  TRGT  couPS
ESTLATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                   ..          ..     243.0 /h             168.3                      525.3
RURAL                                   .           .       L. 18.0 lh           90.8                      249.0
.bLLMAMLU K=LIilvr ru,Ltlt  *l
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                                      121.0 lh             107.7                      477.4
RURAL                                                      121.0 Ih              65.0                      186.0
ESTIMATED POP. BELOW ABSOLLTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL CZ)
URBAN                                   .           ..      42.0 lb              34.7
Rt.RAL                                  ..          ..        ..         .        5.4
NOT AVAILABLE
W0. APPLICABLE
N O T E S
In   The group averages for each indicator are population-welghtee arithmetic means.  Coverage of countries among the
itdicators depends on availability of d .a acd ts not uniform.
/b  Unless othervise noted. -Data for 1960- refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; -Data for 1970  between 1969 and
1971; and data for "lost Recent Esttmate- between 1960 and 1982.
/c   1977; Id 1975; Ic 1979; If 1962; /j Government hospital establishments: /h 1978; 1 1964; /1 1957.
JUNE. 1984



- 27-                                                                        ANNEX I
Or SOCIAL tlQttit                                                                 (Page3  of  5)
Mc.l.o Mdt.ah Is. des. -*5  is.-. ee.1 se.ssna Ose.u.,p  edgs  tn et -J- slf.etcl   MI.S  nAtal..Is-ti   lei  etdse   ls--sc       set                          ct
ssbel  aSvylse   is,-  B1  ...sd. Rh1ts.ses eastv -mAst. saves. kveh Lists .511ORs             mal seer- i. chs- Setee  s- .5         .       sa- .nlseeel
ROMp   s dacs isv Ic   ldles   Ists she ecesres Aff AdasesvIe  ad.-se  c,dtssc1s-vs dessed  - MtOfctatLs                OR e  te .l -   Wess ceel   hes.
1      Miii  ala.,  elcta   mla gate.- ass tOWPIt. OeRss AROftest                    -.evt  esslltasme.             .OOIA                          Rw
OFi _a       d-. Mtatam temed               -       A  4.feat es5se -Im... PRIORI                                    -spl  she           au      P..eea1551
~~ s.e.c-as esthete  ss.fd Ieet .AtL  IW9O-dR teslels                                    vels4bdlltet             WIes     AspIR%. sn s.tehllstats pss-..ssl  sseild
IWO0. 5CM, sel ot Id as                                                                     be em bee  -  threlsmes. e!escl"Pml.Mae pndsldlu pslr.smpely tatedll.t
c-ts -  -   teI"eda. Cyt  s.lttL   tnS-,. 11 .0 eteb ad
.a______________    M-sS tMps.-. tsSeaSm    .1 eseaslc                                         _4AtIse   -RA-  -   Fessasil emeel" he A PIWsmsts  lb.e te e.dmelR
pw y -qw                              ..-Itelsee  ase   ses ad hsdn-. mamas         aetstA.-. ane. eladusr. et..i .hts* eliss Ims-pts..           ses Oea
ad geehesAl f    esmtpts  iesa.Ia  easIec-RAOA Pss sepis   IWO.                              1O.-Id. e ttetsed sARI 51 -dlaRiemts.
aI0. ad mIN, dOt.-inmtars1   71st1 seaM. .5assms    .   lshv
a  -                s  m          --   .  of8e  Iets  mInc, 1910. etdgetl
Rt.Psai   t.smcse-i yeLt        t. mcc mute. es AOtel pSP.IemL.e -L                      ."I                                                     "-csls  *      se   t  emi.ct  h   insqees
R"sntte.s.esh    se  -    istesensmv" aaadte,sl   ct.assts-  egs e--'-h  eSdd5
at seaslee   mete  meiso- ad  six tese                                               the ,W.1& hesseel  isv  e Asslm %.pdespasas.OO  OA  .I-dw
e.l.....sea Pel..                                                                              rc set rae W--s-          se...    ee  csg   lt
~~ ese ~~~C.adts  Rad thersselpa    beritly -sies LOWeete                                                      Allssseed e-seeaereersa
ness. Pss)satsmL. vPsue.tc  I -4 Fels  set t- ste. a1 s-ItesL                           ee-cseple  -pest..itm                   I.      . p
_eas.  The sese_ec  see Cc_mit nit ale  h.1.1she..11 ma-R                                .icsl   me    drsiecmmg   e.eei
prealegIP pes -Sa.- lat  taS1l1y meU 0.55 aes-da  a%   51- sh..en .1-A-..1114.                                                        A-
ssshsAdsteaL at    sstlit, a   i    9mtts  tRee.  las pc-esIsed  O pua.RMAIwR,e:ele
.ftIin,Ie ia    m es  meetah  st-ad  ee-scte  Feee- t -4                                                               re.ssl.st a             et
add eeel isSedat.        ae th e -0 .   ege et-t.n me.se-a.    ad si                        asraeahamse  edesesm   ee-mne ,e e-tes  1150 ras-
de-elhesI   u.m  etemmesess-pepeteelaIemet    aemissat  teinslee  se   peil  en hems.I  -  ehee  she stsre  ssl   et
teem  el in  c-jetedshecseesett  ase..  epeFOaR  meth-yas6aeea, ectal-  tet."   eu    d                              ea. - Ceepas  a ehee;P e-e-    s
Rem,  dsh  st  F1dcds5  tsaisst mcvplase  sLc-a.                                           --nmsesesieea  less iee ree_   10es-sed rseas  eisc,                 a
Peemmset Wse  - Ia the tc-dsRT ts, gc9etam- suseeR. t         -                          -Lt"s ssts   eas-e-. .etmise. W -   ~lte  tsttsIsm meR.s  inie
s.es  h  te I o"a ue.teesesee-las   emlt ha Mee ac.teed; thesplte1 -ait,  f15 st     15 seen  Iiae   .ssas sscae
me sssts, the -st rsessistttpe ROM bee nAme  semr.  Tr.                              gase1s is  asad.
s.s.LeRt es11Amu    peLAmeIm- me the pesete   ms. th   5,    0ges                         e tas-eae.Eaeit,-si t ees                       e   l  55
aed = 4ets tees. E."l-msedles 5.55OR                                                                        tsascrL7  .ed strsds    I- se  tPesPR    essl   a
frtmi~1                                                                               psec  a    aseeulee.detdh  ashes  al meer   _at the
1-   j~-lm,t-d&--     ~do-,svrslse   pe -e.nhA-na  lag.hstssadc                            nee5pStie  aI-I..
ts ,t ls: legs1. 5ge. ad mess1 deO.                                                stm   esetert see staset   - l.t,c          Mlas la.Ms t. -s  ad e..atea
5e   .  e aaelesmtd     tssadaeee   s,eriatas  lde  seatst.  ac    setpeeass et  5   asAdIes
5.estttsseeee. tae icster     ti      eaa*at  as 5   e Wat-sal tArpCs.-ltles.P-dIA_                                                          --.
pOWtepsiste  las0. 1   re0.   1lPOOR  t..a. t02                                           edesca-.  tee  th AAd ses-ls  - m  51~                aSssler   s  aa
fescresGstl taee! tastess) - Ws -hee          - srangeehstaesee                              h        -cd At . saaa   .m,se   hn-Ss-le  sjeeee
Facttte  ts  11044  IS-s. aOd             5 10-5 .                                    R" t. ead=     -sesst s-1rm   adt- is sAll ate se               ta  C- redS.
frets alst sess ite shesece) - bese  Is  hleh J per usse  .1PA sR-al                         scls;dtes,vnsf5-a   e  h   e-Sitseess
Cr..  IIe.% sas  tee   hatd  - de-si lteebthe p.s  ha-sad sl etdae                         1   c-nnCa  tn at etlie)-I   eesc  e   se tt
eecI_-ids   ee; aeelvisatcse.ademeft   tl,                                                tireematass .9 dei t. 5estW a mssssee.epesss   t.lt-1 a c-4seds
taesaes-erttess-,q Ic-elltssad -F s-m              Le 51  -epis Ls he  dats -1 Am egr   a  meat.. i-s si    T. pam.
es,ia e- LMea, 1sesea s      -sm-s  -dnl, t- PSecmie aufg Assm                     Paim   datite
pau-  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~rsiseissa  alase                                        ssims Id.    I.eLes  seeteia e    sat
--t-~~~~~~~~~~~ss-iz Ws Clad1e ae
a.Rdd    . 4 eeesR m eeiCdsfIm. .c-tectLt             esled1s  et adeasases  ftsssret  -R,e enm  usss.sses.haga
heet aesssa   cetee  sudae-etncAhte.n-e.tC    edRn:ataePdae
de..!zs2seateaisreeR- sslsas a b-i -rstIastesa
an5r  e,itlee  c  se  adesItae  elees i s-sttit  tett  stpee.-e-                             e tse.sae d-elsssaem C..,elF-ePpe-F-atpsm-l
spse,  ades-Ls5cs    tasa   sseasta   sd   et.v.  etlsessstrse. -1 smt l.se _is.  fs a.e  tins trped tI
*.as7 ie  -ssd  s                            -1 asc-ss-,adtas AW mestets IWaO -             s   lovare.- en I spa  ea --se  eae-._       
eat  c-e  stiseg h  re tst  ssp-tmteiea.l   se  s lde-cm  re-sders est Atte.ci   sts -s adr  -asI   ad -assm
tsmtmeatteta. tellsmg  e-1aeesL-O  srtsi    teds~-   c-ht.th I--                               5  eeemsIee   es   14
at lteess.atd lee1; 1461-1. Ills ted ass das.. 
c- ttle   al  c  tcemslats se es  -Ps.m  t,set s  se ~es                      i.iiiiei.es  ec    tsc  a r.hadtsds- s.aca  e  iteF 
am  aps, i eesitsda.   ltesl,c   a .          teta-s.t a aI, R e.  he-t              s-s-.rtie   l pset  eees-l esa.s'  ere  b'  tssa
seeenm.Vt em  trt.  emaltadtret PA   teisOtsO,hseaeme
it'sWA :esel..Fi OaRc  51 spas sid he ctms.i st-c..  These-F.
ead-A-d, are        RA tea `tate  si ?I9         1 ese   itrIpsee  a-d RI ssas          Thf1sessdeeea    -r  prse-L.s.ess  acest. eed
.F amal sessei a      acse, see she  -es.  sessee he FaMe the                           ":h-eIdheasreeditsst..lesa
fte.vias  suet same      petes  me eras -e d4-  le1st-6. 1911 5   lil                     ast9tssmi  edecee  disc sins.  sett esf-laIeemecsL5u.
dadte.                                                                                    etea
F,s AR a.y.e.d--  Fs clPAce          96).mecs   y  dec-s  ies eAt. de-mrass           e-e  Aelste  sese  I-t   Ream  Ic-  Lshmt R          esa.  flrd t   tit
m.l  s.msraste   cee      rns                   sa  es  qmaesss                                sssE   user... si unlealns-ss    -   e                        ae.t
,O-  A1 t     r. Ita     tin  tin.;. 11, lets adIMPa de...
tenet. ae ate fets- 6.-spa  .  ee-ta..)1 - tetlahsa    te 
sstststmt ams s-h a  thm  rs  preate4 t-.sel.te.  -pts.   d                                                                               j-e sc-a
satej.ala)eepuseseesat shl s.-se1tia eaatec-.  Ito
aere  a.e A pehla.e 1     A.-al   r e-t-sde     ta-ete  en  an  tA- wesen
is    ad be  l  he   . .emn  a hefte  .tttht  -= I.em  se-     1 ehet
the dey ts  ORIALsMe  the  tay,asses
R.ec  tt  - Rsrse   es.l (5,55  51eaai)    atah                 c  ee
-o Pest          , peseimt PPede ad-  c-U esead by sasem   tteel 
p"Astee   ci thL m SeApes.  eeat.s Ot .pse    e  n-a



- 28 -
ARME I
OPi 4 of 5)
ECONOMIC  INDICATORS
QKF8 NAMM(AL PFLEur IN 1984  ~ US$mkui            %      Anmim rate of gxcuh (Z, curreit prices)
197884
GM at   ket prices                 624.0         92.7           6.4
MP at udart prices                 673.0        100.0           7.6
Goss dcmesatc inestts              157.8         23.4         -7.4
Gmss dtic  vinw                     96.3         14.3         -2.9
nurmit accumt bale                 -32.9         -4.9
Eprts (G+NFS)                     236.2         35.1           7.6
Ipqorts (G+NES)                    297.7         44.2           1.6
CUflr LABUO FU AN RM)  UTV   IN 1984
Vabl  added       Labor fore       Vahue adde per mm:aw
US$ nivl cnn Z %  1b.SMS Z             15$  Z of ave=W
Agrictltuwe                                187.6     32.1    850       77..;    220.7     41.5
Industry, cnstzntimi & public works       126.1     21.6    31          2.8    4067.7    765.6
Gouernema                                  59.3      10.1     39        3.5    1520.5    286.2
Cenmrce and transport                      167.7     28.7     90        8.2    1863.3    350.7
Other services                             43.7      7.5      90        8.2     485.5     91.4
CDP at factor cost6                 584.4    100.0   1100       100.0     531.3    100.0
O    3V S F1NUM                             CFA biUlimi         Z of GDP
Mi9      1984     1979     1984
lRveaue                                    58.2     88.6      27.4     30.1
Taz receipts                              49.9     67.4     23.5     22.9
Other                                     8.3      21.2      3.9      7.2
Expenditures                               94.0    109.9     44.3      37.4
Current budxget                          46.5      76.5     21.9     26.0
Invsuiont hidget                         40.4     33.4      19.0     11.4
Other                                     7.1       -        3.3      -
SpecAl acc s                                -                 -
.A-- h-gt                                   -        -        -        -
Overall deficits                          -35.8   -21.3   -16.9    -7.2
mew itew
GEP current prices                       212.1    294.1      -        -
!flEX, CED1IT AND PRIaE              1977   1978   1979   1980   1981   1982   1983   1984
(BiMlhI CFAF outstmndiqg end period)
Mtney ald quasi nmey                  48.1   64.9   69.2   80.0  107.0  124.7  130.1  154.1
Bank credit to public in,ctor          1.8    6.2    6.6   11.9   20.7   20.3   22.3   22.8
Bank credit to privae sector          44.2   51.0   57.1   65.2   62.7   68.0   65.3   63.9
(    ie or index nuber)
Fbmey id quasi. mDey as Z of GDP      25.1   32.4   32.6   33.9   40.9   46.2   46.2   52.4
OWNur price index (1978 - 100) 11     99.6  100.0  107.5  120.8  145.7  160.7  176.3
An-jl pexrentage change in:
Cakuumr price Index                 22.4    0.4    7.5   12.4   20.6   10.3    9.7
Bank credit to public sector        50.0  244.4    6.4   80.3   73.9  -1.9   -1.5    2.2
Bank credit to private sector       37.3   15.4   12.0   14.2  -3.8    8.4   -4.0  -2.2
Not applicable
N.. li4nlabe
I/ Arnuml averase                                                           April 1985



- 29 -                                          A1E I
'lIME PA1YM=W   AID CAifT4L FMM                     (PNp 5 of 5)
BAIAME OF PAMENS                                1980      1981      1982      1983     1984
bEpoeO  (G + NFS)                               543.8    380.5    336.9    274.5    279.9
Imports (G + NIS)                              -692.8   -529.2   -452.2   -337.7   -321.1
Ebzore MM (defiit - -)                         -149.0   -148.7   -115.3    -63.2    -41.2
Irtsesrt paymot8 (nf                            -55.8    -49.3    -49.6    - 56.7    -148.5
oaxlmm' *dttwes                                   6.1      11.0      12.2      13.1      16.0
Other factor psymants (not)                      11.4      33.1       7.9    -13.4    -16.0
Nit trmnsfers                                    36.4      29.5      27.4      23.9     24.5
Balance on curznt acssmt                       -150.9   -124.4   -117.4    -96.3    -65.2
Direct foreign invmEstw                          14.2      18.4      12.2      13.1      9.2
Not 1UT borrxdbng                                36.4      43.8    -17.3      84.0      40.0
cogral pats                                      47.3      29.4      21.3     18.4      32.0
Otiur capital (seC)                              22.2      78.5      26.8     29.9      18.5
Otber Jurs n.e.i.                               44.0      43.4    110.1       34.2      3.5
Caim8 in reswvs (incresse - -)                  -13.2    -89.0    -35.6    -14.9    -38.0
Net reserves (end year) 1/                       82.8    160.1    171.6    189.2    214.9
HM0ANISE =GUS (avemre 199D-84 me=W
Uss mfIliai
Thospcte                                         99.0                46.2
co=a beas                                        29.7                13.9
Gbffee                                           16.4                 7.6
Ccttxxi                                          14.0                 6.5
A31 other couu itlr                              55.2                25.8
Total                                    214.3               100.0
EGMEAL DKr. Dedebr 31, 1984                 US$ UdllkIi
Ptblic debt (disbursed) icl. szmmarteed         732.3
NOb-91sonar  private debt                         -
T-lotal outatmonsEg and disburosed              732.3
DEBT SUVIME RATID ER 1984 2/                               EUIRUAl  PAME (CFA p r US$)
Peretxxbwg                year      Perliod amcMNe       Bad cf pesiad
Pdblic debt. incl. pYnted 3/    31.2                       1977          245.67              235.25
Stsr11mwanteed private debt   -       -                    1978          225.64              209.00
Total oe tm3ffmg and disbuwsed      31.2                   1979         212.72               201.00
1980         211.30               225.80
1981         271.73               287.40
1982         328.62               336.25
1983         381.07               417.38
NS04         437.00               479.60
IND/IDM LENDING, )6m Ih 31, 1985 (US$ udlliLm)                    IND 4/            IDA
Otestm2ftcg and disbursed                                        52.9              239.74
I di4^bn sd                                                         -               95.13
CttmiUng niclaxlfg uiburxwaed                                     52.9             239.74
I/ Net foDreig  assets of tbe Central Bao
2/ Debt service as peromt of X (G + NES)
3/ After debt r4diedulzg
4/ $53.0 of -Wb $3.5 udllinm  CO lm  to TqDp and $49.5 millm o     CtD W vidth the guaaite of Qim..
Ivry Coast and Togp



- 30 -
AK D:
(Pae 1 of 2)
SFT  OF BANK GRop aQERATI(  IN M0D
A. Statemat of I Credits (as of March 31, 1985)
US$ millin
AmoUmt aess canlt)
Credit ND.   Year   Borrower                                  Bak       MA, 11    Uodisb.rsed 1/
Eight cred.  and ce loaa fully didaused                         3.50    89.96          -
8'0-10      1978     Top      Feeer Roads                       -       5.80         0.73
930-1)      1979     Togp     Tecbaca AsaLtce                   -       2.20         0.17
945-TO      1979     TobO     Cocoa/C|ffee Develapez.nt II      -      14.00         8.59
1018-10      1979     Togo     First Edbratiam                   -      11.00         2.72
1139-TD      1981     Togp     Foarth Hi&u4vy 2/                 -      20.00         5.50
1169-T0      1981     Top,     Phospate bginesig                 -       5.70         3.11
1190-D0      1982     TORD     Power Bogine    and TA            -       1.98         0.24
1270-TD      1982     TOgp     Technical Adsrtstme II-                   3.50         1.23
1302-TO      1983     ToPO     Secoad Boral Dew. Cottxi Areas    -      23.50        16.34
1326-T-      1983     TOBD     Retstctrng Project CIWL)          -       5.70         5.05
1354-1TO     1983     Tb5     ICm; water supply                 -      12.00        10.59
1365-TO      1983     TO8D     First StructUral AajUstTent       -      20.00          -
3-T0         1983     Togp     First StrUCtUral Adjustmeat       -      20.00          -
1508--0      1984     Tolg     Naa&beo Eto rieCziC Project      -      15.00        13.98
1569-10 3/   1985     Tog,       duhcation l4zouvemet Project    -      12.40        12.40
T91NL                                    3.50   222.74        80.85
Of  dich bas beem paid                   1.05     0.44
Total nw' outstanding                    2.45   222.30
Aunt sold                                          -            -
Of uIdh has been repaid                    -       -
Total Wm held by Bank and ID             2.45   222.30
Total undisbursed                          -     80.85        80.85
11 Prior to ezdun   adnstuit.
Beglning with Cedit 1139-TD. credits bave beeen dmdnted in 9peca D2lg  igbhts. The dollar
amawts in these coluis rewesent the &oar eqiivalent at the tim of credit ngtiatios for the
M, asmzmts and the dollar equivalent as of March 31, 1985 for the undisbursed aummts.
3I bt yet effective.



- 31 -
ae 2 of 2)
B. S          of Bt Low Qiteed by Gums, oZa     y Coast aid ToA,
Lam or
Credit No.   Year   Borrower                                   Bait    ID        tlmtsbursul
1285-WAF     1976     CI;DO    Regon   L1                      49.5      -            -
RPpaid                                  12.72      -
Now ostsamflig                         36.78       _
C. Stataiit of Pegiu Bank Iouis and Credits to:
Bdsn, Nwina Faso, Ivory Coas,  Ngar. SOgML. TopM
Cladit ND.   Yewr   Bammae           P                         Bau      MA 1/   UdIiah3led 1/
969-AF      1980     BOAD     Project Pre;arati  Credit         -       3.0         1.93
1331-l       1983     BOWD     Regrmal Developent               -       14.0        12.36
TOM                                       -       17.0        14.28
Nw PtstadUS
I/ Prior to emdsoga aiIjusblent.



- 32 -
ANNEX III
TOGO
3T[IRD TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken to prepare the project:      6 months
(b)  Initial discussion with IDA:            July/August 1984
(c) Appraisal missions:                      November/December 1984
February/March 1985
Cd)  Negotiations:                           April 1985
(e)  Planned Date of Effectiveness:          September/October 1985
Sectlon II: Special IDA Implementation Action
Ca) IDA assistance in recruiting the resident advisers; and
(b)  IDA's close monitoring of the progress of project training activities.
Section III: Special Conditions
(a) The Government would place the resident advisers in line units with
appropriate numbers of qualified Togolese counterparts for on-the-job
training (para. 29);
(b) The Governmcet would set up a project management unit within its MPI
to oversee the operations of the proposed project (para. 62); and
(c) It would appoint a Togolese project manager to head the project
management unit, and a training officer to help organize and
administer all training activities proposed under the project (para.
62).



- 33 -
ANNEX IV
Page 1 of 12
INVESTMENT PROGRAMMER
(MINISTRY OF PLANNING AND INDUSTRY)
DRAFT TERMS OF REFERENCE
General Description
The investment programmer would assist the Ministry of Planning and
Industry in consolidating its current three-year rolling investment
programming system. The investment programmer would be assigned to the
Department of Plan Coordination (DCP) and would serve as adviser to the
Director, and assist in liaising with the Directorates of Development
Planning (DPD) and of Plan Financing and Execution Control (DFCEP) as
necessary. The programmer will be responsible in particular for providing
on-the-job training in the various aspects of programming and monitoring to
the staff of the Ministry so as to ensure that the system will operate on a
permanent basis after his/her departure. The programmer will prepare an
annual work program for review and approval by the Government, in
consultation with the Association, and will submit quarterly progress
reports to the Director of Plan Coordination.
Specific Activities
The investment progra-mer will focus on the following specific
tasks:
(a) annual preparation of macroeconomic projections and establishment
of the overall and sectoral budget allocations of the three-year investment
program;
(b) annual preparation, on the basis of the above-mentioned
projections of a three-year rolling investment program detailing the
proposed investments to be undertaken by the Government and the parapublic
sector; including their recurrent cost implications, impact on the balance
of payments, debt service and public finance;
(c) preparation of the annual investment budget showing the internal
and external sources of financing;
(d) strengthening of the monitoring of investment program
implementation;
(e) refinement of the division of labor -among the departments and
divisions of the Ministry and coordination of their contributions to the
investment planning process;
(f) formalization of the links between the Ministry of Planning and
Industry and the technical ministries; clarification of their respective
roles regarding the formulation of sector strateglies, identification,
preparation and evaluation of projects, preparation of project data sheets,



- 34 -
ANNEX IV
Page 2 of 12
ranking and selection of projects for the investment program, and
monitoring of project execution;
(g) participation in the medium-term economic scenario formulation in
liaison with the Directorate of Statistics, *the Ministry of Economy and
Finance, the Central Bank (BCEAO), the SNI, and the Office of the President
for the purpose of working out macroeconomic forecasts as a basis for (a) and
(b) above;
(h) formulation of recommendations to improve the functionning of the
investment planning and programming system;
(i) identification of the training needs of the staff of the Ministry
of Planning and Industry and of the technical ministries, and collaboration
w'Lh the training officer of proposed project in preparing training
programs.



- 35 -
ANNEX IV
Page 3 of 12
PROJECT ADVISER
(MINISTRY OF PLANNING AND INDUSTRY)
DRAFT TERMS OF REFERENCE
General Description
The project adviser will assist the Ministry of Planning and Industry
in the preparation, monitoring and evaluation of projects for the public
investment program. The project adviser will be assigned to the Department
of Development Planning (DPD), and serve as adviser to the Director, work
closely with the staff -md provide on-the-job training to them in project
evaluation. The project adviser will prepare an annual work program for
review and approval by the Government, in consultation with the
Association, and will submit quarterly progress reports to the Director of
Development Planning.
Specific Tasks
The project adviser will focus on the following specific tasks:
(a) definition of criteria foz the identification and selection of
projects in accord with the Government's overall and sectoral development
poliLies and strategies;
(b) establishment of project preparation and evaluation
methodologies, in particular for calculating economic rates of return or
cost/benefit ratios, and for assessing medium-term financial viability and
measuring the potential impact of projects on overall economic growth,
balance of payments, debt service and public finance;
(c) strengthening of commnication links with the technical
ministries so as to ensure the application of project selection criteria
and the collection of data necessary for project evaluation;
(d) collaboration with the Department of Plan Coordination (DCP) in
preparing the investment program and in estimating the macroeconomic and
financial impacts of the program;
(e) liaison with Government agencies, donor missions and consultants
involved in the preparation of projects;
(f) cooperation with the Directorate of Plan Financing and Execution
Control (DFCEP) as regards the monitoring and ex-post evaluation of
projects; and
(g) collaboration with the training officer of the third tecbnical
assistance project in identifying training needs and preparing training
programs for the staff responsible for project preparation and analysis.



- 36 -
ANNEX IV
Page 4 of 12
PLANNING AND COORDINATION ADVISER
(MINISTRY OF RURAL DEVELOPMENT)
DRAFT TERMS OF REFERENCE
The planning and coordination adviser will assist the Ministry of
Rural Development in the establishment of a plnning and coordination
system of all actions designed to promote rural development. The principal
tasks assigned to the adviser are:
(a) formulation of recommendations on rural development strategy and
the policies deriving therefrom;
(b) identification and preparation of rural development projects for
the investment program in accordance with the strategy adopted;
(c) monitoring of rural development projects in execution and
formulation of recommendations for improving their performance, if
necessary;
(d) ex-post evaluation of completed projects, and formulation of
recommendations for future action;
Ce) identification of training ueeds of local staff involved in the
rural development planning and programimng process.
(f) establishment of methodologies and criteria for the preparation
and monitoring of projects, attaching special importance to calculation of
rates of return and cost/benefit ratios.
(g) establishment of the necessary contacts with other services of
the Ministry of Rural Development, the Ministry of Rural Works and, in
general, with all agencies and services involved in rural development, for
the purpose of obtaining and sharing the data and information needed for
the performance of their respective functions.
The adviser will prepare an annual work program for review and
approval by the Government in consultation with the Association and will
report on his/her activities by means of quarterly reports addressed to the
Director General of Rural Development.



- 37 -
ANNEX IV
Page 5 of 12
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH ADVISER
(HINISTRY OF RURAL DEVELOPMENT)
DRAFT TERMS OF REFERENCE
Institutional Framework
The former Research Coordination Unit will be merged with the
Rural Development Planniug Unit.
The agricultural research adviser will serve as adviser to the
enlarged unit in the accomplishment of its research mission and provide
on-the-job training to the research staff.
Specific Tasks
The main tasks entrusted to the agricultural research adviser
are:
(a) completion of the inventory and evaluation of all agronomic
research activities currently underway or recently completed;
(b) identification and preparation of research programs and
dissemination of research results;
(c) preparation of a program for strengthening and restructuring the
agricultural research function in the Ministry of Rural Development with a
view to enabling it to play its role as the central agency responsible for
preparing, managing, executing or sub-contracting, monitoring and
evaluating agricultural research activities;
(d) formulation of recommendations for restructuring and/or
strengtheniny the other agencies responsible for managing and implementing
agricultural research, and for assuring coordination among all agencies
involved in such research;
(e) establishment and strengtbening of contacts and exchanges with
foreign agricultural research institutions, with emphasis on the
identification of possibilities for regional cooperation;
(f) technical support to the Government's agricultural research
committee;
(g) assistance to research agencies and projects to establish
planning, monitoring and evaluation methodologies and to identify the
training needs of staff;
The agricultural research adviser will prepare an annual work
progrmc fcir z-vwiew and approval by the Government in consultation with the
Association and -rill report on his/her activities by means of quarterly
reports addressed to the Director General of Rural Development.



- 38 -
ANNEX IV
Page 6 of 12
TOGOGRAIN MANAGEMENT ADVISER
(Ministry of Rural Development)
DRAFT TERMS OF REFERENCE
A management adviser will be made available to the Ministry of
Rural Development to assist the general manager of TOGOGRAIN for a period
of two years.
The tasks assigned to this adviser will be divided into three
phases:
1.        Completion of a diagnosis of TOGOGRAIN's present situation,
relying to the extent possible on previous studies, the most recent of
which was carried out by SOTED iD September 1984.
(a) at the technical level: evaluation of TOGOGRAIN's facilities and
equipment;
(b) at the accountirg and financial level: evaluation of TOGOGRAIN's
accounts, performance and its present financial position;
(c) at the management level: evaluation of operating methods and
procedures;
(d) at the personnel level: assessment of the suitability of the
personnel for the tasks assigned to them;
2.        On the basis of the conclusions reached in the diagnostic phase,
preparation of a restructuring plan for the enterprise, comprising:
(a) preparation of an investment program (storage units, equipment);
(b) formulation of operating guidelines governing the relations
between TOGOGRAIN and its correspondents in the field (sales and
purchasing);
(c) establishment of management and accounting systems for both
stocks and funds, including the drawing up of budget forecasts and the
establishment of a management information system for the permanent
monitoring of the enterprise's operations;
(d) determination of the training needs of each category of
TOGOGRAINs personnel and detailed design of appropriate training programs
(courses, seminars, refresher courses, on-the-job training) to satisfy
these needs.
3.        Contribution to the implementation of the proposed reforms by
assuming the role of adviser to the general manager of TOGOGRAIN. In this
capacity the management adviser will also assist the general manager to
establish channels of communication between his office and the various
departments of the enterprise. He will work in close collaboration with



- 39 -
ANNEX IV
Page 7 of 12
the department heads and will devote a considerable portion of his/her time
to the on-the-job training of personnel.
The time-table for the accomplishment of these tasks is as
follows:
Phase 1:   3 months
Phase 2:   3 months
Phase 3: 18 months
The management adviser will report each month to the general
manager of TOGOGRAIN on the progress of his work. At the end of Phases 1
and 2 he will submit an interim report to the general manager, and upon the
completion of his assignment he will produce a finsal report.



- 40 -
ANNEX IV
Page 8 of 12
STATE ENTERPRISE RESTRUCTURING ADVISER
(MINISTRY OF STATE ENTERPRISES)
DRAFT TERMS OF REFERENCE
The restructuring adviser will assist the Ministry of State
Enterprises in the execution of the restructuring/privatization/liquidation
program for the state-owned enterprises. The adviser will be assigned to
the Minister's cabinet and will report to the Minister. He will be
responsible for training cabinet personnel by working in close
collaboration with them on the following tasks:
(a) liaison v Lth the technical departments in regard to the gathering
and analysis of data, identificatilon of studies to be undertaken, and the
setting up of a financial mnangement information system - elements that
will serve as a basis for the work of the cabinet;
(b) analysis and summary of the state enterprise studies carried out
by the Ministry's technical departments or consultants, and formiulation of
recommendations on the steps to be taken to further the restructuring,
privatization or liquidation of state enterprises;
(c) assistance with the search for private partners, or buyers in the
case of liquidation? analysis of their proposals, and technical support in
subsequent negotiations;
'd) monitoring of the execution of the restructuring/privatization/
liquidation programs adopted;
(e) monitoring of the operations and performance of state enterprises
on the basis of the data provided by the Ministry's technical departmaets;
(f) preparation of regular reports on the entire range of measures
adopted by the Minist-y.



- 41 -
ANNEX IV
Page 9 of 12
FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT ADVISER
(MINIC-TRY OF STATE ENTERPRISES)
DRAFT TERMS OF REFERENCE
General Description
The financial management adviser will assist the Ministry of
State Enterprises in the implementation o, the restructuring program.  The
adviser will be assigned to a technical department of the Ministry and will
be responsible for training its personnel by acting as adviser to the
technical director and working in close collaboration with the staff in the
development, establishment and operation of a management information
system. This system will be designed to enable the Ministry to carry out
its restructuring program and manage the portfolio of state enterprises.
The adviser vill also be responsible for helping the enterprises to develop
the procedures, organization and accounting systems appropriate for the
establishment and operation of this system 'n their respective companies.
The adviser will work primarily with the staff of the Ministry and of the
enterprises and will be required to ensure the permanence of this
management information system.
Specific Activities
The precise tasks around which this assistance will be provided
are the following:
Systems Development
(a) definition of data inputs required and the formats thereof;
(b) definition of the accounting principles and policies to be
observed by the enterprises;
(b) definition of the nature and periodicity of the reports or charts
to be prepared by the enterprises or by the Ministry's directorates.
Systems Establishment
(a) completion of the diagnostic review of the accounting systems of
selected state enterprises;
(b) assistance to selected enterprises in setting up the
organization, internal procedures and accounting systems (general and cost
aceounting) necessary for meering the requirements of the management
information .'ystem that will be developed;
(c) development of the methods and procedures to be followed by the
Ministry staff in utilizing the outputs of the management information
system;



- 42 -
ANNEX IV
Page 10 of 12
(d) assistance to enterprises in setting up certain management
subsystems (stock management, liquidity position management, fixed assets
management, etc.).
Systems Operation
(a) analysis of financial statements, monitoring indicators, and
forecasts prepared by the enterprises;
(b) supervision of the operation of the system for the periodic
monitoring of the debts and claims of Togo's parapublic sector, analysis of
findings and preparation of reports to the Minister.
Staff Training
(a) on-the-job training in accounting, ftnancial analysis or other
fields connected with management control for the Ministry staff responsible
for management control and financial analysis;
(b) assistance to the Ministry in the preparation and implementation
of training programs in these fields for the local staff in close
consultation with the project training officer.



- 43 -
ANNEX IV
Page 11 of 12
ECONOMIC AND FINANCIAL ANALYST
(MINISTRY OF STATE ENTERPRISES)
DRAFT TERMS OF REFERENCE
General Description
The economic and financial analyst will assist the Ministry of
State Enterprises in the execution of the sector restructuring program.
The analyst will be assigned to a technical department of the Minittry and
will be responsible for training its personnel by acting as adviser to the
director and vorking in close collaboration vith the staff. The goal of
this assistance is to set up an organization capable of undertaking
evaluations and audits of enterprises.
Specific Activities
The main activities to be carried out will be:
At the Ministry level
(a) participation in the reorganization of the Ministry's services so
that they will be capable of effectively supervising the parapublic sector;
(b) assistance to the Ministry's services in the development and
application of methods that are suited to their functions;
(c) formulation of a work plan for carrying out the evaluations and
audits decided on by the Ministry;
(d) collaboration with the staff of the technical departments in
carrying out or coordinating studies arn audits, in such a way as to
provide on-the-job training.
At the Enterprise level
(a) associating the personnel of the enterprises in carrying out
basic evaluations. diagnostic studies and audits of the enterprise3;
(b)  coordination and monitoring of the application of recommendations
arising from evaluations and audits carried out in the enterprises;
(c) advising the Minister through the director on the organization
and functioning of the boards of directors of the enterprises.
Training Program
(a) assistance to the Ministry and the project training officer in
the preparation, plann-ing, coordination and evaluation of an overall
training plan for the entire parapublic sector, including the Ministry and
the enterprises.



- 44 -
ANNEX IV
Page 12 of 12
TOURISM PROMOTION ADVISER
(HIGH COMMISSION FOR TOURISM)
DRAFT TERMS OF REFERENCE
General Description
The tourism adviser will assist the High Commission for Tourism
(HCT) in the implementation of the restructuring program for the Government
hotels and the application of the new tourism policy, the details of which
will be determined by a series of prior studies. The adviser will act as
adviser to the High Commissioner and the technical directors of HCT and
will york in close collaboration with them and with the personnel of ECT
for a period of two years. The adviser's main tasks will be to assist in
the establishment of the institutional structures and methodologies
necessary for good management and effective control of the operations of
the state-owned hotels and to provide on-the-job training of the HCT
personnel.
Specific Activities
The precise tasks around which this assistance will be provided
are the following:
(a) computerization of hotel accounts;
(b) introduction of improved regulations for the sector;
(c) establishment and monitoring of the new management and control
system for the state hotels;
(d) assistance to the High Commission for Tourism in launching a
study of air access and the possibilities of charter flights leading to
possible negotiations on the opening of new lines;
(e) planning the developm3nt of new tourism sites, facilities,
services, etc.;
(f) execution and follow-up of the tourism promotion plans
recommended by previous studies.



4s-      -_
.s~~~~~~II
p4*
^~~~~~~~
91Si~~~    III I
.4C4  ..6e40~ ~



IBRD 13601RI
~~__^-_t   ~  _           BURKINA              I MAURITANIAt 
_ ;>AzA j * ~~~~- ~~ -/ ;' ~k                        hlALI NIE
__^--ft                 OD=-                               ,t(o5,     ,
iL       *  ~~~~S A V A N E s  *                              
z           j M~ANGOj-    -
-,c rx X ~~~KANTE, 
. ;)             Niomto oOr~ ' ;; !: .
ASi    ,.1.ASSA        \
{> '~~~~--? ~LamaKzr          {
)           \'~~ BAFILO 
-v                 t      //__-   5ss\~~~~~~~~~~~OKODF/ /T.Iornbo\
C   E  N   T \R ' A   L E j
TOGO      \5-SATiOUBOUA , 
_.   Sotoub.u  |         -_,
REGIONS AND    t.r 
CIRCONSCRIPTIONS  ,^                                  ij 
\       \   ~A zAKPAME|
P  L  A IT   E  A  U xi   co
r    AMrlL AVME  b-
Amomeo     Al         -  / le
-r 0                          NI-nlo@o  -                           I<L lSO   } os   J7
IS N----- C.-cospea              ;KLUT   I'dozz 'j NKoZ se       !j7
-R~own Boundaries     *         L.
RSzos              )   ~~~~~~~~/ MA R I T' IyTo Ea
TsewieA   1985Vga



