Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 22303-YU
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ONA
PROPOSED GRANT
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$6.0 MILLION EQUIVALENT
TO THE
FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF YUGOSLAVIA
FOR A
ELECTRIC POWER EMERGENCY RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT
June 25, 2001
Energy Sector Unit
South East Europe Country Unit
Europe and Central Asia Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective May 30, 2001)
Currency Unit - Yugoslav Dinar
1 Din.  US$0.0144
US$1 =69.6 Din.
FISCAL YEAR
January I - December 31
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
kV    = kilovolt (1,000 Volts)
kWh  = kilowatt hour
MWh  = Megawatt hour (= 1,000 kWh)
GWh  = Gigawatt hour (= 1,000,000 kWh)
TWh  = Terawatt hour (= 1,000,000,000 kWh)
MW    = Megawatt (1,000,000 watts)
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
EAR          -      European Agency for Reconstruction
EBRD         -      European Bank for Reconstruction and Development
EIRR         -      Economic Internal Rate of Return
EMP          -      Environmental Management Plan
EPS          -      Electric Power Company of Serbia
FMS                 Financial Management System
FRY                 Federal Republic of Yugoslavia
GOY          -      Government of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia
GOS          -      Government of Republic of Serbia
HV           -      High Voltage
IAS          -      International Accounting Standards
IBRD         -      Intemational Bank for Reconstruction and Development
ICB          -      Intemational Competitive Bidding
IS           -      International Shopping
LACI                Loan Administration Change Initiative
MTR          -      Mid-term Review
MV           -      Medium Voltage
N/A          -      Not applicable
NIS          -      Oil Industry of Serbia
PCB          -      Polychlorinated Biphenyl
PIU          -      Project Implementation Unit
PMR          -      Project Management Report
SA           -      Special Account
SIDA         -      Swedish International Development Agency
SOE          -      Statement of Expenditures
TFFRY        -      Trust Fund for FR Yugoslavia
TA           -      Technical Assistance
USAID        -      United States Agency for Intemational Development
VAT          -      Value Added Tax
Vice President:       Johannes Linn
Country Director:     Christiaan Poortman
Sector Manager:         Henk Busz
Team Leader:         Dejan Ostojic



FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF YUGOSLAVIA
ELECTRIC POWER EMERGENCY RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT
CONTENTS
A. Project Development Objectives ...............................................................                                           2
1. Project development objectives .............................................................7 2
2. Key performance indicators ...............................................................    2
B. Strategic Context ..............................................................                                                        2
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy goal supported by the project ............  2
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy ..............................................  3
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices ......................5
C. Project Description Summary ..............................................................                                              7
1. Project components ...............................................................                                       7
2. Project costs ..............................................................                                              7
3. Financing plan ..............................................................                                             7
4. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project ..........................  7
5. Benefits and target population ..............................................................  8
6. Institutional and implementation arrangements ........................................... 8
D. Project Rationale ..............................................................                                                        10
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection ................................  10
2. Lessons learned and reflected in the proposed project design ........................... 10
3. Indications of grantee commitment and ownership ....................................... 11
4. Value added of Bank support in this project ...............................................  11
E. Summary Project Analyses ..............................................................                                                 11
1. Economic ..............................................................                                                   11
2. Financial ...............................................................  12
3. Technical ..............................................................                                                  12
4. Institutional ..............................................................  13
5. Environmental assessment ...............................................................                                  14
6. Social ..............................................................                                                     15
7. Participatory approach ..............................................................                                     15
F. Sustainability and Risks ..............................................................                                                 15
1. Sustainability ......................................................                                                     15
2. Critical risks ......................................................                                                     16
G. Main Grant Conditions ..............................................................                                                    16
1. Effectiveness conditions ..............................................................                                   16
2. Agreements reached during negotiations ...................................................  17



H. Readiness for Implementation .........................                           17
I. Compliance with Bank Policies .........................                          17
Annexes
Annex 1   Project Design Summary .18
Annex 2    Detailed Project Description .19
Table A     Electricity Production in Serbia in 2000 .19
Table B     Operating Statistics of Thermal Power Unit Kostolac A2 .21
Annex 3   Estimated Project Costs .24
Annex 4   Procurement Arrangements .25
Table A       Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements .25
Table B       Consultant Selection Arrangements .27
Table C       Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review .27
Table D   Procurement Plan .28
Annex 5       Disbursement and Financial Management Arrangements .30
Table A    Allocation of Grant Proceeds .30
Table B       Estimated Disbursement Schedule .30
Annex 6       Project Processing Budget and Schedule .33
Annex 7       Boiler Damage in Thermal Power Plant Kostolac A .34
Annex 8   Documents in Project File .35
Annex 9    Statement of Loans and Credits .36
Annex 10  Country at a Glance .37
Map          IBRD 31501
4



FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF YUGOSLAVIA
Electric Power Emergency Reconstruction Project
Project Appraisal Document
Europe and Central Asia Region
ECC04 Country Unit
Date: June 25, 2001                                 Team Leader: Dejan Ostojic
Country Director: Christiaan Poortman               Sector Manager: Henk Busz
ProjectID: SF-P074136-LEN-BB                        Sector: Energy
Lending Instrument: WB Trust Fund
Poverty Targeted Intervention:    [ ] Yes  [x] No
Project Financing Data
[ ] Loan     [ ] Credit     [x] Grant      [] Guarantee      [] Other [Specify]
For Loans/Credits/Others:
Amount (US$m): US$6.0 million
Proposed terms:   [] To be defined       [] Multicurrency      [x] Single currency, US$
[] Standard Variable   [] Fixed             [  LIBOR-based
Grace period (years): N/A
Years to maturity: N/A
Commitment fee: N/A
Front-end fee on Bank loan:   N/A
-Z            _Sburce~~,<                                                               a
EPS                                                       1.2              1.0               2.2
IBRD                                                      4.1              1.9               6.0
SIDA                                                                       1.5               1.5
Russian Suppliers' credits                                                 8.7               8.7
Chinese Suppliers' credits                                                  1.6              1.6
Total:                                                    5.3             14.7              20.0
Grant recipient: Federal Republic of Yugoslavia
Guarantor: N/A
Responsible agency: EPS
Estimated disbursements (Bank FY/US$M):
200.
Annual        0.0         5.0          1.0          0.0         0.0          0.0
Cumulative       0.0          5.0          6.0          0.0         0.0          0.0
Project implementation period: June 2001 - December 2002
Expected effectiveness date: July 1, 2001           Expected closing date: June 30, 2003
Implementing agency: EPS
Contact person: Danica Vukovic, Assistant General Manager
Address: Balkanska 13, 11000 Beograd, Yugoslavia
Tel: (+381-11) 361-1304       Fax: (+381-11) 688-835        E-mail: dana.vukovic2t)eVs.co.yu



A: Project Development Objectives
1. Project development objectives
The proposed project is of an emergency nature and aims to help restore reliable electricity supply
in Serbia through urgent repairs of power facilities affected by lack of maintenance and damage
during the Kosovo conflict. Additional objectives are to improve the financial management system
of the Electric Power Company of Serbia (EPS) and to support the Serbian Ministry of Mining and
Energy in preparing an Energy Policy Statement and drafting a new Energy Law.
The project would provide support for increasing available generating capacity through repair of a
210 MW unit in thermal power plant Kostolac A (representing 60% of capacity currently out of
operation) and for improving reliability of the transmission network through reinforcement of the
transmission substation Sremska Mitrovica, which is key for the import of electricity and a reliable
operation of high voltage power grid. The 210-MW unit in Kostolac A has been out of operation
since March 2000 when its boiler's super-heater collapsed due to accumulated fatigue of the
supporting structure. The 300 MVA substation in Sremska Mitrovica became a bottleneck in the
transmission system after the break of the 400 kV tie line between Serbia and Croatia in 1991. The
load growth during the 1990s and the weakening of the transmission network due to damage
caused by the Kosovo conflict caused an overloading (up to 130%) of transmission lines connected
to Sremska Mitrovica substation.
2. Key performance indicators (the full set of performance and monitoring indicators is in
Annex 1):
Progress towards the development objectives would be monitored according to a set of indicators
developed during project preparation with the assistance of the Beneficiary. These include:
* Returning to operation unit A2 (210-MW) in thermal power plant Kostolac A;
* Reinforcement of the Sremska Mitrovica transmission substation and its connection to the
400 kV network;
- Introduction of a modem financial management system in EPS;
Issuance of an Energy Policy Statement by the Government of Serbia; and
* Preparation of a draft Energy Law.
B: Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project (see also
Annex 1):
The Bank's assistance program for FY02 is outlined in the Transitional Support Strategy (TSS) for
the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (FRY). The first phase of the program (pre-membership
assistance) is supported under a special Trust Fund for FRY (TFFRY) established by the Board of
Directors on March 13, 2001.
The proposed project supports the TSS goal of coordinating with other donors and raising urgently
needed funding that will complement a larger program to help restore electricity generation and
transmission capacity before the next winter. The project also supports the pre-membership
objective of laying the foundation for sectoral reforms, through the introduction of a sound
financial management system in EPS and the provision of technical assistance to the Serbian
Ministry of Mining and Energy for the development of a new Energy Policy Statement.
2



2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
(a) Strategic Setting
The electric power sector suffered considerable damage during the 1999 Kosovo conflict with its
generation stations, transmission lines and substations being specific targets of bombing. Since
that time, the stability of the power system has been maintained only by imposing rolling blackouts
in parts of the system and importing substantial quantities of electricity from neighboring countries
(a total of 3.5 TWh was imported in 2000). It is estimated that in 2001, even assuming a doubling
of electricity prices and a commensurate demand response, an additional 2.5 TWh of electricity
imports will be required to meet demand due to the need to take domestic generating units out of
operation for critical repairs. As a result, the priority needs for the near-term include continued
donor support for electricity imports, emergency repair of generation plants, and reinforcement of
key substations and transmission lines to ensure a stable supply of electricity and, in particular, of
imports.
(b) Power sector structure
The electric power industry of Serbia (excluding Kosovo) is the responsibiJity of EPS, a vertically
integrated, state-owned utility. EPS comprises three public enterprises for coal production, six for
power generation, one for power transmission and ten for power distribution. The power sector is
regulated by the Ministry of Mining and Energy of the Republic of Serbia and electricity tariffs are
approved by the Govemment of Serbia.
Coal production. The coal sector in Serbia proper comprises two large lignite mining operations
and eight small underground mines. The lignite produced in the Kolubara and Kostolac mines is of
about the same quality (7.5 GJ/ton) and practically their entire production is used for power
generation. The production of lignite decreased from 34.1 million tons per year in 1990 to 32
million tons per year in 2000. The underground mines produce brown coal (15 GJ/ton) which is
sold on the market for general purposes.
Generation. EPS has 18 generation plants with a total installed capacity of 7,580 MW. This
includes 4,290 MW at six thermal power plants, 2,770 MW at nine hydropower plants and 520
MW at three combined heat and power (CHP) plants which use oil and gas. The available capacity
of the thermal power plants is only about 76% of the installed capacity due to lack of maintenance,
design deficiencies, and war-related damages. Thermal power plants produced 19.1 TWh in 2000,
which accounted for 64.5% of total electricity production. The remaining production came frorn
hydropower plants (34.8%) and CHP plants (0.7%).
Transmission. The high voltage transmission system of Serbia has three voltage levels: 400 kV (9
substations and 1,559 km of transmission lines), 220 kV (18 substations and 2,187 km of
transmission lines) and 110 kV (57 substations and 6,445 km of transmission lines). The power
grid is interconnected with power systems in all neighboring countries providing for the exchange
and trade of electricity on a regional basis. The transmission system was heavily damaged during
the Kosovo conflict in 1999. Although power interconnections with neighboring countries have
been reestablished, the reliability of the power grid in Serbia is low and requires significaint
improvement in order to ensure a stable supply of imports, that will required to meet about 10% of
total electricity demand in Serbia in 2001.
Distribution. Distribution of electric energy is the responsibility of ten distribution companies
covering an area of 77,336 km2 (excluding Kosovo). The total number of customers in 1999 was
3



3,064,216 including 3,275 customers at voltage levels higher than 0.4 kV. The total installed
capacity in primary distribution substations (HV/MV) was 13,130 MVA and in secondary
distribution substations (MV/0.4 kV) was 13,420 MVA.
(c) Government and International Donor Response
The new Government of Serbia (GOS) was formed in December 2000 following dramatic political
changes in FRY in October 2000. In response to the energy crisis, which threatened to cause major
disruption in electricity and heating supply during the winter, the GOS urgently requested and
received support from the donor community. Initially, donor support focused on providing fuel and
electricity, amounting to about US$100 million, including ongoing programs. The EU allocated
US$53.2 million for imports of fuel and electricity. In addition, several bilateral donors are funding
various components in this program including fuel imports supported by Italy (US$19.5 million),
Norway (US$2.2 million), Canada (US$ 1.4 million) and Switzerland (US$1.2 million) and imports
of electricity funded by Germany (US$10.8 million) and USAID (US$10.0 million). As of
February 2001, commitments for support of fuel and electricity imports during 2001 amounted to
about US$35 million including imports of fuel to be funded by the EU (US$18.8 million) and
Switzerland (US$1 million) and imports of electricity to be funded by Greece (US$15 million).
Finally, an agreement was reached with Russia in December 2000 for the continued supply of
natural gas to Serbia despite a large debt to Gazprom (see Sector Issues) as long as new deliveries
are paid.
While the need for imports of electricity will remain an important area of donor support in 2001
and 2002, most donors have shifted the focus of their programs towards the supply of spare parts
and equipment needed for repair and maintenance of power facilities. Projects under
implementation for the supply of spare parts and equipment amount to about US$11.8 million,
including projects funded by the EU (US$4.2 million), Switzerland (US$2.8 million), Germany
(US$2.3 million), Sweden (US$1.9 million) and Austria (US$0.6 million). Based on their
expressions of interest, it is estimated that bilateral donors will contribute an additional US$45
million for spare parts, equipment and other activities in support of power sector reconstruction.
Projects which are currently under preparation amount to about US$21 million, including power
grid equipment to be funded by Canada (US$10 million), spare parts and energy efficiency pilot
projects (USAID - US$5 million), transmission equipment (Switzerland - US$3 million),
distribution equipment (Denmark - US$2.2 million) and power plant equipment (Czech Republic -
US$0.7 million).
A major investment program proposed by the EU for 2001 aims to stabilize power production,
improve reliability of supply and prevent further deterioration of the power system. Activities to be
supported under the program include repairs and overhaul of four generating units in thermal
power plants (US$28 million), repairs and/or replacement of essential equipment in open-pit coal
mines (US$15 million), reconstruction and rehabilitation of transmission substations and overhead
lines (US$20 million) and replacement of distribution substations and cable feeders (US$5
million). The program will also include technical assistance (US$2.7 million) to strengthen EPS'
capacity for implementation of large rehabilitation projects, introduction of higher electricity
tariffs, reduction of non-technical losses and transition of the utility into commercially viable and
market-oriented operation.
As of April 15, 2001, the Govemment of Serbia increased the price of electricity by 60% and
announced a further increase in June 2001 (40%) and a possible additional increase in October
2001 (46%). The price increase was combined with the establishment of new tariffs which
introduced a block tariff system and eliminated a daytime off-peak discount. The result was a sharp
4



reduction of peak load (about 100 MW in May 2001 compared to May 2000) and a flattening of the
load demand curve, which reduced generation reserve requirements. The total energy demand,
however, did not change significantly.
A critical risk for achieving the Government's and donors' objectives is the lack of financing for
equipment installation and other local costs due to the poor financial condition of EPS. The
proposed project will reduce this risk by providing financing for local costs and helping to
complete some of the most urgent repairs in the Fall of 2001 in order to avoid a repeat of the
electricity shortages and associated blackouts that occurred last winter.
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
Sector issues
The electric power system is now operating at the very edge of safety and with increasing outage
times of main equipment, which necessitates load shedding and rolling blackouts throughout the
country. The new Government has already undertaken a major effort with the help of donor
resources to prevent a widespread energy crisis, which would endanger basic electricity service
provided to industry and commerce, households, public transportation, schools and hospitals.
Nevertheless, the accumulated problems in the power sector will require time and very large
resources to resolve. The most important ingredient of a sustainable solution will be steady support
from the Government for the reforms in the sector needed to increase prices, commercialize the
power industry and gradually shift responsibilities for the social protection of the poor (currently
provided through the subsidized price of electricity) from power companies to the Government.
Strategic choices. The proposed emergency reconstruction project would help restore reliable
electricity supply in Serbia through rapid repair and reinforcement of power facilities at Kostolac A
and Sremska Mitrovica for which necessary equipment funded by other donors has already been
supplied. The urgent repairs funded under this project must be completed before the Winter of
2001/2002 to ensure a stable electricity supply and help to meet demand for heating. The project
will also provide technical assistance to EPS for the implementation of a financial management
system and to the Ministry of Mining and Energy in preparing an Energy Policy Statement and
drafting a new Energy Law on the basis of this policy.
The rationale for the project's geographic and technical focus is based on a strategic choice to
assist in repairing the largest thermal power unit currently out of operation (Kostolac A2) and
reinforcing the critical 300 MVA Sremska Mitrovica transmission substation, which is key for the
stable operation of power grid. This choice ensures that Bank funding will have the largest possible
impact both in the short term and the long term.
Energy Sector Policy. For both the electricity as well as the oil and gas sectors, FRY would be best
served by expeditious unbundling of the largest vertically integrated monopolies, EPS and NIS.
This should be undertaken in line with existing EU directives for the electricity and gas markets.
Such a sector restructuring would enhance financial transparency and competition in the sector by
allowing third party access to the natural monopoly components. In the short term, new energy
laws should be passed introducing a modern regulatory framework supporting the establishment of
an independent regulator(s). Governance should be improved by ensuring that members of Boards
of Directors are professionally qualified. Financial discipline and the reliability of financial
statements would be much enhanced by improving accounting systems and reintroducing annual
external audits by qualified auditors in accordance with IAS. In the long term, however, good
5



governance and financial transparency should come from privatization of a substantial part of these
sub-sectors. Preparation of a new Energy Policy Statement and a draft Energy Law will be
financed under the proposed project's technical assistance component in cooperation with SIDA.
Energy pricing. The energy sector is one of the largest sectors of the Yugoslav economy,
consisting of electric power, coal production, district heating, and oil and gas production and
imports. The sector plays an important role in the economy both directly and indirectly, accounting
for about 5% of GDP. Total energy consumption is about 10 million tons of oil equivalent, with
annual economic costs of about $1.4 billion for electricity, $400 million for petroleum products and
$400 million for gas. However, in Serbia proper the prices charged for electricity, district heat and
gas supply to households are well below the economic cost of supply, resulting in the accumulation
of a quasi-fiscal deficit of about $1.1 billion in 2000.
During the 1990s the sector was to a considerable extent decapitalized: energy prices plummeted
during the period of hyperinflation (1993-1994), rose sharply during 1995-1997, but were
thereafter not allowed to keep pace with inflation or international fuel prices. Although as recently
as 1997 the electricity price was still 3.7 US cents/kWh, by October 31, 2000 the price was merely
0.9 US cent/kWh, or about one fifth of the estimated economic cost of supply. Similarly, the
October 31, 2000 price for district heating in Belgrade for households, schools and hospitals (5.0
US cents/m2/month) was only one eighth of the economic cost-covering level.
The impact of this pricing policy on the energy sector was threefold. Firstly, as revenues decreased
energy sector enterprises invested less and eventually stopped investments altogether.
Maintenance was reduced to well below acceptable levels. During the Kosovo conflict NATO
targeted the energy sector, notably the refineries, generation plants, transmission lines and
substations. As a result there is now a large backlog of reconstruction, deferred investments and
maintenance that needs to be addressed as soon as possible. Whereas investments in an electric
power sector the size of Serbia's would normally be in the range of about $250 million per year, on
average only about $50 million per year was invested during 1990-2000, most of it during the first
half of the decade. Secondly, as energy prices of electricity and district heating dropped, excessive
energy use was implicitly encouraged, especially since indigenous coal could meet much of the
supply needs. In particular, consumers started to rely on electricity as a primary or supplemental
source of heating, so that household electricity demand increased by about 50% over the last
decade. At present almost 40% of electricity demand in the winter season is for heating. Thirdly,
the lack of adequate revenues for district heating and natural gas distribution companies made it
impossible for these companies to pay for their share of the FRY's gas imports, resulting in a debt
of $303 million owed to Russia's Gazprom. Gazprom, in turn, cut back on deliveries, leading to
worries in FRY about security of gas supplies. Such concerns would be unfounded if prices (and
collections) were at the appropriate levels, which would also decrease the pressure on the power
system to provide electricity for heating.
Because this is an emergency project there is no policy conditionality on electricity pricing
attached to this Grant. However, as a result of the dialogue between GoS and the Bank starting in
December 2000, GoS decided to implement major electricity tariff increases; developments in this
field will be monitored both during implementation of this project as well as under the Bank's
proposed adjustment lending to FRY.
6



C: Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 2 for detailed description):
The proposed project will comprise:
*  Repair of unit A2 (210 MW) in thermal power plant Kostolac A;
*  Reinforcemen, of transmission substation Sremska Mitrovica through its connection to the 400
kV network; and
* Technical assistance for (i) improvement of the financial management system of EPS; and (ii)
development of a new Energy Policy Statement and drafting of a new Energy Law for the
Serbian Ministry of Mining and Energy.
2. Project costs (see Annex 3 for detailed project costs):
World Bank
Cost                          Financing
Project Component                    Category    (US$M)    % of Total                 % of
(US$M)    Grant
A. Thermal power plant Kostolac A                 12.3        61.5        3.0         50.0
•  Boiler and turbine overhaul       Physical     7.8         39.0        0.45        7.5
.  Connection to District Heating                 1.9         9.5         0.25       4.2
•  Thermal insulation                             1.1         5.5         0.9         15.0
•  Unit control system                            0.5         2.5         0.5         8.3
.  Refurbishment of auxiliary systems             1.0         5.0         0.9         15.0
B. Substation Sremska Mitrovica                   5.2         26.0        2.0         33.3
a  Civil works                       Physical     0.9         4.5         0.85        14.2
*  400 kV Transformer bay                         3.7         18.5        0.7         11.6
*  400 kV Transmission connection                0.6          3.0         0.45        7.5
C. Institutional development                      2.5         12.5        1.0         16.7
.  Technical assistance              Services     2.0         10.0        1.0         16.7
.  Financial Management System       Physical     0.5         2.5         -           -
TOTAL PROJECT COST1'                              20.0        100.0        6.0        100.0
Note 1: Estimated costs include contingencies. The average physical contingency is 8% and the average
price contingency is 3%.
Note 2: Contracts financed by International Financial Institutions will be exempted from taxes and duties.
3. Financing plan:
The project's total financing requirements are estimated at US$20.0 million equivalent, including a
foreign exchange component of US$14.7 million. The proposed Bank grant of US$6.0 million
would finance 77.4% of the local cost component and 12.9% of the foreign cost component. EPS
would finance US$2.2 million equivalent, or 11% of the total financing required. A Russian
suppliers' credit for thermal power plant Kostolac A and a Chinese suppliers' credit for substation
Sremska Mitrovica are financing US$10.3 million equivalent, or 70.1% of the foreign cost
component. A grant from SIDA (US$1.5 million) for financial management system and associated
technical assistance would finance 10% of the foreign cost component.
4. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
* Preparation of an Energy Policy Statement;
* Drafting of an Energy Law;
* Improvement of the core policy-making capacities of the Ministry of Energy and Mining;
7



* Financial management strengthening of EPS; and
* Establishment of a commercial framework for the management and operation of EPS.
5. Benefits and target population:
* Improved reliability and quality of electricity supply with consequent reduction of
blackouts and brownouts and the associated costs to consumers;
* Reduced need for electricity imports;
* Savings in the operation and maintenance costs of power plants and transmission
substations;
* Improved health, safety and environmental conditions for the population by reducing
shortages of electricity supply; and
* Increased employment in the construction industry.
6. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
Implementation Period. July 1, 2001 - December 31, 2002.
Administrative Arrangements. During negotiations agreement was reached with the federal and
republican authorities that EPS will have overall responsibility for project implementation and will
assure that the project will be carried out in accordance with the Project Implementation Plan (PIP).
All specific investment activities identified during project preparation will be implemented by EPS
except a component of technical assistance to the Ministry of Energy and Mining of Serbia which
will be implemented by the Ministry. A detailed description of the implementation arrangements
for the project by components is provided in the PIP.
To ensure timely and efficient project implementation, a Project Implementation Unit (PIU) has
been established in EPS. The PIU will oversee the implementation of the project and will be
responsible for the technical and administrative functions under the project, including the
procurement of works, goods and services. EPS will maintain until project completion a PIU with
functions and responsibilities agreed with the Bank and ensure that at all times the PIU (i) is
headed by an experienced Project Manager; (ii) has adequate staff; and (iii) is assisted, as
necessary, by consultants with qualifications, experience, and terms of reference acceptable to the
Bank.
Procurement. The procurement of works, goods and services of the Bank-financed components
will be done in accordance with the Bank's procurement guidelines. The project components not
financed by the Bank would be procured in accordance with national regulations or the co-
financing institution's procurement regulations. The detailed procurement arrangements are in
Annex 4. A procurement plan describing the packages and the schedule for the main procurement
actions is in Table D of Annex 4. All other procurement information, including consultant
selection arrangements and thresholds for procurement methods and prior review is also in Annex
4.
Allocation of Funds. Details on the allocation of grant proceeds and the estimated disbursement
schedule are in Tables A and B of Annex 5. The proceeds of the grant would be disbursed during
FY02-03 on the following basis:
8



*  For the repair of thermal power plant Kostolac A, the reinforcement of transmission
substation Sremska Mitrovica and the improvement of FMS in EPS: 100% of the contract
amount for the works contracts and 100% of contracts for goods; and
*  For the technical assistance component: 97% of expenditures for consulting services
performed by firms (including auditing services) and 84% of expenditures for consulting
services performed by individuals.
The proposed project is an emergency operation and includes a provision for retroactivefinancing
of works to repair the boiler's super heater in thermal power plant Kostolac A, which are an
essential part of the project. The structure supporting the boiler's super heater collapsed due to
accumulated fatigue on March 2, 2000. In agreement with the Bank, EPS will be reimbursed up to
a limit of US$0.45 million (7.5 percent of the Grant amount) for the costs incurred for repairs in
Kostolac A after June 2000. Reimbursement will only be available after the project becomes
effective.
Customs Duties and Taxes. The World Bank funds cannot be used to finance local taxes (such as
custom duties, sales tax, income tax, etc.). During the negotiations, the FRY and Republic of Serbia
authorities indicated that they expected that shortly an amendment to the tax law will be adopted by
federal parliament which would exempt from the sales taxes works, goods and services if they are
funded by grant funds provided by international financial institutions.
Accounting, Financial Reporting and Audit Arrangements. An interim project-specific financial
management system has been established at EPS's PIU during project appraisal in May 2001. The
accounting system will be maintained in accordance with international standards, based on
principles of double-entry bookkeeping. The Bank has informed the PIU of Bank requirements on
maintaining accounts and records in accordance with International Accounting Standards (LAS).
This system is capable of providing accurate and timely information regarding project resources
and expenditures, including planning, accounting and financial reporting relating to the project.
Funding has been provided under the Grant to establish an FMS for EPS as a whole. Once this
system is established, the interim PIU system will be incorporated into the new EPS system.
Terms of Reference for this assignment will be developed by consultants to be funded under the
Grant. Training will be provided for the accountant and the procurement officer. Funding for these
training activities will be provided from the Grant. Operational procedures and guidelines for
project financial management will be documented in an Operational Manual, encompassing all
levels of project management and administration. A draft operational manual is being prepared by
the PIU.
The PIIJ will recruit independent auditors under terms of reference acceptable to the Bank. Audited
Project Financial Statements will be submitted to the Bank with the audit report six months after
end of each year audited. The cost of the audit will be financed through the Grant. Currently,
Deloitte and Touche audit the EPS accounts. At negotiations, it was agreed with EPS that the
auditor who audits EPS's accounts will be retained to audit the project accounts as well.
Project monitoring and Bank supervision. Project implementation will be monitored by EPS and
the Ministry of Mining and Energy of Republic of Serbia. During negotiations agreement was
reached that the following documents will be prepared by EPS to facilitate project monitoring:
* Quarterly Project Management Reports (PMRs), which should (i) set forth actual sources
and applications of funds for the project, both cumulatively and for the period covered by
the report, and projected sources and applications of funds for the project for the three-
month period following the period covered by the report, showing separately expenditures
9



financed out of the proceeds of the grant during the period covered by the report and
expenditures proposed to be financed out of the proceeds of the grant during the three-
month period following the period covered by the report; and (ii) contain an update of the
project cost and procurement plan indicating the progress in project implementation and
explaining variances between the actual and previously forecast implementation targets;
*  A Mid-Term Report prepared by EPS and furnished to the Bank by January 1, 2002, which
should integrate the results of the monitoring and evaluation activities on the progress
achieved in carrying out the project during the period preceding the date of report. The
report would also set out the measures recommended to ensure the efficient completion of
the project and the achievement of its objectives. Based on this report, a mid-term review
would be carried out with the Bank and the Ministry of Mining and Energy by March 1,
2002; and
*  Annual audit reports of EPS and project financial statements for 2001 and 2002, prepared
by independent auditors by June 30, 2002 and 2003, respectively.
The Bank's monitoring of the project will include regular supervision by the Bank's Task Team
which would review the project implementation and exchange views with EPS and the Government
officials.
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered:
The economic cost of electricity supply from the existing asset base is well below the cost of
electricity imports even when the costs of reconstruction and deferred maintenance are included.
Hence, rehabilitation is the least-cost solution. There is no technical alternative to the repair of
high voltage transmission facilities because further deterioration of the transmission network would
cut off consumers from any major source of electricity supply.
To process the project as a normal lending operation would take too long given current conditions.
The emergency nature of the energy crisis in Serbia dictates that funds be made available for urgent
repairs of basic power system infrastructure as soon as possible to improve living conditions and
mitigate the risk of major electricity shortages during the next winter.
2. Lessons learned and reflected in the proposed project design:
Based on the Bank's experience in post-conflict countries such as Bosnia, particular attention has
been paid to:
* Ensure simple and transparent project design;
* Adopt realistic implementation and disbursement schedules;
* Prepare a detailed procurement plan but use a relatively small number of packages; and
* Ensure full support of the Government.
Experience has also shown that, while quick response to a crisis is imperative, it is equally
important to identify underlying problems and determine how to resolve them in ways that result in
long-term sustainable solutions. Taking this into account, the project assists EPS in introducing a
sound financial management system. Additionally, the project helps to improve EPS procurement
and project implementation capacity by establishing a PIU with highly competent local staff.
Through its prior sector work and project preparation, the Bank has also been instrumental in
convincing GOS to increase the price of electricity.
10



3. Indications of grantee commitment and ownership:
The Govemment (GOY/GOS) requested the Bank to coordinate with donors and mobilize urgently
needed funding, and to provide early (pre-membership) financial assistance to prepare the ground
for a more ambitious economic recovery and reform program. Based on discussions with the
Government, the proposed project was included in the list of five high priority projects to be
funded under TFFRY. The Government commitment is underscored in particular by steps taken to
introduce a new tariff system, including an increase in electricity prices by 60% effective April 15,
2001. In addition, the Government has decided that another increase of electricity tariffs will take
place as of June 1, 2001 (40%) and may increase tariffs further in October 2001 (46%). If'
implemented, this should enable EPS to fully cover its operating costs by the end of 2001.
4. Value added of Bank support in this project:
Through the proposed emergency project, the Bank would provide urgently needed funding for the
installation of equipment financed from other sources (suppliers' credits) who are not financing
local cost of works needed for dismantling of damaged equipment and erection of newly suppliecd
components. Therefore, the Bank would mitigate a major risk that this equipment will not be
installed during Summer 2001. In the absence of Bank involvement there will be a repeat of the
electricity shortages and associated blackouts that occurred during the very mild Winter 2000/01,
or indeed an even worse situation if the temperatures during Winter 2001/02 are closer to the
Serbian winter average.
The Bank brings to the reconstruction process its unique experience in identifying, selecting and
implementing priority investments for reconstruction of basic energy and infrastructure facilities in
post-conflict countries. The Bank will also help to mobilize and target other donor resources for
emergency repair of power infrastructure and to coordinate donor activities in this sector.
E: Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessments and assumptions are in Annex 2)
1. Economic:
A simplified economic analysis has been undertaken as the proposed investments are of an
emergency nature projects, rather than new long-term investments. As an emergency project, the
benefits are unusually high, reflecting the considerable disequilibrium of the power sector.
Therefore a simplified analysis in which only part of the benefits are quantified is deemed to be
sufficient to demonstrate the robustness of the project.
The repairs to the Kostolac A2 unit would increase electricity supply by about 300 GWh per year.
This would enable EPS to decrease supply disruptions and reduce electricity imports. At a
minimum, the value of increased supply would be the equivalent of the price of imported
electricity. Decreasing electricity imports by 300 GWh per year would decrease EPS' costs by $10
million per year, resulting in a simple payback period of 14 months.
The reinforcement of the Sremska Mitrovica substation will reduce transmission losses by 29 GWAlh
per year, reduce outages due to transmission failure and increase the life of other assets by reducing
overloading of equipment. The benefits associated with avoiding transmission system collapse are
difficult to assess as its not predicable when such a collapse would happen without the proposed
investment. An estimate of the lower bound of the proposed component can be made by valuing
the benefits associated with decreased losses at import prices. This would result in annual savings
of $1 million to EPS, giving a lower limit on the EIRR of 18%.
11



2. Financial:
A financial analysis of the power sector was not feasible due to the lack of reliable financial data.
For example, as of the end of 2000 current assets were reported at DIN13.0 billion (US$196
million) and current liabilities at Din4.0 billion (US$61 million). In fact, however, current
liabilities are believed to be about Din57.0 billion (US$863 million), taking into account: (i)
current liabilities for which no invoice has yet been received (a common practice of suppliers
designed to avoid paying VAT well before payment is received); and (ii) the enormous portion of
overdue debt, not including penalties. Total long-term foreign debt outstanding, excluding penalties
but including interest, was US$846 million; all such debts were incurred prior to 1990.
The last financial audit of EPS in accordance with international accounting standards covered 1996
and 1997, after which EPS went into a steep financial decline. While in 1997 the electricity price
was still 3.7 US cents/kWh, by October 31, 2000 the price had dropped to 0.9 US cent/kWh, or
about one fifth of the estimated economic cost of supply. However, in April 2001, the new
Govemment of Serbia increased the price of electricity by 60% and announced a further 40%
increase for June 2001. It is possible that a third increase will take place in October 2001 (46%),
just before the Winter season starts. This should enable EPS to fully cover its operating costs by
the end of 2001. EPS' operating loss for 2000 is reported at DinlO.4 billion (US$155 million),
while the total net loss taking into account exchange rate losses and asset revaluation was Din39.0
billion (US$586 million). The Bank's proposed structural adjustment credits are likely to include
covenants on future electricity rate increases that would aim at EPS achieving full debt service
coverage by end 2002 and at self-financing part its own investments by the end of 2003.
Fiscal Impact. There would be no fiscal expenditures in association with the project. The fiscal
impact of the project is expected to be positive, since energy imports would be reduced and
operating revenues to EPS would increase due to increased generation. This would reduce the need
for possible Government subsidies to the electric power system and associated coal mines.
3. Technical:
The power systems in Serbia and Montenegro were developed as a part of the integrated power
grid of the former SFR Yugoslavia, which was a full member of the UCTE (formerly UCPTE), the
Westem European power system interconnection. The Serbian power industry exported about 20
percent of its production in 1990, which amounted to 35.8 TWh. Today, the power industry faces
the consequences of air strikes, lack of maintenance and lack of investments for more than a decade
which turned Serbia into a net importer of electricity. It is estimated that about 10 percent of total
demand in 2001 will need to be met by imports of electricity.
The power system is operating at the very edge of safety and with increasing outage times of main
equipment, which necessitates load shedding and rotating blackouts. The need for functioning
equipment to operate non-stop has prevented overhauls and regular maintenance. This causes
further deterioration of all performance indicators, including forced-outage rates in thermal power
plants which increased to 32 percent in 2000. The main power generation facilities are operating
without the necessary reserves, which increases the likelihood of major power system instabilities
and blackouts.
The condition of the high voltage transmission network sharply deteriorated as a result of damages
inflicted by the air strikes in 1999. About 100 km of transmission lines and 22 transformers with a
total installed capacity of 3,700 MVA were damaged or destroyed. Continuous emergency repairs
undertaken by EPS kept the system in operation by using all spare parts and materials available and
12



cannibalizing equipment. The situation became particularly difficult in the oldest parts of the 220
and 110 kV network due to overloading of transformers and transmission lines.
The project's technical design is focused on the most urgent repairs needed to return a 210 MW
unit in thermal power plant Kostolac A to operation. This unit was damaged after supporting
structure of its boiler's super heater collapsed in February 2000. All of the equipment needed for
the repair is provided under a Russian suppliers' credit and it is already delivered to the site.
However, EPS is not able to fund the dismantling of old equipment, installation of the new
equipment and some small civil works associated with the unit repair. The repair of Kostolac A
during the Summer/Fall of 2001 would significantly reduce the need for imports of electricity
during the next Winter and improve the reliability of supply in Serbia.
The need to import large amounts of electricity underscores the importance of a stable transmission
system. The transmission system in Northern Serbia (Vojvodina), however, is facing frequent
overloads caused by bottlenecks in the vicinity of growing load centers, reduced reliability of main
substation equipment damaged in air strikes, and disconnection of the 400 kV transmission line
between Serbia and Croatia after the destruction of the Emestinovo substation in Croatia in 1991.
The reinforcement of substation Sremska Mitrovica is critical for ensuring the stable supply of
electricity in this part of the country, the improvement of overall network reliability and the
reduction of transmission losses. The proposed project would provide for the installation of a
400/220 kV transformer in Sremska Mitrovica which is already delivered to Serbia and is financedi
under a Chinese suppliers' credit.
4. Institutional:
Background. Regulation of the power sector within the FRY is the responsibility of the
governments of the two constituent republics (Serbia and Montenegro). The new Government of
Serbia has expressed its intention to initiate a thorough reform of the energy sector, in terms both
of introducing new legislation to allow private participation and to delegate economic regulation
and energy efficiency policy to independent agencies, and of restructuring the energy market and
the state-owned energy sector enterprises (EPS and NIS). The human and financial resources at the
disposal of the Ministry of Energy and Mining currently fall far short of being adequate for this
major task, however. At present, the Ministry has only a minimal staff, and this situation is
unlikely to improve in the short term due to the new Government's pre-election commitment to
reduce the size of the Republican administration. As a result, the Ministry has proposed that it
contract local and international expertise in order to start preparing the Republic's energy sector
reform policy and related legislation. Part of the proposed grant will therefore be allocated to the
Ministry of Energy and Mining to finance technical assistance in these tasks.
Prior to establishment of EPS in 1991, the power industry in Serbia was organized in several
socially-owned generation, transmission and distribution companies, as well as coal mining
enterprises. Under the Serbian Electricity Act of December 1989, and the subsequent Electricity
Law of July 1991, all enterprises involved in the production, transmission and distribution of
electricity and production of coal were unified into a state-owned, vertically integrated power
utility (EPS). Presently, EPS comprises three companies for coal production, six companies for
power generation, one company for power transmission and ten distribution companies (excluding
Kosovo). In addition, EPS includes several enterprises for mine-related services and activities, such
as workshops, mining machinery manufacturing, and repair and civil construction.
Corporate Management. Under the 1991 Electricity Law, EPS is required to have a Management
13



Board and a Supervisory Board. The Management Board has eleven members (including four
employees of EPS) and the Supervisory Board has five members (including two employees of
EPS), all of them appointed by the GOS. The Management Board is inter alia responsible for
formulating corporate policies and plans, deciding about investments and financial matters and
proposing electricity tariffs to the GOS. The Supervisory Board reviews EPS's operation and audit
reports and approves the allocation of revenues proposed by the Management Board. The General
Manager of EPS is appointed by the Minister of Mining and Energy of Serbia. The General
Manager and directors of eight departments conduct the day-to-day operation of EPS. The eight
departments are: production and transmission of electricity; production of coal; power system
dispatch; power distribution; development and investments; electricity trade; economic and
financial; and the legal and personnel department.
Personnel Management. EPS employs about 60,000 people, out of which 26,000 are in two coal
mining companies (Kolubara and Kostolac) and 5,000 are in the underground mining company;
11,000 are in six power generation companies; 16,000 are in ten power distribution companies;
1,500 are in the transmission company; and 500 are at EPS headquarters. Compared to power
companies of similar structure and size in developed countries, EPS is overstaffed in all segments
of its operations, and especially so in the mining segment. The overstaffing in EPS is a major
social and economic problem caused by decades-old policies of former Governments to mitigate
social discontent through artificially inflated employment in large state-owned companies.
Financial Management. The financial management function in EPS is under the Director of the
Economic and Financial Department. EPS is required by law to maintain its accounting records
and draw up financial statements in accordance with current Serbian Accounting Standards, which
are in some areas materially different from Intemational Accounting Standards (IAS). Financial
statements prepared on the basis of lAS differ from the statutory financial statements in that they
contain certain adjustments, not recorded in the company's books, which are necessary to reflect
the true financial position and operational results. The principal adjustments relate to provisions
for bad debts, the valuation of assets, inventory and debt, the timing of expense recognition,
depreciation rates for fixed assets, and provisions for deferred tax. The last audit of EPS accounts
in accordance with LAS was performed by Deloitte and Touche for the years 1996 and 1997. An
audit of EPS for 2000 is expected to be done by Deloitte and Touche. The Grant will provide
funding to establish an integrated financial management system for EPS, which will be capable of
keeping accounts in line with local regulations and also in IAS format. This system will also be
able to provide PMRs as required by the Bank and will replace the interim system that has been
established.
5. Environmental assessment: Environmental Category   [IA   [x] B   [I C
In accordance with OP/BP/GP 4.01 (Environmental Assessment) the project has been rated
Environmental Category B. The reason for this rating is that the physical component of this project
is reconstruction and restoration, and there will be no construction of new facilities, except a short
connection (1.8 km) between substation Sremska Mitrovica and the existing 400 kV transmission
line which passes near the substation. These operations do not require environmental p.rmits or
clearances since they address power facilities already in place. The main environmental issues are:
disposal of used equipment and materials; noise (during construction) and public safety. These
issues will have to be addressed in both the design and operation phases of the project.
As required by the project's environmental rating, an Environmental Management Plan (EMP) was
received by the Bank on May 21, 2001. During negotiations, the EMP was reviewed and agreed
14



upon. Implementation of the EMP will be monitored as part of normal project reporting or wlhen
specifically requested by the Bank.
The project is being prepared in compliance with all environmental requirements of the Bank.
There are no special requirements from the environmental authorities of GOS, since this project
consists of reconstructing damaged equipment with new modem replacements.
The thermal power plant Kostolac A is located on the right bank of river Danube 20 km from the
Romanian border. Because of this, the Bank considered the applicability of OP 7.50 which govems
Projects on Intemational Waterways. That OP applies to any project that involves the use or
potential pollution of intemational waterways. However, it specifically exempts from the nonnal
notification requirement "minor additions or alterations" to existing schemes that "will not
adversely change the quality or quantity of water flows to the other riparians." The proposed repair
of thermal power unit Kostolac A2 project meets this definition. The flow of cooling water used
and returned by Kostolac A2 (7.6 m3/s) is negligible compared to the average flow of the Danuibe
(5,600 m3/s). Furthermore, the project will cover only repair of existing facilities (which were
commissioned in 1980) without any change in the quantity or manner of use of cooling water.
6. Social:
Positive social impacts are anticipated as a result of the restoration of reliable electricity supply to
households, public transportation and buildings (e.g., schools, hospitals), and water supply and
wastewater treatment facilities. The project does not involve any relocation of settlements or
changes in land use.
7. Participatory approach:
Primary beneficiaries and other affected groups. This project has been prepared in close
collaboration with GOY, GOS, EPS and local consultants to define the project, assess investment
needs, prioritize actions, and develop an implementation plan.  Preparation also included
consultation with leading environmental NGO representatives during the Annual Conference of'the
Yugoslav Energy Association on May 15-17, 2001.
Other stakeholders. Cooperation and coordination with other international donors (e.g., EAR,
EBRD, SIDA and USAID) involved in other elements of power system reconstruction and
rehabilitation have been emphasized since the beginning of project identification and will continue
throughout its implementation.
F: Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
The project is expected to reduce the need for electricity imports during Winter 2001/02 by around
300 GWh, and to restore reliable electricity supply from the 210 MW thermal power unit Kostolac
A2 thereafter. The reinforcement of the 400 kV transmission substation Sremska Mitrovica under
this project should ensure a stable operation of transmission network, improve reliability of
electricity supply in Northem Serbia, reduce transmission losses and facilitate reintegration of the
Serbian power system into UCTE. Both project components are essential to the sustainable
operation of the Serbian power system and the elimination of the current energy crisis.
The project is expected to be sustainable provided that EPS is able to become a financially viiable
and commercially operated company. This requires tariff adjustments that should enable EPS to
15



fully fund operating costs from internal cash generation by the end of 2001 and to be able to
service its revalued debt by the end of 2002. Progress in this area is being made given the tariff
increases announced and implemented by GOS. In addition, EPS has to improve its collection
performance and significantly to reduce the share of non-cash payments within the collection total.
A critical factor for the successful commercialization of EPS is Government support for price
increases and for the legal discipline needed to deal with collection problems.
2. Critical risks:
Risk                                   Risk Rating  Risk Minimization Measure
Annex 1, cell "from Outputs to Objective"
*  Insufficient counterpart financing       N       *  Project components and sub-
components prioritized so that the
most urgent ones can be financed
from available funds
*  Inefficient coordination between         M       *  Support from the Bank team at the
different agencies involved                         initial stage to set up procedures for
effective implementation and
supervision support thereafter
*  Changes in GOY/GOS and/or EPS's          M       *  Selection of project components on a
management                                          strict priority basis and use of well
staffed and competent PIU
Overall Risk Rating    M
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N (Negligible or Low Risk)
In addition to the above critical risks, there are three main risks to the successful implementation of
the proposed project. First is the possible use of funds for less than optimal expenditures. This risk
is being addressed through a careful selection and design of all project components. The project
covers activities which are clearly the most urgent and effective in alleviating the current electricity
shortage. The second risk is a delay in project implementation. This risk is being reduced by EPS'
and the Bank's joint effort to adopt straightforward solutions to project design and procurement
and disbursement methods, and by the establishment of a PIU. A third risk is the large number of
other similar activities which EPS will have to implement in parallel with this project. This risk
will be mitigated through effective coordination provided by the PIU, close cooperation of the PIU
with the Bank and with donors supporting other activities (e.g., EAR), and project supervision by
GOS and the Bank.
G: Main Grant Conditions
1. Effectiveness Conditions:
(a) The legal opinion from EPS attesting to the validity and binding nature of the Grant
Agreement; and
(b) The legal opinion from FRY and the Republic of Serbia attesting to the validity and binding
nature of the Guarantee Agreement upon the FRY and the Republic of Serbia, respectively.
16



2. Agreements Reached during Negotiations:
(c) EPS will have overall responsibility for project implementation and will assure that the project
will be carried out in accordance with the PIP;
(d) The Ministry of Mining and Energy of the Republic of Serbia will be responsible to carry out
activities related to the preparation of an Energy Policy Statement and drafting of a new Energy
Law;
(e) EPS shall maintain, until completion of the project, an adequately staffed PIU and assign to it
responsibility for overall project implementation and coordination;
(f) PIU will be responsible for assisting EPS and the Ministry of Mining and Energy in carrying
out all project related procurement, financial management, accounting, reporting and disbursement
activities;
(g) EPS/PIU shall prepare quarterly project management reports to facilitate project monitoring
starting with the fourth quarter of 2001;
(h) EPS/PIU shall prepare a mid-term review of the project by January 1, 2002 and review said
report with the Bank by March 1, 2002;
(i) EPS shall implement the Environmental Management Plan in a manner satisfactory to the
Bank, and shall provide the Bank with summary status of implementation (including results from
environmental monitoring) as part of normal project reporting; and
(j) EPS shall submit to the Bank audit reports for its accounts and the project financial statements
for 2001 and 2002 by June 30 of the following year.
H. Readiness for Implementation
[x] The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the
start of project implementation. [ ] Not applicable.
[x] The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation.
[x] The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of
satisfactory quality.
[ ] The following items are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G):
I. Compliance with Bank Policies
[x] This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
[ ] The following exceptions to Bank policies are recommended for approval. The project
complies with all other applicable Bank policies.
Team Leader:            Dejan Ostojic
Sector Manager:         Henk Busz 
Acting Country Director: Mary C. Sheehan
17



Annex 1
FR Yugoslavia: Electric Power Emergency Rehabilitation Project
Project Design Summary
Narrative Summary                      Key Performance Indicators               Monitoring and Evaluation              Critical Assumptions
A. Sector-related CAS Goal:                                                                                               (Goal to Bank Mission)
*    Project is part of pre-membership   *   Power plant Kostolac A2 is in operational   *    GOS decisions and sector    *    GOS starting reforms in power
assistance to FRY outlined in the        condition (by November 15, 2001).            policy statements.                  sector.
Transitional Support Strategy (TSS)    *   Complete installation of 400 MVA      *    Electricity tariffs.           *    EPS remains committed to the
for the FR Yugoslavia.                  transformer in substation Sremska        *    Implementation completion           project.
*    Supports sustainable economic and        Mitrovica (by December 15, 2001).            report.
social development by repairing     *    GOS issues an Energy Policy Statement   *    Donors reports.
damaged power facilities and helping     (by June 1, 2002).
restore reliable electricity supply for    *    Ministry of Mining and Energy prepares a
the winter 2001/02.                      draft Energy Law (by September 1, 2002).
*    Supports TSS goal to coordinate with    *    FMS established in EPS (by December 15,
donors and raise urgently needed         2002).
funding that will complement a larger
energy program.
B. Project Development Objective:                                                                                         (Objective to Goal)
*    Help restore reliable electricity supply   *    70% of procurement packages awarded by   *    Quarterly progress     *    Continued GOS commitment
in Serbia through urgent repair of       September 2001.                              Reports by PIU.                     and support.
generation and transmission facilities    *    50% of contracts completed by November   *    Bank supervision missions.  *    Continued donors support to the
affected by lack of maintenance and      2001.                                   *    Consultations with GOS and          power sector.
damages.                            *   Contracts with the main FMS consultant        EPS.
*    Improve financial management             and the energy policy consultant signed by   *    Annual audit of EPS accounts
system of EPS.                           December 15, 2001.                           prepared by extemal auditor.
*    Support the Serbian Ministry of
Mining and Energy in preparing an
Energy Policy Statement and drafting
a new Energy Law.
C. Outputs:                                                                                                               (Outputs to Objective)
*    Restored electricity production from  *    Quarterly production from thermal power   *    Quarterly progress reports by  *    Sufficient counterpart
thermal power unit Kostolac A2.          unit Kostolac A2 (in GWh) to reach:          PIU.                                financing.
*    Refurbished power transmission                04/01  01/02  02/02                *    Bank supervision and other     *    Efficient coordination between
facilities anid improved stability of           100   200    250                      documentation provided by           different involved agencies.
transmission network.               *    Reduction of technical losses in             EPS.                           *    Changes in GOY/GOS and/or
*   New financial management system in        transmission from 4.5% in 2001, to 4% or   *    Site inspection and              EPS's management do not
EPS.                                     less in 2002 and thereafter.                 commissioning documentation.        delay project implementation.
*    An Energy Policy Statement prepared   *   Average deviation of bus voltage at 220  *    Audit report of EPS 2001 and
by the Ministry of Mining and Energy     kV and 400 kV substations maintained         2002 accounts.
of the Republic of Serbia.               within following limit:
2001 2002 2003
10%      7%      5%
.    EPS to install hardware and software for
the financial management system (FMS).
D. Project Components/Sub-components:   Project Inputs:                               Project Reports                     (Components to Outputs)
*    Thermal power plant Kostolac A      *    US$3.0 million                          *    Project progress reports and   *    Timely establishment of PIU
*    Transmission substation S. Mitrovica    *    US$2.0 million                           disbursement reports.               and implementing agreements.
*    Institutional development           *    US$2.5 million                                                              *    Effective coordination of
various reconstruction and
rehabilitation projects
implemented in parallel.
18



Annex 2
FR Yugoslavia: Electric Power Emergency Reconstruction Project
Detailed Project Description
Background
Power Generation. The total installed generation capacity, available capacity and electricity
production in Serbia (excluding Kosovo) are shown in Table A. The generation mix in Serbia is
dominated by lignite-fired power plants which represent 56.6 percent of the total installed capacity
and accounted for 64.5 percent of electricity production in 2000. The remaining production is fiom
hydropower plants (35 percent) and from combined heat and power plants (CHP) which use oil and
gas. Low efficiency, technological constraints, and the relatively high cost of their fuel reduced the
generation of electricity from CHP to very few hours during the winter.
Table A: Electricity Production in Serbia in 2000
Power Plant           Installed capacity  Available capacity  Production (TWh)
(MW)              (MW)
Thermal Power Plants (TPP)
- TPP Kolubara and TENT             3,160             2,600              16.1
- TPP Kostolac and Morava           1,130              660               3.0
CHP plants                           520               350               0.2
Hydropower plants (HPP)      l_l
- run-of-river plants               1,790             1,790              8.8
E-reservoir plants                    980               980                1.5
TOTAL         7,580              6,380             29.6
Thermal power plants and associated lignite mines were the most affected by the lack of
maintenance during the last ten years. It is estimated that the deferred maintenance program will
take three to five years to compensate this shortfall. Other than funding, the main obstacle for the
quick recovery of these plants is the expected deficit of energy in the Serbian power system (about
10 percent of total demand), which is likely severely to limit opportunities for intensive
maintenance. Therefore, the success of the program will mainly depend on timely specification of
required activities, procurement of necessary spare parts and materials, and organization of works.
In 2001, the highest risk is related to the availability of funds for installation of equipment supplied
by donors.
Only 76% of the installed thermal generation capacity is available. This is the result of damage to
generating facilities and derating due to lack of maintenance and/or design deficiencies. The 110-
MW unit in Kolubara A was damaged during air strikes in 1999 and the 210-MW unit in Kostolac
A was damaged after the supporting structure of its boiler's supper heater collapsed in March 2000.
Also, an old 30 MW unit in Kolubara A is out of operation due to lack of spare parts. Derating of
generating capacity accounts for the loss of 200 MW in Kostolac B (29 % of installed capacity) and
400 MW in Nikola Tesla (TENT) A and B (14 % of installed capacity). Derating of two 350 MW
units in Kostolac B to 250 MW each is caused by boiler and reheater design problems which will
require a longer time to resolve. The reduced rating of generating units in TENT A and B is caused
by the lack of maintenance and spare parts for repairs.
The average age of thermal power units in EPS is 21 years and 6 units with a combined capacity of
426 MW (TENT A2, Kolubara Al-A4 and Kostolac Al) have accumulated more than 200,000
hours of operation. In addition, 8 units with a combined capacity of 2,579 MW (TENT Al, A3-A6,
TENT B1 and B2, and Morava) have accumulated between 100,000 and 200,000 hours of
operation, and most of the remaining units have completed close to 100,000 hours of operation
19



apiece. Taking these units out of service for repairs, extended maintenance and rehabilitation may
exacerbate the supply shortfall and requires careful planning, possibly requiring an increased need
for electricity imports.
Transmission Network. The median age of transformers and switching equipment in high voltage
(400 kV, 220 kV and 110 kV) substations is about 20 years. The condition of high voltage
substations significantly worsened as a result of damages inflicted by air strikes in 1999. While
most of the damage has been repaired, some of it temporarily, the reliability of substation
equipment is limited'. As a result, seven 400 kV and 220 kV substations (Beograd 5 and 8, Novi
Sad 3, Nis 2, Drmno, Krusevac I and Srbobran) will require refurbishment in the next five years.
Since the transmission network has not been upgraded for the past 20 years, it has reached capacity
limits in the vicinity of large load centers. The priority investment focuses on two existing
substations (400/220/110 kV substation Pancevo and 220/110 kV Sremska Mitrovica) and the
completion of three new substations (400/110 kV Beograd 20, 400/110 Jagodina 4 and 400/110 kV
Sombor 3). With these investments, it is estimated that during peak load conditions transmission
losses could be reduced by 20 MW.
Following the repair of transmission line river crossings near Pancevo, which were damaged in
1999, the next priority will be construction of a 75 km long 400 kV transmission line Sremska
Mitrovica - Ugljevik (in Bosnia and Hercegovina). This line would enable interconnection of the
Serbian power system with UCTE while the 400 kV Emestinovo substation (in Croatia) is out of
operation. Also, a 55 km long 400 kV transmission line should be built between the new substation
Sombor 3 and the existing substation Subotica 3. Both lines would improve the reliability of power
supply in northern Serbia, alleviate voltage problems and reduce losses in this part of the network,
as well as improve the stability of pumped storage plant Bajina Basta.
Institutional Development. Technical assistance for institutional development ranks among the
most urgent needs in the energy sector. The Serbian Ministry of Mining and Energy needs advisory
services to help formulate an energy sector policy that will focus on the changes required to the
legal environment to enable sector restructuring and reform. Key issues, such as the relative roles
of competition and regulation, the ownership of sector assets, risk allocation, and the social impact
of energy sector reform, need to be addressed urgently.  These efforts must be followed
immediately by assistance in the establishment of a new legal and regulatory framework for the
sector. Implementation of this framework would follow, with assistance needed to focus on the
establishment of an independent regulatory body and the preparation of relevant secondary
legislation. In parallel to these tasks, EPS needs technical assistance to enable the company to
improve its accounts to intemational standards and in the establishment of effective financial
management.
The proposed project is concerned with urgent repairs and strengthening of the power grid needed
to restore reliable supply of electricity in Serbia, and with urgent technical assistance to the Serbian
Ministry of Mining and Energy and to EPS. It has three components: (i) repair of 210 MW unit in
thermal power plant Kostolac A; (ii) reinforcement of transmission substation Sremska Mitrovica;
(iii) institutional strengthening of EPS and technical assistance to the Ministry of Mining and
Energy for development of an Energy Policy Statement and drafting a new Energy Law.
1 The poor condition and low reliability of the transmission network in Yugoslavia has a negative impact on
the entire region due to reduced stability of interconnections between regional power systems and forgone
benefits of synchronous operation and electricity trade.
20



Project Component 1: Repair of Thermal Power Plant Kostolac A (US$3.0 million)
Thermal power plant (TPP) Kostolac A is located near the city of Kostolac, I 1 km north of
Pozarevac, on the right bank of river Danube. TPP Kostolac A consists of two units, 100 MW unit
Al (commissioned in 1967) and 210 MW unit A2 (commissioned in 1980). TPP Kostolac A uses
lignite from open-pit coal mines "Cirikovac" and "Klenovik" which have about 40 million tons of
remaining coal reserves. These reserves should be enough for 16 years of operation of Kostolac A
which requires about 2.5 million tons of lignite per year. However, the development of the mines
has slowed down since 1990 due to the lack of funding for maintenance of mining equipment and
land acquisition. Currently, the mine is able to meet about half of the plant's coal demand.
According to EPS's mid-term investment plan, a near-by open pit mine "Drmno" (which serves
TPP Kostolac B) should be connected by conveyers to Kostolac A to ensure adequate supply of
coal for the next 20 years.
During the first decade after its commissioning in 1980, the 210-MW unit A2 was reliable and
operated on average 6,200 hours per year. Table B shows operating hours, number of forced
outages and duration of outages caused by boiler failures. The increase in boiler failures in the
1990s is caused by reduced maintenance of boiler tubes due to lack of funding for spare parts and
repairs. Accumulated fatigue in the structure supporting the boiler's super-heater caused a major
failure on March 2, 2000. About one quarter of the boiler collapsed as illustrated in photographs
given in Annex 8.
Table B: Operating Statistics of Thermal Power Unit Kostolac A2
Year                 1985          1990           1995           1999
Operating Hours                6,811         4,745          3,798    l     3,708
Number of Forced Outages         15            20             17             24
of which Boiler Outages          2             8              12             14
Duration of Boiler Outages     28 h          395 h          505 h          787 h
Given the need to replace all boiler tubes and refurbish the supporting structure, EPS decided to use
the prolonged outage time to do a complete turbine overhaul and to reconstruct the turbine to
provide heat for district heating (DH) system in Kostolac and Pozarevac. The existing DH system
in the two cities is supplied from Kostolac A by using an inefficient (uncontrolled) derivation of
heat from the plant's self-consumption steam collector. The new system will improve the
efficiency of the combined heat and power production by deriving steam directly from the outlet of
the medium pressure turbine. All the equipment needed for the boiler repair and turbine overhaul
and reconstruction has already been delivered to the site under a Russian suppliers' credit.
The repair of TPP Kostolac A2 under this project will increase the available capacity in the Serbian
power grid by 200 MW, reduce the import of electricity by 300 GWh (an equivalent cost of about
US$10 million at the current price of electricity imports) during the next winter and improve the
efficiency of district heating system in Kostolac and Pozarevac.
Project Component 2: Reinforcement of Substation Sremska Mitrovica (US$2.0 million)
The reinforcement of transmission substation Sremska Mitrovica includes construction of one 400
kV transformer bay, installation of a 400 MVA transformer and associated switchgear at 400 kV
and 220 kV voltage levels and construction of a 1.8 km long connection line to the 400 kV
transmission system. The 400/220 kV, 400 MVA transformer has been delivered to the Yugoslav
border (Kladovo) and will be transported to Sremska Mitrovica under the project. All other
21



equipment to be installed in the Sremska Mitrovica substation has been delivered to the nearby
warehouse except the 220 kV disconnect switch which will be procured locally by EPS.
The 220/110 kV substation Sremska Mitrovica was built in 1975. Presently, it includes two 150
MVA transformers, two 220 kV transmission line bays and seven 110 kV transmission line bays.
The 220 kV transmission line Bajina Basta (614 MW pumped storage plant) - Sremska Mitrovica -
Srbobran is a bottleneck in the transmission system due to frequent overloading (up to 130%) and
a relatively large number of outages (22 in 2000; 18 in 1999; 27 in 1998). The uprating of Sremska
Mitrovica substation to 400 kV voltage level and increase of its transformer capacity to 700 MVA
under this project will significantly improve stability of the transmission system and reliability of
electricity supply in major load centers in northern Serbia (Belgrade and Novi Sad). It will also
reduce transmission losses by 6.3 MW during peak load, which corresponds to an annual saving of
about 29 GWh (an equivalent cost of about US$I million at the current price of electricity imports).
Project Component 3: Institutional Development (US$2.5 million)
Financial Management System. This project component includes design, supply and installation
of a computer-based Financial Management System (FMS) in EPS. An interim project specific
financial management system has been established at EPS during the project appraisal in May
2001. This interim system will be incorporated into the new FMS which will be funded under the
Grant. The scope of the FMS will be defined by the consultant to be hired by EPS to prepare
technical specifications and bidding documents for the FMS. Terms of Reference for this
assignment will be developed by consultants to be funded under the Grant.
Technical Assistance. Technical assistance (TA) will include provision of consulting services to
the Serbian Ministry of Mining and Energy and to EPS. TA to the Ministry will focus on the
elaboration of a new Energy Policy Statement, with emphases on the reform of the energy sector
legal and regulatory framework and on the restructuring of the energy market and sector
enterprises. The Energy Policy Statement would be the foundation based upon which a new Energy
Law would be drafted and future energy sector restructuring would take place, including under the
Bank's proposed structural adjustment credits. TA to EPS will support the introduction of an FMS.
TA for the development of the Energy Policy Statement and the drafting of an Energy Law will be
carried out by qualified international consultants supported by a team-of local consultants.
TA for the design, procurement and implementation of the FMS will be carried out by a qualified
international consulting firm. The consulting services will include the review of EPS's business
process, definition of FMS functional requirements and development of technical specifications of
an integrated financial management system. TA will also include assistance to the PIU in preparing
bidding documents, evaluating bids for the FMS and implementing the system.
The training component of the TA will be provided by international consultants in the areas of the
FMS and power sector restructuring. The training will be organized in the form of seminars and
workshops carried out by internationally recognized experts.
Finally, under the TA component a direct funding will be provided for auditing of Project Financial
Statements and preparation of an energy efficiency assessment of the Belgrade district heating
system. A direct contract for auditing of Project Financial Statements will be used to retain the
same auditor who audits EPS' accounts. A very small consulting contract will be awarded on a
single-source basis to a local engineering firm (Energoproject) to update the feasibility study of
energy efficiency improvement in the Belgrade district heating company.
Up to the present, limited technical assistance has been available to the Ministry of Energy and
Mining as follows: (a) The EBRD is financing an update of a 1997 restructuring study of EPS (US$
22



200,000); and (b) USAID is financing two cooperative agreements with NARUC (the US National
Association of Electricity Industry Regulators), and the US Energy Association. Under these
cooperative agreements (US$250,000 each), these two organizations will co-ordinate workshops
and advice to the Ministry on the design of energy regulatory agency and on energy efficiency
policy, respectively. The TA under the proposed Bank project would take full advantage of the
inputs provided under these other assignments.
23



Annex 3
FR Yugoslavia: Electric Power Emergency Reconstruction Project
Estimated Project Costs
Table A: Project Cost Summary
___________________________________                Project Cost                    Bank Financed
Project Component                Local        Foreign       Total       Million     % of Bank
(million US$)                 US$        Financing
A. Thermal power plant Kostolac A             1.95         9.35         11.30         2.60         43.3
1. Boiler and Turbine Overhaul               0.40          7.30         7.70         0.40          6.7
2. District Heating                           0.20         1.40         1.60          0.20         3.3
3. Unit Thermal Insulation                    0.80          -           0.80         0.80          13.3
4. Unit Control System                        0.15         0.30         0.45          0.45          7.5
5. Refurbishment of Auxiliary Systems         0.40         0.35         0.75         0.75          12.5
B. Substation Sremska Mitrovica               1.75         2.75         4.50          1.75         29.2
1. Civil Works                               0.70           -           0.70         0.70          11.7
2. 400 kV Transformner Bay                    0.65         2.60         3.25         0.65          10.8
3. 400 kV Transmission Connection             0.40         0.15         0.55         0.40          6.7
C. Institutional Development                  0.40         1.80         2.20         0.90          15.0
1. Technical Assistance                      0.30          1.50         1.80         0.90          15.0
2. Financial Management System                0.10         0.30         0.40           -
Total Base Cost                              4.10         13.90         18.00        5.25          87.5
Physical Contingencies                       0.90          0.60         1.50         0.55          9.2
Price Contingencies                           0.30         0.20         0.50         0.20          3.3
Total Project Cost                            5.30        14.70         20.00         6.0         100.0
24



Annex 4
FR Yugoslavia: Electric Power Emergency Reconstruction Project
Procurement Arrangements
All Bank-financed procurement will be in accordance with the Bank's guidelines for "Procurement
under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits (January 1995 as revised in January and August 1996,
September 1997, and January 1999)". Procurement of consultancy services under the technical
assistance component would follow the Bank's Guidelines for "Selection and lEmployment of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers (January 1997 as revised in September 1997 and January
1999)". Table A provides the details of the procurement arrangements for main expenditure
categories, including goods, works and services. A procurement plan detailing the packaging and
estimated schedule of the main procurement actions is in Table D of this Annex.
Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(in US$ million)
Procurement Method
Expenditure Category             ICB           Other          NBF         Total Cost
1. Works
1.1 Civil Works                                 0.85          0.501          1.35
(0.85)                      (0.85)
1.1 Equipment Installation                     3.554          0.50'         4.05
(3.55)                      (3.55)
2. Goods and S&I
2.1 Goods (equipment)                           0.60          11.502        12.10
(0.60)                      (0.60)
2.2 IT Systems                                                0.50'          0.50
3. Consulting Services
3.1 Technical Assistance                        1.00          1.003          2.00
(1.00)                      (1.00)
TOTAL                                           6.00          14.00          20.0
(6.00)                       (6.0)
ICB  International Competitive Bidding.
NBF = Non Bank-Financed.
S&I = Supply and Installation.
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank.
All figures include physical and price contingencies.
Note 1: Local costs financed by EPS.
Note 2: Equipment financed by suppliers' credits.
Note 3: FMS and consulting services financed by SIDA (admninistered by the Bank).
Note 4: This component includes retroactive financing of US$0.45 million for the completion of boiler
repair in thermal power plant Kostolac A.
All procurement under the project will be conducted by EPS. In May 2001, a Bank mission
performed a Procurement Capacity Assessment of EPS. The main findings were discussed and an
Action Plan was agreed with EPS. The company was rated high-risk from a procurement
standpoint. Therefore, the PIU's procurement capacity needs strengthening to ensure satisfactory
project implementation. To achieve this goal, the following key actions should be taken:
* EPS needs training in procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits. This training will be
provided as a part of the Project Review Workshop, which should be conducted by September
2001.
25



* EPS should use technical consultants (MVV) contracted under the EU Energy Program in 2001
for preparation of bidding documents, evaluation of bids and project implementation; and
* A PIU which was established in EPS on May 15, 2001 should be fully staffed and operational
throughout the project implementation.
The proposed project is an emergency recovery operation and includes a provision for the
retroactive financing of boiler repair in thermal power plant (TPP) Kostolac A, which is an
essential requirement of the project. The boiler failure in TPP Kostolac A occurred on March 2,
2000 and payments made by EPS to the contractor (Termoelektro) for the boiler repair after June
2000 are eligible for reimbursement up to the limit of US$0.45 million in aggregate (7.5 percent of
the Grant amount) per OP 12.10. The contractor started the repair in April 2000 and completed
about 70 percent of works excluding tubes welding. However, EPS paid only about 10 percent of
invoices submitted by the contractor and approved by EPS due to the poor financial condition of
the company. In April 2001, the contractor stopped all works demanding to be paid in order to
complete repairs. Given the degree of and type of works completed and remaining specialized
services to be performed (welding of boiler tubes) EPS would have to use direct contracting with
the same contractor even if Termoelektro accepts to cancel its existing contract with EPS dated
April 6, 2000. Therefore, the Bank has approved on an exceptional basis the use of retroactive
financing for this contract only.
Except for the provision of US$0.45 million for retroactive financing and US$0.1 million for
international shopping for station batteries, EPS will procure the works related to TPP Kostolac A
and transmission substation Sremska Mitrovica through a Minor Works (MW) method. The PIU
has received a copy of a sample document for minor works.
Table B provides the details of the procurement of consulting services (costing about US$2.0
million) under the Institutional Development component. An international consulting firm will be
hired (following the QCBS method) to assist the Serbian Ministry of Mining and Energy (MME) in
preparing an Energy Policy Statement and drafting an Energy Law. The QCBS method will be
used to select and hire experienced technical consultants for design and procurement of the FMS to
be funded under the SIDA grant. An international consulting firm will be hired (following the SFB
method) to provide training in the new FMS and in power sector restructuring and privatization.
The single-source selection will be used for auditors to audit the Project Financial Statements and a
local consultant for the feasibility study of energy efficiency improvement in the Belgrade district
heating company.
The thresholds for procurement and the Bank's prior review are in Table C. All bidding packages
for the procurement of civil works for substation Sremska Mitrovica and installation of equipment
in TPP Kostolac A estimated to cost less than US$500,000 equivalent per contract, up to an
aggregate amount not to exceed US$4,000,000 equivalent, may be procured under lump-sum, fixed
price or unit-rate contracts awarded on the basis of quotations obtained from three qualified
domestic contractors in response to a written invitation and will be subject to the Bank's prior
review. Other contracts following the Bank's International Shopping (IS) procedure for supply of
materials and goods would be subject to the Bank's ex-post review after contract award except for
the first two contracts which will be submitted for prior review by the Bank. The IS procedure will
be followed for procurement of measurement instruments and unit control equipment, station
batteries and acid for boiler cleaning at TPP Kostolac A. International Shopping would involve
obtaining at least three price offers from at least two eligible source countries and would be limited
to US$500,000 per contract or US$1.0 million in aggregate.
26



Table B: Consultant Selection Arrangements
(in US$ million)
Selection Method
Category               QCBS   QBS    SFB    LCS          SS    Other   NBF   Total Cost
1. I Development of     0.6                                                        0.6
Energy Strategy and     (0.6)                                                      (0.6)
drafting Energy Law
1.2 Advisor to the                                               0.1               0.1
Ministry of Energy                                              (0.1)              (0.1)
1.2 Design and                                                           1.0        1.0
implementation of FMS
1.3 Audit of Project                                    0.07                       0.07
Accounts 2001/02                                       (0.07)                     (0.07)
1.4 Update of energy                                    0.03                       0.03
efficiency assessment                                  (0.03)                     (0.03)
1.5 Training in power                   0.1                                         0.1
sector restructuring                    (0.1)                                      (0. 1)
1.6 Training in FMS                     0.1                                         0.1
(0.1)                                      (0.1)
Total Cost   0.6             0.2             0.1      0.1     1.0       2.0
(0.6)           (0.2)           (0.1)   (0.1)              (1.0)
QCBS = Quality and Cost Based Selection.
QBS  Quality Based Selection.
SFB = Selection under a Fixed Budget.
LCS = Least Cost Selection.
SS = Single-source selection.
Other = Selection of individual consultants (per Section V of the Bank's Selection and Employment of
Consultants Guidelines), Commercial Practices, etc.
NBF = Not Bank-Financed, including SIDA grant.
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank.
All figures include physical and price contingencies.
Table C: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
Procurement of Equipment and Systems
Procurement    ICB        NCB         IS'        NS         Minor      Other    % of Grant
Method                                                     Works'   Methods   Subject to
Prior Review
Procurement     N/A       N/A    <$500,000       N/A      <$500,000    N/A
Threshold                           up to an               up to an
aggregate              aggregate
of $1.0 M              of $4.0 M
Prior Review    N/A        N/A     First two     N/A      >$ 100,000    N/A        98%
Threshold                          contracts
Procurement of Services
Procurement
Method for     QCBS       QBS        Fixed       LCS       Qualifi-    Single   Individuals
Consultants                         Budget                  cations    Sources
Procurement  >$ 100,000    N/A       N/A         N/A         N/A       N/A       $100,00o
Method
Thresholds
Prior Review   >$50,000   N/A      $100,000      N/A         N/A       N/A        $20,000
Threshold     for firms
Note 1: Partial prior review.
27



Table D: Procurement Plan
Package  Description of   Number   Type of    Funding    Estimated                           Procurement Schedule
No        Package      of slices   Procure-   Agency and    Cost
(Lots)    ment    Procurement   (million
Method       USS)
Prequalification Preparation   Bid        Contract   Contract
1. Invitation   of Bid    1. Invitation    Signing   Completion
2. Opening    Documents  2. Opening
3. Evaluation             3. Evaluation
_______  _________    ____________               Report                     Report
Part A: Repair of Thermal Power Plant Kostolac A
I   Boiler and           I         W         WBIDC         OA5                                                           15.10.2001
Turbine Overhaul                    __          _                           _
2   Connection to        I         W         WB/MW          0.25                    15.06.2001  1. 15.06.2001  15.07.2001  15.10.2001
District Heating                                                                           2. 30.06.2001
_________  ___________   _________                              3. 07.07.2001
3    Unit Thermal        2         W         WBIMW          0.90                    15.06.2001  1. 30.06.2001  15.08.2001  15.10.2001
Insulation                                                                                 2. 20.07.2001
3.30.07.2001
4   Unit Control         I         G          WB/IS         0.50                    15.06.2001  1.30.06.2001  15.08.2001  15.10.2001
System                                                                                     2. 20.07.2001
3. 30.07.2001
5   Station Batteries     1                   WB/IS         0.10                    15.06.2001  1.30.06.2001  15.08.2001  15.09.2001
2. 20.07.2001
3. 30.07.2001
6   Boiler Acid           I        W          WB/IS         0.30                    15.06.2001  1.30.06.2001   15.08.2001  15.09.2001
Cleaning                                                                                   2. 20.07.2001
3.30.07.2001
7   Refurbishment of     1         W         WB/MW          0.15                    15.06.2001  1.15.06.2001  15.07.2001  15.09.2001
Air Heaters                                                                                2. 30.06.2001
3. 07.07.2001
8   Air and Coal Duct    1         W         WB/MW          0.35                    15.06.2001  1.15.06.2001  15.07.2001  15.09.2001
Replacement                                                                                2. 30.06.2001
______  _______________   _______  _________  ___________   _________   ______________             3.  07.07.2001
Part B: Reinforcement of Transmission Substation Sremska Mitrovica
9   Civil Works          2         W         WB/MW          0.85                    15.06.2001  1. 30.06.2001  15.08.2001  15.10.2001
2. 20.07.2001
3.30.07.2001
10   Transformer          I         W        WB/MW          0.20                     15.06.2001  1.15.06.2001  15.07.2001  15.08.2001
Transportation                                                                             2. 30.06.2001
3. 07.07.2001
11   Installation of      I         W        WB/MW          0.50                     15.06.2001  1. 15.06.2001  15.07.2001  15.10.2001
Equipment                                                                                  2. 30.06.2001
3. 07.07.2001
12   Transmission Line    I         W        WB/MW          0.45                     15.06.2001  1. 15.06.2001  15.07.2001  15.11.2001
Connection                                                                                 2. 30.06.2001
_______  _________   ___________   _________                  _________   3.  07.07.2001
Part C: Institutional Development
13   Financial            I         IT       SIDA/ICB       0.50      1. 15.01.2002   15.03.2002  1. 15.04.2002  15.07.2002  15.12.2002
Management                                                       2.01.03.2002              2. 01.06.2002
System (FMS)                                                     3.15.03.2002              3. 01.07.2002
14   Design and           I        CS       SIDA/QCBS       1.00      1. 15.07.2001   15.09.2001  1. 01.10.2001  15.12.2001  15.12.2002
Implementation of                                                2. 01.09.2001             2.15.11.2001
FMS                                                              3. 15.09.2001             3. 01.12.2001
15   Preparation of       I        CS       WB/QCBS         0.60      1.15.06.2001   01.08.2001  1.15.08.2001  15.11.2001  15.11.2002
Energy Policy and                                                2.15.07.2001              2. 30.09.2001
Law                                                              3.01.08.2001              3. 15.10.2001
16   Advisor to MME       I        CS        WB/Other       0.10                                              15.09.2001  15.09.2002
17   Training             2        CS        WB/SFB         0.20      1.15.11.2001   15.02.2002  1. 15.03.2002  15.06.2002  15.12.2002
2.15.01.2002              2. 15.04.2002
3. 15.02.2002             3. 15.05.2002
18   Audit of Project     2        CS         WB/SS         0.07                                              15.03.2002  15.06.2002
Accounts        I_                                                                                       15.03.2003  15.06.2003
19   Update of Energy     I        CS         WB/SS         0.03                                              15.09.2001  15.12.2002
Efficiency
Assessment
TOTAL   7.50
28



Procurement of consulting services will be subject to the Bank's prior review for contracts of
US$50,000 or more for firms and US$20,000 or more for individual consultants. In addition, teims
of reference for all consulting contracts will be also subject to the Bank's prior review. An
individual consultant will be selected (per Section V of the Bank's Selection and Employment of
Consultants Guidelines) to assist the Ministry of Mining and Energy (MME) in managing the
preparation of the energy policy statement and the draft energy law.
29



Annex 5
FR Yugoslavia: Electric Power Emergency Reconstruction Project
Disbursement and Financial Management Arrangements
(a) Disbursement
Table A shows the allocation of grant proceeds by category and disbursement percentages in each
category. The estimated disbursement schedule for the Bank Grant is given in Table F. The Grant
closing date would be June 30, 2003, i.e., six months after the estimated completion of the project.
Table A: Allocation of Grant Proceeds
Expenditure Category            Amount                Financing Percentage
In US$ million
1. Works                          4.0        100%
2. Goods                          0.6        100% of foreign expenditures;
100% of local expenditures ex-factory for
locally manufactured items; and
85% of local expenditures for other
items procured locally.
3. Consulting Services            1.0        97% for firms; and
84% for individuals
5. Unallocated                    0.4
Total                             6.0
Table B: Estimated Disbursement Schedule
Bank FY       Semester            US$ million         Project Profile
I_____________ L_____________   Annually    Cumulative       (%)
2002     l                   3.0           3.0          50.0%
l            l___________  II    2.0            5.0          83.3%
2003           I             1.0           6.0          100%
_____ _  II         0.0           6.0           100%
(b) Special Account
To facilitate timely Project implementation, EPS established a Special Account (SA) in US dollars
under conditions acceptable to the Bank in a commercial bank (Societe Generale) in Belgrade on
May 29, 2001. During negotiations it was agreed that EPS will maintain and operate this SA under
conditions acceptable to the Bank until the Grant closing date. The authorized allocation of the
Special Account will be US$600,000, representing approximately three months of eligible
expenditures. Upon effectiveness of the Grant Agreement, EPS may withdraw the full amount
authorized. Replenishment applications are to be submitted at least every two months (or when
50% of the initial deposit has been utilized, whichever occurs earlier), and must include reconciled
bank statements as well as other appropriate supporting documents.
Statement of Expenditures (SOE) Some of the proceeds of the grant are expected to be disbursed
on the basis of Statement of Expenditures as follows: (a) goods costing less than US$100,000
equivalent for each contract, with the exception of the first contract; and (b) service contracts for
firms costing less than US$50,000 equivalent each, with the exception of the first contract.
Disbursements against goods and services exceeding the above limits will be made against full
documentation and in accordance with respective procurement guidelines. Related documentation
30



in support of SOEs will not be submitted to the Bank, but will be retained by the PIU for at least
one year after receipt by the Bank of the audit report for the year in which the last disbursement is
made. The PIU will make these documents available to the auditors and supervision missions for
review. If ineligible expenditures, including those not justified by evidence fumished, are financed
from the Special Account (SA), the Bank will have the right to withhold further deposits in the SA.
The Bank may exercise this right until the Recipient has refunded the amount involved; or (if the
Bank agrees) submitted evidence of other eligible expenditures that can be used to offset the
ineligible amounts.
Project Accounting. An interim project specific financial management system has been established
at the EPS PIU. The accounting system will be maintained in accordance with intemational
standards, based on principles of double-entry bookkeeping. The Bank has informed the PIU of
Bank requirements on maintaining accounts and records in accordance with International
Accounting Standards (IAS). The interim system is capable of providing accurate and timely
information regarding project resources and expenditures, including planning, accounting and
financial reporting relating to the project. The project accounts will be based on a Chart of
Accounts drawn up by the appraisal mission with the assistance of the PIU. The Chart of Accounts
will accommodate the proposed project to capture sources and uses of funds, and assets and
associated liabilities in sufficient detail to satisfy PMR-based reporting requirements. The system
will, in addition to producing periodic and cumulative budgeted and actual expenditures, link the
financial data to measures of output and procurement activities of the project. The Projiect
Management Reporting (PMRs) formats were discussed and agreed with the PIU during project
preparation. Funding has been provided under the Grant to establish an overall FM system at the
EPS. Once this system is established, the interim system will be incorporated into the new system.
The TORs for this assignment will be developed by consultants under the project. Training will] be
provided for the accountant and the procurement officer. Funding for these training activities will
be provided from the Grant. Further actions to strengthen project financial management can be
found below.
Disbursement arrangements under the project will commence on the basis of traditional
disbursement methods (e.g., direct payments, replenishments of the Special Account on the basis of
SOEs and full documentation). Once the PIU's capacity and experience has improved with regard
to intemal controls, implementation, budgeting and forecasting, the PKU, in consultation with the
Bank, will decide on the timing and transition of the use of the quarterly PMRs for disbursement
purposes. It is expected that PIU will have the capacity to prepare the first full set of PMRs by
December 31, 2001.
Internal Controls. Operational procedures and guidelines for project financial management will
be documented in an Operational Manual, encompassing all levels of project management and
administration. A draft is being prepared by the PIU. The Bank will review the manual and g;ave
its comments. The Manual will include financial management procedures and staffing,
identification of accounting and auditing standards and procedures used for the project, project
reporting and monitoring, procurement procedures, procedures for cash management and the
format of project management reports. Further actions to strengthen project Financial management
are shown below.
Reporting. The PIU will prepare project information for all components and prepare quarterly
Project Management Reports (PMRs) including a Financial report, project progress report and
procurement management report, for project monitoring and reporting for submission to the Bank.
The reporting system would support the eventual application of the PMR-based disbursements, if
and when it is mutually agreed between the Bank and the PIU to convert from the initial traditional
disbursements to PMR-based disbursements. An outline of reports contained in the system and the
31



format for the PMRs were discussed and provided to the PIU during appraisal and was confirmed
at negotiations.
Auditing Arrangements. The PIU will recruit independent auditors under terms of reference
acceptable to the Bank. Audited Project Financial Statements will be submitted to the Bank with
the audit report six months after end of each year audited. The cost of the audit will be financed
through the Bank Grant. Currently, Deloitte and Touche audit the EPS accounts. At negotiations,
it was be agreed with EPS that Deloitte and Touche will be retained to audit the project accounts as
well.
Financial Management Action Plan. The PIU has agreed on the following time bound action plan
regarding the strengthening of project Financial Management to meet bank accounting and
Financial reporting requirements under OP/BP 10.02:
*  By June 30, 2001, PIU to submit to the Bank the draft financial and procurement manual;
*  Confirm that the EPS will retain the audit firm that will audit EPS accounts, to audit project
accounts;
*  PIU to prepare Reports IA (Sources and Uses of Funds), Report IB (Uses by Detail) and IE
(Special Account), by September 30, 2001;
*  Prepare full PMRs by December 31, 2001; and
*  Accountant to attend FM course by December 31, 2001.
32



Annex 6
FR YUGOSLAVIA: Electric Power Emergency Reconstruction Project
Project Processing Budget and Schedule
A. Project Budget (US$000)                       Planned               Actual
(at PCD stage)
70.0
B. Project Schedule                              Planned               Actual
(at appraisal stage)
Time taken to prepare the project (months)
First Bank mission (preparation)                02/05/2001           02/05/2001
Appraisal mission departure                     05/14/2001           05/14/2001
Negotiations                                    06/07/2001
Planned date of effectiveness                   07/01/2001              /_/
Prepared by: World Bank and EPS
Preparation assistance: USAID, SIDA, EAR
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Name                                     Specialty
Henk Busz                               Sector Manager
Dejan Ostojic                       Team Leader/Power Engineer
Felix Martin                               Economist
Bemard Baratz                         Environmental Specialist
Hiran Herat                      Financial Management Specialist
Joseph Formoso                          Disbursement Officer
Gennady Pilch                             Legal Advisor
Snezana Mitrovic                        Procurement Specialist
Marina Lysiakova                           Team Assistant
33



Annex 7
FR YUGOSLAVIA: Electric Power Emergency Reconstruction Project
Boiler Damage in Thermal Power Plant Kostolac A
View of the top of boiler supper heater
Boiler's tubes after the collapse of supporting structure
34



Annex 8
FR YUGOSLAVIA: Electric Power Emergency Reconstruction Project
Documents in the Project File
A. Project Implementation Plan
B. Bank Staff Assessments
1. Procurement Capacity Assessment (full report)
2. Environmental Management Plan (full report)
C. Other
I. Tariff Methodology: Outline. Prepared by EPS, April 2001.
2. EPS: Consolidated Financial Statements as of December 31, 1997. Audit Reports Prepared by
Deloitte and Touche.
3. Feasibility Study of Reconstruction and Rehabilitation of Thermal Power Plant Kostolac Al,
Prepared by Energoprojekt-Entel, March 1998.
4. Law "On the Electric Power Industry" (adopted by the Serbian Parliament on July 24, 1991).
35



Annex 9
FR YUGOSLAVIA: Electric Power Emergency Reconstruction Project
Statement of Loans and Credits as of April 30, 2001
Project                             CCY of Amount in
millions
(USD)
Ln/Cr  Financier        ID                  Description  Commit  Principal Undisb  Disbur  Approval Date   Closing Date
5310     IBRD   P009143           BELGRADE RAILWAY        USD         50       0     50      21-Mar-68     31-Dec-75
6080     IBRD   P009145                     ROADS III    USD          26       0     26      27-May-69     31-Aug-74
6780     IBRD   P009148                     ROADS IV    USD         35.8       0   35.8      19-May-70     31-Dec-75
7510     IBRD   P009151                      ROADS V      USD       24.7       0   24.7      10-Jun-71     31-Dec-77
7770     IBRD   P009152              WATER SUPPLY I    USD            45       0     45      10-Jun-71     31-Dec-81
8360     IBRD   P009153       POWER TRANSMISSION I    USD           73.7       0   73.7      13-Jun-72      30-Jun-79
9160     IBRD   P009155          PIPELINES-NAFTAGAS       USD         37       0   36.9      19-Jun-73      30-Jun-85
9161     IBRD   P009155          PIPELINES-NAFTAGAS       USD       22.4       0   21.4      19-Jun-73      30-Jun-85
9900     IBRD   P009160                 HIGHWAYS VI    USD            17       0     17      21-May-74      30-Jun-79
10130     IBRD   P009156    DFC-INDUSTRIAL CREDIT          USD         22      0   21.9        6-Jun-74     31-Dec-80
10260     IBRD   P009164                  RAILWAYS IV    USD         65.6       0   65.2        2-Jul-74     30-Jun-81
10600     IBRD   P009163                  HARBOR BAR       USD       38.4      0   38.4       26-Nov-74     31-Dec-81
10601     IBRD   P009163                  HARBOR BAR       USD        5.6       0      4      26-Nov-74     31-Dec-81
11430     IBRD   P009168                 HIGHWAYS VII    USD           35       0     35        8-Jul-75    31-Dec-79
12620     IBRD   P009170    MORAVA RIVER PROIECT           USD        7.3      0    7.3       20-May-76     31-Dec-82
12621      IBRD   P009170    MORAVA RIVER PROIECT          USD        5.6      0    5.6       20-May-76     31-Dec-82
12622     IBRD   P009170    MORAVA RIVER PROIECT           USD        7.2      0    7.2       20-May-76     31-Dec-82
12642     IBRD   P009169 SARAJEVO AIR POLL. CNTRL          USD         11      0   10.9       25-May-76     31-Dec-81
12770     IBRD   P009166          INDUSTRIAL CREDIT II    USD          49       0   46.7      28-May-76     31-Dec-81
13600     IBRD   P009172  METOHIJA MULTIPURPOSE I    USD               54      0   49.2       11-Jan-77     31-Dec-84
13700     IBRD   P009173                MONTENEGRO         USD         26      0      26      22-Feb-77      30-Jun-83
AGR/AGROIND 2
13710     IBRD   P009174  MACEDONIAAGR/AGROIND             USD         24       0   21.7      22-Feb-77      30-Jun-83
11
13770     IBRD   P009176                HIGHWAYS VIII    USD         54.7       0   54.6      15-Mar-77     31-Mar-81
14695     IBRD   P009175    POWER TRANSMISSION II    USD             23.7       0   22.2      28-Jun-77     31-Dec-82
14770     IBRD   P009177               AGRIC.CREDIT II    USD        73.4       0   72.7        5-Jul-77    31-Aug-83
15340     IBRD   P009180                  RAILWAYS V       USD         95       0   94.5      23-Mar-78     31-May-84
15350     IBRD   P009179             TRANS-YUGOSLAV        USD       77.5       0   77.5      23-Mar-78     31-Dec-83
HIGHWAY
16110     IBRD   P009183             DFC III IND.CREDIT    USD         40       0   36.7       11-Jul-78    31-Dec-83
16140     IBRD   P009184                        DFC IV    USD          20       0     20       11-Jul-78    31-Dec-83
16780     IBRD   P009185                  HIGHWAYS X       USD         22      0   21.8       27-Mar-79      30-Jun-85
16781      IBRD   P009185                 HIGHWAYS X       USD         20       0     20      27-Mar-79      30-Jun-85
16782     IBRD   P009185                  HIGHWAYS X       USD         36       0   35.8      27-Mar-79      30-Jun-85
17590     IBRD   P009189         EARTHQUAKE REHAB.-    USD             21       0     21      18-Sep-79     31-Dec-82
HWYS
17680     IBRD   P009190           EARTHQUAKE-PORT         USD         50       0   30.1      27-Nov-79      30-Jun-84
17690     IBRD   P009191  EARTHQUAKE REHAB.-RAIL           USD         14      0      14      27-Nov-79      30-Jun-84
18010     IBRD   P009186                 AG.CREDIT III    USD          78       0   66.6      26-Feb-80     31-Mar-86
18190     IBRD   P009188                 HIGHWAYS XI    USD         111.5       0  111.4      25-Mar-80      30-Jun-85
19090     IBRD   P009194                        DFC V      USD         50       0   49.4      28-Oct-80      31-Oct-86
19110     IBRD   P009194                        DFC V      USD         20       0   19.7      28-Oct-80      31-Oct-86
19510     IBRD   P009192 REGIONAL DEVT. MORAVA II    USD               87       0   52.4       3-Mar-81     31-Dec-86
19770     IBRD   P009195            KOSOVO RAILWAYS        USD         34       0     30      30-Apr-81     31-Dec-86
19930     IBRD   P009193               KOSOVO AGRIC.    USD            90       0   54.4      14-May-81      30-Jun-88
DEVELOPMENT
20550     IBRD   P009200                  KOSOVO W/S       USD         41       0   22.8      10-Nov-81      30-Apr-86
23060     IBRD   P009201             REG.DEV.KOSOVO        USD         79       0   40.4       9-Jun-83      31-Mar-89
23070     IBRD   P009202             SERBIA REG. DEV.    USD          136       0     94       9-Jun-83      31-Aug-91
23260     IBRD   P009203                    SAL I (SAP)    USD      270.8       0  270.8      28-Jun-83      30-Jun-85
23360     IBRD   P009209                  RAILWAYS VI    USD         30.6       0   30.6       19-Jul-83     30-Jun-91
23361     IBRD   P009209                  RAILWAYS VI    USD         24.4       0   24.4       19-Jul-83     30-Jun-90
23381     IBRD   P009208              POWER TRANS.I1I    USD           5.5      0    2.5       26-Jul-83     31-Dec-93
23385     IBRD   P009208              POWERTRANS.I1I    USD          23.7       0     11       26-Jul-83     31-Dec-93
23386     IBRD   P009208              POWER TRANS.I1I    USD           8.5      0    3.1       26-Jul-83     31-Dec-93
23387     IBRD   P009208              POWER TRANS.I1I    USD           8.6      0    3.5       26-Jul-83     31-Dec-93
23390     IBRD   P009206                       DFC VII    USD          45       0   41.9       26-Jul-83     31-Dec-89
23400     IBRD   P009206                       DFC VII    USD          25       0   21.8       26-Jul-83     31-Dec-89
24670     IBRD   P009210   MONTENEGRO REG. DEVT.    USD                40       0   37.4       31-Jul-84     30-Jun-92
25960     IBRD   P009212                  GAS SECTOR       USD         35       0   32.4      27-Jun-85      30-Sep-92
27152     IBRD   P009215           HIGHWAYS SECTOR         USD        36.5      0   36.5      10-Jun-86      31-Dec-91
28780     IBRD   P009265           HIGHWAY SECTOR II    USD            9.6      0    2.4       13-Oct-87     31-Dec-92
28783     IBRD   P009265           HIGHWAY SECTOR II    USD          28.2       0   26.5       13-Oct-87     31-Dec-92
31870     IBRD   P009219                         SAL II    USD        400       0  149.4       12-Apr-90     30-Sep-91
36



Annex 10
FR YUGOSLAVIA: Electric Power Emergency Reconstruction Project
Country at a Glance
Europe &    Lower-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                             Yugoslavia,   Central   middle-
Fed. Rep.     Asia  income        Development diamond*
1 999
Population, mid-year (millions)                       10.6       475      2,094                 Life expectancy
GNP per capita (Atlas method, US$)                      ..    2,150       1,200
GNP (Atlas method, US$ billions)                        ..    1,022       2,513
Average annual growth, 1993-99
Population (%)                                         0.2        0.1       1.1
Labor force (%/6)                                      0.6        0.6       1.2     GNP          ,-                  Gross
per          .        *     primary
Most recent estimate (latest year available, 1993-99)                               capita                       enrollment
Poverty (% of population below national poverty line)
Urban population (% of total population)                52        67        43
Life expectancy at birth (years)                        72        69        69
Infant mortality (per 1,000 live births)                13        22        33
Child malnutrition (% of children under 5)               2         8        15                Access to safe water
Access to improved water source (% of population)       ..         ..       86
Illiteracy(% ofpopulation age 15+)                                 3        16
Gross primary enrollment (% of school-age population)   69       100       114        -Y ugoslavia. FR (SerbiMont.;
Male                                                  69       101       114        -- Lower-middle-income group
Female                                                70        99       116
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1979     1989      1998      1999
Economic ratios'
GDP (US$ billions)                             ..
Gross domestic investment/GDP                   .rade
Exports of goods and services/GDP               ..Trade
Gross domestic savings/GDP
Gross national savings/GDP
Current account balance/GDP                                                         Domestic                    Investment
Interest payments/GDP                                                               Savings
Total debtUGDP
Total debt service/exports                     ..
Present value of debt/GDP                       ..
Present value of debt/exports                  ..
Indebtedness
197949  1989-99      1998      1999   199943
(average annual growth)
GDP                                                                                      -   Yugoslavia, FR (SerbJMont.)
GNP per capita                        ..       ..       ,.         ..                        Lower-middle-income group
Exports of goods and services         ..
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1979     1989      1998      1999
(% of GDP)
Agriculture                                    ..
Industry
Manufacturing
Services                                        ..
Private consumption
General government consumption
Imports of goods and services
1979-89  1989-99      1998      1999
(average annual growth)
Agriculture
Industry
Manufacturing
Services
Private consumption
General government consumption
Gross domestic investment
Imports of goods and services
Gross national product
Note: 1999 data are preliminary estimates.
This table was produced from the Development Economics central database.
'The diamonds show four key indicators in the country (in bold) compared with its income-group average. If data are missing, the diamond will
be incomplete
37



Annex 10
FR YUGOSLAVIA: Electric Power Emergency Reconstruction Project
Country at a Glance
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1979    1989       1998     1999
Domestic prices
(% change)
Consumer prces                                  ..
Implicit GDP deflator                          ..
Govemment fnance
(% of GDP, includes current grants)
Current revenue                                ..
Current budget balance                         ..
Overall surplus/deficit                        ..
TRADE
1979    1989       1998      1999
(US$ millions)
Total exports (fob)
n.a.
n.a.
Manufactures
Totel imports (cif)
Food
Fuel and energy                              ..
Capital goods                                 ..
Export price index (1995=100)                  ..
Import price index (1995=100)
Terms of trade (1995=100)
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
1979     1989      1998      1999
(US$ millions)
Exports of goods and services
Imports of goods and services                   ..
Resource balance                                ..
Net income
Net current transfers
Current account balance                        ..
Financing items (net)                          ..
Changes in net reserves                         .
Memo:
Reserves including gold (US$ millions)         ..
Conversion rate (DEC, local/VS$)           1.9E-3      2.9
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1979    1989       1998      1999
(US$ millions)                                                                     Composition of total debt, 1998 (US$ millions)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed       15,970   19,072    13,742
IBRD                                      1,143    2,395     1,148     1,132                        A: 1,145
IDA                                          0        0          0        0             G:                 C: 79
Total debt service                          3,313    3,808        57                                            D:52
IBRD                                       142      570          0        0
IDA                                          0        0          0        0                                     E: 2,990
Composition of net resource flows
Official grants                             -3        6        182
Official creditors                         252    -119           0
Private creditors                         1,405    -418          0
Foreign direct investment                    0        9          0
Portfolio equity                             0        0          0                         F: 6,889
World Bank program
Commitments                                284        0          0        0      A - IBRD                     E - Bilateral
Disbursements                              294      121          0        0      B - IDA    D - Other multilateral   F - Private
Principal repayments                        49      365          0        0      C- IMF                       G - Short-term
Net flows                                  245    -244           0        0
Interest payments                           93      205          0         0
Net transfers                              152    -449           0        0
Note: This table was produced from the Development Economics central database.
38



14                                       180 HUNGXRY                       00S'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~indorfalva j  2 
46              .0y                                                       HUNGARY<
\46
0         50        100 KILOMETERS
OAT I A      .~~~*'-,.  ~    Sombor   Sent       o      a         
Eresinv                               Zrenl9t° 0  tto  RO TIA_j  mb r   Xent  O an  0  25  50  75 MILES
p-                                                                                                                     Vr ac 0
e440  4ta                                                                               R      '                       Portile de
Adri\tic                                               BOSNCROATiA \A
| Sea    x   .   0   )   \   ~   '   Kruse
~~~~~,,HREO                   NA                        >                       xTeij M°zg O5/s/P}Sfa <;>
cola.'t, denainaIk~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~nsandaasyatBer  ~~~~~~~~Ir                                                             4'
The Wadd Bank G±entanlheiegdsloAa ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~zk 
ELECTRIC POWER                                                                                Kralievo
EMERGENCY RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT                                                                              %> PrFerizrenr    >>
220ckV TRANSMISSIONLINES  O    SELECTEDTOWNSANDCITIESA
380 kV TRANSMISSION LINES    ®  NATIONAL CAPITAL                          t     t                                    kpe1x 
T-ERMA- POWERS PLANTSjCk                                    _j Pirot
HYDRO POWER PLANTS             REPUBLIC BOUNDARIES
INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES                               _AX  LA,N I A   F~        ~     YR   MA   ED.O CN I Af _
160                                  18\ 200    K 



