Report No. PID10410
Project Name                     Yugoslavia, Federal Republic of(SERB./MONT.)-
Emergency Electric Power Reconstruction
Project
Region                           Europe and Central Asia Region
Sector                           Electric Power & Other Energy Adjustment
Project ID                       YUPE74136
Borrower(s)                      FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF YUGOSLAVIA
Implementing Agency
Address ELECTRIC POWER COMPANY OF
SERBIA (EPS)
Address: Belgrade, Federal Republic of
Yugoslavia
Contact Person:
Tel: (+381-11) 620-921
Fax: (+381-11) 629-489
Environment Category             B
Date PID Prepared                June 1, 2001
Projected Appraisal Date         May 10, 2001
Projected Board Date             N/A
1. Country and Sector Background
The power sector is one of the largest sectors of the Yugoslav economy,
consisting of coal production, electricity production, and transmission
and distribution of electricity. The power system in Serbia was developed
as a part of integrated power grid of former SFR Yugoslavia which was a
full member of the UCTE (formerly UCPTE) Western European power system
interconnection. The Serbian power industry exported about 20 percent of
its production, which amounted to 35.8 TWh in 1990. Today, the power
industry faces consequences of air strikes, lack of maintenance and lack
of investments for more than a decade which turned Serbia into a net
importer of electricity. It is estimated that imports of electricity will
amount to about 10 percent of total demand in 2001.The power system is
operating at the very edge of safety and with increasing outage times of
main equipment, which necessitates load shedding and rotating blackouts
throughout the country. The new Government, elected in late 2000, has
already undertaken a major effort with the help of donor resources to
prevent a wide spread energy crisis, which would endanger basic
electricity service provided to industry and commerce, households, public
transportation, schools and hospitals. The accumulated problems in the
power sector will require time and very large resources to resolve.
However, the most important ingredient for a sustainable solution will be
the steady support from the Government for the reforms in the sector
needed to increase prices, commercialize the power industry and gradually
shift responsibilities for social protection of poor (currently provided
through the subsidized price of electricity) from power companies to the
Government.
2. Objectives



The proposed project is of an emergency nature and aims to help restore
reliable electricity supply in Serbia through urgent repairs of power
facilities affected by lack of maintenance and damage during the Kosovo
conflict. Additional objectives are to improve the financial management
system of the Electric Power Company of Serbia (EPS) and to support the
Serbian Ministry of Mining and Energy in preparing an Energy Policy
Statement and drafting a new Energy Law.More specifically, the project
would:n support repair of the 210-MW unit in thermal power plant Kostolac
A which accounts for about 60 percent of generating capacity currently
out of operation in Serbia;n support reinforcement of the transmission
substation Sremska Mitrovica which is key for restoring reliable
electricity supply and ensuring stable import of electricity; andn support
the design and implementation of the Financial Management System (FMS) in
EPS and the   preparation of an Energy Policy and a new Energy Law on the
basis of this policy.
3. Rationale for Bank's Involvement
Through the proposed emergency project, the Bank would provide funding for
the installation of equipment financed by other donors who are not
financing local cost of works needed for dismantling of damaged equipment
and erection of newly supplied components. Therefore, the Bank would
mitigate a major risk that this equipment will not be installed this
Summer. In the absence of the Bank's involvement, there would be a repeat
of electricity shortages and associated blackouts that occurred during the
very mild Winter 2000/01, or indeed an even worse situation if the
temperatures during the Winter 2001/02 are closer to the Serbian winter
average.The Bank brings to the reconstruction process its unique
experience in identifying, selecting and implementing priority investments
for recovery of basic energy and infrastructure facilities in
post-conflict countries. The Bank will also help to mobilize and target
other donor resources for emergency repair of power infrastructure and to
coordinate donor's activities in this sector.
4. Description
The proposed grant will have three main components:Thermal power plant
Kostolac A: Under this component funding will be provided for the
installation of equipment needed to return to operation a 210-MW unit in
thermal power plant Kostolac A. The unit is out of operation since March
2000 when its boiler's super heater collapsed due to accumulated fatigue
of supporting structure.. Most of the equipment needed for the repair and
unit overhaul is provided under a Russian suppliers' credit and it is
already delivered to the site.Transmission substation Sremska Mitrovica:
Under this component funding will be provided for the installation of 400
MVA, 400/220 kV transformer which is needed to relive overloading of
transmission network in Northern Serbia, improve reliability of
electricity supply and reduce transmission losses. The transformer is
provided under a Chinese suppliers' credit and it is already delivered to
the Yugoslav border.Institutional Development: This component will
provide funding for technical assistance to support the preparatory work
to upgrade Financial Management System in EPS and implement the system
upgrade. This component also includes technical assistance to the Ministry
of Mining and Energy of Republic of Serbia in preparing an Energy Policy
Statement and drafting a new Energy Law on the basis of this policy.
5. Financing
-2-



Total ( US$m)
Total Project Cost Total project cost is estimated at US$20.0 million.
Bank financing will be in the amount of US$6.0 million, and would finance
mostly local costs associate with dismantling of damaged equipment,
installation of new equipment and associated civil works. Also, Bank
financing will be provided for consulting services to the Ministry of
Mining and Energy. A Grant from SIDA (US$1.5 million), managed by the
Bank, would finance consulting service for design and implementation of
FMS, as well as the system hardware and software.
6. Implementation
The project will be implemented over an 18-months period. The Ministry of
Energy and Mining of Republic of Serbia and EPS are main counterparts for
the project. The overall coordination of the project would rest with the
Project Implementation Unit (PIU), which has been established in EPS. The
PIU will be headed by a Project Manager, who will have overall
responsibility for the project. The PIU will be assisted by international
consultants funded under the EU Energy Program in Serbia. The consulting
team will include technical specialists, procurement, contract management
and disbursement specialists. The PIU Project Manager will ensure that all
project objectives and monitorable targets as specified in the Project
Implementation Plan (PIP) are on track and achieved. The PIU will be
responsible for the day to day operations of the project, procurement and
financial management, including reporting to the Government and to the
Bank.
7. Sustainability
The project is expected to reduce the need for electricity imports during
Winter 2001/02 by around 300 GWh, and to restore reliable electricity
supply from the 210 MW thermal power unit Kostolac A2 thereafter. The
reinforcement of the 400 kV transmission substation Sremska Mitrovica
under this project should ensure a stable operation of transmission
network, improve reliability of electricity supply in Northern Serbia,
reduce transmission losses and facilitate reintegration of the Serbian
power system into UCTE. Both project components are essential to the
sustainable operation of the Serbian power system and the elimination of
the current energy crisis.The project is expected to be sustainable
provided that EPS is able to become a financially viable commercially
operated company. This requires tariff adjustments that should enable EPS
to fully fund operating costs from internal cash generation by the end of
2001. In addition, EPS has to improve its collection performance and
significantly reduce the share of non-cash payments within the collection
total. A critical factor for the successful commercialization of EPS is
Government support for price increases and for the legal discipline needed
to deal with collection problems.
8. Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
The Bank experience in other transition economies and post-conflict
countries (such as Bosnia and Hercegovina) has shown that, while quick
response to a crisis is imperative, it is equally important to identify
underlying problems and determine how to resolve them in ways that result
in long-term sustainable solutions. From this point of view, the project
supports EPS in introducing a sound financial management system.
Additionally, the project helps to improve EPS procurement and project
implementation capacity by establishing a PIU with highly competent local
- 3-



staff and international consultants.
9. Program of Targeted Intervention (PTI)      N
10. Environment Aspects (including any public consultation)
Issues     :   In accordance with OP/BP/GP 4.01 (Environmental
assessment), the project has been rated Environmental category B. The
reason for this rating is that the physical component of this project is
reconstruction and restoration, and there will be no construction of new
facilities except a short (1.8 km) link between Sremska Mitrovica
substation and an existing 400 kV transmission line. These operations do
not require environmental permits or clearances since they address power
facilities already in place. The main environmental issues are: disposal
of used equipment and materials; noise (during construction) and public
safety. These issues will have to be addressed in both the design and
operation phases of the project. As required by the project's
environmental rating, an Environmental Management Plan (EMP) was received
by the Bank on May 21, 2001.
11. Contact Point:
Task Manager
Dejan Ostojic
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone:   (202) 473-3507
Fax:   (202) 477-1351
12. For information on other project related documents contact:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax:        (202) 522-1500
Web: http:// www.worldbank.org/infoshop
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components may
not be necessarily included in the final project.
- 4 -



