Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 17437-ZIM
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ON A PROPOSED CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 46.3 MILLION
AND A
GEF TRUST FUND GRANT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 3.7 MILLION
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF ZIMBABWE
FORA
PARK REHABILITATION AND CONSERVATION PROJECT
APRIL 30, 1998
Transport Operations
Eastern and Southem Africa
Africa Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective April 9, 1998)
Currency Unit = Zimbabwe Dollar (Z$)
Z$1.00 = US$.0619
US$1.00= Z$16.15
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31
(FY98 is transition year: July 1, 1997-December 31, 1998)
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CAS   =  Country Assistance Strategy
CAMPFIRE   =  Communal Areas Management Programme for
Indigenous Resources
CBA   =  Cost-Benefit Analysis
CIDA  =  Canadian International Development Agency
CITES =  Convention on the International Trade of
Endangered Species
COP   =  Conference of the Parties to the Convention on
Biological Diversity
DNPWLM   =  Department of National Parks and Wild Life
Management
EA   =  Environmental Analysis
ERR   =  Economic Rate of Return
GEF   =  Global Environment Facility
GNP  =  Gonarezhou National Park
GRZ   =  Government of the Republic of Zimbabwe
IC   =  Incremental Cost
ICB   =  International Competitive Bidding
IDA   =  International Development Association
GFC   =  International Finance Corporation
IUCN  =  International Union for Conservation of Nature
MOF   =  Ministry of Finance
MMET   =  Ministry of Mines, Environment and Tourism
MPCNH   =  Ministry of Public construction and National
NCB   =  National Competitive Bidding
NORAD   =  Norwegian Agency for International
Development
NGO  =  Non-Governmental Organization
NPV   =  Net Present Value
NSB   =  Net Social Benefit
PIP   =  Project Implementation Plan
PPA   =  Project Preparation Advance
PSC   =  Public Service Commission
SA   =  Special Account
SOE   =  Statement of Expenditure
SBD   =  Standard Bidding Document
SWR  =  Shadow Wage Rate
TCA   =  Transfrontier Conservation Area
TOR   =  Terms of Reference
QCBS =  Quality-Cost-Based Selection
Vice President: Callisto E. Madavo
Country Director: Barbara Kafka
Sector Manager: Yusupha Crookes
Task Manager: Imogene Jensen



Zimbabwe
Park Rehabilitation and Conservation Project
CONTENTS
A. Project Development Objective                                                  2
1. Project development objective and key performance indicators            2
B. Strategic Context                                                              2
1. Sector-related CAS goal supported by the project                        2
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy                              3
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices      4
C. Project Descripticn Summary                                                    4
1. Project cormponents                                                     4
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project           6
3. Benefits and target population                                          6
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements                           7
D. Project Rationale                                                              7
1. Project alte:rnatives considered and reasons for rejection              7
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies  9
3. Lessons learned and reflected in proposed project design                9
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership                        10
5. Value adde(d of Bank support in this project                            10
E. Summary Project Analyses                                                       10
1. Economic                                                                10
2. Financial                                                               11
3. Technical                                                                15
4. Instituticnal                                                            16
5. Social                                                                   17
6. Environmental assessment                                                 18
7. Participatory approach                                                   18
F. Sustainability and Risks                                                       20
1. Sustainability                                                          20
2. Critical risks                                                          20
3. Possible controversial aspects                                          22
G. Main Credit Conditions                                                         23



1. Effectiveness conditions                                                 23
2. Other                                                                    23
H. Readiness for Implementation                                                    23
I. Compliance with Bank Policies                                                   23
Annexes
Annex 1.     Project Design Summary                                                24
Annex 2.     Detailed Project Description                                          27
Annex 3.      Estimated Project Costs                                              33
Annex 4.     Cost-Benefit Analysis Summary, or                                     34
Cost-Effectiveness Analysis Summary
Annex 5.     Financial Summary for Revenue-Earning Project Entities, or            51
Financial Summary
Annex 6.      Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements                            64
Table A.     Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements                           66
Table B.     Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review                 67
Table C1.    Allocation of Credit Proceeds                                       67
Table C2.    Allocation of GEF Grant Proceeds                                    68
Annex 7      Environmental Analysis                                                69
Annex 8.     Project Processing Budget and Schedule                                72
Annex 9.     Documents in Project File                                             73
Annex 10.    Statement of Loans and Credits                                        74
Annex 11.    Country at a Glance                                                   76
Annex 12.    Letter of Sector Development Policy                                   78
Annex 13.    Park and Wild Life Conservation Fund Constitution                     87
Maps: (i) Location of National Parks IBRD No. 29269
(ii) South East Lowveld    IBRD No. 29301



Project Appraisal Document                                                        Page I
Zimbabwe: Park Rehabilitation and ConseeNation Project
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Africa Regional Office
AFC03
Project Appraisal Document
Date: April 30, 1998                                Task Team Leader/Task Manager: Imogene Jensen
Country Manager/Director: Barbara Kafka      Sector Manager/Director: Yusupha Crookes
ProjectID:ZW-PA-3318  Sector: Environment           Program Objective Category: Environmentally Sustainable
Development
GEF Supplement ID:     ZW..GE-3261                  Focal Area: Biodiversity
Lending Instrument: Specific Investment Credit and GEF   Program of Targeted Intervention:  [   Yes  [X] No
Grant                                                                                   Y
Project Financing Data           []Loan [X] Credit    [  Guarantee   [[X ] Grant   [] Other
[Specify]
For Loans/Credits/Others:
Amount (US$m/SDRm): $62.5 million/SDR 46.3 million
Proposed terms:                     [X]      Multicurrency       []  Single currency, specify
Grace period (years): 10 [O             Standard Variable    [  Fixed         [    LIBOR-based
Years to maturity: 35
Commitment fee:: 0
Service charge: 0.75%
Financing plan (US$75.0 m):
Source                              Local            Foreign          Total
Government                                                    7.5               0              7.5
IDA                                                          24.7             37.8            62.5
GEF                                                           2.7              2.3             5.0
Total       34.9              40.1           75.0
Borrower: Republic of Zimbabwve
Recipient: Republic of Zimbabwe
Guarantor: N/A
Responsible agency(ies): Ministry of Mines, Environment and Tourism, Department of National Parks and Wild Life
Management
Estimated disbursements (Bank FY/US$M):          1999      2000    2001   2002   2003  2004   2005
Annual          2.5      13.1     13.5    12.0    11.2   6.2    4.0
Cumulative         2.5       15.6    29.1   41.1    52.3  58.5   62.5
Estimated GEF disbursements (B3ank
FY/US$M)
Annual          1.0       1.5       1.0    0.5     0.5   0.5
Cumulative         1.0        2.5      3.5    4.0      4.5   5.0
Project Implementation period: 6.5 years  Expected effectiveness date: 10/01/98   Expected closing date: 09/30/05



Project Appraisal Document                                                       Page 2
Zimbabwe: Park Rehabilitation and Conservation Project
A: Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective and key performance indicators (see Annex 1):
The basic objective of the project is to enhance the Government of the Republic of Zimbabwe's (GRZ)
ability to protect wildlife populations and their habitats and to develop the parks and wildlife sector, by
rehabilitating or improving essential elements of infrastructure, and by strengthening the institutional
capacity of the agencies responsible for ensuring the sustainability of investments and for formulating
policy and implementing wildlife programs.
The global environmental objective is to improve biodiversity conservation in Gonarezhou National Park
and nearby South East Lowveld areas. Key features of biodiversity conservation and management will be
protection of adequate range for mobile wildlife populations in this semi-arid and periodically drought-
prone region, protection of vegetation from destruction by fire and other human-caused impacts,
protection of water resources, re-establishment of migration corridors, protection of wildlife from illegal
killing, and minimization of conflict between wildlife and agriculture or other land uses outside the park.
B: Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project (seeAnnex 1):
GAS document number: 16541 - ZIM
Date of latest CAS discussion: May 27, 1997
The primary development objective identified in the Bank's Zimbabwe Country Assistance Strategy
(CAS) is to raise per capita income and reduce poverty. The CAS focuses on four elements to
accomplish this objective: (1) macroeconomic reform; (2) rural development and natural resource
management; (3) private sector development; and (4) development of human capital. The CAS notes that
this project will be a key operation for one of the three major components of the rural development and
natural resources management element, namely, the component directed at reducing vulnerability to
drought and ensuring that economic development in rural areas is environmentally sound. This project
will contribute to this component by seeking to ensure that the infrastructure of parks and related eco-
tourism resources are sustainably managed to the benefit of neighboring rural communities, thereby
enhancing the management of wildlife, forestry and other natural resources. Elements of a coherent rural
development strategy are addressed by the Rural District Council Pilot Capital Development Project
(Credit No. N-0190-ZIM), the proposed Community Action Project and the proposed Agriculture
Services Management Project.
As the third highest foreign currency earner, behind agriculture and mining, tourism is important to the
Zimbabwean economy. Since independence in 1980, the number of visitors to Zimbabwe has increased
an average of about 10% per year through the 1980s and 23% per year through the 1990s. In 1996, 1.4
million visitors spent nearly US$150 million in Zimbabwe. Estimates have placed the contribution of
tourism to GDP in the order of 3%, with estimates of current employment in tourism ranging from 20,000
to 37,000 (see Annex 4). Most of this tourism is wildlife-based (the number of registered tour and safari
operators, guides and hunters approximately tripled from 1985 to 1992). The entire National Parks Estate
comprises approximately 13% of Zimbabwe's land area, with national parks constituting about 55% of
the estate, safari areas 38%, and recreational parks 7%. Compared with the 23% recent average annual
growth overall, annual growth in visitors to the Parks Estate has averaged only 11%. Constraints to the
estate playing a more active role in the country's economic development include: inadequate planning,
competition within the region, declining infrastructure, poor marketing, constraints to private sector
participation, and low local participation.



Project Appraisal Document                                                              Page 3
Zimbabwe: Park Rehabilitation and Conservation Project
The project will help to address these constraints by supporting institutional changes in the Department of
National Parks and Wiild Life Management (DNPWLM) to decentralize departmental planning and
management, support dlesign and implementation of park management planning processes that have
strong community participation, and provide opportunities for increased participation by the rural poor
including small-scale farmers in wildlife utilization on communal lands. In the lower potential zones
where most of Zimbabwve's poor live, wildlife utilization can be a sustainable form of natural resource
utilization that is less vulnerable to drought than crop or livestock agriculture, is less likely to cause
environmental degradation, and provides economic diversification. Overall, the project will assist in
raising per capita income and reducing poverty, particularly in semi-arid areas, through increased
tourism; improved opportunities for rural development and indigenous participation in the parks and
wildlife sector; and reduced risks to environmental sustainability.
The economic value of Zimbabwe's wildlife species is reflected in: (i) the cash role it plays in the local
and national economy; (ii) the non-cash role it plays in improving local livelihoods; and (iii) the
contribution it makes through game ranching activities. The cash contribution is substantial. The
emerging wildlife industry was estimated in 1995 to be worth at least Z$200 million; another recent
estimate sets the total earnings in wildlife subsectors, including tourism, hunting, food production, game
products and support services at Z$852 million. However, benefits accruing to communities are mixed,
and depend largely on the existence of local institutional structures to take advantage of and distribute
income. The distribution of benefits so as to compensate those who "produce" the wildlife by tolerating
the opportunity costs imposed is a key issue for long tern sustainability, particularly for the communal
lands.
The maintenance of prctected areas managed by DNPWLM  is vital to tourism, as the protected areas
form the core attractioin for wildlife-based tourism. Continued investment and management of the
protected areas is also essential to the development of wildlife utilization in both the communal and larger
scale farms and game ranches. The genetic stocks of the Parks Estate have also made important
contributions to the ecological and economic resources of the nation. Other benefits include provision of
live animals for reintroduction into other areas, and the underlying breeding stock for migratory animals
hunted in communal andt commercial areas. Beyond these unquantified economic benefits are the non-
market ecological benefits of conservation provided by the parks and wildlife estate.
Gonarezhou and the sunrounding lowveld, in particular, is recognized as a region of globally significant
biodiversity. Support for the park is consistent with the GEF Operational Strategy for Arid and Semiarid
Ecosystems and will contribute to protection and management of important trans-boundary wildlife
habitats which overlap Zimbabwe, Mozambique and South Africa. The project is consistent with COP
guidance in that it involves participation of local communities and other stakeholders, is promoting
capacity building, encouraging conservation through alternative livelihoods and economic incentives and
facilitating innovative iFinancial sustainability of the protected areas system. It will contribute to
strengthened protection of endangered, vulnerable and endemic species, including threatened species
such as rhinoceros and elephant.
2. Main sector issues aml Government strategy:
Zimbabwe has long been a world leader in wildlife and national parks management and maintains strong
programs in many areas, including protection of vulnerable species as indicated above. However, in the
past few years, fiscal, structural and other problems have led to a deterioration in park infrastructure and
in DNPWLM's ability to protect and manage effectively the Parks and Wildlife Estate. Key issues in the
wildlife sector therefore center around (i) the effective management of the Parks Estate; (ii) regulation of
wildlife resources outside of the Estate; and (iii) development of the economic value of the sector to the



Project Appraisal Document                                                              Page 4
Zimbabwe: Paric Rehabilitation and Conservation Project
national/regional/local economy.
Government is currently addressing these priorities and other key sector issues, including (a) the
appropriate role of government agencies in developing the commercial potential of the sector; (b) the
proper balance between biodiversity conservation and commercial development of each unit within the
Parks Estate; (c) the role of the Department in ensuring public regulation of the wildlife resource; (d) the
integration of protected area planning with regional and local development planning activities; and (e)
means to improve incentives and benefits to communities and households from effective conservation
and utilization of wildlife resources and habitat.
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
To address these issues, Government's immediate priorities are: (i) infrastructure rehabilitation - to
rehabilitate the basic infrastructure in National Parks so as to improve DNPWLM operations and access
for tourism; (ii) commercialization - to improve revenue generation and operational efficiency throughout
the Parks Estate, thereby increasing the economic value of the sector to the national economy; and (iii)
resource management - to improve the Department's ability to ensure effective wildlife conservation and
management practices within the Estate and in all areas where wildlife are to be found. The creation in
January 1996 of the Parks and Wild Life Conservation Fund, which allows DNPWLM to retain its
revenues for operating and maintenance expenses, addresses elements of the first two of these priorities.
Improved control over revenue will allow the Department to allocate more furding to infrastructure
rehabilitation and conservation. It will also provide both the institutionaVlegal basis and the incentive for
improving commercial functioning of the Parks Estate.
The project addresses those issues relevant to the capacity of DNPWLM and to the management of
national parks and conservation of wildlife and habitats within them, and through the GEF component,
regional issues in the Gonarezhou National Park area. The project does not attempt to deal directly with
issues concerning other Parks and Wildlife Estate lands (such as safari areas, botanical gardens,
sanctuaries), wildlife utilization on most communal and private lands (excepting those near Gonarezhou),
wildlife on private lands, and tourism sector policy and development. Within the national parks, the
project addresses all three of the Government's priorities, as it will assist Government in restoring the
physical infrastructure in a manner consistent with the pressing resource conservation functions of the
Department; it will provide improved roads and basic tourist access (administrative offices, interpretive
centers, etc.) to further the balanced commercial development of the Estate; and it will help ensure the
sustainability of these improvements through improved management of the Fund.
C: Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 2for a detailed description and Annex 3for a detailed cost breakdown):
The project comprises three parts as follows:
I.    Institutional Strengthening: Reinforce institutional and organizational capacity to ensure the
sustainability of investments and the effective management of the Parks Estate and wildlife resources by
(i) supporting organizational development (strengthen decision-making, management and oversight
functions, support the culture shift required to develop a strong service orientation and operation along
commercial principles, review decentralization options, assess skill and training needs, establish
performance and evaluation review system); (ii) implementing Fund financial management and
management information systems (commercial accounting practices, decentralized cost centers,
integrated management, planning, resource base and financial information systems); (iii) instituting
comprehensive park planning (preparing an overall Parks and Wildlife Conservation Master Plan and



Project Appraisal Document                                                                 Page 5
Zimbabwe: Park Rehabilitation and Conservation Project
individual park management plans, strengthening the planning unit, linking park plans to budget and
management systems); (iv) improving capacity for policy development; (v) supporting monitoring
programs and applied research for protected area management and biodiversity conservation; and (vi)
providing interpretive and educational materials and programs.
II.    Infrastructure: Rehabilitate or improve elements of national park infrastructure essential to the
management of parks for wildlife and habitat conservation and for sustainable commercial development,
including: (i) rehabilitating infrastructure (roads, water supplies, electricity, communications) critical for
park functioning and tourism access; (ii) providing basic "tractor-based" plant and equipment for road
maintenance; (iii) improving existing staff housing and providing additional housing to replace sub-
standard accommodations; (iv) providing improved park administrative facilities (office space) and
equipment; and (v) providing vehicles and other equipment for improved park management and anti-
poaching operations.
III.    GEF - Gonarezhou National Park: Strengthen biodiversity conservation in Gonarezhou National
Park and the nearby South East Lowveld, by supporting activities both in the park and in nearby areas
(particularly communal lands), including: (i) rehabilitating and improving essential infrastructure in the
park, and supporting implementation of the park management plan; (ii) establishing a consultative
process to involve local communities and other relevant stakeholders in park planning and management
and in promoting conservation opportunities outside park boundaries; (iii) supporting community-based
subprojects outside the park to promote or develop sustainable wildlife utilization and other forms of land
use that are compatible with biodiversity conservation; and, (iv) supporting monitoring and applied
research programs, and initerpretive and education facilities and programs.
Component                          Category      Cost    Incl. %   of Bank-          %       of
Contingencies  Total   financing   Bank-
(US$M)              _  (US$M)    financing
1. Institutional Strengtheniing
Policy Development                 Policy             0.3          0.4       0.3        0.5
Organizational Development         Institution        0.5          0.7       0.5        0.8
Building
Fund Management System             Institution         1.0         1.3       1.0        1.6
Building
Planning Unit Strengthening        Institution        0.3         04        0.3        0.5
Building
Park Management Planning           Institution        0.3          0.4       0.3        0.5
Building
Interpretive and Extension (Capacity    Institution   0.2         0.3        0.2        0.3
Building
Research, Monitoring and Evaluation    Project       0.1          0.1       0.1        0.1
Management
Training                           Institution        0.7          0.9       0.7        1.1
Building
Institutional Strengthening Equipment  Institution    0.8          1.0       0.7        1.1
Building
II. Infrastructure
Gonarezhou                         Physical           8.9         11.9       7.5       12.0
Hwange/Kazuma Pan                  Physical          24.5        32.7       22.1       35.4
Mana Pools                         Physical           6.8          9.0       6.0        9.6
Nyanga                             Physical           4.1          5.5       3.6        5.8
Chizarira                          Physical           6.4          8.5       5.8        9.3
Matobo                             Physical           4.1         5.5        3.6        5.8



Project Appraisal Document                                                            Page 6
Zimbabwe: Park Rehabilitation and Conservation Project
Component                        Category     Cost    Incl. %  of Bank-          %     of
Contingencies  Total  financing   Bank-
(US$M)                (US$M)    financing
Chimanimani                      Physical          1.5         2.0      1.2        1.9
Zambezi/Victoria Falls           Physical          4.7         6.3      4.2        6.7
Matusadona                       Physical          4.8         6.4      4.4        7.0
III. GEF-Gonarezhou National Park
In-Park Works at Gonarezhou      Physical          3.0         4.0
Off-Park Investnents at Gonarezhou    Institution
Building and      2.0        2.7
Physical
Total            75.0       100.0     62.5      100.0
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
As indicated above the project is designed to contribute directly to the improvement of infrastructure and
the underlying systems and human resources that are essential to ensuring the long-term sustainability of
planned investments. Key to this program of support are measures to strengthen organizational and
institutional capacity as follows:
a) elaboration of policies guiding the management of the Wildlife and Parks Estate, including financial
self-sufficiency in a context of public service and operational efficiency; the role of DNPWLM in
community conservation and sustainable use; wildlife producer rights and responsibilities; and review
and updating of relevant legislation in conformity with formal policy decisions;
b) implementation of the Fund to provide a more autonomous structure emphasizing commercial
operations and economic efficiency in keeping with the performance of its conservation functions;
c) support for the development and implementation of financial management and management
information systems for the Fund;
d) implementation of a coherent approach to culture change within the Department, emphasizing the
development of a service-oriented, professional culture that values and rewards strong perforrnance
and effective commercial operation;
e) assessment of organizational options, such as the desirability of conversion of current staff from the
public service to employment by the Fund, and appropriate levels of financial and managerial
decentralization by providing funds for detailed technical review, incorporating the results of the
income and expenditure analysis; and
f) support for comprehensive, participatory, and integrated planning at both the Parks Estate level and
for each unit of the Parks Estate. Specifically, the project will continue the approach instituted during
project preparation of developing park plans with broad participation of local and regional authorities,
communal neighbors, and other stakeholders.
3. Benefits and target population:
a) Improved protected area management will contribute to healthy wildlife populations in both parks
and adjacent lands, providing opportunities to local communities to benefit from wildlife tourism and
wildlife utilization;
b) Employees of DNPWLM working in remote areas will benefit from improved living conditions, and



Project Appraisal Document                                                       Page 7
Zimbabwe: Park Rehabilitation and Conservation Project
from more reliable csompensation derived from stabilized financial management.
c) Residents of lands neaLr national parks will benefit from greater integration of park management in
regional development.
d) Park visitors, both residents and foreigners, and the populations of communities near parks, will gain
a greater environmental awareness and understanding from educational and interpretive programs.
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
Implementation period: 6.5 years
Executing agencies: Department of National Parks and Wild Life Management (DNPWLM)
Project coordination: Planning Unit within DNPWLM. Within this unit the project implementation
team will comprise a project coordinator, engineer, planner, business development specialist, and
accountant. In addition, independent consultant engineers will be employed under the project to review
the planning and execution of infrastructure works. Capacity to implement the engineering and
procurement-related aspects of the project will be provided and developed under the project.
Project oversight (poliicy guidance, etc.): Ministry of Mines, Environment and Tourism (MMET)
Accounting, financial reiporting and auditing arrangements: The Project Accounting Unit within the
Finance Department will be responsible for coordinating project accounting, maintaining overall records
in accordance with international accounting standards, producing an aggregated and consolidated project
account for the project, managing disbursements, and ensuring timely audit of accounts. Assurances
were obtained that: (i) DNPWLM will maintain separate accounts for the project in accordance with
generally accepted accounting principles; (ii) accounting records will be kept permitting identification of
all receipts and payments under the project; and (iii) DNPWLM will have accounts, including those of the
IDA and GEF Special Accounts and Statements of Expenditure, audited by an auditor acceptable to IDA,
sent to IDA within six months of the close of each fiscal year. (See Annex 5.)
Monitoring and evaluation arrangements: The Planning Unit within DNPWLM will be responsible
for overseeing the implementation of the project. The Planning Unit will regularly monitor and report on
progress made in accordance with the framework provided in the Project Design Summary (Annex 1).
An effective monitoring and evaluation program will be important to ensure that lessons learned in the
early phases of the project, especially with respect to park planning and community participation, can be
factored into the design of later phases. Environmental aspects will be reviewed by the Department of
Natural Resources withini MMET. The monitoring and evaluation arrangements, including reporting
formats, are spelled out in the borrower's Project Implementation Plan.
D: Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
The project has been prepared in two phases. The first, from 1989-94, provided extensive analytical
support to the Ministry and Department through a Japanese Grant and a Project Preparation Advance
(PPA) from GEF. The Japanese Grant assisted Government with analyses of environmental, economic,
land use and managemnent issues, assessment of the legal and institutional framework, and evaluation of
the potential for increased wildlife tourism. The PPA supported the preparation of a management and
development plan for Gonarezhou National Park, socio-economic studies of the Sengwe communal lands
and the Gonakudzingwa small scale farning area adjacent to the park, and development of a consultative
process to help the Sengwe community develop selected wildlife utilization projects in preparation for
project implementation. A supplemental PPA provided additional support for carrying out engineering



Project Appraisal Document                                                            Page 8
Zimbabwe: Park Rehabilitation and Conservation Project
and tourism consultancies to finalize the infrastructure needs of Gonarezhou and continue the park
planning/public consultation process.
Although significant progress was made, failure on the part of Government to take a decision on an
institutional reform program and structure caused the Bank in 1994 to put project processing on hold.
The Bank resumed project processing with the Government's passage of the Fund in 1996. Once this
decision was made, the focus shifted to one of helping Government to implement and build on the Fund
model. Subsequent Bank missions have provided suggestions and support for institutional reforms and
organizational options that flow from this choice, to ensure that the resulting reforms achieve their
desired goals. As the sector has been starved by Treasury for some years, maintenance, rehabilitation and
upgrading of infrastructure have been deferred. Thus, in conjunction with the implementation of the
Fund, an important focus of the project became to restore the standard of infrastructure within the
national park system to an acceptable level.
While at first only five parks were included, the project now includes all eleven of Zimbabwe's
designated national parks. Together these parks represent all major habitat types within Zimbabwe and
contribute to in situ conservation of the country's biodiversity. The eleven parks are: Chimanimani,
Chizarira, Gonarezhou, Hwange, Kazuma Pan, Mana Pools, Matobo, Matusadona, Nyanga, Zambezi and
Victoria Falls. Project activities were considered for other parks and wildlife estate lands such as safari
areas, but this broader scope would have overextended project resources.
The rationale for selection of priority proposals, identified from the outline park plans, that will be
supported under the project is as follows: (a) rehabilitation of critical infrastructure for park functioning
(e.g., roads, water supplies, electricity, communications); (b) provision of basic "tractor based" plant and
equipment for routine road maintenance; (c) provision of further staff housing for those living in sub-
standard conditions and for additional staff based on establishment levels; (d) provision of improved
facilities and equipment for park administration and efficiency (e.g., office space, office equipment); and
(e) provision of vehicles and equipment to improve general park management and anti-poaching
activities. Components of the outline plans put forward but which do not accord with this rationale and
which, therefore, would not be supported under the project include: (a) tourist facilities; (b) animal
translocation, as this needs to be considered carefully in the more detailed planning process to be
followed for the development of the parks; and (c) recurrent costs, which are the responsibility of the
DNPWLM to provide.
For the GEF operation, both an in-country and regional orientation was envisioned in the original
proposal, but early on, the decision was made to focus primarily on Zimbabwe. However, the South East
Lowveld, including GNP, forms part of an important transfrontier conservation area (TCA), which
overlaps parts of Zimbabwe, Mozambique and South Africa.  Strengthening the protection and
management of Gonarezhou will contribute to the Zimbabwean part of the TCA. Around the national
park the project will support community and development activities that promote conservation and
sustainable use of habitat and wildlife, thus effectively extending the wildlife conservation estate over a
broad area. In addition there are several private initiatives where private landowners have established
conservancies on land of low agricultural potential, have abandoned cattle ranching and restocked their
lands with wildlife. (The Save Conservancy is expected to receive GEF support through the IFC Small
and Medium Enterprises program). National park authorities, local community leaders, NGOs and
conservancy landowners are all working together to develop a program for the areas surrounding GNP
that will support park conservation objectives and programs and allow communities to benefit from
conservation initiatives. Together the combined activities of government, local communities and the
private sector can provide a strong and comprehensive conservation strategy for the area.
The Zimbabwe GEF project will complement, and provide management models for, the ongoing



Project Appraisal Document                                                           Page 9
Zimbabwe: Park Rehabilitationi and Conservation Project
Mozambique GEF "T'ransfrontier Conservation Areas Pilot and Institutional Strengthening Project",
December 1996, (Report 'No. 15534-MOZ).
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed, ongoing
and planned):
Sector issue -                       Project
Natural Resource Management
Other development agencies
CIDA                                 Zimbabwe Natural Resources Management Programme
USAID                                CAMPFIRE Project
UNDP                      _          Capacity Building for National Parks Planning
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
Project Design. The project design follows a phased approach in which Gonarezhou National Park has,
and will continue to, serve as a testing and development ground for the Parks Estate as a whole. The
phased approach will apply primarily to the development of consultative processes for park management
planning and environmnental assessment, as well as regional integration issues including mechanisms for
improving park-community relationships.
Institutional Strengtheniing. Although this project is the first in the sector in Zimbabwe, considerable
experience exists in other such projects. Experience elsewhere has shown the importance of timely
establishment of: (i) a comprehensive policy base to guide parks and wildlife management; (ii) effective
advisory, decision-making, and management structures and relationships for the various organizations
involved in the parks and wildlife Govemment sector (e.g., Boards, Ministry, Departmnent, Fund); (iii)
effective organization-wide financial and business planning to ensure long term sustainability of
DNPWLM operations; and (iv) effective financial and management information systems.
Planning. It is important to (i) determine a clear process for preparation and authoritative approval of
park management plans so they will effectively guide park management; (ii) use such plans as a key tool
for coordinating investments and management in parks, and linking field planning and management to
central budget and decislion-making systems; and (iii) in so doing expand the role for local communities
in park planning and mranagement, while accommodating park management confidentiality on some
subjects and law enforcerment constraints on public participation.
Infrastructure. Given the expanding role for private sector involvement in tourism activities, it is
important to carry out only infrastructure rehabilitation and improvements that are essential to basic
national park management and services. From an environmental and natural resources perspective, it also
is important to avoid expansions of infrastructure that may have undesired environmental or tourism
impacts (e.g., rehabilitate existing game water supplies but do not construct new ones, repair roads but do
not construct new ones except in limited, clearly needed situations).
GEF. Conservation, forestry, rural/regional development projects have all provided lessons that highlight
the importance of (i) incorporating protected area concerns into regional planning and regulation; (ii)
involving disadvantaged groups in participatory resource management; (iii) assessing incentives for
beneficiaries; and (iv) developing transparent and verifiable monitoring to ensure accountability.
Particularly in a regional or sub-regional context, there is a need to involve all stakeholders, and the GEF
out-of-parks component of the project addresses this.



Project Appraisal Document                                                              Page 10
Zimbabwe: Park Rehabilitation and Conservation Project
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
Borrower commitment and ownership have, in the recent phase of project preparation, been strong. The
creation of the Fund provided a basis for a resumption of project processing and ensuring project
viability. Follow-up actions to establish related management and advisory structures and procedures are
underway, and there is general agreement among the various players within government and the Bank on
the appropriate directions to follow. Appointment of an energetic and highly committed project
coordinator at headquarters has facilitated project preparation. Participation in project preparation
activities by field staff from the eleven parks has been extensive and enthusiastic. The Gonarezhou
National Park management plan has been completed, and follow-on detailed engineering design is
underway. Similar activities have been initiated in all other national parks to get a head start pending
project effectiveness.
As part of the reform process, the Public Service Commission (PSC) has completed a review of
DNPWLM positions and formally approved the proposed organizational structure. DNPWLM has begun
filling vacant posts now allowed by the PSC review, or, for particular high-level positions, by settlement
of court cases. A letter from Ministry of Finance reiterated Government's interest in the project, as have
the Permanent Secretary, MMET, and the President's office in meetings with Bank officials.
S. Value added of Bank support in this project:
The Bank's support of the parks and wildlife sector through preparation of this project has been
instrumental in accomplishing basic institutional changes and policy reforms, and will continue to be
essential for establishment of the structures and procedures for effective policy implementation and sector
management.  The Bank project offers the only external donor support for park infrastructure
rehabilitation identifiable at this time; this support is required to reverse the decline in park management
and services and allow parks to fulfill their conservation and development roles. With Bank participation,
other external donors may re-enter the field. The GEF project is the only significant source of funding
for biodiversity protection projects in the Gonarezhou area, and can be well integrated with other
planning activities underway in the area to provide small project implementation funding. GEF staff have
also brought a wealth of experience from similar activities elsewhere, which in turn has helped to shape
the policy dialog and implementation modalities.
E: Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessments are in the project file)
1. Economic (supported by Annex 4):
[X] Cost-Benefit Analysis: NSB=US$45 million; ERR= 16.5%
[X] Cost Effectiveness Analysis: Park Conservation Expenditures
[X] Other (GEF Incremental Cost Analysis)
[X] Other (Sustainability Analysis)
Cost-Benefit Analysis. The cost-benefit analysis was undertaken to compare the project cost and benefit
streams to a reference case in which the project investments did not take place. The reference case
reflected flat tourism receipts during the project life, and escalating efficiency losses from infrastructure
degradation. The project had a positive Net Social Benefit (NSB) at all discount rates evaluated; in the
base case the NSB was approximately US$45 million.1 Project viability was robust in relation to all
evaluated sensitivity cases dealing with different shadow wage rates, different revenue forecasts, and a
variety of park use forecasts. While the project would remain viable even if tourist volumes were to
decline by 4% per year, the base case projects tourism increases of 5% per year (compared with recent
' The NSB is defined as the difference between the NPV of the "with project" case and the NPV of the "without
project" case.



Project Appraisal Document                                                           Page 11
Zimbabwe: Park Rehabilitation and Conservation Project
annual growth of 11% for the parks overall).
Incremental benefits (before costs) from the project are approximately equally weighted between 'nature'
gains and 'road efficiency' gains. With the project, benefits from wildlife and tourism are US$53.7
million greater than they would be in the reference case. Efficiency gains from improved road conditions
are expected to be slightly more: $54.9 million. This illustrates that both the infrastructure and the
wildlife and tourism aspects are important in realizing the project's economic viability.
Cost-Effectiveness Anaalysis. The cost-effectiveness of individual park interventions was assessed,
along with an evaluation of the system as a whole. For the system as a whole, it is estimated that the total
intervention translates to an annualized cost of US$489/km2/yr of effective protection; this reflects the
basic hypothesis that improved decentralized measures will ensure protection of a wider range of species
and habitats; the 2.7 million ha of land area within the park estate would otherwise have experienced
continuous degradation. Typical conservation expenditures around the world reflect international
interventions corresponding to approximately US$201km2/year to US$2,000/km2/year of protection. In
the case of Zimbabwe, therefore, the project provides an opportunity to implement relatively efficient
conservation expenditures.
Incremental Cost Anialysis. The financing plan for the project provides that, of the total financing
requirement of US$75 million, US$5 million will be provided as a grant through the GEF. Because the
GEF funding has already been approved at a previously determined funding level, an abbreviated
incremental cost (IC) analysis was undertaken. The primary purpose of the analysis is to assess GEF
contributions using conventions that respect GEF appraisal procedures (requiring acknowledgment of a
'baseline'), while also reflecting the analytical assumptions contained in the overallproject appraisal. An
IC analysis was not conducted of the individual small- and medium-scale sub-projects that will account
for up to US$2 million in 'out-of-park' expenditures. The analysis focused on the minimum US$3
million that has been allocated to Gonarezhou National Park; this analysis relied on a park-specific cost-
benefit analysis coupled with adjustments for government baseline activities and commitmnents. The
analysis suggests that, accounting for baseline considerations and offsetting benefits, the incremental cost
of investments at Gonarezhou Park is US$6.83 million. In effect, international grant aid of approximately
US$7 million would be an economically appropriate intervention under GEF IC guidelines. Given that
up to US$5 million was allocated in total under GEF (with at least US$3 million directly through 'in-
park' investments), the scale of the GEF commitment is of the right order of magnitude, though there is
economic justification for increasing this amount.
Sustainability Analysis. Analyses suggest that the activities included within the scope of this project
will generate financial surpluses immediately. In a 'low case' revenue forecast, the ratio of recurrent
revenues to recurrent costs after project completion is 1.11:1. In the base case the revenue/recurrent cost
ratio is 1.23:1 upon completion of the investment phase and approximately 1.33:1 after an additional 10
years. Given the existence of the Fund, these revenues will be retained for Departmental use and there is
therefore a high probability of achieving long-term sustainability.
2. Financial (see Annex 5):
Detailed analyses of DNIPWLM's past and current financial performance and future financial projections
are included in Annex 5.
DNPWLM's Past Finanacial Performance: As a government department, the financial performance of
DNPWLM has been determined by decisions made at the central government level in terms of pricing of
Estate products, and revenue allocations for recurrent and capital expenditures. In the face of the
continued decline in government allocations, inadequate funding for maintenance and operations led to
rapid deterioration of major infrastructure facilities, which in turn affected the revenue earning capacity
of the Parks Estate. Since there has been no linkage between revenues collected by DNPWLM, which



Project Appraisal Document                                                                 Page 12
Zimbabwe: Park Rehabilitabtion and Conservation Project
were paid directly to the Appropriation Fund, and expenditures, which were deternined by funds
available under the government budget, little importance was attached to issues of pricing of Estate
products and cost coverage.
On the basis of data collected at individual parks and at headquarters, DNPWLM's financial performance
during the period 1993/4-1995/6 was unsatisfactory. Operating revenues generated over the three year
period to 1995/96 were insufficient to meet the costs of conservation and infrastructure
development/refurbishment resulting in funding deficits accumulating to as high as Z$3 1.0 million over
the three year period. The deficits are understated as expenditure was limited by the availability of cash
resources from the Government.
Historical financial performance
ZSm                    1993/4            1994/5             1995/6       1996/7 (projected)
Revenue                 31.1              36.4               42.7            79
Costs                   40.2              50.0               51.1            69.7
Deficit                 (9.1)            (13.6)              (8.4)            9.3
Capital Expenditure     4.7                6.3                2.6            14.4
Entrance fees- Foreign  Z$20             ZS20              ZS20            USSs
Local      ZSIO               ZSIO               ZSIo           ZS20
DNPWLM's poor financial performance can be attributed to the following factors: (i) low tariffs; (ii)
lack of incentives within DNPWLM, as its revenue was treated as part of Treasury's income flow and
therefore not reinvested in the Parks Estate; (iii) increasing competition from the private sector; and (iv)
expenditure which was dictated by the budgetary allocations made by Treasury to the Department, which
did not necessarily correspond to actual requirements.
The establishment of a Fund in 1996 allowing DNPWLM to retain its revenues for its operating and
maintenance expenses rather than paying funds directly to Treasury has facilitated the introduction of
commercial principles in the financial management of the park estate. The Fund was the result of a
strategic shift in government's thinking to enable DNPWLM to move towards self sustainability. Since
the establishment of the Fund, DNPWLM has undertaken several initiatives to improve its financial
position, including the adoption of public/private partnerships in the provision of tourist services, the
revaluation of concessions and leases, and modest expansion in the number of such leases.
Tariff Policy: DNPWLM  is required to develop its tariff and fee recommendations for government
approval, a lengthy process which has resulted in few tariff revisions over the years and the lowest tariffs
in the region, although Zimbabwe offers similar wildlife as its neighbors. In July 1996, tariffs were
increased by about 200% (individual increases varied widely). Under the project, DNPWLM will carry
out an in-depth pricing study by March 1999, and will adjust its price structures no later than September
1999. The study will assist in determining the appropriate structure and level of tariffs for each park
based on the wildlife and other natural resources offered, its competitive position vis a vis Zimbabwe and
the region, and the costs of providing the service. Thereafter, DNPWLM will undertake to increase its
tariffs and to maintain its operating margins in order to meet its stated financial objectives. As part of the
interim governance structure for the Fund, the Parks Board will be responsible for the reviewing and
approval of changes in tariffs, fees and other revenue items.
While an Economist is provided for in the new organization structure, the need remains for a Business
Development Specialist whose key roles would be planning for and supporting this culture shift, to
develop and implement a corporate strategy for commercialization of DNPWLM, including issues of
pricing and public/private partnerships, and to oversee the development of an effective marketing
strategy. The government intends to provide this expertise on a contractual basis in the early years of the
project, supplemented by technical assistance as required.



Project Appraisal Document                                                       Page 13
Zimbabwe: Park Rehabilitation and Conservation Project
Current Financial Performance: Government has undertaken a number of other initiatives to improve
DNPWLM's financial position and financial management capacity, including the commissioning of a
Revenue and Expenditure Study (1977) to estimate DNPWLM's future revenue and expenditure patterns.
Preliminary accounts for the first full year of DNPWLM operating under the Fund show a significant
improvement in its revenue following the increase in tariffs and higher pricing of park services,
particularly the hunting concessions and leases. Assuming a continuation of the recent experience,
revenue is projected to irncrease from Z$42.7 million in 1995/6 to Z$79 million in 1996/7, an increase of
85% in nominal terms and operating profits as high as Z$9.3 million are anticipated (operating profit
margin = 12%), against a background of operating losses recorded in the three preceding years.
Financial Objectives: DNPWLM's financial objectives are to increase its financial autonomy through
generating sufficient revenues to cover its current and planned operations and maintenance costs. A
related objective is to ensure that, in line with the strengthening of its financial capacity, DNPWLM bears
an increasing share of the, cost of discharging its conservation duties as well as that of financing its capital
expenditure programs. Achieving these objectives will require measures including the following: (i)
establishment and maintenance of an appropriate tariff structure for all services provided under the Fund;
(ii) widening the revenue base by introducing new products/services without sacrificing the ecological
balance; (iii) improving cost effectiveness through measures to ensure transparency in expenditure, a
major overhaul of the aLccounting system on commercial lines, and the introduction of "cost center"
budget practices to identify clearly profit and non-profit operations, and performance measures to allow
measuring performance against financial targets.
Projections of DNPWLM's Financial Performance: DNPWLM has significant commercial and non
commercial risks. As a newly constituted Fund, there is a risk that commercialization might not be
implemented successfullly, that government approval of tariffs may not materialize or be less than that
proposed, and that competition from the neighboring countries both in terms of facilities and pricing may
increase. Security concerns may undermine demand. The cashflow risks inherent in DNPWLM are high.
The financial base case scenario assumes a 5% growth in demand and no real increases in entrance fees.
This is considered conservative, but realistic should DNPWLM fail to implement a more commercially
oriented approach or if the benefits of such an approach are not realized due to failure to market
effectively and exploit public/private partnerships. Under this scenario, DNPWLM would cover neither
its operating costs nor conservation costs, which underscores the need to manage effectively the
commercialization process and pricing issues. Annual losses before conservation costs would increase
from Z$6 million in 1997/8 to $19 million by 2001, before improving to a loss of Z$8 million in 2005.
Apart from 1999 when DNPWLM benefits from a one time sale of ivory, DNPWLM's free cashflow
would either be negative, or marginally positive, indicating the need for additional funding from
Government to meet the deficit.
However, given the improvements that could result from the implementation of the project and effective
management of commercialization, DNPWLM's financial performance could improve. Under a scenario
of 5% growth in demand, accommodation and local entrance fees increasing at the rate of local inflation,
but with real increases in foreign entrance fees where the price elasticity of demand is low, DNPWLM
would be in a profit making position by 2002, with benefits accruing to both government and DNPWLM.
This scenario depends on continued strong demand for Victoria Falls, which is easily accessible from
other tourist destinations in the region.
A sensitivity analysis confirrms the volatility of DNPWLM's financial performance and that of the
cashflows available to finance capital expenditure and borrowings (details in Annex 5). DNPWLM's
financial position is highly sensitive to demand and pricing. Assuming a 2% annual growth in demand
instead of 5% growth in the base case, DNPWLM would not be able to cover its operating, maintenance
and conservation funds until 2005; whereas a 10% annual growth would ensure full cost coverage by



Project Appraisal Document                                                        Page 14
Zimbabwe: Park Rehabilitation and Conservation Project
2002. In cases of nil devaluation and a 5% annual negative growth in demand, DNPWLM would be in a
loss making position throughout the projection period. Regarding free cashflow (which is arrived at after
making adjustments for depreciation), in the case of a 5% negative annual growth, DNPWLM would
have cashflow deficits throughout the reference period, increasing to Z$103 million by 2005. In the
worst case scenario of negative growth, nil devaluation, and no real increase in tariffs, DNPWLM's
annual cash deficits would increase to Z$220 million by 2005.
With the introduction of a Fund, it is Government's objective to have DNPWLM financially self
sustaining. In light of the volatility of DNPWLM's revenues, it is essential that Government supports the
management of the commercialization process including timely revision of tariffs, and the sharing of risk
with the private sector through public/private partnerships. The success of DNPWLM would increase
Treasury revenues as it is current Government policy to have 50% of profits, after the provision of
adequate conservation and operations and maintenance costs and depreciation, paid to Treasury.
However, in cases of shortfalls, the Department would have no automatic recourse to the exchequer.
Requests for funding from Treasury could be made but would have to compete with Government's other
commitments. Given the uncertainties inherent in DNPWLM's operating environment, both internal and
external, the annual planning cycle will be the important tool for setting operating parameters on a
shorter, and therefore more predictable, horizon.
Agreement was reached during negotiations that:
(a)   each year from 1998/9, DNPWLM would prepare and submit to IDA for review and
comment by March 31 of each year its annual business plan to establish DNPWLM's
five year business and financial objectives. The plan shall include financial targets,
proposed tariff increases, investrnent program and financing (internally generated cash,
external financing plan, government subventions), a forecast of profitability and cash
flows, and the projected balance sheet, and thereafter implement it, taking into account
IDA's views;
(b)   DNPWLM would prepare an annual work program that would include information on
measures to: (i) strengthen DNPWLM management, including details of implementation
of the training program (ii) improve the financial management and accounting systems;
(iii) tariff adjustments and measures to increase revenue collection; (iv) procurement
plans; (v) specific financial and conservation goals for each park; and (vi) allocation of
surpluses and financing of anticipated deficits. The work plan, as a subcomponent of the
business plan, would be prepared by January of each year, and discussed with IDA by no
later than March 31 each year for the following year's program;
(c)    DNPWLM's annual investment plan would be reviewed annually with IDA, and
DNPWLM would make revisions to such plans taking into account any comments by
IDA; and
(d)   DNPWLM would hire consultants to review the adequacy of salary levels of its staff and
propose an appropriate incentive system. The results of these findings would be
submitted to IDA for review by June 30, 1999 and implemented thereafter.
The project will support the implementation of financial management and accounting systems and
DNPWLM would have decentralized commercial accounting systems in place by June 2000. The
appointment of the Chief Financial Officer is a condition for credit effectiveness.



Project Appraisal Document                                                              Page 15
Zimbabwe: Park Rehabilitation and Conservation Project
3. Technical:
Infrastructure. All elements of the infrastructure component have been prepared with detailed
professional engineering expertise in appropriate specialties.  Bank and Government consultant
engineers, together with experienced parks field staff, have identified and planned in successively greater
levels of detail the infrastructure rehabilitations and improvements included in the project. Pragmatic
choices have been made about the level of capability to establish within DNPWLM for major works
(primarily road constnrction) and the operations and maintenance cost implications of alternative types of
equipment or development, with the decisions generally made to provide a basic but not excessive
capability and to minimize operation and maintenance costs.
Although past proposals have suggested upgrading (bitumenizing) roads in a number of parks given
present and projected vehicle flows within the parks (other than Hwange), this does not appear warranted
from technical, financial, economic as well as environmental viewpoints. Thus, other than for the
rehabilitation of existing bitumenized roads where distressed, priority park road networks will remain as
gravel roads but will be reshaped and drained as necessary. Class 1 roads will be formed such that they
could be sealed in the fiuture, should traffic demand dictate, with little further structural work. This is
considered a prudent policy which pays due regard to environmental considerations.
The national parks are generally remote and contractors available for minor works and maintenance are
few. Historically parks staff have been fairly self-sufficient in being able to carry out routine
maintenance of infrastructure in the parks. Thus basic vehicles and equipment to allow staff to continue
this practice will be provided under the project. Simple tractor-based road maintenance equipment is
deemed appropriate and will be provided. Major road plant, which is both expensive and more difficult
to maintain, will not be provided; works requiring periodic rehabilitation and maintenance using such
plant would be expected to be carried out by contractor. This will be the case for major road
rehabilitation and buildings rehabilitation to be supported under the project.
As gleaned during missions, wardens and staff at Gonarezhou National Park remain unconvinced of the
proposals contained in previous park plans for separating tourist facilities from park administration
facilities. They also expressed concern over proposals to relocate administrative facilities near to park
entrance points for considerations of poaching (i.e., staff to be kept away from easy contact with
surrounding communities) and cost (i.e., given the many needs the cost of relocating major administrative
and accommodation facilities could not be justified). Accordingly, there will be no major relocation of
facilities although additional facilities at certain entrance points to the park will be improved.
Given that park development proposals regarding, for example, tourism and game stocks/park capacity,
would only be considered and evaluated in the course of the detailed planning process to be carried out at
all of the parks under the project, the project will not provide for animal translocation nor for additional
game water supplies. Only equipment and works necessary to rehabilitate existing supply points,
replacement engines and equipment at boreholes will be included in the project.
Costs. The costs are based on current costs for similar rural infrastructure work, but given that detailed
survey, engineering investigation and design is to be carried out during the course of the project
(excepting Gonarezhou National Park for which detailed survey and engineering of the roads has been
completed), a 15% allowance for physical contingencies has been allowed for in the project costings.
Estimates of approximate foreign and local costs have been made and current price contingencies factors
for international and local inflation applied to these estimates.
Design and Supervision. For the major infrastructure proposals in each of the parks, design will be
carried out by local consultants engaged after suitable bidding processes (other than for Gonarezhou



Project Appraisal Document                                                           Page 16
Zimbabwe: Park Rehabilitation and Conservation Project
National Park where the consultants who prepared the preliminary road proposals for part of the
Gonarezhou region carried out the detailed design of roads).
The Engineer within the Planning Unit of DNPWLM will have overall responsibility to ensure design,
tendering, contract management and construction supervision are satisfactorily carried out, but use will be
made of local consultants engaged following competitive bidding to assist in the construction supervision.
4. Institutional:
Project preparation studies have clearly identified a number of weaknesses within DNPWLM and in the
relationships between DNPWLM and MMET. Significant problems include:
a) absence of permanent appointments in the DNPWLM directorate and financial management areas;
b) relative lack of experience in the areas of commercial management and practice;
c) inadequate funding from Treasury;
d) deteriorating infrastructure and inadequate equipment;
e) weak financial and information management;
f) absence of a clearly defined system for park management and budget planning;
g) an inadequate park entry and accommodations booking system;
h) slow response to DNPWLM issues by MMET; and
i) weak coordination between DNPWLM  with other Ministry activities, including environmental
assessment procedures and tourism planning.
Governance Issues. DNPWLM currently exists as both an administrative department of MMET, and as
the Parks and Wildlife Conservation Fund, a fund established in January 1996 under the provisions of
Section 30 of the Audit and Exchequer Act (Chapter 168). The base legislation governing the
Department is the Parks and Wild Life Act, 1975 and relevant amendments, while the Fund has its own
constitution (see Annex 13).
The long-tern strategy agreed to by Government is based on the objective of harmonizing and updating
key legislation for the sector, and in particular the Parks and Wild Life Act. This will be accomplished
through a process of formal technical and participatory review to be coordinated by DNPWLM with the
support of the Parks Board. Draft legislation will be submitted to the Parks Board by the Department for
review and recommendation for action to the Minister. The latter is responsible under the Act for tabling
the legislation before Parliament. This review process, the redrafting of base legislation, and formal
submission to Parliament for consideration is anticipated to be completed within the first 18 months of
implementation of the project. Funding for the technical review and redrafting of base legislation is
provided for in the project budget.
As an interim measure while awaiting the revision of base sector legislation, it was agreed that a coherent
and authoritative governance and oversight structure will be established through revision of the
constitution governing the Parks and Wildlife Conservation Fund. The constitution is a legal document
governing the administration and operation of the Fund. It may be amended by Treasury without undue
delay and tabled before Parliament without requirement of debate to become effective. The revision of
the Constitution will be backed by a letter from the Minister providing specific instructions to the
members of the designated oversight body regarding both their responsibilities and limitations to their
authority in the daily management decisions of the Department.
Formal approval by Treasury of the draft constitution specifying the designated oversight body for the
Parks and Wildlife Conservation Fund and the Department, its functions, and specific authority in the
following areas will be a condition of effectiveness: (i) review and approval of DNPWLM annual and



Project Appraisal Document                                                        Page 17
Zimbabwe: Park Rehabilitation and Conservation Project
supplemental budgets; (ii) review and approval of changes in tariffs, fees, and other revenue bases; (iii)
review and approval of park plans; and (iv) review and approval of substantive policy recommendations.
Organizational Issues. The Public Service Commission's approval of the proposed organizational
structure for DNPWLM enabled the filling of key positions, and recruitment is under way. Progress has
been made in filling critical vacancies at mid and lower levels, and key higher level positions are
expected to be filled soon. Coordination between MMET and DNPWLM has also improved greatly over
the past two years. More fundamentally, the key institutional strength of DNPWLM is the cadre of
experienced, dedicated, hard working staff that has persisted over the years under very difficult
conditions to maintain Zimbabwe's still prominent position in national parks and wildlife conservation
and management.
The requisite institutional foundation for effective operations is expected to result from revised structures
and procedures for DNPWLM, designed on the basis of the experience of similar institutions elsewhere
and applied to the particular conditions of Zimbabwe. The institutional component of this project will
support the resolution of problems in systems and capacity identified above. Institutional issues at the
level of the DNPWLM directorate, MMET and the Parks Board are being addressed and are included in
institutional restructuring analyses and recommendations that have been part of project preparation.
5. Social:
The project has been prepared in consultation with NGOs and other interest groups in the parks and
wildlife sector in Zimbabwe, with the most detailed consultations to date occurring in the South East
Lowveld area with the assistance of the PPA made available under the GEF-funded component.
Socioeconomic studies performed in the earlier stages of project preparation included village-level
surveys in the commwual lands adjacent to GNP, and an analysis of the Gonakudzingwa small scale
commercial farming area. Regional development issues were further addressed during preparation of the
GNP management plan, also financed under the PPA. Issues highlighted in these efforts are as follows:
a) Ecological constraints: GNP is in a low-productivity area. Gonakudzingwa is of interest because it is
an area in which simall scale commercial farming had been tried and failed. The Gonakudzingwa
study documented the limited potential of livestock husbandry possibilities and of agricultural
potential. Wildlife-based activities are considered to have somewhat more potential. It has been
proposed that further work on this area may be warranted under the GEF out-of-parks component.
b) Composition of communities: Some immigration has occurred through recent decades, including
many refugees from Mozambique. Many such immigrants live in poverty, particularly the refugees,
though it appears that the refugees have begun to return to their home country. Although only limited
problems have developed between long-time residents and the relative newcomers, ensuring the new
residents a voice will be critical.
c) Community representation: There appear not to be major issues of governance. Local government at
the village and ward levels is fairly democratic and representative.
The GEF out-of-parks component of the project will support sustainable biodiversity conservation and
use through a range of activities including enhanced alternative livelihood options and community
conservation initiatives around Gonarezhou. The lessons learned will in turn be applied, first through the
planning process and then during implementation, in communities in the proximity of other parks.
Benefits are expected to include employment in park tourism and a lessening of damage to community
lands through better management of wildlife populations.



Project Appraisal Document                                                        Page 18
Zimbabwe: Park Rehabilitation and Conservation Project
6. Environmental assessment: Environmental Category   []A   [X] B  []C
The project is fundamentally directed at improving environmental conditions and natural resource
management, specifically the status and management of wildlife and the condition and management of
national parks.  However, the project will include rehabilitation of roads, buildings and other
infrastructure in parks. As there is potential for undesirable environmental impact from project activities,
it is therefore classed as an Environmental Category B project and is subject to an environmental
analysis, a simpler preparation study than environmental assessment under Bank regulations. The project
involves no resettlement or any negative impacts on indigenous peoples as such. The GEF project
includes positive support for sub-projects on rural, communal lands occupied by groups traditionally
resident in the area.
Given the sensitivity of the ecosystems where the works will take place, it is essential that these works
should be conducted in such a way that the relationship with neighboring communities should be
harmonious, the disposal of waste (including spoil and dredging material) should be conducted safely,
and erosion should be avoided or mitigated in any of the public works conducted. The capacity of the
Parks' administration at all levels needs to be strengthened to make it competent in the environmental
supervision of works and proper maintenance of the facilities. These are a few of the issues that have
been dealt with in the Environmental Analysis (EA) that is being conducted for the project.
The EA comprises two complementary parts. The first comprises a programmatic section which focuses
on Zimbabwean rules and regulations; the capacity of park wardens to supervise and help mitigate
potentially negative environmental and social impacts; and on ways and means to introduce
environmental safeguards in capacity building and in standards and norms to be used for all works
perforrned within the National Parks and in their immediate surroundings, where relevant. The second
deals with the potential environmental impacts of the works to be conducted in Gonarezhou National Park
and the mitigation, monitoring and capacity building measures that are recommended, where the nature
and magnitude of the works have already been defined. Annex 7 summarizes the results of the
environmental analysis.
The Environmental Management Plan (partly programmatic, partly Gonarezhou National Park-specific)
that has come out of the EA forms the basis of a small capacity building and technical assistance
component of the project, the implementation of which will help to avoid potential negative
environmental impacts, and ensure environmental aspects will be properly monitored during supervision.
7. Participatory approach [key stakeholders, how involved, and what they have influenced; if
participatory approach not used, describe why not applicable]:
Stakeholder Groups               Identification/     Implementation
Preparation
Community groups                       IS + CON             IS + CON + COL
Local / International NGOs              IS + CON            IS + CON + COL
Private sector                          IS + CON            IS + CON + COL
Academic institutions                   IS + CON            IS + CON
Local government                        IS + CON            IS + CON + COL
Other ministries                        IS + CON            IS + CON
Other donors                            IS + CON            IS + CON
(CIDA, NORAD, USAID)
[Note: IS = information sharing; CON = consultation; COL = collaboration.]



Project Appraisal Document                                                           Page 19
Zimbabwe: Park Rehabilitation and Conservation Project
As discussed in Section 5, numerous stakeholders at the national level have been involved in preparation
studies and consultations, including wildlife and rural development NGOs (both international and local),
staff of the Centre for Applied Social Sciences and the Department of Agricultural Economics and
Extension at the University of Zimbabwe, private sector participants in the wildlife and tourism sector,
and other ministries. For the GEF component in the Gonarezhou National Park area, diverse local
community groups -- including community representatives and all levels of local government, existing
environmentally related NGOs, and private sector wildlife and tourism interests -- have participated in
extensive studies and consultation.
Preparation of the draft management plan for GNP in 1993 represented a major step in increasing public
participation for DNPWLM. A formal process was adopted whereby all stakeholders in the park,
particularly neighboring communities, would be consulted regarding issues that affect them. With GEF
preparation funds, a community liaison consultant was employed to establish ongoing communication
between the planning team and community representatives. A land use consultant also researched land
use-related community interests and issues. After project preparation resumed in 1996, DNPWLM has
taken the lead in holding meetings involving representatives from a wide range of community interests.
In addition to reviewing the park plan, these meetings have focused on the GEF-funded community
subprojects.
With respect to the latter, the South East Lowveld Coordinating Committee has met on a regular basis to
discuss park-related issues and the GEF out-of-parks small grants component. The Committee includes
representatives from villages, several branches of local government, NGOs, private conservancies and
other land owners, and provides a forum for a park-community dialogue. A structure has been
established whereby this Committee is to report back to a larger group of stakeholders as required. The
Committee has developed proposals for project selection criteria. Further design questions being debated
include the desirable geographical scope, distribution, phasing, subproject sizes, beneficiaries, reporting
responsibilities, monitoring and assessment. A facilitator will assist the group in finalizing project design
prior to project effectiveness. This same group will be involved throughout project implementation, and
funds will be made available under the project to cover a portion of meeting costs, including
transportation costs of representatives from remote areas.
Development of an improved planning system is envisioned as a key part of institutionalizing public
participation in park management planning. The planning system will build on the experiences piloted in
GNP and, as additional plans are prepared, those experiences as well. Important elements in the system
would be a hierarchy of plans (system-wide plan down to annual budget and implementation plans), a
procedures manual to ensure consistency in implementation of policies, initial technical assistance to get
participatory planning under way in other parks (a number of preliminary workshops has already been
held with Departmental funds in several parks), training for Departmental staff in procedures and
experience elsewhere, and embedding participatory planning in the Department's overall decision-
making system. Public participation in park planning would occur through membership in working
groups, initial issues identification and data gathering, and review of draft assessments, alternatives,
preferred scenarios, and the final plan. These activities will be formalized under the project, which will
support participatory planning efforts in each of the national parks.
The Departnent considers that the major scope for expanded public participation is in planning for
actions based within a park that affect the welfare of residents in the adjacent areas, e.g., by creating
opportunities for tourism or park management-related businesses or employment; displacing wildlife or
affecting the movement of wildlife in and out of the parks, or affecting other ecological processes that
span park boundaries; or by influencing the existence or scale of infrastructure and other public facilities
and services in the surrounding areas. Hence an important purpose for increased public participation in



Project Appraisal Document                                                           Page 20
Zimbabwe: Park Rehabiliaton and Conservaton Project
park planning is to improve the coordination of park management and development in the economic and
environmental management of the surrounding areas.
F: Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
Critical factors for sustainability include:
Institutional and Infrastructure Components
a) Continued adequate tourism in the national parks, to provide revenue for operations (this is
considered a realistic expectation, although tourism is subject to various risks -- see below; park fees
are set and expenditures planned with conservative tourism growth assumptions).
b) Success at developing effective management systems and staff skills within DNPWLM.
GEF Component
a) Continued interest by communal land residents near Gonarezhou in developing compatible wildlife
utilization, particularly tourism, on their lands.
b) Continued favorable policy environment for wildlife on all categories of land ownership near
Gonarezhou.
2. Critical Risks (reflecting assumptions in the fourth column of Annex 1):



Project Appraisal Document                                                          Page 21
Zimbabwe: Park Rehabilitation and Conservation Project
Risk                     Risk Rating      Risk Minimization Measure
Annex l, cell "from Outputs to Objective"
*  Growth in tourism sector and particularly   Modest    Collaborative planning and
tourism to and around national parks does            integration of national park
not result in increased income for rural             management in regional
poor and reduced rural poverty.                      development to channel some of the
economic benefits from tourism
directly to communal land residents.
*  Strengthened management of national parks Low         Support re-establishment of strong
does not result in improved biodiversity             national park system with clear
conservation.                                        conservation mandate.
*  Revenue from park and wildlife-related  Modest        Design of community-based sub-
activities on commtnal and other lands               projects, with strong local
near Gonarezhou does not result in greater           collaboration.
willingness by residents to tolerate wildlife
and therefore protect biodiversity in the
South East Lowvelcl.
Annex 1, cell "from Components to Outputs"
*  Tourism in Zimbabwe parks declines due to Modest to   None - true risk
factors external to the project (decline in    Substantial
country of origin economies, international
terrorism, disease, etc.) and does not
produce enough revenue for DNPWLM to
be financially self-sustaining.
*  Strengthened management of national parks Modest      Build DNPWLM capacity to
does not result in increased tourism and             coordinate with national tourism
greater revenues.                                    planning, marketing and private
sector operators to influence other
factors determining tourism levels.
*  Increased wildlife utilization and improved  Modest   Careful design of community-based
compatibility of wildlife with other land use        sub-projects, coordination with
on communal lands near Gonarezhou does               DNPWLM and private sector.
not result in increased revenue to residents.
*  International events (e.g., resumption of    Modest   Support coordination with
insecurity, maintenance of wildlife barriers)        wildlife/parks agencies in
stymie re-establishment of wildlife                  Mozambique, South Africa (no
movements and populations in Gonarezhou              measures to affect resumption of
area.                                                insecurity).
*  Comprehensive policies supportive of   Modest         Support studies demonstrating
compatible wildlife utilization and                  importance of such policies;
biodiversity protection are not adopted.             develop capacity within DNPWLM
and MMET to articulate and
implement policy.



Project Appraisal Document                                                           Page 22
Zimbabwe: Park Rehabilitation and Conservation Project
Risk                     Risk Rating      Risk Minimization Measure
*  DNPWLM internal management is          Modest         Skills and training needs
inefficient and ineffective (staff skills and        assessments, financial analyses,
capabilities, financial management systems,          build information management
management information systems).                     systems.
*  Infrastructure rehabilitation and      Low            Support consultant engineer and
construction are not carried out to a high           development of supervisory
standard in accordance with detailed plans.          capacity in DNPWLM.
*  Infrastructure maintenance is not carried    Modest   Training; continued supervision by
out on a needed regular schedule.                    engineer; inclusion of maintenance
in management plan work
programs.
*  A systematic process for preparing park    Modest     Preparation of planning process as
management plans is not followed and                 integral part of DNPWLM
adequate management plans are not                    management system, Department-
prepared for all parks.                              wide training.
*  All stakeholders are not given the     Modest         Preparation of manual for process to
opportunity, or do not choose to participate         use in park planning; DNPWLM
in park planning.                                    staff training.
*  Park managers do not participate fully in    Modest   Supervision from regions,
integrating park management with regional            headquarters; staff training.
economic and natural resource management
in the areas near the parks.
*  Park plans are not used as the basis for  Low        Development of budgeting process.
annual budgeting.
*  Park plans are not implemented through    Low         Preparation of process for annual
annual work programs in all fields of                work program planning,
activity.                                            implementation.
*  Strong education and interpretive programs Modest     Construction of facilities, provision
are not established, or are not used much by         of technical assistance, support for
the public.                                          adequate staffing and training.
Overall Risk Rating                       Modest
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N (Negligible or Low Risk)
3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
The problems that beset the Department throughout the 1990s remain of concern. The problems became
so serious in the mid-1990s that some donors pulled out of the sector at the same time that the Bank put
project processing on hold. The Bank only resumed processing after the Fund was established in 1996
and there appeared to be serious commitrnent to reform. Further, despite the paucity of well qualified
staff in headquarters during this period, mission members continued to be impressed by the commitment
and competence of field staff, many of whom will be responsible for project implementation at the park
level. More recently, approval by the PSC of the new Departmental organizational structure, settlement
of court cases against two of the four members of the directorate, steps in turn to appoint permanent (as
opposed to acting) employees in key positions, and the adoption of the Fund, indicate that these problems
are now being addressed in a systematic fashion.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                Page 23
Zimbabwe: Park Rehabilitation and Conseivation Project
G: Main Credit Concditions
1. Effectiveness Conditions:
*  formal,approval of the revised constitution for the Parks and Wildlife Conservation Fund (Treasury)
*  implementation of transitional financial accounting arrangements (DNPWLM)
*  appointment of Chief Financial Officer (MiMET/PSC)
*  Department of Water and MPCNH agreement to transfer of existing assets to DNPWLM (MMET)
* final Project Implemenitation Plan (DNPWLM)
* final Procurement Plan (DNPWLM)
2. Other.
Condition for Disbursement - GEF out-of-parks sub-component
* finalized detailed operational manual
H. Readiness for Imp,lementation
[X] The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start
of project implementatioln. Road component completed; other components underway.
[X] The procuremenit documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation.
[X] The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory
quality.
[ ] The following items are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G):
I. Compliance with Bank Policies
LX] This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
[ ] [The following exceptions to Bank policies are recommended for approval. The project complies
with all other applicable Bank policies.]
[signature]
Task Manager:   oge4ne Jensen
[signature]
Sector Maragokes 
[signature]
Acting Country Director:    onnel



Project Appraisal Document                                                                    Page 24
Zimbabwe. Park Rehabilitahon and Conservation Project
Annex 1
Zimbabwe: Park Rehabilitation and Conservation Project
Project Design Summary
Narrative Summary        Key Performance Indicators    Monitoring and Supervision    Critical Assumptions and Risks
Sector-related CAS Goal:                                                                (Goal to Bank Mission)
Raise per capita income and  Revenues from utilization of    Park and tourism records.
reduce poverty, particularly in  the parks and wildlife estate.    Surveys.
semi-arid areas, through     Concessions and permits
(a) increased tourism;       (number and share held by
(b) improved opportunities for  Zimbabweans).
rural development and        Rural employment in tourism
indigenous participation in the   sector.
parks and wildlife sector; and    Wildlife populations (numbers,
(c) reduced risks to         distributions)
environmental sustainability.    Habitat conditions in parks.
Condition of parks
infrastructure.
Protect biodiversity in the  Wildlife populations, diversity   Surveys, studies.
South East Lowveld by        and distributions are stable or   Reports.
strengthening management of   increasing.
Gonarezhou National Park and  Habitat conditions are stable or
increasing the role of       improving.
compatible wildlife utilization   Communal land revenues from
in the surrounding region    sustainable wildlife utilization
(GEF).                       are increasing.
Project Development                                                                     (Objective to Goal)
Objective:
Enhance Government's ability   Clearly defined policies    Policy documents.            Political and economic
to manage and protect wildlife   Efficient institutions (operating  Financial and management  environment stable.
populations and their habitats.  ratio, revenue per employee)    reports.               Political will exists to effect
Good business practices in   Commercialized accounting     change.
place.                       system.                       Zimbabwe's national parks and
Revenue increase by x percent.  Business plans.            tourist offerings are
Needed treasury subvention   Licenses and permits issued   competitive.
reduced.                     Progress and project          Benefits from tourism accrue
Tourism increase.            completion reports.          to Zimbabwe.
Adequate infrastructure.     Minutes of meetings.          Improvements will contribute
Increased community                                       to economic growth.
involvement and indigenous
I participation.
Outputs - IDA and GEF:                                                                  (Outputs to Objective)
Comprehensive policy         Essential policies adopted,   Policy documents             Policies guide decisions
framework for parks and     including:                     Revised legislation         throughout Government.
wildlife estate              *  overall plan for parks and                              Policies compatible with and
wildlife conservation and                              supported by policies in other
management;                                            sectors, e.g., land, agriculture,
*  the role of DNPWLM in                                  transport.
community conservation



Project Appraisal Document                                                                             Page 25
Zimbabwe: Park Rehabilitation and Conservation Project
and sustainable use;
balance between
conservation and revenue
generation
Relevant legislation updated.
Efficient and effective         Better services.                 Financial statements.            Enabling environment for
institutions for managing parks  Hiigher revenues in line with   Management reports.              private sector participation.
and wildlife                    conservation objectives.                                          Tourism demand remains
Reduced costs of doing                                           strong.
business.                                                        Ministry of Environment and
Opportunities for private sector                                 Tourism facilitates intra- and
participation in commercial                                      inter-ministerial coordination.
aictivities                                                      Decisions on structure and
power of the Fund Board.
Timely treasury subventions.
Funding from alternative
sources continues.
Transparent and accountable     B3usiness plans.                 Financial statements.            Ministerial support.
financial management and        P'rocedures manual.              Reports.
management information          Accounting policies.             Site visits.
systems                         P'ricing structure.
Transparent, accountable,
ciecentralized financial
rnanagement and management
information systems.
Participatory and adaptive park  Plark plans.                    Park plans.                     Park/stakeholder cooperation
and estate management plans    Overall estate plan.              Overall estate plan.             and effective participation.
and planning systems                                             Customized M & E plans for
each national park.
Research and monitoring         C urrent status of               Reports.
programs towards conservation   environmental conditions and
and management                  wildlife apd tourismlpark use
issues.
Increased environmental         Number of people attending       Records.                         Sufficient interest to attend
awareness through educational   programs.                        Reports.                        programs.
programs
Suitable infrastructure to      km of class I and II roads       Progress reports.
support core activities in parks   rehabilitated; km of class III  Supervision missions.
roads rehabilitated; x water
supplies rehabilitated/
constructed; x units of staff
housing constructed/improved;
x units of communications
equipment; km of telephone
lines; vehicles, plant and
equipment; interpretive
centers; office equipment;
workshops.
Cooperation between             Implementation of                Minutes of meetings.             Government policies remain
communities and parks in        recommendations of South                                          supportive of community
wildlife management - South     E.ast Lowveld Coordinating                                        wildlife management.
East Lowveld Region             Committee.                                                        Continued support from other
___________________________ _   __________________________  _____________ _ ___ _ __   sources  for  related   activities.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                   Page 26
Zimbabwe: Park Rehabilitation and Conservation Project
Projects to integrate wildlife  Sub-projects proposed and  Proposals.                   Positive response to request for
into community resource      implemented                   Progress reports.            proposals.
utilization - South East                                   Supervision missions.
Lowveld Region
Project Components/Sub-
components: (see Annex 2 for Inputs: (budget for each
project description)         component)                                                             _
1. Institutional Strengthening
1. I Policy Development      US$0.3 million
1.2 Organizational Develop-    US$0.5 million
ment
1.3 Fund Management System    US$ 1.0 million
1.4 Park Planning            US$0.6 million
1.5 Interpretive and Extension   US$0.2 million
Capacity
1.6 Research, monitoring and    US$0.1 million
evaluation
1.7 Training                 US$0.7 million                                           __._                    _
1.8 Institutional Strengthening   US$0.8 million
Equipment
I[. Infrastructure
2.1 Rehabilitation of        US$62.0 million
infrastructure; improvement
and expansion of staff
accommodation; and provision
of improved facilities for park
functioning.
2.2 Provision of basic "tractor-  USS3.8 rhillion
based" plant and equipment for
routine road maintenance; and
vehicles and equipment to
improve park management and
anti-poaching activities.
III. GEF
3.1 Rehabilitate, improve    US$3.0 million
infrastructure in Gonarezhou
National Park (e.g.,interpretive
center, rehabilitation of game
and domestic water supplies)
3.2 Establish consultative   US$2.0 million
process and support
community-based projects.



Project Appraisal Document                                                           Page 27
Zimbabwe: Park Rehabilitation and Conservation Project
Annex 2
Park Rehabilitation and Conservation Project
Project Description
1.    The project is envisioned as a tool to assist GRZ in strengthening the management system for
parks.  To meet this objective, the project will include institutional strengthening, infrastructure
investments in each of the eleven designated national parks, and a GEF grant which will provide
incremental financing to support conservation and sustainable use in and around the Gonarezhou National
Park. The key elements of each component are summarized below.
Project Component 1 - Institutional Strengthening - US$4.2 million (total cost of
component)
2.     The project will provide a program of support, comprising nine sub-components, to help GRZ
maintain the overall integrity and biodiversity value of the Parks and Wildlife Estate. The project will
contribute directly to the improvement the underlying systems and human resources that are essential to
ensuring the long-term sustainability of current and planned investments. Key to this program of support
are the measures described below to strengthen organizational and institutional capacity.
(i) Policy Development
3.     This sub-component will seek to build upon recent initiatives in policy review, formulation and
presentation undertaken by the Department. Draft policy statements have been formulated for a number
of specific topics. Workshops were held in early 1997 on specific species (elephant, rhino, crocodile and
ostrich), community wildlife management (CAMPFIRE and Conservancies) and biodiversity
conservation. In addition, with the assistance of a CIDA-funded consultancy and in broad consultations
with the stakeholders, the Ministry/Department has begun the process of developing policy to address the
transition of the Departnient from a traditional government service to a more autonomous and responsible
public body operating aLlong commercial lines.1 Such policy would address, inter alia, the following
priority areas:
* financial self-sufficiency in a context of public service and operational efficiency;
* the role of DNPWLM in community conservation and sustainable use;
* wildlife producer rights and responsibilities; and
* review and updating of relevant legislation.
4.     As further work is required before a definitive policy recommendation can be forthcoming, the
project will provide technical resources to assist with the policy development in these and other priority
areas. In so doing, project support will be available to (a) undertake necessary data collection and
analysis to provide the infonnation base for policy review and fornulation, (b) provide expert assistance
in identifying and presenting policy options in key areas as the basis for policy development by
Department staff, (c) finalize draft policy documents, and (d) undertake a review and reformulation of
relevant legislation with the objective of harmonizing current and emerging wildlife and protected area
policy with the defining legislation.
' It is noted that the issue of the balance between conservation and intemal revenue generation imperatives could be
misconstrued to imply that every park has to generate enough income to survive. The Department has now
embarked on clarifying this issue to ensure that there is no compromise of Parks' core business of conservation in
the face of commercialization.



Project Appraisal Document                                                           Page 28
Zimbabwe: Park Rehabilitation and Conservation Project
(ii) Organizational Development
5.     The process of culture shift required for the successful transition of the Department from a
traditional line agency to a modern, service-oriented, professional and technically proficient organization
operating along sound commercial lines will be assisted by the project. Support is provided for the
development of a business plan for the Parks Estate, the incorporation of business plans as a component
of park management plans, technical assistance in change management (to be led by the Change
Management Unit established in the Ministry), focused organization-wide in-service training in support
of a culture of excellence and integration of the ethic of commercial operation, and specialized training
for senior managers.
6.     The project will also contribute to the assessment of organizational options, such as the
desirability of conversion of current staff from the public service to employment by the Fund, by
providing financing for detailed technical review. The financial and management implications of
employment status conversion will be assessed, incorporating the results of the income and expenditure
analysis and estimation of alternative compensation package requirements. A related activity will be the
establishment of a comprehensive performance evaluation system for the Department. This will
necessitate a review of all position descriptions, their revision and updating as needed, and the
clarification of career paths and promotion requirements for each post. The completion of this exercise
would be a precondition for any change in employment status of Department staff.
7.    The project will support a long-term strategy to ensure proper governance and oversight of the
Department by (a) assisting with the implementation and review of interim governance arrangements
provided for under the revised constitution of the Fund (a condition of effectiveness), (b) providing
training for Parks Board members in effective stewardship and constructive oversight strategies, and (c)
undertaking a review and revision of sector legislation with the express objective of harmonizing current
policies, priorities and principles with the base legislation, including the incorporation of an authoritative
and effective oversight and governance structure.
8.    Other issues to be addressed under the project include the appropriate level of financial and
managerial decentralization of departmental functions, the effectiveness of oversight structures and
specifically the role of the National Parks Board in financial and management oversight, and the
establishment of transparent and accountable mechanisms for the granting of concessions and leases.
(iii) Fund Management Systems
9.     This sub-component will support the development and implementation of financial management
and management information systems for the Fund. Implementation will be over a two year period,
during which the following actions will be accomplished: (a) computerization of accounting functions,
(b) decentralization of accounting and computerization to the provincial and station levels, (c)
development of internal control systems, (d) determnination of accounting policies, (e) production of the
procedures manual, (f) determination of cost and revenue structure of different parks and stations; (g)
pricing structure of the Parks Estate; (h) the valuation of assets; and (i) business planning linked to the
park planning process. Other activities critical to the efficiency of the financial operations of the
Department will be supported under this component, including updating of a study on the Central
Booking Office at Headquarters and implementation of recommendations, systems for management of
ivory stores, and permits and licenses. The consultancy will also design a system for accounting for
project funds. Studies funded under the sub-component will include: (a) pricing structure study; (b)
commercial potential of the National Parks Estate consistent with conservation objectives; (c) valuation
of fixed assets; and (d) the booking office. These studies are all linked to the TOR for the consultants and
would be outputs of this assignment



Project Appraisal Document                                                              Page 29
Zimbabwe: Park Rehabilitation and Conservation Project
(iv) National Parks Estate Plan
10.    The planning component of the project will provide technical assistance support for preparation
of an overall strategic plan for the Parks and Wildlife Estate. The national plan will present strategy on a
wide variety of issues for the entire system of protected areas in the Estate, and help guide management
planning in individual parks.
(v) Park Managernent Planning
11.    The park planning component will also consist of strengthening park planning processes within
the Department (including integration of park planning into overall management systems), preparation of
management plans for the parks included in the project investment program, and preparation of a
practical manual for planning. The project will provide short term technical assistance to help refine the
park planning process, and help prepare the planning manual. The project also will directly support
management planning in particular parks by funding equipment, planning team meeting costs, and data
collection and analysis.
(vi) Planning Unit Strengthening
12.    The project will provide support to the new Planning Unit in the Department through a package
of specialized training and short term technical assistance.
(vii) Park and Wildlife Research and Monitoring Programs
13.    The project will support applied research relevant to protected area management such as
monitoring of habitat change, population ecology of key indicator species, visitor carrying capacity, and
visitor impact on park habitats and wildlife. It will also support research to determine carying capacity
of key animal species and impact of harvesting on wildlife populations in parks and surrounding lands.
The project will involve local people in participatory monitoring and provide support, training, expert
assistance, equipment and materials for a research and monitoring program.
14.    The research and monitoring program will support: (a) ecological and socioeconomic monitoring
to measure the status an,d impact of project interventions and to measure the effectiveness of project
institutions and processes; (b) ecological research (e.g. visitor impact within protected areas, population
dynamics of key species; ecosystem dynamics); (c) socioeconomic research (e.g. long term impacts of
protected areas on people, indigenous resource management systems, wildlife management and
utilization); (d) capacity building programs to facilitate experimental learning and demonstration; and (e)
collaboration in regional research and monitoring programs, e.g., elephant surveys with Mozambique and
South Africa and exchaLnge of regional information and expertise.
15.    A monitoring and evaluation plan will be prepared prior to project effectiveness in accordance
with GEF and World Bank Monitoring and Evaluation Biodiversity Guidelines.
(viii) Interpretation and Education Capacity
16.    Provision of interpretive, educational and awareness services in the wildlife field are activities of
the Department that deserve considerable expansion. The project will support the strengthening of
interpretation programs directed at park visitors by funding interpretive facilities as part of park
infrastructure renewal, preparation of displays and other materials, equipment, training, and technical
assistance. The project will provide similar support for education programs directed towards the
Zimbabwe public, inclluding preparation of materials and programs, equipment, staff training, and



Project Appraisai Document                                                           Page 30
Zimbabwe: Park Rehabilitation and Conservation Project
technical assistance.
(ix) Training
17.   DNPWLM is in the process of filling numerous vacancies in key technical, professional and
support posts. Targeted training will be essential to derive full benefit from new and existing staff. The
establishment of the Fund and the associated need to train staff in commercial financial and
administrative practices will also require attention to skill development and formal training.  A
comprehensive training program that offers both short courses and diploma training is required and will
be supported under the project, as will training to attain degrees as required by the PSC for the
professionalization of incumbent staff. Regular in-service training will also be re-instituted in core
substantive and skill areas. Training in park planning will be provided to the Planning Unit and park staff
through on-the-job supervision by a short term technical assistant, study tours and short courses. A
training needs assessment will be undertaken by staff in the Training Unit, with external technical
assistance as required.
Project Component 2 - Infrastructure - US$65.8 million (total cost of component)
18.    This component will include civil works and equipment in all eleven designated National Parks,
together with provision of facilities and equipment to assist the respective parks staff in their day to day
management operations.  The priority requirements are restoration of the main road networks,
improvement of staff housing and provision of new housing, improvements to communication systems to
and within parks, electrification of park administration complexes where they are still without mains
supply and the rehabilitation of both potable and game water supplies. In addition parks staff will be re-
equipped with appropriate vehicles for day to day management of the parks and for carrying out basic
routine road maintenance through the provision equipment for the simple tractor based maintenance units.
Detailed listings by park are contained in the PIP and project file.
19.    These priority infrastructure investment proposals were identified from the outline park plans
developed under the project. Components of the outline plans also put forward, but which did not accord
with the above rationale and thus, will not be supported under the project, include: (i) tourist facilities
that could be provided by the private sector; (ii) animal translocation as this needs to be considered
carefully in the more detailed planning process to be followed for the development of the parks; and (iii)
recurrent costs which are the responsibility of the DNPWLM to provide.
20.    With regard to design and construction altematives, initial proposals included sealing many of the
park roads in Gonarezhou National Park, developing major causeway construction over rivers as well as
major relocation of management facilities. Such proposals were not deemed appropriate for reasons of
cost, sustainability and environmental considerations. Whereas proposals were also put forward in some
parks for major schemes for both potable and game water supplies, both the Government and Bank
missions considered it prudent to focus only on rehabilitating such supplies and limited rehabilitation is
included. The necessity, or otherwise, for expansion of both potable and game water supplies expansion
of water resources will become clearer when detailed park management plans are prepared for all parks, a
sub-component of the project.
21.    Existing plant and equipment in the parks is generally old, worn out, hired from the Central
Mechanical Equipment Division (CMED) or borrowed. Generally parks staff have managed to keep
basic equipment operational although much might be considered to have reached the end of its useful life.
Staff in the respective parks has historically carried out its own routine maintenance of the parks road
networks. Proposals from some parks included major investment in heavy road construction and
maintenance plant, such as bulldozers and motorized graders. Such equipment was not deemed



Project Appraisal Document                                                           Page 31
Zimbabwe: Park Rehabilitatioii and Conservation Project
appropriate as major gravel road reconstruction will be carried out by contractors as will the rehabilitation
of bitumenized roads, where these are in need of repair, and most building works. The investment
proposals thus provide for re-equipping parks staff, where necessary, to carry out routine road
maintenance, not major periodic maintenance and rehabilitation. The existing road maintenance units
will thus continue to be tractor based. Existing park staff will thus be able to carry out regular servicing
of equipment provided.
Project Component 3 - GEF - Gonarezhou National Park and the South East Lowveld
Region - US$5 million (total cost of component)
22.    The GEF component will provide incremental financing of US$5 million to support biodiversity
conservation and sustainable use in and around Gonarezhou National Park. Gonarezhou is recognized as
a region of globally significant biodiversity and support for the park is consistent with the GEF
Operational Strategy for Arid and Semi-Arid Ecosystems. The overall investment plan for the park
currently exceeds the total GEF grant of US$5 million (with the overrun included in Component 2,
above). GEF resources thus will provide incremental financing to support only the most urgent
investments needed to secure the protection and management of the park and its biological resources.
Outside of the park G,F :resources will support activities that contribute to park objectives and have clear
and direct linkages to conservation and sustainable use, particularly those that reduce threats to the park
and its biological resources, and contribute to maintenance of the integrity and connectivity of the wildlife
estate in the South East Lowveld and transborder region.
23.    The out of park subcomponent is being designed via a consultative process led by DNPWLM
through the Southeast Lowveld Coordinating Committee. Out of the US$5 million grant, a figure of
US$2 million is proposed for out-of-park activities. While the eligibility criteria and criteria for project
selection are still under review by the Committee, it has been agreed that three obligatory criteria for all
project proposals would be as follows: (i) proposals should have clear relevance to, and potential for,
positive impacts on conservation of the protected area (GNP) and its biological resources; (ii) be
technically and operationally feasibile and consistent with the capabilities of the proposing groups; and
(iii) provide a contribution from the recipient group either "in kind" or in cash, equivalent to 10% of the
total project cost. For most activities, a ceiling of Z$300,000 has been proposed, although under
exceptional circumstances it may be possible to consider projects of greater value than Z$300,000. Such
larger projects (i) would need to be justified by the number of beneficiaries, demonstration effects and
greater areas of habitats included under conservation management; and (ii) would require more rigorous
evaluation, environmental and technical review.
24.    Of the US$2 muillion, approximately 25% will be reserved for contingencies, recurrent costs of
stakeholder meetings, which provide a forum for exchange of information and discussions on park-
community relations, expenses associated with the scientific and technical review process, monitoring
and evaluation, and technical assistance to build capacity among stakeholders for preparation and
implementation of project proposals. Up to one-third of the remaining funds could be allocated to
projects in the first yezr. The remaining funds will be retained for eligible projects submitted in
subsequent years, to accommodate new ideas, further broadening of stakeholder participation, and to
build on the successes of the initial group of projects. The completed operational manual will be a
condition for disbursement of funds for sub-projects under this sub-component.
25.    As the in-park subcomponent is consistent with the other in-park project activities, the monitoring
and evaluation plan will Follow the plan for the project at large and will include biodiversity indicators
(monitoring of key species) as well as indicators of management effectiveness. A separate monitoring
and evaluation plan will Ibe prepared for the out of park subcomponent along with the operational manual.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                           Page 32
Zimbabwe: Park Rehabilitation and Conservation Project
This latter plan will include social and participation indicators as well as indicators to monitor the impacts
of funded activities on park integrity and biodiversity.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                              Page 33
Zimbabwe: Park Rehabilitation and Conservation Project
Annex 3
Park Rehabilitation and Conservation Project
Estimated Project Costs
-------(Z$ Million)--------       ------US$ Million-----
%      Total
Foreign    Base
Components                          Local   Foreign  Total   Local   Foreign  Total   Exchange   Costs
A. Institutional Strengthening
Policy Development                 2.0      1.5     3.4      0.2      0.1      0.3         42        -
Organizational Development         3.2      1.8      5.0     0.2     - 0.1     0.4         35       1
Fund Management System             6.0      5.3     11.3     0.5      0.4      0.9         47       1
Planning Unit Strengthening        1.6      0.8     2.4      0.1      0.1      0.2         33        -
Park Management Planning           2.0      1.6     3.6      0.2      0.1      0.3         44
Interpretive & Extension Capacity  2.5      1.2      3.7     0.2       0.1     0.3          33
Research, Monitoring & Evaluation   -       0.4      0.4      -        0.0     0.0         100
Training                           6.4       -       6.4     0.5       -       0.5           -       1
Institutional Strengthening Equip.  1.0     7.9      8.9     0.1       0.6     0.7          89       1
Subtotal Institutional Strengthening  24.8    20.5    45.2      1.9      1.6      3.5         45       6
B. Infrastructure, Ops. & Maint. a/
1. Gonarezhou                        72.1    82.5    154.6    5.5        6.3    11.9          53      20
2. Hwange/Kazuma Pan                115.7   156.6   272.3       8.9     12.0    20.9          58      35
3. ManaPools                         26.6    35.4    62.1       2.0      2.7      4.8         57       8
4. Nyanga                            15.3    22.2    37.5       1.2      1.7      2.9         59       5
5. Chizaria                          26.4    39.6    66.0       2.0      3.0      5.1         60       8
6. Matobo                            17.5    25.3    42.8       1.3      1.9      3.3         59       5
7. Chimanimani                        5.6      8.3     13.9     0.4      0.6      1.1         60       2
8. Zambezi/Victoria Falls            19.9    28.7    48.6       1.5      2.2      3.7         59       6
9. Matusadona                        19.5    24.1      43.6     1.5      1.9      3.4         55       6
Subtotal Infrastructure, Ops & Maint.  318.8   422.7   741.5    24.5    32.5    57.0          57      94
Total Baseline Costs                343.5   443.2   786.7    26.4       34.1    60.5          56     100
Physical Contingencies            34.4    44.3    78.7       2.6       3.4     6.1          56      10
Price Contingencies              272.0   246.3   518.3       5.8       2.6     8.4          31      14
Total Project Costs                 649.8   733.8   1383.7  34.9        40.1    75.0          54     124
a/ Includes vehicles & Equipmen, Design and Supervision.



Project Appraisal Document                                                         Page 34
Zimbabwe: Park Rehabilitation and Conservation Project
Annex 4
Park Rehabilitation and Conservation Project
Economic Analysis
(Cost-Benefit and Cost Effectiveness Analysis)
I. INTRODUCTION
1.    This Annex presents an economic analysis of the project, with a view to assessing its overall
economic desirability and the cost-effectiveness of selected investments within theproject.l Part II
discusses the role of tourism and wildlife in Zimbabwe's economy. Part III covers economic assumptions
that are common to all of the economic analyses contained in the Annex. Part IV provides the
assumptions and results relating to a social cost benefit analysis (CBA) of theproject. Part V provides a
brief look at the cost-effectiveness of the proposed institutional arrangements, as well as of individual
park expenditures in the context of typical international conservation expenditures. Part VI provides a
separate economic analysis in support of the $5 million of GEF funds that are dedicated to the project,
and Part VII provides a long-term look at economic sustainability once theproject is completed. In all of
these instances, economic sensitivity analyses are conducted as appropriate to assess the project's
economic robustness.
1I. ROLE OF TOURISM AND WILDLIFE IN THE ZIMBABWEAN ECONOMY
2.    Macroeconomic Setting. Zimbabwe's GDP increased an average of 2.7% per year through the
1980s, while population grew at 3.2% per year. An Economic Structural Adjustment Program was
instituted in 1990, and by 1996, the exchange rate and most consumer prices were market determined;
domestic marketing was liberalized; many controls on wages, investment and the labor market were
eliminated; the civil service was downsized; and non-interest budgetary expenditures were reduced by
7.6%. The economy is now more competitive and the investment environment more favorable than five
years ago, and recent growth of agricultural and mineral exports and tourism has been rapid. The benefits
of structural reform have been hampered, however, by droughts and the persistence of high fiscal deficits,
in the range of 8-11% of GDP. Poverty, less prevalent in Zimbabwe than in many sub-Saharan countries,
is largely rural; 81% of the poor live in communal and resettlement areas, on environmentally fragile,
drought-prone lands, threatened in some areas by unsustainable farming practices. AIDS, currently
infecting 30% of the sexually active population, is worsening acute malnutrition and the under-five
mortality rate, and is straining social services. While estimates of poverty differ, it is likely to have
increased over 1990-95, due to drought-induced food insecurity, and a decline in real urban wages.
3.    Role of Tourism Sector. Even before the structural reforms, tourism was Zimbabwe's third
highest foreign currency earner, behind agriculture and mining. Visitors to Zimbabwe increased 325%
from 1980 to 1994. In 1996, 1.4 million visitors came for holidays, and the number has increased by an
average of 23% per year in the 1990s. Visitors to Zimbabwe spent US$147.5 million in 1994, a 63%
increase since 1980, of which $80 million was from the 3.2% of visitors coming from North America.
Use of the tourist multiplier, estimated at 1.69, increases the contribution of tourism to GDP from 1.8% to
3.1%. While the data are inconsistent, estimates of employment in tourism in 1992/3 range from 20,000
to 37,000, and of the increase from 1987-90 of formal employment in the sector from 13-20%. The
'The complete report is available in the project file.



Project Appraisal Document                                                          Page 35
Zimbabwe: Park Rehabilitatioin and Conservation Project
number of registered tour and safari operators, guides and hunters approximately tripled from 1985 to
1992.
4.     The national park system was originally established with the 14,500 km2 Hwange National Park
and eventually almost doubled in size to its current extent. Compared with nationaltourism growth of
about 23% annually, annual growth in parks visits has averaged 11% over the same period for the Parks
Estate. Of the 761,000 people visiting national parks in 1995/6, about two-thirds were foreigners.
DNPWLM now manages approximately 850 beds in lodges, chalets and cottages, as well as about 380 in
campsites. Attempts are being made to increase local involvement, and a new guideline allows
indigenous hunting operators to pay discounted concession fees for two years, with full fees payable
thereafter.
5.     Value of Wildlife. Once legislation had been changed to allow landowners to benefit from
wildlife conservation through utilization, the wildlife utilization industry developed rapidly. Wildlife
numbers have increased significantly in commercial ranching areas and management of many species has
improved in some of the parks. Key species that are specially protected (no killing except in defense of
life) include pangolin, black rhino, wild dog, and 6 bird species. Also, a number of species are restricted
for hunting and require a special permit; these include aardwolf, cheetah, gemsbok, Lichenstein's
hartebeest, and over 10 bird species. The value of Zimbabwe's wildlife species is reflected in: (i) the
cash role it plays in local and national economy; (ii) the non-cash role it plays in improving local
livelihoods, and (iii) the contribution it makes through game ranching activities.
6.     The cash contribution of wildlife is perhaps most marked. The emerging wildlife industry was
estimated in 1995 to be worth at least Z$200 million; another estimate sets the total earnings in wildlife
subsectors, including tourism, hunting, food production, game products and support services at Z$852
million. Revenue for hunting in the safari areas alone in the late 1980s was Z$1.67 million. The
summary shown in Table, A4. 1 provides some other examples illustrating that: (i) wildlife earnings have
contributed importantly to foreign exchange; (ii) sport hunting has grown significantly since the 1980s;
and, (iii) community capture of benefits is mixed, and depends primarily on existence of local
institutional structures toD take advantage of and distribute income. In addition, it is possible that
heretofore restricted products may become an important component of wildlife trade. The CITES
meeting in June 1997 agreed that Zimbabwe could make one-time ivory sales to Japan (along with two
other nations) with a credlible monitoring program put in place.
7.     The distribution of benefits so as to compensate those who 'produce' the wildlife by tolerating
the opportunity costs im]posed is a key issue for long-term sustainability, particularly for the communal
lands. In one case study, the total revenue generated by wildlife was US$7.00 per hectare, of which only
US$0.24 accrued to the communal farmers; returns to agriculture, although lower than to wildlife, accrue
to households, so that a 35% increase in annual household income could result from eliminating
wildlife.' Revenue fiom the CAMPFIRE program, which returns wildlife benefits to producer wards,
rose from Z$628,000 in 1989, to Z$9,741,000 in 1993, to Z$14,082,000 in 1995.
8.     The non-cash role is also important.  For example, wild-laid crocodile eggs, provided by
DNPWLM under permit, forrned the initial breeding population of the crocodile ranching industry in
Zimbabwe, which is not only profitable - worth around US$4.5 million annually by 1995 - but has
eliminated the threat of eradication faced by the species in the 1950s, has fully restored wild population
levels, and has minimized poaching and illegal trade. This is only one demonstration of the support
provided by the genetic stocks of the Parks Estate to the ecological and economic resources of the nation.
Other benefits include provision of live animals for reintroduction into other areas, and the underlying
' Kay Muir and Robert C'unliffe, Economic Policy and Wildlife Management in Zimbabwe, February 1993.



Project Appraisal Document                                                             Page 36
Zimbabwe: Park Rehabilitation and Conservation Project
breeding stock for migratory animals hunted in communal and commercial areas. Beyond these
unquantified economic benefits are the non-market ecological benefits of conservation provided by the
parks and wildlife estate.
9.     A number of studies over the past two decades has demonstrated that in arid and semi-arid
savannas, the economic yields from game ranching significantly outweigh those from cattle. Further,
economic profit per hectare from cattle is negative, even when the substantial environmental costs are not
counted, demonstrating that conventional beef production is an ecologically and economically
unsustainable land use. The search for profitability has resulted in the rapid spread of game ranching and
other wildlife utilization enterprises. The initial cropping enterprises have in many cases diversified into
additional on-ranch safari hunting, game viewing, and tourism. The evolution of multi-species wildlife
utilization in the 1990s has turned several very large tracts of land into conservancies, formed by the
cooperation of a number of contiguous landholders, where animals requiring large ranges, such as lion or
elephant, can be successfully supported. As well as the major ecological benefits created, employment on
one such conservancy has increased six-fold with the change in land use.
m. COMMON ECONOMIC ASSUMPTIONS
10.    Basic Assumptions. A number of economic assumptions are common to all of the economic
analyses contained in this Annex. These relate to the project description, evaluation parameters, and key
assumptions that were made while forecasting economic conditions. Although, for the most part, the
project descriptions rely on the engineering design work, the financial forecasts, and the individual
component descriptions described elsewhere in the PAD, the economic analysis accommodates additional
factors, notably: (a) the project life is extended to 40 years to reflect the full life of the project, with
investments occurring over a four-year period commencing in 1998, and long-term costs and benefits
projected to 2037; (b) revenue and expenditure forecasts, which are based on the financial projections
(see Annex 5), have been adjusted to reflect slightly different assumptions relating to macro-economic
factors (especially exchange rates and inflation); (c) as opposed to financial values, pecuniary effects
such as inflation and taxes are removed and unrarketed values given some greater emphasis; (d) a
potential adjustment is made to reflect that the social opportunity cost of domestic labor may be less than
the market price of the labor, with in the Base Case domestic labor valued at "shadow wage rates"
corresponding to 80% of market rate; (e) all costs and benefits exclude nominal price inflation (and
contingencies) but include real physical contingencies; (f) the base case discount rate, for calculation of
present values, is taken to be 1 0%/year in real terms; and (g) a real exchange rate in the base year is taken
as Z$13 per US$1. The real exchange rate of 13:1 is maintained through the life of the project.1
11.    As a basic principle, wherever there is uncertainty of project timing or level of costs and
expenditures, the evaluation selected parameters that would, in effect, moderately understate the
economic viability of the project. This approach resulted in (i) a slight compression of project capital
expenditures into a four year period, (ii) acceleration of all institutional investments to Year 1 of the
project, to reflect the idea that many of the investment components require strong institutional capacity if
they are to be executed effectively, (iii) long-term revenue generation based on conservative increases in
fees and tourist arrivals, with compensating escalation in real operating costs to service the higher arrival
levels, (iv) exclusion of domestic consumer surplus in the benefit calculations, and (v) assumption that all
core agency overhead costs are related to a primary function of running the national parks, even though
such overheads also performn secondary functions such as overseeing recreation and safari areas.
'This may cause the base case to overstate local costs if currency devaluation occurs and if some local costs
(especially wages) do not keep pace with this devaluation. Given the uncertainty in this parameter and recent
exchange rate volatility, the assumptions here, again, provide a conservative evaluation bias to the economic
analyses.



Project Appraisal Document                                                             Page 37
Zimbabwe: Park Rehabilitation ancl Conservation Project
12.    Project Costs. ]Prcject costs are summarized in Table A4.2. The table is in two parts. The base
project costs are shown in the top half, generating a total cost of US$64.6 million (Z$840 million). The
bottom half shows the lonlg-term (recurrent costs) associated with continued operations of the park estate
during and beyond the investment phase of the project. The recurrent costs in this table should be
regarded as a 'reference scenario' assuming no real changes with time; in the general evaluation models
they are linked to actual forecast activity variables, such as tourism levels. These recurrent costs are
factored from consultant estimatesl developed in the course of a Revenue and Expenditure Study
conducted for DNPWLLM, with the following adjustments: (i) changes in costs caused by variations in
nominal exchange rates and inflation were removed; (ii) accounting costs associated with depreciation
and interest during construction were removed to reflect social valuation; and (iii) a series of factored
adjustments were made to generate park-by-park estimates for three parks not included in the study.
13.    During the project investment period, average real costs associated with park and related
operations will be approximately Z$80 million (US$6 million) annually. These costs are included in the
project economic analysis but are assumed to be financed by the government. For the five year period
1998-2002 inclusive, including price contingencies, these costs are estimated to be US$37.3 million.
Offsetting this, it is anticipated that revenues during this same period (from service fees plus the one time
sale of elephant products under CITES) will generate approximately US$46.7 million in funds to the
government. Financing these recurrent expenditures during the project life is not, therefore, a constraint
to implementation; such costs have been excluded from the project description and are not generally
regarded as eligible for financing.
14.    Base Case Revenue Forecast.  The economic analysis assumes that payments made by
individuals for park and related services reflect the direct benefits accruing to those individuals. These
revenues are summarized in Table A4.3. Some of these revenues are collected directly (e.g., through
entry fees) while others are collected through the operations of private enterprises (e.g., concession and
license fees). Revenues during the forecast period are primarily from three sources: (i) tourism services,
(ii) park services, and (iii) the one-time sale of approximately 33 tons of elephant ivory is anticipated to
occur on the international market in 1999 under an experimental sale through CITES. In addition,
smaller domestic sales -- which are not subject to CITES regulations - will occur on an annual basis.
15.    The projections were based on the revenue forecasts contained in the consultant study adjusted
for inflationary effects. While annual growth in parks visits has averaged 11% for the Parks estate, the
projections were more conservatively based on a 5% annual growth for most parks (Gonarezhou was
assumed to be 10%). These growth rates were selected to reflect the fact that tariff increases may reduce
volumes somewhat; and that DNPWLM intends to control traffic in the estates to maintain their
ecological balance. Nonetheless, the study parameters were regarded as optimistic, given trends in
regional tourism, and vvere therefore taken as a potential 'high' case for revenue forecasting purposes.
Assumptions relating to the main scenarios in the economic study are:
*  High Case Revenue. Tourism arrivals grow at an average rate of 5% per year, real
tariff levels for tourists increase by 7% per year, and real park service fees increase
by 5% annually. Revenues in Year 40 are 1400% of revenues in the Base Case.
*  Base Case Revenue (Appraisal Base Case Assumptions). The High Case is regarded
as optimistic to the extent that it may be difficult to sustain increased tourist arrivals
and increased fee levels in the face of competition from other countries in the region.
The Base Case therefore reflects a 5% annual increase in tourist visits with no rises
in tariff levels.
Projected DNPWLM Revenue and Expenditures, Matlow (Pvt.) Ltd., 1997



Project Appraisal Document                                                          Page 38
Zimbabwe: Park Rehabilitation and Conservation Project
* Low Case Revenue (Appraisal "No Project" Case). Both tourism levels and fee
levels show no change over the 40 year period. This would, it is believed, be the
most optimistic projection in the event that the project does not proceed, and it is
therefore used as a reference case against which the project is compared. Revenues
in Year 40 in this scenario are 16% of those in the Base Case.
IV. COST BENEFIT ANALYSIS
16.   CBA requires that only additional costs and benefits be included in the analyses, where the
additional costs and benefits are with reference to a 'most likely alternative in the event that theproject
does not proceed as anticipated.' Table A4.4 provides a summary of all of assumptions relating to the
relevant real cost and benefit streams considered in the CBA.
17.   Assumptions "With PARC". The estimates for direct benefits and costs have been provided
previously. The revenues in effect capture both wildlife and tourism values, while the costs reflect
investment and operating costs with the project. Although there is considerable uncertainty over the price
of the one-time ivory sale in 1999, the one-time international sale and legal domestic sales will occur with
and without the project, and thus will not affect the project valuation results. As for- labor shares,
domestic labor in domestic components was estimated to range from 0% to 75% (values per cost
component listed in complete report). In addition to direct benefits, there are further benefits associated
with the preservation of genetic values. Conservation of native vegetation, fauna and ecosystems in the
protected areas preserves genetic stocks, some of which have clear marketable value. Further benefits
protected by the project investment include the ability to sustain a comprehensive protected area system
which is capable of conserving and sustaining globally significant and representative biodiversity. A
partial accounting of erosion costs caused by cattle ranching, based on the replacement costs of three soil
nutrients, was found to increase with aridity from US$8 to US$80/ha/year, a measure which does not
account for the many other losses. Such other losses include the local loss of species, the loss of soil, and
impaired water catchment quality. Continued protection of many additional ecological functions, and of
option and existence values, is an unquantified but large benefit to the global community.
18.   Assumptions "Without PARC". A scenario was developed, based on experience of the Appraisal
Mission members and others, regarding what would be most likely to happen in the absence of the
project. The initial effects that are likely to ensue in the absence of the project - such as continued
deterioration of roads, inadequate communications, and a lack of institutional management equipment
and systems - will result in various forms of damage, such as reduced tourism, loss of potential revenues,
and environmental deterioration. These damages have multiple causes: for example, impassable roads
will lower tourism, hinder anti-poaching efforts, raise vehicle operating costs, increase staff time costs,
raise long-mn maintenance and rehabilitation costs, and reduce capacity to undertake conservation
activities. Since a simple 'dose-response' correlation between initial effects and resulting damages
cannot be precisely established, the assumptions summarized in Table A4.4 represent a best estimate
about ultimate effects.1
19.   Values "At Risk". As many values in the economy depend to a greater or lesser extent on the
wildlife and park sector, the viability of the Parks Estate acts as an underpinning to these values, which
could be jeopardized by its degradation or loss. This section gives some general areas at risk and
provides economic value estimates of those areas that may be vulnerable. As some of these values
cannot be readily analyzed in the framework of a 'with' and 'without' project scenario, they are excluded
from the general CBA results.
'The assumptions and related quantitative adjustnents are described in detail in the complete report.



Project Appraisal Document                                                          Page 39
Zimbabwe: Park Rehabilitation and Conservation Project
a) Tourism Sector. The tourism sector is not only a significant component of GDP and a
large contributor to foreign currency earnings, it also supports private conservation
efforts through the wildlife utilization industry. Gross receipts from holiday visitors
to Zimbabwe in 1996 totaled Z$1,060 million. Assuming a modest 5% growth in
tourism, the present: value of this annual amount discounted over the 40-year project
time horizon is an estimated Z$26,000 million. This is the potential gross PV of
tourism at risk. While tourism does not fully depend on the park estate, it is clear that
the estate is a critical component in the national tourism strategy; one expert suggests
it is directly or indirecitly responsible for 95% of tourism in Zimbabwe.
b) Other Wildlife. Out-of-park wildlife production also depends on the habitat and wild
populations of the FParlks Estate. The value added from wildlife production, excluding
a further $783 millioni dependent on the tourism industry, was estimated at Z$125
million in 1992 (or $344 million real 1997). In addition to these actually marketed
values, the annual trophy value of a sustainable off-take of a selection of current
animal populations amounts to Z$92.7 million, giving annual non-tourism and non-
marketed values of $Z437 million annually.  Using 1997 real values, and
conservatively assuming no increase in production volumes, this translates to a
discounted PV of Z$4,700 million, representing the PV of wildlife values potentially
at risk.
c) Induced Investment. Expanded infrastructure provision has additional benefits of
induced investment, reduced fiscal burden, and incremental efficiency gains
elsewhere in the economy. Studies elsewhere have demonstated that benefits of such
impacts can exceed by up to an order of magnitude the direct benefits that may be
realized by any specific project.
20.   In the absence of the park system, present values of at least Z$30,700 million (US$2,360 million)
are at risk. It is impossible to specify precisely all the linkages between the Parks Estate and the wildlife
and tourism values at risk, or to demonstrate their magnitude, but it is clear that even a 3.2% decrease in
these values would more than justify the US$75 million cost of the project.
Results
21.    Results of the C13A are presented in Table A4.5a for the Base Case and Table A4.5b for a
number of sensitivity cases. Sensitivity results for discount rates of 5% per year and 15% per year are
shown in addition to the Base Case assumption of 10% per year. The NSB of the project is defined as the
NPV of cost and benefit streams 'with' the project less the NPV of cost and benefits streams 'without' the
project. The table separates the 'direct' costs and benefits from 'other adjustments'. These other
adjustrnents can be equivatlently treated either as 'gains' to the 'withproject' scenario or as 'losses' to the
'without project' scenario; analytically all have been calculated with reference to the 'withoutproject'
case, as they are, technically, efficiency losses that could be expected to occur if nothing is done in the
sector. From an evaluation perspective, therefore, these are 'avoided efficiency losses' in the CBA of the
project.
22.    The Base Case analyses demonstrate that the project shows a positive NSB at all discount rates
evaluated. It is therefore economically efficient to proceed with such an intervention. In the Base Case at
a discount rate of 10% per year, the direct social benefits and costs of the project show a small net loss of
US$4.5 million. "Doing nothing," however, would generate a net social loss of US$49.2 million because
of ongoing recurrent costs and efficiency losses. The NSB in the Base Case is therefore approximately
US$45 million. A sensitivity test was undertaken to determine the discount rate at which NSB equaled



Project Appraisal Document                                                         Page 40
Zimbabwe: Park Rehabilitation and Conservation Project
zero. Simulations showed that this occurred at a discount rate of 16.547% peryear. The Economic Rate
of Return of the project is therefore approximately 16.5%.
23.   Incremental benefits (before costs) from the project are approximately equally weighted between
'nature' gains and 'road efficiency' gains. With the project, benefits from wildlife and tourism are
US$53.68 million greater than they would be in the Reference Case. Efficiency gains from improved
road conditions are expected to be slightly more: $54.92 million. This illustrates that, from an economic
efficiency perspective, both the infrastructure and the wildlife and tourism aspects are important in
realizing the project's economic viability.
24.   The sensitivity results in Table A4.5b show the economic robustness of the project. Specific
conclusions are: (i) even with a shadow wage rate = 100% of market rates, the project shows a positive
NSB at all discount rates; (ii) In a 'low' revenue scenario, in which tourism revenues are 'flat', the project
remains economic at a 10%/year discount rate and becomes marginally uneconomic (NSB= -US$4
million) at a 15%/year discount rate. The fact that it remains economic at the 10% discount rate (even
though the revenue forecasts in the 'with' and 'without' project cases are identical) demonstrates the
importance of the efficiency gains in justifying the project; (iii) The base case assumed an average park
road use of 10 km/visit. Variation of this parameter within a five-fold range (low of 2 km/visit; high of
50 km/visit) still demonstrated a positive NSB at a 10%/year discount rate. Finally, an iterative test was
conducted to determine the 'break-even' point within the tourism growth forecast, to find the point at
which declining tourism might compromise project economics. The base case assumed that tourism
numbers escalated by 5%/year, that there was no growth in tariffs, and that operating costs to service the
tourism volumes increased by 4%/year. The break-even analysis assumed that both tariffs and operating
costs remained constant at current levels. The result was that if tourism levels showed a sustaineddecline
of 4.33%/year throughout the 40 year project, the project NSB would equal zero. This demonstrates that
the project economics are quite robust in the face of tourism declines.
V. COST EFFECTIVENESS ANALYSIS
25.   Base Case Institution. A range of alternatives was considered in developing the institutional
strengthening component of the project, from a highly centralized and publicly managed agency to handle
park functions, to regionally decentralized structures that were financially and managerially autonomous
from central government. The highly centralized model reflects the traditional park management system
in Zimbabwe. In Zimbabwe, as elsewhere, such centralized structures were generally larger than required
and were typically ineffective in fulfilling conservation mandates because they did not empower
decentralized expertise and management in individual parks. This model was, therefore, regarded as a
priori unsustainable.
26.    Decentralized structures, relying on private firms, NGOs or quasi-governmental agencies to
operate individual parks, have been adopted in some countries. In Zimbabwe, however, the sustainability
of some of the parks would be questionable in such a model. Financial analyses indicate that some
popular parks would thrive while others, which are equally important from a biodiversity conservation
perspective, would languish because of their location or the nature of their 'salable' features. Because the
project addresses Zimbabwe's entire Parka Estate as a system, promotion of highly decentralized
structures would unduly threaten the sustainability of the system. Appropriately, a model for the project
was adopted that: (a) takes advantage of decentralized management expertise through strengthening
infrastructure and institutions at the Park level; (b) maintains a strong coordinating and planning role for a
centralized DNPWLM that will promote the park estate as a sustainable system; and, (c) promotes cost-
effective operations through establishing a more commercialized DNPWLM that can cooperate with the
private sector in providing tourism and park services in Zimbabwe. Moreover, through discussions with



Project Appraisal Document                                                       Page 41
Zimbabwe: Park Rehabilitation anid Conservation Project
government, this model -, of a commercialized DNPWLM that supports a strong decentralized network of
parks - has the greatest degree of political support of all of the alternatives considered.
27.   Per Unit Cost-ef,ectiveness. While no complete monetization of the global benefits of such an
intervention has been completed, it is possible to provide some indication of the cost-effectiveness of
such an intervention in comparison to interventions elsewhere on a unit area basis. For the system as a
whole, it is estimated that the total intervention translates to an annualized cost of US$489/km2/year of
effective protection; this reflects the basic hypotheses that improved decentralized measures will ensure
protection of a wider range of species and habitats and that the 2.7 million ha of land area within the park
estate would otherwise have experienced continuous degradation. The literature indicates that typical
conservation expenditures around the world reflect international interventions corresponding to
approximately US$201kmn2/year to US$2,000/km2/year of protection. In the case of Zimbabwe,
therefore, the substantial investments in the project provide an opportunity to implement relatively
efficient conservation expenditures.
VI. INCREMENTAIL COST ANALYSIS OF GEF COMPONENTS
28.   The project finaincing plan provides that, of the total financing requirement of US$75 million,
US$5 million will be provided as a grant through the Global Environment Facility (GEF). Because the
GEF funding has already been approved at a previously determined funding level, an abbreviated
incremental cost (IC) analysis is presented here. As opposed to calculating an appropriate level of GEF
funding (that an ex ante analysis would provide), the IC analysis here provides an ex post 'reality check'
on the GEF funding that has been allocated. The primary purpose is, therefore, to provide an economic
assessment of the GEF contributions using conventions that respect GEF appraisal procedures (requiring
acknowledgment of a 'baseline'), while also reflecting the analytical assumptions contained in the overall
project appraisal.
29.   The project calls for splitting the GEF allocation between two sets of activities: First, the
Gonarezhou Park program represents support for the direct costs within Gonarezhou Park as described in
this PAD. The total level of funding for this program has been set tentatively at US$3 million, but could
potentially be increased if expenditures under the activities under the 'Out of Park' program are not
totally committed or disbursed. The IC analysis in this section focuses on these 'in park' expenditures.
Second, funds have been reserved for a series of small- to medium-scale investments outside of
Gonarezhou Park, totaling US$2 million. Most of this will be reserved for relatively small projects
(having funding ceilings of US$25,000 each), although depending on proposals received in the course of
the project, some could be used for medium scale projects (having funding ceilings of US$300,000 each).
The scale of these individual projects precludes the need for an IC analysis for each activity under current
GEF guidelines, and the current level of definition of these projects would make it impossible in any
event to conduct a detailed IC analysis.
30.   The incremental cost analysis for the Gonarezhou Park component of the project commences
with the same form of (CBA as for the project as a whole (results shown in Table A4.6). A 'with' and
'without' case is again defined, although in this case the expenditures include only the 'in park'
investments and recurrent costs. Costs associated with central institutional strengthening are not
allocated on a pro rata basis to the park, as these could be regarded as a 'Baseline' investment that would
be spent by the government in any event. Efficiency gains are computed using similar conventions to
those used previously, with the exception that a higher share of the 'borehole adjustment' that was
applied for the system as a whole was, in this case, attributed to Gonarezhou. For the system as a whole,
it was assumed that only 5% of the tourism revenue was at risk due to the lack of water supply. Given
that much of this amount was, in fact, because of Gonarezhou, the CBA for Gonarezhou assumed that
100% of the locally derived revenue was at risk. This has the effect of increasing the project NSB for the



Project Appraisal Document                                                          Page 42
Zimbabwe: Park Rehabilitation and Conservation Project
park as it results in a greater efficiency gain; the efficiency gain is small relative to other benefits and
costs and even with this high assumed level of revenues at risk, the project NSB is not greatly affected by
it.
31.    The net result of the CBA for Gonarezhou Park is that there is a negative NSB of US$7.14
million at a 10% per year discount rate. This is in contrast to the positive NSB for the project as a whole,
and is attributable to a number of factors. First, the revenue share attributable to Gonarezhou Park is
small compared to that in other parks while costs are comparable on a per hectare basis. The lower
revenue share is reflected, for example, in lower vehicle use. The vehicle use for the system as a whole is
approximately 84,000 vehicles annually whereas the highest historical use rate in Gonarezhou over the
past five years has been just under 3,000 vehicles; this analysis assumes for a 'reference case' that 3,000
vehicles will use the Park. This relatively low use rate shows up in two ways in decreasing the NSB for
this park: (i) there are fewer direct revenues from tourists; and, (ii) there are fewer efficiency gains from
improving road infrastructure. As a consequence net benefits are lower. These factors alone provide an
important rationale for directing GEF funds to this Park, apart from the biodiversity objectives of
conserving the natural assets in this area.
32.   While the above provides an assessment of the net social benefits, some additional adjustments
are warranted to provide a more accurate assessment of the incremental costs. First, although an
SWR=80% was used for the CBA, it is more conventional in incremental cost analysis to use full market
prices for all project inputs. In this case, such an adjustment, as shown in the table, would provide an
additional net present value cost to the interventions of US$0.85 million relative to the Reference Case.
Second, it may be argued that Gonarezhou is a key part of the entire protected area system and that, as
such, the Government would in any event be willing to pay a greater share of recurrent costs as part of
any 'baseline' activity. In this case, it was assumed that all additional recurrent costs under the project
would be covered by the Government as a Baseline commitment. This, as the table shows, results in a
'benefit' adjustment of US$2.35 million. In effect, the result of these two adjustments is simply
equivalent to evaluating the project at market prices and excluding all recurrent costs to reflect the idea
that the Government will cover these as any Baseline expenditure program. Even with these adjustments,
however, the Park NSB shows a negative value of US$5.65 million. This can be broken down as follows:
Incremental investment cost of US$9.82 million, and offsetting benefits of US$4.17 million (US$0.88
million from incremental wildlife and tourism benefits plus US$3.29 million from incremental efficiency
gains.) This implies that the net present value of the incremental cost stream is US$5.65 million.
Assuming that any compensatory disbursements occur in equal installments over a three year period to
the Park, then, using the inflation assumptions that were common throughout the economic analysis, the
'as spent' equivalent that would generate this NPV of incremental costs would be US$6.83 million.
33.   The analysis suggests that, accounting for Baseline considerations and offsetting benefits, the
current 'as spent' incremental costs of investments at Gonarezhou Park is US$6.83 million. In effect,
international grant aid of approximately US$7 million would be an economically appropriate intervention
under GEF IC guidelines. Given that, under the project, up to US$5 million was allocated in total under
GEF (with at least US$3 million directly through 'in park' investments), the scale of the GEF
commitment is of the right order of magnitude, though there is economic justification for increasing this
amount.
VII. SUSTAINA.BILITY ANALYSIS
34.    Project sustainability is a concern with all interventions in which local revenue sources are
expected to cover recurrent costs. It is especially relevant given the historical experience of DNPWLM,
whose operating profits over the three years prior to 1995/6 were insufficient to meet costs, resulting in
funding deficits accumulating as high as Z$31 million over the 3-year period. Disbursements to the



Project Appraisal Document                                                                  Page 43
Zimbabwe: Park Rehabilitation and Conservaton Project
Department did not generally cover actual requirements. Tariffs were set at well below market rates,
accounting systems were inadequate, and no incentives were in place to generate revenue or improve
management efficiency.  The establishment of the Fund, and the planned project institutional
strengthening and infrastructure rehabilitation will change these factors, and create conditions that will
enable positive net revenue flows.
35.    Based on the revenue and recurrent cost projections presented earlier in this section, analyses
suggest that the activities included within the scope of this project will generate financial surpluses
immediately. Analyses of revenues under the three revenue forecasts show the following (thousands of
1998 Z$):
Year      Operating                                  Revenue
Costs*              Low Case*           Base Case          High Case
3         85,185                 94,133             103,258            114,058
5         92,136                 94,133             113,318            138,226
10        112,097                 94,133            143,213            223,638
15        136,384                 94,133            181,368            362,157
20         165,93-1               94,133            230,065             586,932
*The operating cost projections aXe those shown under the 'Base Case' and 'High Case' assumptions of tourist arrivals. In the
'Low Case' (no change in tourist arrivals) operating costs are also projected to remain flat at Z$85,185.
36.    In the Low Case revenue forecast, the ratio of recurrent revenues to recurrent costs after project
completion is 1.11:1. In the Base Case the ratio is 1.23:1 upon completion of the investment phase and
approximately 1.33:1 after an additional 10 years. Given the existence of the Fund, these revenues will
be retained for Departmental use and there is therefore a high probability of achieving long-term
sustainability.



Project Appraisal Document                                                               Page 44
Zimbabwe: Park Rehabilitation and Conservation Project
Table A4.1
Selected Indicators of Wildlife Value in Zimbabwe
Foreign          Estimated financial contribution of wildlife subsectors to the national economy (1992):
Exchange                            Total Earnings (Z$million)                    Foreign Share
Role             Tourism                       731.0                                  73%
Sport Hunting                 52.2                                 100%
Wildlife management services  62.0                                   0%
Game products                  1.0                                   n/a
Crocodile production          26.6                                 100%
Ostrich production            35.4                                 100%
Total                        852.4                                -76%
Sport                                                  mid- to late 1980s           1993
Hunting          Gross value of sport hunting         >US$2 million         >US$12 million
Hunting days                                4,255                 14,142
Fee to safari operators                 US$475/d               US$550/d
Average trophy fees by safari operators
 Elephant*                             US$2,691               US$7,609
* Buffalo                                    645                   1,046
* Sable                                      903                   1,524
* Leopard                                   1,322                  1,888
 Kudu                                       403                    544
* Zebra                                      377                    553
Average hunt value                          6,078                  9,970
* Elephant has accounted for 22% of trophy fees paid from 1986 to 1993.
Community        Sport hunting is the primary source of funds. From 1989-1995, only 2% of revenue was from
Involvement      tourism in districts with 'appropriate authority'.
Revenues to district councils having 'appropriate authority' in 1995:
* Sport hunting                      Z$13,080,000                  93%
X Tourism                                479,000                    2%
 Hides/ivory                             101,000                   1%
 Other                                  421,000                    4%
* Total                              Z$14,082,000
Kanyurira ward, almost surrounded by Parks and Wildlife land in the Chewore and Doma
Safari Areas, fenced itself in to 20km2 out of 400km2, keeping the remainder for wildlife and
leased the concession for trophy hunting. This was valued at US$33,000 to US$276,000/year.
Majority of funds from safari hunting went to community projects and remainder went as
dividend to households of $200/hh in 1989, $400/hh in 1991 and $1000/hh in 1993.
Commercial       Wildlife has comparative advantage over beef in Natural Regions IV and V, borne out by
Lands            increasing changeover to wildlife systems.
Commercial lands depend primarily on sport hunting, but in certain areas there is a
progression from sport hunting to non-consumptive tourism. Conservancies (Save 3,368 km2,
Bubiana 1,860 kI2) are using both, as are growing number of ranches and fanns.
Gross value of trophy fees to commercial lands (1991) = US$1.4 million
Gross value of wildlife utilization to commercial lands (1991) = Z$200 million.
Sources: Bond 1997; Cumming 1991a cited C 1994; Cumming 1994; Jansen 1992; Swift 1997.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                                                                                              Page 45
Zimbabwe: Park Rehabilitation and Conservation Projects
= 
Table A4.2
Base Case Project Costs
(Z$ '000s)                                       Period
Calendar Year    1998    1999    2000    2001    2002    2007    2012    2017    2022    2027    2032    2037    Item                               Sub-
Project Year          1         2         3        4         5        10        1        20        25        30        35        40   Totals    Totals
BASE PROJECT COSTS
NATIONAL PARKS
Road rehabilitation & civil              SD,67,  201,100   104,690    92,473                                                                                   47s,940
works
Electrification                           7,52(l    4,200     3,360      500                                                                                     15,5S0
Telephone lines                             350       560        0         0                                                                                      1,410
Building repairs, other                       0     1,570    14,045     3,115                                                                                   23,730
rehabilitation
Water supplies                                o     6,710      200      1,065                                                                                     7,975
New housing, other buildings                  (1      779    13,685    20,530                                                                                    34,994
Road maintenance plant                   20,790)        0        0         0                                                                                    20,790
Vehicles                                 12,811)       0         0         0                                                                                     12,10
Anti-poaching &                           2,37i         0         0        0                                                                                      2,371
communications
Other equipment                           4,462         0        0         0                                                                                      4,462
Office equipment                            694         0        0         0                                                                                       694
Design and supervision (10%)             13,06     21,492    13,598    12,26_                                                                                   60,426
Physical contingencies (10%)             14,374    23.641    14,953    13,495                                                                                   66,468
Total parks project costs               153,116  260,052   164,536   148,446                         -        -         -         -         -i--
CENTER SERVICES
Institutional Strengthening
Policy development                        3,146                                                                                                                  3,146
Organizational development                4,550                                                                                                                  4,550
Fund management system                   10,400                                                                                                                  10,400
Planning Unit strengthening               2,210                                                                                                                  2,210
Park management planning                  3,328                                                                                                                  3,328
Interpretive and extension                3,341                                                                                                                  3,341
capacity
Research, monitoring, evaluation            3SO                                                                                                                    390
Training                                  5,6c3                                                                                                                  5,603
Institutional strengthening               8,s54                                                                                                                  8,554
equipment
Physical contingencies                    4, 1.32                                                                                                                4,152
Total center services project            45,674                                                                                                                            45,674
costs
Total Project Costs  203,750   260,052   164,536   143,446                                                                            -         -         776,24
OPERATING COSTS
N'A TIONAL PARKS
Direct costs- tourism
Salaries and wages                       14,112   14,676    15,264    15,874    16,509    20,086    24,437    29,732    36,173    44,010    53,545    65,146   1,341,000
All other                                 2,624     2,729     2,s33     2,952    3,070     3,735     4,544     5,528     6,726     8,133    9,956    12,113    249,347
Total direct tourism  costs              16,7 6    17,405    13,102    18,326    19,579    23,821    28,981   35,260    42,s99    52,194    63,502    77,260             1,590,347
Direct costs - park services
Salaries and wages                       15,734    16,363    17,018    17,699    13,407    22,394    27,246    33,149    40,331   49,069    59,700    72,634   1,495,131
All other costs                           4,6:59    4,845     5,039     5,241    5,450     6,631     3,063     9,316    11,942    14,530    17,678    21,50S    442,724
Total direct parks services costs        20,3M3    21,209    22,057    22,939    23.357    29,026    35,314    42,965    52,273    63.59    77,377    94,142            1,937,835
Indirect expenses
Salaries and wages                        3,9D3    4,064      4,227    4,396     4,572     5,562     6,767     8,234    10,017    12,133    14,823    13,041    371,360
All other less depreciation              11.62S    12,093    12,577    13,030    3,603    16,550    20,136    24,493    29,306    36,264    44,120    53,679   1,104,957
Total indirect expenses                  15,536    16,157    16,S04    17,476    18,175    22,113    26,903    32,732    39,323    48,451    58,94E    71,720            I,476,316
Conservation costs
Salaries and wages                          963     1,001     1,041     1,o03     1,126    1,370     1,667     2,028     2,468    3,002     3,653     4,444     91,430
All other costs                           2,71      2,936     3,106     3,230    3,359     4,087     4,972     6,050     7,360    s,955    10,395    13,255    272,355
Total conservation costs                  3,834     3,s97     4,147     4,313    4,485     5,457     6,639     3,073     9,823    11,937    14,54S    17,700              364,336
Total parks operating costs              56,499    53,759    61,I09    63,554    66,096    80,416    97,331  119,035   144,824   176,201   214,375  260, 21 5,363354



Project Appraisal Document                                                                                                                                  Page 46
Zimbabwe: Park Rehabilitation and Conservafton Project
CENTERSERVICES
Salaries and wages                         11,197    11,645    12.111    123595    13,099    ts,937    19.390    23.590    28.701    34,920    42.48s5    1,689   1,064,001
All other costs, net of                    11i062    11,504    11,965    12,443    12,941    IS,745    19.156    23,306    28.355    34,499    41.973    51.066   .051,172
depreciation
Total center services operations           22.259    23,149    24.075     s,03     26,040    31,681    38,54     46,996    57.057    69.411 u    4,45    102.756             2,115s.73
Total Operating Costs   78,758    81.908    85.185    88.592    92.136   1122097   136,384   165,931  2016821  24S5619   299s.33   363.576                      7.4s4.027
TOTAL DIRECT COSTS                        282548   341,s960   249,721   237.039    92,136   112097   136,384   165,9321  201282   245619   298.833   363.S76               I8,260,85
Table A4.3: Base Case Revenue Forecast
(ZS '000s)                                           Period
Calendar Year  1998   1999   2000   2001  2002   2007    2012    2017    2022    2027                                                          2032          2037   Item
Project Year             1          2          3         4          5         10           15          20            25           30            35            40   Totals
FORECASTED REVENUES
NATIONVAL PARKS
Tourist services                              89,022    93,473    98,147    103,054    108.207    138,102       176,257      224,9s4      267,105      366.427       467,664       596,870   10.753,838
'Park Services*                                 5.121    30,741      5,112      s.112     5.LI1      5,111        5,111         5,121        5,111        5,11          5.11          5,111    230,070
TOTAL REVENUES                                94,133    124,214   103,258    108,165    113,318   143,.213      181,368      230065       29.16        371,5381      472775        601,9821
f~~~ ~~~ ~~~ ~~~ ~~~ ~~~ ~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



Project Appraisal Document                                                                  Page 47
Zimbabwe: Park Rehabilitation and Conservaton Project
Table A4.4: Summary of Evaluation Assumptions
(Base Case; millions of constant 1998 Z$)
Analysis Category                                  Valuation Assumptions
Project Direct Benefits & Costs
Revenues                                           Tourism and wildlife values (1998) = Z$94
Tourist escalation = 5%/o/year
One-off ivory sale in 1999 = Z$25.6
Annual fee increases per tourist = nil
Investments                                        Total investment of Z$777 (see Table A4.2)
Operating costs                                    Operating Cost (1998) = Z$79
Escalation = 4/o/year (see Table A4.2)
Adjustments relating to Project B&C streams
Labor adjustment                                   SWR = 80% of market wages and salary in labor
component of Project Investments and Operating Costs
Genetic values                                     >0; no estimate available for system as whole
Other Ecosystem Services                           >0; no estimate available for system as whole
Consumer Surplus                                   >0; no estimate attributed
Adjustmeqntsrelati toReference Case
Revenues                                           Same as 'with Project' case except:
Tourist escalation = nil
Operating Costs                                    Same as 'with Project' case except:
Tourist escalation = nil
Labor adjustment                                   SWR = 80% of market wages and salary in labor
component of Reference Case Operating Costs
Efficiency losses - Road Degradation               Increase in vehicle operating costs from 0-10% over 10
year period, resulting in eventual efficiency loss of
Z$S 10/year in Reference Case
Efficiency losses - Power and Telecom              Unmet demand results in single staff efficiency loss of
15% of labor component of Reference Case Operating
Costs, resulting in efficiency loss of Z$6.9/year.
Efficiency losses - Staff Productivity             General staff efficiency decline from 0-20% over 4 year
period, applied to labor component of Reference Case
Operating Costs, resulting in eventual efficiency loss of
Z$9.2/year.
Tourism Losses from Water Supply Degradation       Tourism revenue at risk = 5% of gross revenue.
Impact from water supply degradation escalates from 0-
20% over 4 year period, resulting in eventual losses of
Z$0.9/year.
Efficiency Losses - Revenue C'ollection            Revenues at risk, for valuation purposes, include only
foreign component, estimated to be 89% of (non-ivory)
revenue. Collection efficiency loss of 5% results in
eventual loss of Z$4.2/year.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                  Page 48
Zimbabwe: Park Rehabilitation and Conservation Project
Table A4.5a: Net Social Benefits - Base Case Zimbabwe PARC Project
(1998 constant US$ million; annual discount rates as indicated)
50/I/yr         10%lyyr1
Direct Social B&C "With Project"                            51.12            -4.51           -21.00
Project Benefits                                    282.87            133.24            81.40
Project Investmnent Costs                           -56.07           -52.90            -50.15
Project Recurrent Costs                            -202.31           -99.29            -62.20
Labor Adjustrnent (SWR=80%)                          26.63             14.43             9.95
Adjustments for Direct Social B&C "Without Project"        -35.91           -22.11           -16.14
Reference Case Benefits                             132.34            79.68             57.02
Reference Case Recurrent Costs                     -109.15           -65.17            -46.27
Labor Adjustment (SWR=80%)                           12.73              7.60             5.40
Other Adjustments                                          139.72            71.33            43.55
AEL from Road Degradation*                          111.54             54.92            32.19
AEL from Umnet Demand (Power & Telecom)*              9.54              5.70             4.05
AEL related to Staff Productivity*                   11.70              6.60             4.42
Avoided Tourism Losses from Water Supply Degradation*    1.13           0.64             0.43
Collection Efficiency Gains*                          5.81             3.47              2.46
Genetic Value Capturable Benefits*                       +                +                +
Ecosystem Service Benefits*                              +                +                +
Additional Domestic Consumer Surplus in Benefits         +                +                +
NSB of Project                                           154.93            44.70             6.41
* Relative to 'without Project' case.
Note: B&C = Benefits & Costs; AEL = Avoided Efficiency Losses.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                    Page 49
Zimbabwe: Park Rehabilitation and Conseration Project
Table A4.5b: Net Sociial Benefits - Sensitivity Cases Zimbabwe PARC Project
(1998 constant US$ nmillion; annual discount rates as indicated)
Sensitivity Case                                                         50/elyr    10%/yr      15%/./yr
Base Case
Direct Social Benefits & Costs "With Project"                            51.12       -4.51      -21.00
Adjustments for Direct Social Benefits & Costs "Without Project"        -35.91      -22.11      -16.14
Other Adjustments                                                       139.72       71.33       43.55
NSB of Project                                                        154.93       44.70        6.41
SWR=100%
Direct Social Benefits i& Costs "With Project"                           24.49      -18.95      -30.95
Adjustments for Direct Social Benefits & Costs "Without Project"        -23.19      -14.51      -10.75
Other Adjustments                                                       139.72       71.33       43.55
NSB of Project                                                        141.03       37.87        1.85
High Revenue Scenario
Direct Social Benefits & C'osts "With Project"                         1,152.90     297.40       83.92
Adjustments for Direct Social Benefits & Costs "Without Project"        -35.91      -22.11      -16.14
Other Adjustments                                                       139.72       71.33       43.55
NSB of Project                                                       1256.71      346.61      111.33
Low Revenue Scenario
Direct Social Benefits &k C(osts "With Project"                         -17.12      -27.93      -31.31
Adjustments for Direct Social Benefits & Costs "Without Project"        -35.91      -22.11      -16.14
Other Adjustments                                                       139.72       71.33       43.55
NSB of Project                                                         86.69       21.29       -3.90
Nil Efficiency Gains
Direct Social Benefits & C(osts "With Project"                           51.12       -4.51     -21.00
Adjustments for Direct Social Benefits & Costs "Without Project"        -35.91      -22.11     -16.14
Other Adjustrnents                                                        0.00        0.00        0.00
NSB of Project                                                         15.21      -26.63      -37.15
Park Kilometers Driven Per Vehicle = 2
Direct Social Benefits & Costs "With Project"                            51.12       -4.51      -21.00
Adjustrnents for Direct Scicial Benefits & Costs "Without Project"      -35.91      -22.11      -16.14
Other Adjustrnents                                                       50.49       27.39       17.80
NSB of Project                                                         65.70        0.76      -19.35
Park Kilometers Driven Per Vehicle = 50
Direct Social Benefits & Costs "With Project"                            51.12       -4.51      -21.00
Adjustrnents for Direct Scicial Benefits & Costs "Without Project"      -35.91      -22.11     -16.14
Other Adjustments                                                       585.87      291.02      172.32
NSB of Project                                                        601.08      264.39      135.17
Break-even Case: Operations Change 0% & Tourism Volume Decrease = 4.329%/yr
Direct Social Benefits & Costs "With Project"                           -65.29      -49.22     -42.90
Adjustments for Direct Social Benefits & Costs "Without Project"        -35.91      -22.11      -16.14
Other Adjustments                                                       139.72       71.33       43.55
NSB of Project                                                         38.52        0.00      -15.49



Project Appraisal Document                                                                    Page 50
Zimbabwe: Park Rehabilitation and Conservation Project
Table A4.6: Net Social Benefits & Incremental Cost Analysis for Gonarezhou Park
(1998 constant US$ million; annual discount rates as indicated)
50/./yr         10//yr            15%tyr
Direct Social B&C "With Project"                            -16.36            -12.80            -11.46
Project Benefits                                        4.90              2.33              1.43
Project Investment Costs                              -9.91             -9.82             -9.74
Project Recurrent Costs                              -13.91             -6.83             -4.28
Labor Adjustment (SWR=80%)                              2.56              1.51              1.13
Adjustments for Direct Social B&C "Without Project"            3.96             2.37              1.68
Reference Case Benefits                                 2.44              1.46             1.03
Reference Case Recurrent Costs                         -7.50            -4.48             -3.18
Labor Adjustment (SWR=80%)                              1.10              0.66             0.47
Other Adjustments                                              6.29             3.29              2.06
AEL from Road Degradation*                              3.97              1.95             1.15
AEL from Unmet Demand (Power & Telecom)*                0.83              0.49             0.35
AEL related to Staff Productivity*                      1.01              0.57             0.38
AEL from Water Supply Degradation*                      0.37              0.21             0.14
Collection Efficiency Gains*                            0.11             0.06              0.05
Genetic Value Capturable Benefits*                        +                 +                 +
Ecosystem Service Benefits*                               +                 +                 +
Additional Domestic Consumer Surplus in Benefits          +                 +                 +
NSB of Project                                             -.6.11            -7.14             -7.71
Incremental Cost Adjustments                                   4.95              1.49             0.43
SWR@100%                                             -1.45             -0.85             -0.66
Base Line Recurrent Cost Commitment                    6.40             2.35              1.09
Adjusted NSB                                                -1.16             -5.65            -7.28
Incremental Cost (NPV)                                        1.16             5.65              7.28
Incremental Cost Real US$ over 3 Years                        1.22             6.20              8.32
Incremental Cost Nominal US$ over 3 Years                     1.34             6.83              9.17
* Relative to 'without Project' case.
Note: B&C = Benefits & Costs; AEL = Avoided Efficiency Losses.



Project Appraisal Document                                                      Page 51
Zimbabwe: Park Rehabilitation and Conservation Project
Annex 5
Park Rehabilitation and Conservation Project
Financial Summary
INTRODUCTION
1.    As a government department, the financial performance of DNPWLM  was determined by
decisions made at the central government level in terms of pricing of Estate products, and revenue
allocations for recurrent and capital expenditures. In the face of the continued decline in government
allocations, inadequate f'unding for maintenance and operations led to rapid deterioration of major
infrastructure facilities, which in tum affected the Parks' revenue earning capacity as tourist volumes
declined. Since no linkage existed between revenues collected by DNPWLM, which were paid directly
to the Appropriation Fund, and expenditures, which were determined by funds available under the
government budget, little importance was attached to issues of pricing of Estate products and cost
coverage.
2.    The establishment of a Fund in 1996 allowing DNPWLM to retain its revenues for operating and
maintenance expenses has facilitated the introduction of commercial principles in the financial
management of the Parks Estate. Creation of the Fund is thus an important step in helping DNPWLM
become a more competitive and effective entity which, Government hopes, may in time become
financially self sustaining. Since the establishment of the Fund, DNPWLM has undertaken several
initiatives to improve its financial position, including the adoption of public/private partnerships in the
provision of tourist facillities, and the revaluation of concessions and leases. DNPWLM intends to
conduct further studies on improved cost recovery, ways of diversifying into new income sources, and
pricing of park services. The project will support and strengthen this ongoing work.
3.    Although much progress can be made within the current context, the existing structure does not
accord the Department/Ftmd a high degree of autonomy in key respects. At present the Departrnent/Fund
cannot borrow through public or private markets. The Department also remains bound by civil service
rules and requirements, and as such has little control over its wage bill, at least in the short run. Such
restrictions potentially limit its ability to respond quickly and effectively to changing markets and
conditions, and thus could compromise the achievement of greater financial self sufficiency. At the same
time, there may be advantages, given government's fundamental obligation to protect wildlife populations
and their habitats, in retaining a traditional departmental structure. The project will provide resources to
assist Government in a review of institutional and organizational alternatives. This review will lead to
the development of a time-bound strategy for completing the Department's transformation into a
commercially-oriented organization, which is concurrently appropriately equipped to fulfill its
conservation mandate.
FINANCIAL MANAGE'MENT AND ACCOUNTING SYSTEM DEVELOPMENT
4.    Financial Management and Accounting Systems: Prior to the Fund, DNPWLM was using the
government system of accounting, whose emphasis is on expenditure management in relation to the
budget. With this system, information on the performance of the Department was lacking, as accounts
are prepared and consolidated for the Ministry as a whole. Although still under Treasury for financial
matters as a government department, the change to a Fund in 1996 requires that DNPWLM develop its
own commercial accounting system to provide management information for decision making. DNPWLM
now prepares its own accounts, but has yet to implement fully its own commercial accounting system.
The project will support the implementation of financial management systems at both headquarters and



Project Appraisal Document                                                         Page 52
Zimbabwe: Park Rehabilitation and Conservaton Project
the individual park levels, including internal controls over cash collection and inventory systems. It has
been agreed that decentralized commercial accounting systems will be in place by June 2000. To ensure
the sustainability of these investments, the appointment of the Chief Financial Officer is a condition for
effectiveness.
5.    Booking Office: As part of its booking function, the Booking Office is responsible for cash
collection, which has created problems relating to internal controls over the cash collected and its
allocation to individual parks. The project will build on earlier studies of the Booking Office, and
support work to introduce internal controls, procedures, and systems in this area.
PRODUCTS, DEMAND AND SUPPLY PATTERNS AND COMPETITION
6.    DNPWLM's product lines in its eleven main parks consist of: (i) tourism services comprising
accommodation, park entry fees, and trails and views; and (ii) parks services comprising licenses,
permits, rentals, leases, hire of facilities and services, research and consultancy services, sale of game
products and other. Tourism services are the most significant source of DNPWLM's revenue.
7.    As documented earlier in the PAD, the Parks Estate has not been able to capture a proportional
share of the growth in tourism. This is partly due to increasing competition from private tour operators
and wildlife conservancies who are able to provide similar products of high quality, and to the inadequate
supply of appropriate facilities such as accommodation within the Parks Estate. Although DNPWLM
offers various types and combinations of accommodation ranging from lodges to cottages, chalets and
campsites, lack of maintenance has caused these facilities to deteriorate and occupancy levels to decline.
Occupancy levels are below 50% in a significant number of parks. While the Fund should permit
DNPWLM to improve its maintenance record, the Department is also examining ways of engaging in
private/public partnerships to enable it to concentrate on those areas it can do best, such as maintenance
and conservation. The intention would be to leave the provision of tourist facilities other than possibly
campsites and other basic accommodation to the private sector. The project will support studies to assist
DNPWLM in this area.
TARIFF POLICY
8.    DNPWLM is required to develop its tariff and fee recommendations for government approval, a
lengthy process which has resulted in tariff revisions that are both few and unrelated to the cost of
providing the service. Between 1993/4 and 1996, entry fees remained at Z$20 (approximately US$2
equivalent) for foreigners, and Z$10 (US$1 equivalent) for Zimbabwe residents. Leases and concessions
were under priced, as they did not reflect the market value to the private organizations operating in the
Parks Estate. The impact of the low tariffs on the financial performance of DNPWLM has to be viewed
in the light of inflation (averaging about 22% annually) which increased the costs of running the parks.
Zimbabwe enjoyed the lowest tariffs in the region, although it offers similar wildlife as its neighbors.
Comparative entry fees in the region are as follows: Kenya- US$25; South Africa- US$25; Tanzania-
US$15.
9.    In July 1996, tariffs were increased by about 200% overall (individual increases varied widely).
The increases caused an uproar, in part because the higher fees became effective almost immediately,
with the result that tour operators could not initially pass the costs on to tour package customers, and in
part because the park accommodations were continuing to deteriorate at the same time higher fees were
being charged. While still adjusting its tariffs in the short term to absorb increasing operating costs, the
project will support a tariff study to be completed by March 1999. This study will assist in determining
the appropriate structure and level of tariffs for each park based on the wildlife and other natural
resources offered, its competitive position vis a vis Zimbabwe and the region, and the costs of providing



Project Appraisal Document                                                                            Page 53
Zimbabwe: Park Rehabilitation gnd Conservation Project
the service. Based on the study DNPWLM will adjust its price structures no later than September 30,
1999. Thereafter DNPWLM will undertake to increase its tariffs and to maintain its operating margins in
order to meet its stated financial objectives.
10.     While an economist is provided for in the new organization structure, the need remains for a
business development specialist whose key roles would be to plan for and support the culture shift, to
develop and implement a corporate strategy for enhancing the commercial oreintation of DNPWLM,
including issues of priicing and public/private partnerships, and to oversee the development of an effective
marketing strategy. DNPWLM intends to acquire this expertise on a contractual basis, supplemented by
technical assistance under the project. As part of its strategy to enhance revenues, DNPWLM has begun
to renegotiate its leases and open hunting concessions to public auction. Under the interim governance
structure for the Fund, tlhe Parks Board would be responsible for the review and approval of changes in
tariffs, fees and other revenue items.
PAST PERFORMANCE AND PRESENT FINANCIAL POSMON
11.    Past Financial Performance.  An accurate assessment of the past financial performance of
DNPWLM is not possible since revenue generated went directly to Government, and no independent
financial statements were prepared for DNPWLM. Shortcomings in existing accounting and information
processing systems fiirther limit the accuracy of the information. To enable an assessment of the
historical position, the historical revenues and expenditure data were extracted by a firm of consultants
from  the accounting records maintained at the individual parks and the DNPWLM  head office and
reconstituted into a format more appropriate for analysis of performance by product line. A consolidated
picture of the DNPWLM's historical performance using the consultants' reconstituted revenues and
expenditures from the Revenue and Expenditure Study is summarized in Table A5.1 below.
Table A5.1. Consolidated Historical Financial Performance
Actual   Actual          Actual      Estimate
ZSM                                     1993/4      1994/95      1995/96      1996/97
Revenues:                              31.1         36.4         42.7         79.0
Tourism Activities                      15.7        21.2         19.1         20.2
Parks Services                          15.4        15.2         23.6         58.8
Direct Operating Expenditure:           16.8        20.7         22.3         37.6
Tourism Activities                     4.7          5.7          6.2          10.3
Parks Services                          12.1        15.0         16.1         27.3
Gross Profit (Loss):                    14.3        15.7         20.4         41.4
Tourism Activities                      11.0        15.5         12.9         9.9
Parks Services                         3.3          0.2          7.5          31.5
Overhead Costs:-                        18.0        21.6         22.8         24.1
Indirect                                15.2        18.2         19.2         20.2
Head Office (50% share)                2.8          3.4          3.6          3.9
Operating Profit (Loss):               (3.7)        (5.9)        2.4          17.3
Conservation Costs:-                   5.4          7.7          6.0          8.0
Direct                                 2.6          4.3          2.4          4.2
Head Office (50% Share)                2.8          3.4          3.6          3.8
NET SURPLUS/(LOSS)                      (9.1)       (13.6)       (8.4)        9.3
Capital expenditure                    4.7          6.3          2.6          14.4
12.    As the above summary table indicates, DNPWLM's financial performance during the period
1993/4-1995/6 was umsatisfactory.  Revenue generated over the three year period to  1995/96 was



Project Appraisal Document                                                         Page 54
Zimbabwe: Park Rehabilitation and Conservation Project
insufficient to meet the costs of conservation and infrastructure developmentlrefurbishment, resulting in
funding deficits accumulating to as high as Z$3 1.0 million over the three year period alone. The deficits
are understated as expenditure was limited by the availability of cash resources from the Government.
13.   Salient features of DNPWLM's historical financial performance are as follows:
*  Market Share: DNPWLM's market share in terms of total tourist numbers declined from
77% in 1992/3 to 53% in 1996/7. DNPWLM will need to develop a strategy to harness the
demand, already evident from total tourist volumes in Zimbabwe, but within the overall
objective of maintaining the ecological balance.
*  Growth in revenue: Total revenue generation over the period shows a steady annual
growth of about 17% until 1996/97, when there is a significant increase in revenue due to
modest increase in visitors, the devaluation of the Zimbabwe dollar where about 50% of
revenues are US dollar denominated, the opening up of new hunting areas, and the
revaluation of concessions and leases. The dollar depreciated from Z$8.15 in 1994 to
Z$11.32 in 1997. However, the revenue mix is distorted by the government cash accounting
system where all cash due on five year leases and hunting concessions is accounted for on a
cash rather than accrual basis, thereby increasing the revenue due from parks services.
Under the project DNPWLM would change its accounting policies in line with generally
accepted accounting practice.
*  Relative importance of product lines: The contribution of park services to total revenues
increased from 50% in 1993/94 to about 75% by 1996/97 due to increases in hunting-related
activities at Matetsi and Marongora Parks estates, and the renegotiation of leases. Revenues
from tourism services have remained largely static in absolute terms from about Z$21.2
million in 1994/95 down to about Z$20.2 million in 1996/97.
*  Overall DNPWLM  Costs: DNPWLM's costs comprise direct costs for the parks and
tourism services, conservation costs, and overhead costs. DNPWLM's costs are understated
as they reflect the funds available under the Government overall budget, rather than the true
cost of running the national parks. Until 1995/6, about 45% of DNPWLM's expenditure was
spent on overheads, and only 13% on conservation. Under the project, DNPWLM would
take measures, under the financial management consultancy, to improve its cost
effectiveness, reduce overhead costs, and ensure adequate funding for conservation activities.
Between 1993/4 and 1995/6, total costs increased from Z$40.2 million to Z$5 1.1 million, an
average annual increase of 9%, against an average annual inflation of 22%, where costs are
substantially local, and therefore failing to keep up with inflation.
*  Profitability: Until 1995/6, tourism was the most profitable product, although the profit
percentage has been declining, from 73% in 1993/4 to 51% in 1996/7. Conversely, the
profitability of park services has been improving from 21% in 1993/4 to 54% in 1996/7 due
to increased activity and the revision of pricing, although again the picture is distorted by the
cash accounting policy.
* Capital Expenditure: Capital expenditure was modest due to Government liquidity
constraints. From 1993/4 to 1995/6, only Z$13.6 was spent on capital expenditure, an annual
average of Z$4 million. Most of this was on motor vehicles, with little spent on maintenance
of infrastructure.
14.   In sum, DNPWLM's poor financial performance can be attributed to the following factors:



Project Appraisal Document:                                                        Page 55
Zimbabwe: Park Rehabilitation and Conservation Project
(a) expenditure which was dictated by the budgetary allocations made by Treasury to the Department, as
opposed to actual requirements; (b) low tariffs; (c) lack of incentives within DNPWLM where its revenue
was treated as part of Treasury's income flow and not reinvested in the Parks Estate; and (d) increasing
competition from the private sector. The establishment of a Fund in 1996 enabling DNPWLM to retain
its revenues provides a framework for building incentives and performance indicators for DNPWLM's
activities.
15.   Current Finiancial Performance.  Preliminary accounts for 1996/7 show  a significant
improvement in revenue following an increase in tariffs and improved pricing of park services
particularly the hunting concessions and leases. Revenue is projected to increase from Z$42.7 million in
1995/6 to Z$79 million in 1996/7, an increase of 85% in nominal terms (inflation was 22%), and
operating profits as high as Z$9.3 million are anticipated (operating profit margin of 12%), against a
background of operating losses recorded in the three preceding years. Costs are projected to increase
from Z$51.1 million in 1995/6 to Z$69.7 million, reflecting the improved cash position of DNPWLM
where it is meeting some of its needs. In the Revenue and Expenditure Study, DNPWLM has estimated
the funds required for operations and maintenance. Capital expenditure is projected to increase from
Z$2.6 million in 1995/6 to Z$14.4 million in 1996/7. The project would support these ongoing efforts.
FINANCIAL OBJECT'IVES
16.   DNPWLM's financial objectives are to increase its financial autonomy through generating
sufficient revenues to cover its current and planned operations and maintenance costs, and provide a
return on its revenue generating activities. A related objective is to ensure that in line with the
strengthening of its financial capacity, DNPWLM bears an increasing share or all of the cost of
discharging its conservation duties as well as of financing its capital expenditure programs. Achieving
these objectives would r equire measures including the following: (i) establishment and maintenance of
an appropriate tariff structure for all services provided under the Fund; (ii) widening the revenue base by
introducing new products/services without sacrificing the ecological balance; (iii) improving cost
effectiveness through measures to ensure transparency in expenditure, a major overhaul of the accounting
system on commercial lines, and the introduction of "cost center" budget practices to clearly identify
profit and non profit operations, and performance measures to assess actual performance against financial
targets.
17.   To achieve this balance, DNPWLM would undertake to do the following: (i) recognize the
dichotomy between commercial operations and conservation activities and treat them as distinct strategic
units; (ii) reflect these strategic units in the organization and management structure of the commercialized
DNPWLM, with overall financial control of both catered for at the top of the structure; and (iii) structure
the management information and reporting system so as to enable distinct measurement of the financial
and operational perfonnmnce, and attainment of the respective objectives, of the two units.
18.   With the introduction of a Fund, it is Government's objective to have DNPWLM financially self
sustaining. In cases of shortfalls, the Department would have no automatic recourse to the exchequer.
Requests for funding ,from Treasury could be made but would have to compete with Government's other
commitments. In cases of surpluses made by DNPWLM, after the provision of adequate conservation
and operations and maintenance costs and depreciation, Treasury would take 50% of the surplus, while
allowing DNPWLM to build reserves with the balance.
19.   Agreement weLs reached during negotiations that:
a) each year from  1998/9, DNPWLM  would prepare and submit to IDA for review and
comment by March 31 of each year its annual business plan to establish DNPWLM's five



Project Appraisal Document                                                         Page 56
Zimbabwe: Park Rehabilitation and Conservation Project
year business and financial objectives. The plan shall include financial targets, proposed
tariff increases, investment program and financing (internally generated cash, external
financing plan, government subventions), a forecast of profitability and cash flows, and the
projected balance sheet, and thereafter implement it, taking into account IDA's views;
b) DNPWLM would prepare an annual work program that would include information on
measures to: (i) strengthen DNPWLM management, including details of implementation of
the training program, (ii) improve the financial management and accounting systems; (iii)
tariff adjustments and measures to increase revenue collection; (iv) procurement plans; (v)
specific financial and conservation goals for each park; and (vi) allocation of surpluses and
financing of anticipated deficits. The work plan, as a subcomponent of the business plan,
would be prepared by January of each year, and discussed with IDA by no later than March
31 each year for the following year's program;
c) DNPWLM annual investment plan would be reviewed annually with IDA, and that
DNPWLM would make revisions to such plans taking into account any comments by IDA;
and
d) DNPWLM would hire consultants to review the adequacy of salary levels of its staff and
propose an appropriate incentive system. The results of these findings would be submitted to
IDA for review by January 1, 1999 and implemented thereafter.
The project will support the implementation of financial management and accounting systems and
DNPWLM will have decentralized commercial accounting systems in place by June 2000. The
appointment of the Chief Financial Officer is a condition for effectiveness.
DNPWLM's PROJECTED FINANCIAL RESULTS
Financial Base Case Scenario
20.   The financial base case scenario developed by the consultants for the Revenue and Expenditure
Study assumes a 5% annual increase in tourist visits, an increase in foreign entrance fees from US$5 in
1996/7 to US$32 by year 2005, a revaluation of leases and hunting concessions to market value, and
gradual increases in accommodation fees in line with rehabilitation of the tourist facilities. As discussed
in Annex 4, this scenario is considered optimistic as it may be difficult to sustain both increased demand
and increased fees in light of increasingly intense competition both within Zimbabwe and throughout the
region. The financial base case projections herein assume 5% growth in demand, with no real increase in
entrance fees over the forecast period. This is considered conservative, but realistic should DNPWLM
fail to implement a more commercially oriented approach or if the benefits of such an approach are not
realized due to failure to market effectively and exploit public/private partnerships.
21.   Other assumptions of the financial base case scenario are that DNPWLM would be able to: (a)
achieve certain cost efficiency levels; (b) introduce financial and other performance targets to motivate
performance at the park level; (c) seek the least cost alternatives to increase its revenue; and (d) find way
to share or offload some of the risk associated with variable tourist demand through private/public
partnerships. Key financial data are summarized in Table A5.2 below; the detailed assumptions relating
thereto are attached as Annex Sb.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                       Page 57
Zimbabwe: Park Rehabilitation ard Conservation Project
Table A5.2: Summarized Financial Projections
199     1999    2000    2001    2002      2003    2004    2005
zsm
Revenue             98.7    164.3    132.4   152.6   181.1    257.5   251.0   299.2
Gross Profit        52.3    111.4     71.8   80.0    93.9     107.3   125.5   148.6
Indirect Costs      58.4    76.4     87.3    99.3   111.0    120.0   136.7   156.7
Op. Profit/(Loss)   (6.1)    35.0     (15.5)  (19.2)  (17.0)   (12.6)  (11.1)  (8.0)
Less:- Conservation  17.2    19.5      22.3  26.7    32.0     38.3    46.0    55.1
Net ProfitV(Loss)   (23.3)   15.5     (37.8) (46.0)  (49.0)   (51.0)  (57.1)  (63.2)
FREE CASHFLOW       (10.0)   28.2    2.2     7.1     4.2      2.2    (4.0)   (9.9)
22.    Under the base case scenario, DNPWLM  would cover neither its operating nor conservation
costs, which underscores the need to manage effectively the commercialization process and pricing
issues. Annual losses before conservation costs would increase from Z$6 million in 1997/8 to $19
million by 2001, before improving to a loss of Z$8 million in 2005. Apart from 1999 when DNPWLM
benefits from a one time sale of ivory, DNPWLM's free cashflow would either be negative, or marginally
positive, indicating thal: it would to require funding from Government to meet the deficit.
23.    Alternatively, given the improvements that could result from the implementation of the project
and effective management of commercialization, DNPWLM's financial performance could yield
satisfactory results. Under a scenario of 5% growth in demand, accommodation and local entrance fees
increasing at the rate of local inflation, but with real increases in foreign entrance fees at Victoria Falls
where the price elasticity of demand is low, DNPWLM would be in a profit making position by 2002,
with benefits accruing to both Government and DNPWLM.
Financial Risks and Sensitivity Analysis
24.    As a new entity, there is a significant risk that commercialization might not be implemented
successfully, that governmaent approval of tariffs may not materialize or be less than proposed, and that
competition from the neighboring countries both in terms of facilities and pricing may increase and prove
damaging. Security concerns may also undermine demand. The cashflow risks inherent in DNPWLM
are high, and DNPWLM needs the capacity, both in terms of management and control systems, key and
trained personnel as well as managerial authority, to manage these risks.
25.    A number of sensitivity tests were performed to analyze the impact of less than favorable events
on DNPWLM's profitability and free cashflow (defined as cash available for funding capital expenditure
and debt service) after providing for conservation costs, and in surplus years, the 50% contribution to
Treasury. 1 The results are summarized in Table A5.3 below.
'Details of the sensitivity anialyses are available in the project file.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                           Page 58
Zimbabwe: Park Rehabilitaton and Conservation Project
Table A5.3: Sensitivity Analysis
(1)     Scenario Assumptions
Base Case    Case 1      Case 2      Case 3      Case 4      Case 5      Case 6
Nil      Negative      10%     Combination
Devaluation    Annual    Annual
Growth      Growth       5%
Demand Growth %                             5%          5%          2%          5%     -5%             10%    decline
Entry fees- Foreign (US$)
1999                                5.25          8           8           8           8           8         5.25
2002                                5.66        12.5        12.5        12.5        12.5        12.5        5.66
2005                                6.09          15         15          15          15          15         6.09
Victoria Falls (US$)
1999                               10.51         15          15          15          15          15        10.51
2002                               11.31         20          20          20          20          20        11.31
2005                               12.18         25          25          25          25          25        12.18
Local (Z$)
1999                               27.13       27.13       27.13       27.13       27.13       27.13      27.13
2002                                40.2         50          50          50          50          50         40.2
2005                               59.55        110         110         110         110         110        59.55
Exchange Rate (Z$ to US$).
1999                                 17          17          17          13          17          17          13
2002                                 21          21          21          13          21          21          13
2005                                 26          26          26          13          26          26          13
Inflation (%)
1999                                 14          14          14          14          14          14          14
2002                                 20          20          20          20          20          20          20
2005                                 20          20          20          20          20          20          20
(2)     Key Results - Profitability
(Z$000)                                                                   1997/8       2000        2002        2005
Base case
Profit before conservation                                                    -6108     -15502       -17056      -8097
Conservation Funding                                                          17174      22317       32031       55176
50% profit to Treasury                                                            0           0           0          0
Retained profit (loss)                                                       -23282     -37819      -49087      -63273
Case 1
Profit before conservation                                                    -6109       4139       51752      133513
Conservation Funding                                                          17174      22317       32031       55176
50% profit paid to Treasury                                                       0           0       9860       39168
Retained profit (loss)                                                       -23283     -18178        9861       39169
Case 2
Profit before conservation                                                    -7299      -2057       32055       78355
Conservation Funding                                                          17174      22317        32031       55176
50% profit paid to Treasury                                                       0           0          12       11590
Retained profit (loss)                                                       -24473     -24374           12       11589



Project Appraisal Document                                                                        Page 59
Zimbabwe: Park Rehabilitation and Conservation Project
Case 3
Profit before conservation                                                 -12631     -13879        2645       18484
Conservation Funding                                                        17174      22317       32031       55176
50% profit paid to Treasury                                                     0          0           0           0
Retained profit (loss)                                                     -29805     -36196      -29386      -36692
Case 4
Profit before conservation                                                 -10077     -23008      -39552    -101185
Conservation Funding                                                        17174      22317       32031       55176
50% profit paid to Treasury                                                     0           0          0           0
Retained profit (loss)                                                     -27251     -45325      -71583    -156361
Case 5
Profit before conservation                                                  -4124       15280      88645      249867
Conservation Funding                                                        17174      22317       32031       55176
50% proft paid to Treasury                                                      0           0      28309       97345
Retained profit (loss)                                                     -21298      -7037       28305       97346
Case 6 -Combination of above factoni
Profit before conservation                                                 -16058     -44193      -75617    -131683
Conservation Funding                                                        17174      22317       32031       55176
50% profit paid to Treasury                                                     0          0           0           0
Retained profit (loss)                                                     -33232     -66510    -107648    -186859
(3)     Key Results- Free Cashflow
Key Results
(Z$000)                                                                    1997/8    2000       2002      2005
Base case
Cashflow from operations                                                   7120      24581      36196     45188
Conservation Funding                                                       17174     22317      32031     55176
50% profit to Treasury                                                     0         0          0         0
Free Cashflow                                                              -10054    2264       4165      -9988
Case 1
Cashflow from operations                                                   7120      44222      105004    186798
Conservation Funding                                                       17174      22317     32031     55176
50% profit paid to Treasury                                                0          0         9860      39168
Free Cashflow                                                              -10054    21905      63113     92454
Case 2
Cashfiow from operations                                                   5930       38206     85307     131640
Conservation Funding                                                       17174      22317     32031     55176
50% profit paid to Treasury                                                0          0         12        11590
Free Cashflow                                                              -11244    15889      53264     64874
Case 3
Cashflow from operations                                                   589        26204     55897     71739
Conservation Funding                                                       17174      22317     32031     55176
50% prorit paid to Treasury                                                0          0         0         0
Free Cashflow                                                              -16585    3887       23866     16563



Project Appraisal Document                                                            Page 60
Zimbabwe: Park Rehabilitation and Conservation Project
Case 4
Cashflow from operations                                         3152     17075    13700   -47900
Conservation Funding                                             17174    22317    32031    55176
50% profit paid to Treasury                                      0        0        0        0
Free Cashflow                                                    -14022   -5242    -18331   -103076
Case 5
Cashflow from operations                                         9105     55363    141901   303119
Conservation Funding                                             17174    22317    32031    55176
50% profit paid to Treasury                                      0        0        28309    97345
Free Cashflow                                                    -8069    33046    81561    150598
Case 6 -Combination of above factors
Cashflow from operations                                         -7859    -22304   -61379   -165687
Conservation Funding                                             17174    22317    32031    55176
50% profit paid to Treasury                                      0        0        0        0
Free Cashflow                                                    -25033    44621   -93410   -220863
26.    The results confirm the potential volatility of DNPWLM's financial performance and of the
cashflows available to finance conservation costs and capital expenditure. DNPWLM's financial position
is highly sensitive to demand and pricing (the same expenditure projections have been used throughout).
If annual growth in demand were 2% (case 2) instead of the 5% in the base case, DNPWLM would not be
able to cover its operating, maintenance and conservation funds until 2005; whereas a 10% annual
growth (case 5) would ensure full cost coverage by 2002. In cases of nil devaluation (case 3) and a 5%
annual negative growth in demand (case 4), DNPWLM would be in a loss making position throughout the
projection period.  Regarding free cashflow  (which is arrived at after making adjustments for
depreciation), in the case of a 5% negative annual growth (case 4), DNPWLM would have cashflow
deficits throughout the reference period, increasing to Z$103 million by 2005. In the worst case scenario
of negative growth, nil devaluation, and no real increase in tariffs (case 6), DNPWLM's annual cash
deficits would increase to Z$220 million by 2005.
ACCOUNTING, FINANCIAL REPORTING AND AUDITING ARRANGEMENTS
27.    The Project Accounting Unit within the Finance Department would be responsible for
coordinating project accounting, maintaining overall records in accordance with international accounting
standards, producing an aggregated and consolidated project account for the project, managing
disbursements, and ensuring timely audit of accounts. To ensure satisfactory accounting arrangements at
project effectiveness, a project accounting system, incorporating adequate internal controls, is included in
the PIP. The accounting system enables an analysis of project expenditures by project component,
disbursement category, and source of funding. DNPWLM will staff the Project Accounting Unit with
appropriately qualified staff, including a qualified accountant, and two assistants. Assurances were
obtained that: (i) DNPWLM would maintain separate accounts for the project in accordance with
generally accepted accounting principles; and (ii) accounting records would be kept permitting
identification of all receipts and payments under the project.
28.    DNPWLM has agreed to have accounts, including those of the IDA and GEF Special Accounts,
the Statements of Expenditure and the Fund, audited by an auditor acceptable to IDA, and sent to IDA
within six months of the close of each fiscal year. In addition to the audit report, a management letter
(including observations and recommendations regarding possible improvements in financial management
practices and controls) will be submitted to IDA, within six months of the end of the fiscal year (June 30).



Project Appraisal Document                                                            Page 61
Zimbabwe: Park Rehabilitation and Conservation Project
29.    To ensure satisfactory accounting for DNPWLM under the project, DNPWLM will change its
accounting policies in line with generally accepted accounting principles, and will formulate and
introduce policies governiing commercial and non commercial operations and activities down to the Parks
Estate. The computerized accounting and financial management and the stock and materials management
system under implementation will ensure the provision of timely and accurate financial information, the
strengthening of internal control systems, and enable the implementation of appropriate performance
measures and targets at all levels in the Department.



Project Appraisal Document                                                        Page 62
Zimbabwe: Park Rehabilitation and Conservation Project
ANNEX 5B
PARK REHABILITATION AND CONSERVATION
PROJECT
Assumptions for the Financial Projections
The following assumptions were used in the base case financial projections, and varied as noted
in Table A5.3 for the sensitivity analyses:
1. Inflation and Exchange Rates: The following rates are based on projections supplied by the World
Bank:
Year          1997  1998  1999  2000  2001  2002  2003  2004  2005
Inflation: %   20%      19%    14%   20%   20%   20%   20%   20%   20%
Rate: US$1 = Z$13    16    17    18    19    21    22    24    26
2. Income and Expenditure Account - Revenue
a) Demand : Assumed an annual growth in visitor numbers of 5%.
b) Product Range: Assumed the existing product range would be maintained, pending further
studies on alternative revenue sources for the Parks Estate.
c) Accommodation: Projections of revenue from accommodation made on the basis of existing
facilities.
d) It has been assumed that accommodation facilities would be refurbished and modernized at
all parks to achieve acceptable market standards, and that additional accommodation would
be provided by the private sector.
e) Rentals and leases: Revaluations of leases and concessions to market value would increase
revenue from this source. Revenue was based on revaluation of existing individual leases
and concessions.
f) Hunting: The hunting quotas ascribed to 1997 would continue with negligible change in the
projection period. The floor auction price would increase by 5% at the expiry of the
concession, and trophy prices would be quoted in US$ and increase at 5% per annum.
g) Ivory Trade: It was assumed 33 tonnes of ivory currently in stock would be exported, per
the current CITES agreement. The current 1997 ivory price on the Japanese market of
US$300/kg has been taken as the base rate and increased at 5% per annum.
h) Tariffs: Assumed no real increase in tariffs.
3. Income and Expenditure Account - Costs
a) Overall costs: Direct operating and other overhead costs have been restructured and
allocated to the various profit and cost centers in the projections as follows: (a) Tourist
Services: salaries and wages of tourist service personnel and consumables and other costs
associated with tourist facilities; (b) Park Services: anti-poaching and monitoring costs, game



Project Appraisal Document                                                            Page 63
Zimbabwe: Park Rehabilitation and Conservation Project
products costs, game water costs, vehicle hire, and aircraft hire.
b) Overhead costs were allocated equally between tourism and parks services.
c) Staff Costs: Staff costs have taken account of the proposed staff rationalization plan which
would reduce the staff compliment (mainly general hands) by 764, and the recruitment of
new staff under civil service norms in required skill areas. No provision made for
retrenchment as these costs would be paid by the Ministry of Social Services, or for higher
salary costs should the decision be taken to remove staff from the civil service.
d) Operations and Maintenance costs: Based on engineer's estimate, which also took account
of current cost impliications of the proposed investment program. Costs were increased by
inflation.
e) Conservation costs: Include bird, noxious weed, and problem animal control; soil and water
treatment; roads and fire guards.
4. Balance Sheet
a) Capital Expenditure: Projections based on estimates under the project.
b) Financing: Assumed capital expenditure under the project would be financed by the Government.
c) Valuation of assets: In accordance with Government accounting practices, DNPWLM has not been
capitalizing expenditure on fixed assets as this has traditionally been expensed when incurred. Fixed
assets incorporated in the financial projections based on valuations provided by engineers. The value
of assets such as the Parks Estates encompassing wildlife, forests and land has not been incorporated
into the financial projections.



Project Appraisal Document                                                       Page 64
Zimbabwe: Park Rehabilitation and Conservation Project
Annex 6
Park Rehabilitation and Conservation Project
Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
Procurement
Procurement methods (Table A)
1.    Civil Works and Goods. The procurement of works and goods will be carried out in
accordance with the Bank's Guidelines for "Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits"
(published January 1995, updated in January and August 1996, and revised in September 1997).
In excess of 60 civil/building works contracts are envisaged spread across the eleven parks.
Because of the relatively small size of many contracts and remoteness of most locations, foreign
contractors are not expected to be interested or competitive except in the case of the large road
constracts. Thus, other than for roads (approximately US$39 million), most civil works
contracts will be awarded on the basis of NCB (approximately US$17 million). For ICB, the
Bank's Standard Bidding Documents will apply. Procedures for NCB being followed by GRZ
are consistent with Bank procedures and the tender documents used will be based on the
Standard Bid Documents of the Bank. Simplified procedures equivalent to shopping, based on
three quotations, will be used for small works under US$50,000. Procedures for small civil
works will apply to an estimated US$2 million. Force account may be used for very small
works that are scattered and in remote locations, up to an estimated US$300,000.
2.    Most vehicles and equipment to be provided to the eleven parks will be aggregated into
one large Goods contract (estimated value US$3.0 million) and be awarded on the basis of ICB
using the Bank's Standard Bidding Documents. Of the remaining contracts, US$1.0 million will
be awarded on the basis of NCB; for items under US$50,000, international shopping based on 3
quotations will apply (an estimated US$200,000); and for items under US$10,000, national
shopping based on 3 quotations will apply (an estimated US$ 100,000).
3.    Consulting Services. The procurement of consulting services will be carried out in
accordance with Bank's "Guidelines for the Selection and Employment of Consultants by World
Bank Borrowers", published in January 1997. The total value of consulting services will be
US$10.4 million.
4.    Most consultant selection will be addressed through competition among short listed
firms and using the Quality-and-Cost Based Selection (QCBS) method by evaluating the quality
of proposal before comparing the cost of the service to be provided. The shortlist for contracts
estimated under US$100,000 may be comprised entirely of national consultants if a sufficient
number of qualified (at least three) are available at competitive cost. However if foreign firms
have expressed interest, they will not be excluded.
5.    Of the above, the GEF grant (US$5 million) will include civil works in Gonarezhou
National Park (GNP) totaling US$3 million, which will be procured on the basis of ICB and
NCB. For the GEF out-of-parks sub-component, consultant services will also be required
totaling approximately US$0.44 million, which will generally be procured based on individual
appointments or using the single source method of selection. Facilitation costs for the out-of-



Project Appraisal Document                                                       Page 65
Zimbabwe: Park Rehabilitation and Conservation Project
parks component, approximately US$60,000, (workshops, consultative meetings, travel costs,
etc.) would be handled in accordance with government procedures acceptable to the Bank. The
remainder of the out-of-parks sub-component, US$1.5 million, will comprise a grant facility
which will award small grants (subgrants) to communities and other groups in the vicinity of the
parks based on a participatory process to be carried out under the project. All contracts under
the grant facility are estimated to be small, and thus simplified procedures for small works and
national shopping will apply.
Prior review thresholds (Table B)
6.    All contracts for procurement of works above the threshold of US$500,000 and of
goods above the threshold of US$100,000 will be subject to IDA's prior review. About 20% of
contracts during the first year of the project will be subject to post review unless covered by the
above; in subsequent years the ratio of post review would be lowered based on the experience
from the first year.
7.    Prior IDA review for consultants will be required for: (a) all contracts for individual
consultants costing more than US$50,000 per contract; (b) all contracts based on single source
selection; and (c) all contracts with firms costing more than US$100,000 per contract. All other
contracts will be subjected to post review. For all contracts with a consulting firm exceeding
US$100,000 per contract, where the selection is based on quality and cost method of selection,
the quality evaluation report will be sent to IDA first, for no objection prior to opening of the
cost envelope, and then the combined quality and cost evaluation report will also be transmitted
to IDA for no objection prior to the negotiation of the contract.
Disbursement
Allocation of credit proceeds (Table C)
8.    The proceeds of the IDA credit and GEF grant would be disbursed against the
percentages shown in Table C.
9.    As projected by the Bank's standard disbursement profiles, disbursement would be
completed by six months after project closure. Disbursement would be made against standard
IDA documentation.
10.   Disbursement and withdrawal procedures are detailed in the World Bank Disbursement
Handbook (1992 edition). All disbursements are subject to the conditions of the Credit
Agreement and the procedures defined in the Disbursement Letter. All applications to withdraw
proceeds from the Credit account will be fully documented, except for: (a) expenditures of
contracts with an estimated value of US$500,000 each or less for works, and US$100,000 for
goods; (b) US$100,000 or less for consulting firms unless single source selection has been used;
(c) US$50,000 or less for individual consultants and training which may be claimed on the basis
of Certified Statements of Expenditure (SOE). Documentation supporting expenditures claimed
against SOEs would be retained at DNPWLM and available for review as requested by IDA
supervision missions and project auditors.
Use of statements of expenditures (SOEs):
11.   Disbursement would be made on the basis of statement of expenditure (SOE) for



Project Appraisal Document                                                                  Page 65
Zimbabwe: Park Rehabilitation and Conservation Project
contracts and purchase orders with an individual value less than those requiring IDA's prior
review.
Special account:
12.    To facilitate disbursements of eligible expenditures, the Government will open a Special
Account (SA) in a commercial bank to cover part of IDA's share of eligible expenditures. The
authorized allocation for this Special Account will be US$3 million, covering an estimated four
months of eligible expenditures financed by IDA. The Government will also open a GEF Trust
Fund Grant Account in commercial bank to cover part of the GEF's share of eligible
expenditures.  The authorized allocation for this Special Account will be US$300,000.
Replenishment applications should be submitted regularly, preferably monthly, after monthly
bank statements are received and reconciled, with appropriate supporting documents for local
and foreign expenditures as required. To the extent possible, all of IDA and GEF's share of
eligible expenditures should be paid through the respective Special Accounts.
Annex 6, Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(in US$million equivalent)
Expenditure Category                        Procurement Method                     Total Cost
(including
contingencies)
ICB         NCB          Other        N.B.F
1. Civil Works                   38.91/       16.72/       2.34/                      57.9
(33.2)      (13.3)        (1.6)                     (48.1)
2. Goods, Vehicles and             3.9         1.0         0.3 5/                      5.2
materials                         (3.6)       (0.7)        (0.2)                       (4.5)
3. Consultants Services and                                10.4                       10.4
Training 3/                                                (9.9)                       (9.9)
4. GEF small grants                                         1.5                         1.5
Total                         42.8         17.7         14.5                       75.0
(36.8)      (14.0)      (11.7)                      (62.5)
Note: figures in parenthesis are the respective amounts financed by IDA
1/ $2.3 million GEF In-park
2/ $0.7 million GEF In-park
3/ $0.5 million GEF off-park
4/ Small works (2.0) and Force account (0.3)
5/ Shopping: international (0.2); national (0.1)



Project Appraisal Document                                                        Page 67
Zimbabwe: Park Rehabilitadon and Conservation Project
Annex 6, Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
Expenditure         Contract Value         Procurement        Contracts Subject to
Category            (Threshold)             Method             Prior Review /
Us$
1. Works
>1,000,000            ICB                   All
> 500,000             NCB                   All
>  50,000             NCB
<  50,000             Small works
2. Goods
> 200,000             ICB                   All
> 100,000             NCB                   All
> 50,000              NCB
< 50,000             International shopping
< 10,000             National shopping
3. Services
> 100,000             QCBS (Firms)          All
> 50,000              Individual            All
< 100,000             Single source selection  All
(firms)
Total value of contracts subject to prior review: US$58 million
Annex 6, Table Cl: Allocation of Credit Proceeds
Expenditure Category                Amount in       Financing Percentage
US$million
Civil Works                                        43.5         100% foreign and
80% local
Vehicles and Equipment                              4.5         100% foreign and
80% local
Consultants, Technical Assistance and Training      8.3*        100%
Unallocated                                         6.2
Total        62.5
*includes design and supervision



Pr*jd APPrasal Dot                                                                Page 68
Zbnbabwe: Pa* Rehdbtton and Consernan Projed
Annex 6, Table C2: Allocation of GEF Grant Proceeds
Expenditure Category                 Amount in      Financing Percentage
US$million
Civil Works - In park                               2.8         100% foreign and
80% local
Out-of-park Sub-projects
Small grants                                        1.3         100%
Consultants' services and training                  0.4         100%
Operating costs (workshops, travel)                 0.1         90%
Unallocated                                         0.4
Total         5.0



Project Appraisal Document                                                      Page 69
Zimbabwe: Park Rehabilitation and Conservation Project
Annex 7
Summary of the Environmental Analysis
An Environmental Analysis (EA) of the project was conducted duriing the November 97-January 98
period by a team of independent consultants. It included field visits and consultation with the Park
administration at the local and national levels as well as with the potentially affected groups and
communities.
The main findings of the EA are summarized hereafter.
Legal Framework
The national rules, regulations and guidance documents which govern the mitigation of potential
environmental impacts of the works conducted in the National Parks, other protected areas and
surrounding areas in Zimbabwe include:
*  the National Conservation Strategy
*  the Natural Resources Act
*  the Parks and Wildlife Act
*  the Water Act
*  The Regional, Town and Planning, Rural District Councils and Communal Land Acts
*  International and Regional Treaties and Agreements, which Zimbabwe is a signatory of, notably the
Convention on International Trade of Endangered Species (CITES), World Heritage and Natural
Heritage Sites, Convention on the Conservation of Biological Diversity, Framework Convention on
Climate Change, Convention to Combat Desertification and Drought, Protocol on Shared
Watercourse Systems in SADC.
The World Bank rules and regulations that apply to this project include mainly:
*  OD 4.01. on Environmental Assessment
*  OP 4.04. on Natural Habitat
Zimbabwe has developed its Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA) policy which recommends that
a planned development should be submitted to EIA under conditions spelled out in a policy document
(1994). The Policy for Wildlife (1992) states that ".... all significant development in the Parks and
Wildlife Estate will be suject to an EIA....
This Environmental Analysis addresses both aspects of the project:
*  specific environmental impacts of the Gonarezhou project
*  generic environmental impacts of the programmatic part of the project.
Baseline Environmental Conditions
The eleven National Parks in Zimbabwe have distinct environmental features:
*  Hwange National Park/Kazuma Pan (over 14,000 km2),
* Nyanga National Park
* Mana Pools National Park (2,200 kni2)



Project Appraisal Document                                                       Page 70
Zimbabwe: Park Rehabilitation and Conservation Project
* Chizarira NP (2,000 kin2)
*  Matobo Hills NP (3,200 km2)
* Chimanimani NP
* Zambezi/Victoria Falls NP (570 kin2)
*  MatusadonaNP (1,370 km2)
*  Gonarezhou NP (5,050 km2)
Tourism in these parks depend closely on the quality of the wildlife, vegetation, landscapes and general
quality of services, as well as on the availability of natural resources (water in particular) all of which can
be negatively affected if development is not properly planned.
Potential Environmental Impacts
The following activities have potential environmental impacts in the National Parks:
* road development, including road alignment and routing, management of borrow areas, use of water
for construction, road design, drainage and deviations,
* river crossings, including causeways and foot bridges
* fire breaks,
* water supply for games, for Park staff and facilities and for tourists,
e proposed tourism developments (which will be managed by the private sector), with potential impacts
from solid waste management, effluent disposal, energy supply, clearance of vegetation, visual
intrusions in high areas, competition on space for buildings in certain high areas and the risk of
landslide, erosion and degradation of areas, increased pressure on particular areas, e.g. paths and
competition on scarce resources e.g. water.
Environmental Management Plan
The EMP for this project includes:
*  institutional arrangements: responsibilities for environmental matters in DNPWLM, at headquarters
and within each National Park will be assigned and the means for planning, launching, supervising
and reviewing EA will be provided. A new organizational chart for integrating environmental
management capcity in DNPWLM is proposed, with the Planning Unit taking on board responsibility
for EA and review, with the additional assistance of two independent representatives to ensure
stakeholder involvement. Links with the Department of Natural Resources (DNR) within the
Ministry of Mines, Environment and Tourism need to be strengthened. The role of the Parks
Advisory Board should also be reconsidered to integrate EA concerns more effectively.
*  human resources and capacity building: an assessment of the training needs for DNPWLM at
headquarter and park levels has been conducted. Training topics should cover the wide spectrum of
environmental issues that are to be met at various stages of park planning and management, as well as
EIA methodologies.
* technical activities includes the refinement and implementation of guidelines and design standards for
the works, supervision of the works and monitoring of the state of the environment within the
National Parks. A list of indicators that need monitoring is proposed in the EA,
* procedures to be followed: developments in the other National Parks will be financed under the
project following a schedule that will be designed during project implementation. In due time, these
developments will be submitted to EA. These EA will be conducted in parallel with the engineering
studies and will establish bridges with these studies in order to cross-fertilize and to benefit from the
latest knwledge on the design of the developments. In turn, the EA will influence the design of the
developments by adding an environmental protection component for the physical works. The future
works in National Parks other than Gonarezhou will benefit from the new and improved institutional
arrangements proposed above.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                       Page 71
Zimbabwe: Park Rehabilitation and Conservation Project
It is estimated that the total cost to the project of implementing the Enviromnental Management Plan will
be US$0.5 million (including 0.3 for future EA on developments in "new" National Parks - i.e. other
than Gonarezhou, and 0.1 for training and capacity building), which will be implemented and financed as
an integral part of the project.



Project Appraisal Document                                                            Page 72
Zimbabwe: Park Rehabilitaton and Conservation Project
Annex 8
Park Rehabilitation and Conservation Project
Project Processing Budget and Schedule
A. Project Budget (US$000)                         Planned                Actual
n/a                   n/a
B. Project Schedulel                               Planned                Actual
Time taken to prepare the project (months)           n/a                    n/a
First Bank mission (identification)               _ /19                 _/_/19_
Appraisal mission departure                         / /19               11/04/1997
Negotiations                                      03/21/1998            _/_/19_
Planned Date of Effectiveness                     08/15/1998            _/_/19_
Prepared by: Department of National Parks and Wild Life Management, Ministry of Mines,
Environment and Tourism
Preparation assistance: GEF Project Preparation Advance, PHRD Grant, Supplemental GEF
Project Preparation Advance, Trust Funds
Bank and consultant staff who worked on the project after processing resumed in 1996 included:
Name                                       Specialty
Bank Staff:
Caesar Chidawanyika                      Senior Programming Officer
Asamanetch Fantaye                           Operations Analyst
Steve Gaginis                           Disbursement Officer
Imogene Jensen                             Senior Economist
Kathy Mackinnon                        Senior Biodiversity Specialist
Judy Makanda                               Financial Analyst
Jean Roger Mercier                     Senior Environmental Specialist
Annette Minott                              Task Assistant
Renganaden Soopramanien                          Senior Counsel
Consultants:
Jim Allaway                            Ecologist/Park Planner
Chris Banes                             Municipal Engineer
Robert Hall                            Institutional Specialist
Shelagh Huston                                Economist
Jack Ruitenbeek                       Natural Resource Economist
'As indicated in Section Dl, the project was prepared in two phases: Phase 1 from 1989-1994; Phase 2 from 1996-
1998. The project was taken through pre-appraisal in February/March 1994, but put on hold pending creation of a
Fund. Project processing resumed in early 1996, and the project was re-pre-appraised in April/May 1997. The
schedule reflected here is for Phase 2.



Project Appraisal Document                                                        Pap 73
Zimbabwe: Park Rehabilitaton and Conservation Project
Annex 9
Park Rehabilitation and Conservation Project
Documents in the Project File*
Documents in the Project File
A. Project Implementaion Plan
Borrower Implementation Plan, including Procurement Plan, January 1998.
Subproject Procedures Manual (pending)
B. Bank StaffAssessments
Aide-Memoires:
Mission Report (GEF), January 1992
Preparation, Phase 1, May 1992, November 1993, February 1995
Preparation, Phase 2, April/May and November 1996
Pre-appraisal, April/May 1997
Appraisal, November 1997
Economic Analysis (Cost-Benefit and Cost Effectiveness Analysis) for the Park Rehabilitation and
Conservation Project, Jack Ruitenbeek and Shelagh Huston, December 1997.
Financial Analysis for the Park Rehabilitation and Conservation Project, including detailed scenarios,
April 1998.
C. Other
Capturing the Value of National Parks in Zimbabwe, Gardner Brown, Michael Ward and Doris Jansen,
January 1995.
Environmental Analysis - Environmental Management Plan for Gonarezhou National Park, Parks
Rehabilitation and Conservation Project, Final Report, Coyne and Bellier in Association with Scott
Wilson, January 1998.
Indegenous Participation in the Wildlife Based Tourism Sector in Zimbabwe, Jennifer Day Willis,
February 1995.
Minutes of the South East Lowveld Coordinating Council, 1996-1998.
Projected DNPWLM Revenue and Expenditures, Matlow (Pvt) Ltd., Two volumes and electronic files,
1997.
*Including electronic files.



Status of Bank Group Operations in Zimbabwe
IBRD Loans and IDA Credits in the Operations Portfolio
0 i'
ID 
Difference Between                      3
expected 
Original Amount in USS Millions                     and actual                          i
Loan or    Fiscal                                                                                                                              disbursements a/                      
Project ID      Credit      Year                Borrowex                         Purpose                                                                                                            0
No.                                                                                  IBRD         IDA      Cancellations  Undisbursed          Orig   Frm Rev'd                    .
00
Number of Closed Loans/credits: 26                                                                                                                                                                    a
Active Loans                                                                                                                                                                                          2
ZW-PE-45029   IDAN0190        1997                                       PILOT RDC                          0.00       12.25             0.00          11.99         2.47       0.00
ZW-PE-35628   IDA28510        1996   GOV                                 ENTERPRISE DEVELOPM                0.00       70.00             0.00          47.58       -8.18       -4 .29 9
ZW-PE-3309    IBRD36960    1994   ZESA                                   POWER III                         90.00         0.00            0.00          40.08       40.07        0.00                 -X
ZW-PE-3333    IDA25160       1993   GOV                                  STI                                0.00       64.50             0.00          24.06       12.51        0.00       CD
ZW-PE-3286    IBRD32730    1991   GOVT.                                  RAILWAYS II                       38.60        0.00             0.00          14.81       14.82        0.00       E         '
ZW-PE-3302    IBRD33390    1991   GOVT                                   FAMILY HLTH.II                    25.00        0.00             0.00            .55          .55        .55       08
ZW-PE-3287     IBRD31790    1990   GOVT OF ZIMBABWE                      FOREST RESOURCE MGT&              14.50        0.00             0.00            .05          .04       0.00       _
ZW-PE-3294    IBRD30790    1989   GOVT.                                  URBAN II                          80.00        0.00             0.00          31.34       31.33       16.18        o.
Total                                                                                                     248.10      146.75             0.00         170.46       93.61       12.44        r  :
Active Loans          Closed Loans             Total
Total Disbursed (IBRD and IDA):                   217.73            1,084.59             1,302.32                                                                                          r 
of which has been repaid:                   17.35               413.09               430.44                                                                                          1D
Total now held by IBRD and IDA:                   377.50               669.17            1,046.67                                                                                           a
Amount sold                                         0.00                70.32                70.32                                                                                          ad
Of which repaid                :                 0.00               70.32                70.32
Total Undisbursed                 :               170.46                  .46               170.92
a. Intended disbursements to date minus actual disbursements to date as projected at appraisal.
b. Rating of 1-4: see OD 13.05. Annex D2. Preparaticn of Implementation Suimmary (Form 590). Following the FY94 Arnual Review of Portfolio performance (ARPP), a
letter based system will be used (HS = highly Satisfactory, S - satisfactory, U - unsatisfactory, HU   highly un:iat.sfactory):  see proposed Improvements in
Project and Portfolio Performance Rating Methodology (SecM94-901), August 23, 1994.
Note:
Disbursement data is updated at the end of the first week of the month.
'a



Pmjed Appraisal Document                                                             Page 75
Zimbabwe: Park Rehabilitaion and Conseration Project
Zimbabwe
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Committed and Disbursed Portfolio
As of 3 1-Mar-98
(In US Dollar Millions)
Committed                      Disbursed
IFC                             IFC
FY Approval            Company         Loan   Equity  Quasi  Partic   Loan   Equity  Quasi  Partic
1981/93               Wankie Colliery        5.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    5.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1990                  FMB                    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1990/92195            FMB Holdings           0.00    3.51    0.00    0.00    0.00    3.51    0.00    0.00
1991                  T.A. Trading            .20    0.00    0.00    0.00     .20    0.00    0.00    0.00
1991                  Venture Cap -ZIM       0.00    .68    0.00    0.00    0.00    .52    0.00    0.00
1992                  Meikles                3.33    0.00    0.00    0.00    3.33    0.00    0.00    0.00
1992                  PETROZIM               4.37    0.00    0.00    0.00    4.37    0.00    0.00    0.00
1993                  Triangle               1.40    0.00    0.00    0.00    1.40    0.00    0.00    0.00
1993                  Victoria Falls         2.12    0.00    .36    0.00    2.12    0.00    .36    0.00
1994                  AEF Abercrombie         .19    0.00    0.00    0.00     .19    0.00    0.00    0.00
1994                  AEF Bitcon              .73    0.00    0.00    0.00     .73    0.00   ,0.00    0.00
1994                  AEF Chiparawe           .56    0.00    0.00    0.00     .56    0.00    0.00    0.00
1994                  NMBZ                   0.00     .16    0.00    0.00    0.00    .16    0.00    0.00
1994/96               Interfresh              1.60    .73    0.00    0.00    1.60    .73    0.00    0.00
1995                  AEF Chimwala            .22    0.00    0.00    0.00     .22    0.00    0.00    0.00.
1995                  AEF Itachi Plast        .29    .06    0.00    0.00      .29    .06    0.00    0.00
1995                  AEF Stone Hidags       1.50    0.00    0.00    0.00     .60    0.00    0.00    0.00
1995                  Zambezi Fund           0.00    2.50    0.00    0.00    0.00    1.70    0.00    0.00
1995                  Zambezi FMCO           0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1996                  AEF Shagelok,           .86    .19    0.00    0.00      .86    .19    0.00    0.00
1996                  AEF Solid Ins          0.00     .02    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1996                  AEF Zambezi Lodg        1.25    0.00    0.00    0.00    1.25    0.00    0.00    0.00
1996                  Trinidad Ind.           .70    .58    0.00    0.00      .70    .58    0.00    0.00
1997                  AEF Agflora             .24    0.00    0.00    0.00     .24    0.00    0.00    0.00
1997                  AEF Isfar Ltd.          .10    0.00    0.00    0.00     ;10    0.00    0.00    0.00
1997                  AEF Lowveld Lthr        .30    .20    0.00    0.00      .30    .19    0.00    0.00
1997                  AEF Sunfresh Ltd        .23    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
Total Portfolio:                  25.19    8.63     .36    0.00   24.06    7.64    .36    0.00
Approvals Pending Commitment
Loan   Equit   Quasi  Partic
1998                  AEF ABERFOYLE           .36    0.00    0.00    0.00
1998                  AE.F INYATH MTEL         .40     .17    0.00 .  0.00
Total Pending Commitment:           .76     .17    0.00    0.00



Project Appraisal Document                                                                                          Page 76
Zimbabwe: Park Rehabilitation and Conservation Project
Annex 11
Country at a Glance
Zimbabwe at a glance                                                              8/2U97
Sub-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                        Saharan    Low.
Zimbabwe    Africa  Income       DOvelopment dlamond
Population mid-1996 (nzifirs)                       11.2      600    3.229
GNPpercapita199g(UJS$)                              610       490      500               LUfaexpectancy
GNP 1996  wons USS)                                  6.8      294    1.601
Average annual growth, 1990.96
Population (%)                                       2.3       2.7     1.7     GNP                            GramG .
Labor force (%)                                      2.2       2.6     1.7                                   primary
Most recent estimate flateatyea availabls since 1989)                          capita             /        enrolilment
Poverty: headcount index (% of poou/afon)            26
Urban populaion (% of tohti population)              32        31       29
Life expectancy at birth (years)                     57        52       63
Infant mortality (per 1,000 6ve oitfs)               55        92       69              Access to safe water
Chiid malnuttion (% of ciddren under 5)              16
Access to safe water ( of populaton)                 74        47       53
Illiteracy (36 of popudatio age 15+)                 15        43       34               Zmabwe
Gross primary enmilment (5 of schooPagepopulation)  115        72      105
Mae                                               19         78      112Lowinc                     up
Female                                           1'1         65       98
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1975    1986      1995    1996
GOP (bllons USS)                            3.5      4.5       6.6     7.5     Economb atios,
Gross domestic investmentfGDP              26.3    22.7       17.5    17.9             Openness ot economy
Exports of goods and services/GOP          29.5    29.9      44.3    44.2
Grossdomesticaavings/GOP                   25.1    2S.9       14.8    18.4
Gross national savings/GOP                 20.9    23.1       11.7    18.5
Current account balanea/GDP                -6.7    -3.4       -5.6    -1.8
Interest payments/GOP                       0.1      2.8       2.9       .     Savings                    Investment
Total debtGOP                               5.3    53.4       74.0
Total debt service/exports                  0.8    34.0       23.6      ..
Present value of debtWGOP           a        ..       ..     60.8
Present value of debt/exports                ..       ..    145.9       ..                 Indebtedness
1975-46  198S-96    1996      1996  1997-05
(avage annual gowft)                                                               -Z     mbabwe
GOP                                3.7      1.8    -2.3        8.1     5.3         __        nc_ egioup
GNP per capita                    -0.2    -1.0    -4.2         7.3     3.6
Exports of goods and services      5.3      5.3      3.0       8.8     5.3   j
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
(% of GOP)                                11996                                Growth rats of output and Invtment (%)
Agriculture                                17.0    20.2       17.1    13.9      20 .
Industry                                   38.0    30.2       29.8    27.5    to
Manufacturing                            23.5    22.9       21.8    18.7 o
Services                                   45.1    49.5       53.1    58.6   *10r         -        3 \; s s
Prvate consumption                         62.1    46.5      66.0    62.5    *201
General govemment consumption              12.8    28.6       19.2    19.1              -G OI    -4-GOP
Imports of goods and services              30.7    25.7      46.9    43.7
197548  1986-96      1995    1996
(aveage annual growth)                   9                                     Growth rates of export. and Imports (%
Agriculture                                 1.5      1.8    -19.0    41.1       25
Industry                                   -0.3     0.4      -7.7      1.4    20
Manufacturing                             3.2    -0.3      -14.0      2.1    1S
Services                                    5.8     2.9        S.5     2.5
Private consumption                         5.3     4.1        3.5     4.4
General govemment consumption              17.0    -1.0        2.9     8.3
Gross domestic investment                  -6.4    -1.7      -12.2    13.9    .13
Imports of goods and services               3.7      5.3      10.4     5.5                  iExps         1 mit
Gross nabonal product                       3.0      1.7      -2.1     9.2
Note: 1996 data are preliminary estimates. Figures in italics are for years other than those specified.
The diamonds show four key indicator in the country (in bold) compared with its income-group average. If data are misaing. the diamond will
be incomplete.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                                           Page 77
Zimbabwe: Park Rehabilitaton and Conservaton Project
Zimbabwe
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
Oomesic prIces                             1976    1988      1995    1996       Inflaton(%)
(X change)                                                                     50 -
Consumer prices                            10.0    14.2       22.6    23.0      o     
Implicit GOP deflator                       9.5      6.5      23.4    22.2    30 -
20
Govemment finance                                                              10
(, of GOP)                                                                      o      I                 I
Current revenue                                     33.3      31.4    28.6            91   92   93   94   95   SO
Current budget balance                              -3.3      -4.2    -5.3                   GOP def.    I CPI
Overall surplus/deficit                             -8.8    -10.2   -10.3
TRADE
1976    1988      1996    1996
(millons US$)                                                                   Export and import levels (mill US$)
Total exports (fob)                                1,124     2,217    2,499     2.500
Tobacco                                            225       478      694
Gold                                               124       303      294     2,000_
Manufactures                                       315       829      850     .soow
Total imports (cit)                                1.060  2.128  2,213  10                __ilim.
Food                                                37       118      129     10-o
Fuel and energy                                    226       191      239      s* *
Capital goods                                      298       901    1,046        0
Exportpriceindex(1987=100)                           84       118      125            90  91  92  93  94  95  9o
Importpriceindex(1987=100)                           80       131      137                  mExpons    mimports
Terms of trade (1987=100)                    ..    105         90       91
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
1976    1986      1996    1396
(millions US$)                                                                  Current account balance to GDP ratio (%)
Exports of goods and services             1,002    1,229     2,718    3,091
Imports of goods and services             1,088    1,211     2,882    3,083     o                      I   I
Resource balance                           -86       18      -164        8
Net income                                  -63    -126       -326    -295
Net current transfers                      -84      -45       121      154     40
Current account balance,
before official capital transfers        -233    -153       -369    -133      15s
Financing items (net)                      226      253       623       90
Changes in net reserves                       8     -100     -254       43    .20
Memo:
Reserves including gold (miilL US$)         129     345       962    1,037
Conversion rate (locaUS$)                   0.6      1.6       8.7    10.1
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1976    1986      1996    1996
(milfions USS)                                                                  Composition of total debt, 1995 (mill. USS)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed        187    2,416     4,885
IBRO                                       19     205       560      513                 G         A
IDA                                         0      30       336      335                684        60
Total debt service                            8     422       651
IBRD                                        5      16        94       87
IDA                                        0        0         3        3                                   C
Composition of net resource flows                                                   955                     4as
Official grants                             0     114       307
Ofcial creditors                           -6     115        43
Private creditors                           0      -68       41
Foreign direct investment                   0       3        40                              E         719
Porftolio equity                            0       0         18                           1170
Wordd Bank program
Commitments                                 0      10         0       70      A-IBRD                     E-Blatwa
Disbursements                               0      46        47       49      B - IDA    D - Other multilateral  F - Pdvate
Principal repayments                        5       0        48       46      C - IMP                    G - Shart-term
Netflows                                   -5      46         -1       3    _
Interest payments                           1      17        49       44
Net transfers                              -5      29        -50     -41
Development Economics                                                                                          8/28197



Projet Appraisal Document                                             Page 78
Zimbabwe: Park RehabiDtation and Conservation Project
Annex 12
Letter of Sector Development Policy
DEPARTMENT OF NATIONAL PARKS AND WILD LIFE MANAGEMENT
SECTOR DEVELOPMENT POLICY FOR WILD LIFE IN ZIMBABWE.
Approved by The Honourable S.K. Moyo, The Minister of Mines,
Environment and Tourism
Signed.         .    .......................   Date ...          I.7.7f



Project Appraisal Document                                          Page 79
Zimbabwe: Park Rehabilitation and Conservation Project
PREAMBLE
This sector development policy statement addresses issues relating to the management
of wildlife and the subsequent utilization of such wildlife in Zimbabwe.
Zimbabwe's wildlife industry has been growing steadily since the promulgation of the
Park and Wildlife Act of 1975 and its subsequent amendments. This growth, which has
paved the way for alienated landholders and Rural District Councils to derive economic
benefits from wildlife on their properties, has brought an additional 17% of Zimbabwe
under wildlife uitilization, bringing the total area of the country set aside for the.
development of wild life to approximately 30%.
Wild life is a unique economic resource upon which a massive, growing global industry
is developing. The advantage of this industry is its ecological sustainability in
comparison to other land uses and for Zimbabwe, its competitive advantage in world
markets. The Government of Zimibabwe regards its own protected areas and wild ife
resources as extremely valuable and highly marketable assets and a legitimate and
sustainable form of land use.
However, not since the establishment of the country's first national park in 1928, have
there been so many converging factors which threaten the future viability and integrity
of Zimbabwe's National Parks. The challenges are significant but not overwhelming.
Recovery will re(quire strong leadership from within the Government of Zimbabwe,
support and assistance from cooperating partners at home and abroad. At the same
time, Zimbabwe is trying new approaches to delivering services in more cost effective
ways by commercializing certain programmes. The Department of National Parks and
Wild Life Management was one of the first programmes to be identified for a new
approach to the delivery of services such that in January 1996 the Government
established The Parks and Wild Life Conservation Fund as a commercial entity to
manage the Parks and Wild Life Estate. The Estate occupies 13.1% of the country's
land base consisting of National Parks, Safari Areas, Sanctuaries, Recreational Parks,
Botanical Gardens and Botanical Reserves.
The Government of Zimbabwe has put in place a mechanism which ensures broad
participation in the wild life industry through equitable distribution of resources and
access to opportunities for emergent entrepreneurship, without abrogating its
fundamental obligations to society for conserving Africa's biological heritage.
The essential wild life nature of Africa's flora and fauna requires special management



Project Appraisal Document                                                          Page 80
Zimbabwe: Park Rehabilitaton and Conservaton Project
techniques and societal institutions in order to reaIise its full potential. Govermment
policy and the direction this policy gives to all sectors of the nation is fundamental
amongst the many factors which will contribute to the success of Zimbabwe's wild life
industry.



Prect Appraisal Document
Zimbabw: Pwk RehabRitaton and Conseiaton Pro8e1
In this document:
Minister:          means the Minister responsible for administrating the Parks and
Wild Life Act
Director:          means the Director of the Departnent of National Parks and
Wild Life Management appointed in terms of Section 107 of the
Parks and Wild Life Act Chapter 20:14
Department:        means the Department of National Parks and Wild Life
Management
Fund:              means the Parks and Wild Life Conservation Fund established
by Section 30 of the Audit and Exchequer Act (Chapter 168).
Constitution:      means the Constitution of the Parks and Wild Life Conservation
Fund
Estate:            means the Parks and Wild Life Estate
Alienated land:    for the purposes of wild life utilization alienated land means
private land; or State land held in terms of an agreement of
purchase or lease; or trust land held in terms of an agreement of
lease, i.e. land outside the Parks Estate.



Project Appraisal Document                                        Page 82
Zimbabwe: Park Rehabilitation and Conservation Project
POLICY STATEMENT
1. OWNERSHIP AND UTILIZATION OF WILD LIFE IN ZIMBABWE.
Wild life in Zimbabwe is a national heritage, the ownership and control of which is
vested in the State on behalf of the nation. However the State recognizes the presence
of certain wild life on alienated land (i.e. private land, communal land and resettlement
areas) such that the State bestows the right of utilization of wild life to the owners of
such land while it retains control and regulation of this utilization.
2. ADMINISTRATION OF WILD LIFE IN ZIMBABWE
In the context of policy, the Government considers all forms of aquatic and terrestrial
indigenous plant and aninals as wild life ranging from microorganisms to the largest
land mammal, the elephant. The Government accepts its responsibility to conserve all
wild life including those species which may conflict with human interests from time to
time. Many of the small animal species and less common plants are seldom seen and
can only be conserved by placing emphasis on complete ecosystems. Certain rare or
endangered species may require legal protection where they occur, whilst those species
which have detnmental effects on legitimate human interests or ecosystems may require
to be controlled under particular circumstances.
3. RESPONSIBILITY FOR WILD LIFE IN ZIMBABWE
The success of conservation in Zimbabwe depends on the recognition that land holders
should be the best custodians of their natural resources provided they have the right to
use wild life and to benefit from that custodianship. Policy for wild life in Zimbabwe
seeks to reinforce this principle and to ensure that it is universally applied to all
categories of landholders.
4. MANAGEMENT OF THE PARKS ESTATE
Management in the Parks Estate is undertaken by The Departnent of National Parks
and Wildlife Management, which is a scientific and professional agency of Government
responsible for preserving indigenous species and habitats and protecting the Estate.
It is also responsible for administering, developing and promoting wild life management
throughout Zimbabwe as an economic and sustainable land use for enhancing rural
productivity. Since wild life management is a complex subject in which many of the
underlying ecological processes are poorly understood, the Department adopts an
adaptive management strategy in which research and monitonrng are incorporated as
integral components of management.



Project Appraisal Document                                        Page 83
Zimbabwe: Park Rehabilitaton and Conservation Project
The Parks and Wild Life Estate will be managed in terms of approved specific area
plans which state the objectives for each area, the system of management, permitted
forms and levels of public use, authorised development and internal zonation. These
plans will be reviewed periodically.
In January 1996 The Parks and Wildlife Conservation Fund was established under
Section 30 of the Audit and Exchequer Act Chapter 168 to manage the Parks and
Wildlife Estate along commercial lines. Setting up the Fund gave the Departmnent a
higher degree of aultonomy financially such that all revenue accruing from the activities
of the Department are retained in the Fund to ensure sustainable management of the.
Parks and Wild Life Estate.
However, the Government of Zimbabwe shall ensure that conservation which is the
core business of the Departmient of National Parks and Wild Life Management is not
compromised as the Parks and Wild Life Conservation Fund improves the commercial
basis of operations.
5. GOVERNANCE AND ADMINISTRATION OF THE FUND
The Parks and Wild Life Act (1975) makes provisions for a National Parks Board
whose main function is to advise the Minister on issues pertaining to wildlife
management. However, the Constitution of the Parks and Wild Life Conservation Fund
does not make any provision for the governance and oversight of the Fund.
In an attempt to redress the situation, a governance and oversight body shall be
appointed with the authority to review and recommend to the Secretary of Mines,
Environment and Tourism for the approval of the following:
a)   Fund's annual budgets and supplementary budgets
b)   park management plans,
c)   proposals affecting tariffs, fees and concessions and
d)   policy issues affecting wildlife management
The fund shall be administered by the Director of National Parks and Wild Life
Management on behalf of the Secretary for Mines, Environment and Tourism who is
the Accounting Officer. The Accounting Officer is accountable to Parliament for t4e
operations of the Fund while The Minister retains overall responsibilities for the
governance and adrministration of the fund.



Project Appraisal Document                                         Page 84
Zimbabwe: Park Rehabilitation and Conservation Project
6. FUNCTIONS OF THE DEPARTMENT IN THE PARKS AND WILD LIFE
ESTATE
The functions of the Department of National Parks and Wild Life Management in the
Parks and Wild Life Estate are to:
a)   Protect wild life against illegal use;
b)   Manage and conserve the Parks and Wild Life Estate efficiently and cost-
effectively according to area plans for each protected area;
c)   Undertake or commission all physical development in the Estate;
d)   Run its own tourist facilities and trading complexes, where appropriate,
within its areas of jurisdiction;
e)   Allocate leases, concessions and access for wild life-based tourism and
fisheries in the Estate according to a system which will allow competition and
result in maximum financial or managerial benefits to the nation;
f)    Undertake or commission environmental impact assessments for all proposed
development which may affect the Estate;
g)   Allocate areas and quotas for sport hunting in the Estate and areas where
hunting is legally restricted;
h)    Conserve, manage and develop aquatic resources in Zimbabwe including
fisheries and aquaculture;
i)    Control aquatic weed within the Estate and cooperate with other agencies in
controlling aquatic weed outside the Estate;
j)    Prevent domestic livestock from entering the Estate and limit and control the
domestic pets of staff working in the Estate; and
k)   Promote conservation education.
7. MANAGEMENT POLICY STATEMENT
To promote the extension and integration of wildlife as a sustainable, complementary
and economically competitive land use to equitably benefit people and conservation
of biodiversity through a participatory approach.
To achieve the above goal the Government of Zimbabwe undertakes to:
a)   Establish an enabling framework to stimulate sustainable wildlife
conservation and management with particular reference to the clarification
of roles;
b)   Establish effective communication system between stakeholders both locally
and internationally;
c)   Establish and improve economic incentives for the production of wildlife;
d)   Enhance the capacity, both ecological and economic, for wildlife producers
and managers;
e)   Promote cross sectoral integrated land use and resource use planning;



Page 85
Project Appraisal Document
Zimbabwe: Park Rehabilitation and Conservation Project
f)   Establish imaginative financing mechanism to support wildlife production;
g)   Establish an improved understanding of the ecological processes that
underpin wildlife production;
h)   Establish systems and mechanisms for the exchange of information on
biodiversity, ecological issues and production systems;
i)   Establish and maintain monitoring and regulatory systems to ensure the
sustainable management of wildlife resources; and
j)    Continue to fund the social obligations of the Department such as extension
and research services and operations such as problem animal and bird control
and noxilous weed control which cannot be finded from the Fund.
8. FUNCTIONS OF THE DEPARTMENT OUTSIDE THE PARKS AND
WILDLIFE ESTATE
Outside the Parks and Wild Life Estate the primary aim of the Department of
National Parks and Wild Life Management will be to facilitate development of a
diverse, resilient wild life industry without prejudice to wild life conservation. It will
accordingly make all efforts to streamline administrative procedures toward this
goal in order tc):
a)   Issue all permits required by law for wild life-related activities and regulate
access, trade, utilization, fisheries and research;
b)   Regulate trade in wild life products so that illegal products do not enter the
market and prejudice legitimate trade;
c)   Market certain key wild life products;
d)   Maintain a statistical database on all wild life-related activities including
tourism, trade and sport hunting;
e)   Undertake research in wild life and coordinate the research activities of
external wild life researchers;
f)    Carry out extension and public relations work outside the Estate in
collaboration with other Government and non-government agencies; and
g)   Set standards and issue appropriate permits and licences to commercial wild
life operators including professional hunters, professional guides, and wild
life captuire units.
9. FUNCTIONS AND OBLIGATIONS OF OWNERS OF ALIENATED LAND
UNDER WILID LIFE UTILIZATION
The Governmernt encourages the conservation of wild life and their habitats outside
the Parks and Wild Life Estate and recognises that this requires the active
cooperation of landowners who, as wild life producers, should be the primary



Pjct Appraisal Document                                              Page 86
Zimbabwe: Park Rehabfitatlon and Conservation Project
beneficiaries of the returns. The National Conservation Strategy points out that by
giving wild life an economic value and treating it like any other renewable resource,
albeit one that requires special management and marketing skills, productivity may
be enhanced without detriment to the environment and the benefits may be sufficient
to offset the opportunity costs of this land use form.
The Government wishes to ensure that the demonstrated benefits of wild life
utiizaion is conferred to owners and occupiers of alienate land through the granting
of Appropriate Authority to Rural District Councils and landowners who wish to
manage the wild life resources on their land. This authority, which may be
withdrawn through failure to conform to conditions and objectives under which it
was granted, will be granted on the following conditions:
a)   An acceptable management plan in which objectives for wild life are stated
and preliminary intentions for achieving these objectives are outlined;
b)   For Rural District Councils, an acceptable institutional plan which outlines
clearly the methods by which the Rural District Council intends (i) to involve
wild life producer communities in district level management and (ii) to
devolve the decision-taking process in local wild life management and the
distribution of wild life benefits to producer communities;
c)   The Department will assist councils in managing wild life and coordinate the
activities of NGOs who are assisting the councils;
d)   The Department will approve all annual quotas of wild life killed or sold on
alienated land; and
e)   The presentations of annual reports from councils to the Director and to their
constituents detailing the year's performance in wild life management in their
district.



Project Appraisal Document                                                        Page 87
Zimbabwe: Park Rehabilitation and Conservation Project
Annex 13
PARKS AND WILD LIFE CONSERVATION FUND
(As established 17 December 1995)
1.    Establishment and Title of the Fund
A fund to be called the Parks and Wildlife Conservation Fund (hereinafter referred to as "the
Fund") is hereby established in terms of Section 30 of the Audit and Exchequer Act (Chapter
168).
2.    Objectives of the Fund
The objectives of the Fund shall be:
a) the conservation and management of Parks and Wild Life Estate as defined by the Parks and
Wildlife Act (Act 14 of 1975 as amended in 1990);
b) to invest and deal with money of the Fund not immediately required upon such security and
any such manner as determined by the Treasury;
c) to ensure the efficient mobilization of the Fund to apply the money and other assets of the
Fund for any purpose which is considered by the Director of National Parks to be in the
interests of conservation and management of Parks Estate.
3.    Income of the Fund
The income of the Fund shall consist of:
a) money alppropriate for the purpose by the Legislature;
b) any gifts or grants made to the fund by any natural or-juridical person or by the govenment
of any country;
c) revenue received by the Department of National Parks and Wild Life Management in the
course of administering its Parks and Wildlife Estate;
d) any interest or increase in value derived from the holding of money or any assets of the Fund
in any form whatsoever;
e) any revenue, other than revenue referred to in paragraphs (a) to (d) pertaining to the Fund;
and
f) all money and other assets which, immediately before the establishment of this Fund,
pertained to the general and special account of the Department of National Parks.
4.    Expenditure of the Fund
There shall be paid from the monies of the Fund:



Project Appraisal Document                                                         Page 88
Zimbabwe: Park Rehabilitation and Conservation Project
a) any expenditure incurred by the Fund in the performance of the objectives and functions of
the Fund;
b) salaries and allowances of the staff of the Fund;
c) the repayment of loans made to the Fund and any interest on such loans'
d) any losses incurred on the realisation of any assets of the Fund and any decrease in the value
of any assets of the Fund;
e) any other expenditure lawfully appertaining to the Fund;
f) all liabilities which, immediately before the establishment of the Fund, pertained to the
general and special accounts of the Department of National Parks.
5.    Administration of the Fund
a) The Fund shall be administered by the Director of National Parks and Wild Life Management
on behalf of the Secretary for Mines, Environment and Tourism. The Secretary shall be
responsible of the determination of the administrative policy of the Fund and shall in
accordance with Treasury Instructions issue detailed Accounting Officers Instructions.
b) For the effective management of tourism facilities in the Parks and Wild Life Estate, the
Director of National Parks and Wild Life Management may enter into management and sub-
contracting agreements with natural or juridical persons on such terms as the Secretary for
Mines, Environment and Tourism with the concurrence of the Treasury, may determine, in
keeping with procedures set by the oversight body.
6.    Capital Assets
Subject to Treasury authority, the Fund may acquire such capital assets as considered necessary
for the efficient operation of the Fund from time to time.
7.    Financial Operations
a) Subject to the provisions of the Audit and Exchequer Act (chapter 168), the Fund shall
conduct its business on sound commercial lines.
b) Charges approved by the Treasury from time to time should be aimed at the recovery of those
costs involved in administering the Fund.
c) Money in the Fund not immediately required for the purpose of the Fund may be invested
subject to directions issued from time to time by the Treasury.
8.    Bank Account
a) There shall be a banking account and all receipts shall be paid into and all payments made
from the banking account.
b) All cheques issued from the banking account shall bear the signatures of two officials from a



Project Appraisal Document                                                        Page 89
Zimbabwe: Park Rehabilitation and Conservation Project
panel of signatories approved by the Director of National Parks.
9.    Accumulated Fund
The accumulated Fund shall comprise of:
a) such amounts as may be appropriated by Parliament from time to time for the purpose of the
Fund; and
b) any interest or increase in value (income) derived from the holding of money or any assets of
the Fund in any form whatsoever.
10.   Reserves
Such reserves as are deemed necessary shall be created in such amounts as may be approved by
the Secretary of Mines, Environment and Tourism with the concurrence of the Treasury.
11.   Accounts of the Fund
Within three months of the end of the financial year, the Secretary for Environment and Tourism
shall cause to be submitted accounts for auditing to the Comptroller and Auditor-General in
accordance with Section 31(4) of the Audit and Exchequer Act (chapter 168).
12.   Amendments ito the Constitution
No amendments to or replacement of this constitution shall be made except by the Treasury.
13.   Dissolution of the Fund
In the event of the dissolution of the Fund or its amalgamation with any other fund, association or
body, the assets of the Fund shall be disposed of as directed by the Treasury.



NOTES



MAP SECTION



ZAIRE ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2'32'
TANZANIA 0'      2&                                         30'                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Lake Cabora Basso
)ANGOLA                *         '/                                                                                                             O ~       N t'~
ZAMBIA    >                       ~~~~~Mazabuka    N,,         ~      ~                N              
nt                                        16                                        ChiThndzr            -   NP              I)Antonio~-16                 MOZAMBIQUE16
'ZMAW                       AMBz                               I A                                           K
IBAr!BOTSWANAKaic
~~~~  t~~~~~~~~~~ii~~~~~~~~~~&a o
ma~~~~~~~~~~~
w'-"-~~~~~~~~~~~                                        f                                 , ~~~~~~~~ Nyomapanda Coa/~AA  ao  9< A
(L5S'OTH                                                                                      / ~~~~~~~~~~~Y  iBindura <                                 
_____________________________________________________                                         ~~~~~Chinhoyl                                                  -
N                                                                                                                                      18~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~N Mrnec
-N~ ~ ~ ~~~G
-N_~ ~ ~~~~~~N
Muma
' Gwru                                                 &        JATN
PARK REHABILITATION A~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                                                                             - N
-20'   CONSERVATION PROJEC                                                                                                                                                        CMANIMAN
LOCATION OF NATIONAL PARKS                                                         Bulawayo                                      Masving .
PROTECTED AREAS( 
o3    CAMPS                                                                                                                                                              .'0
     OFFICES                                                              NP-I                                                                                             
*     GATES                                             N                                        w~a                            'U<*
-RIVERS                                       Francis&w,n
NATIONAL CAPITAL 
PROVINCE CAPITALS
o     SELECTED CITIES                                                                                                                                                           <
ROADS                                                                                 '\This sap wan produced by the,
-22,  INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES  ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ISub-R0                                                                                          Map Design Unit of The World Bock
22'  -  - -  INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES                     'N'           t'l, X ,                                  tstclcpcti            The boundaries, uolors,denomMelsnatb.sans~s,Ior,,enomiatio~
Bose  SO5~O    and-ayather ifrAtin hwnn thiss
,.,.,Ae''C"N.tA,  Betbridge                                 . /crp do no.t imply, on, the port of The 
100  200 KILOMETERS  ~ ~ ~     ~      ~     ~     ~      ~     ~    ~     ~     ~    ~ ~ ~ *"'',e'the legol status of any turritory, or coy    t
26,                                                          SOUTH,.   FRInCdrAoDun or nucpt-nre of -uh                                             to



[BRD 29301
-~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~ZIMBABWE
PARK REHABILITATION AND
ohode   M ~ 20-                CONSERVATION PROJECT
GlenLoel                                                                                     ~~~~~~~~~~~~SOUTH EAST LOWVELD
0   Tn                     k I t a                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~hi,e   J.-oon
SAVE  h i p i n g e                                           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~GONARE71HOU NATIONAL PARK
CONSERVANCY  I~~      TAMANDATI                                                  COMMUNAL LAND
NU  /                                           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~SAFARI AREAS
SAVE CONSERVANCY
NATIONAL CAPTTAL [INSET)
O   SELECTED CITIES
RIVERS
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~RAILROADS
RURAL DISTRICT BOUNDARIES
21-
MAIN ROADS
V.IIy                                                                       - - -      )~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
T.. ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ -,  RUenBo                                                                                                   U       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~225  55  75 KILOMETERS
Th. bood,,I, ~ S o.onoood -OIh h,nnloM-.
-&5 -pd. -,pS. -Oh. p,lIOT9IhBOW-d 8- -,pO
DEM. REP   ~ -TANZANIA
Moooo9o                                                                                                                                              \~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~OFCONGO )
ANGOLA       -7-..*.
M    0    Z   A   M    B   I Q    U   E                -A~~~~ ZAMBIA
.4  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                                                                                                  -)-  -'    * ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~MOZAM6tOUE
22-                                   ZfMBABWo 
NAMIBIA  *-INTWNA            /       /90AN
SOUTH AFRICA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~OTHARC
APRIL ?998



