Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 3083-ZIM
Development Credit Agreement
(Park Rehabilitation and Conservation Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF ZIMBABWE
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated June 25, 1998
CREDIT NUMBER 3083-ZIM
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated June 25, 1998, between REPUBLIC OF ZIMBABWE (the 
Borrower) and the INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility 
and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has 
requested the Association to assist in the financing of the Project;
(B)
the Association has received a letter dated April 21, 1998, from 
the Borrower describing a program of actions, objectives and policies designed 
to strengthen its capacity to maintain and develop its national parks, and 
protect wildlife populations and their habitats (the Program), and declaring the 
Borrower's commitment to the execution of the Program;
(C)
by agreement of even date herewith (the GEF Grant Agreement), the 
Bank acting as an implementing agency of the Global Environment Facility (GEF) 
has agreed to make a grant to the Borrower in an aggregate principal amount 
equivalent to SDR 3,700,000 to assist in financing part of the Project on the 
terms and conditions set forth in the GEF Grant Agreement; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the 
foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions 
Page  2
set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, as amended through 
December 2, 1997, (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this 
Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms 
defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the 
respective meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have 
the following meanings:
(a)
“DNPWLM” means the Department of National Parks and Wild Life 
Management of MMET, as hereinafter defined;
(b)
“Environmental Management Plan” means an environmental management 
plan referred to in paragraph 3 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement;  
(c)
“Fund” means the Parks and Wild Life Conservation Fund, a fund 
established by the Borrower in January 1996, and existing and operating 
according to the Fund Constitution, as hereinafter defined; 
(d)
“Fund Constitution” means the constitution of the Parks and Wild 
Life Conservation Fund, adopted by the Borrower’s Ministry of Finance, pursuant 
to Section 30 of the Audit and Exchequer Act (Chapter 168), as amended pursuant 
to Section 6.01 (c) of this Agreement; 
(e)
“MLGNH” means the Borrower’s Ministry of Local Government and 
National Housing;
(f)
"MMET" means the Borrower’s Ministry of Mines, Environment and 
Tourism;
(g)
“MRRWD" means the Borrower’s Ministry of Rural Resources and Water 
Development;
(h)
"Planning Unit” means the Planning Unit of DNPWLM;
(i)
“Project Implementation Plan” means the Project Implementation Plan 
adopted by the Borrower pursuant to Section 6.01 (a) of this Agreement, and 
referred to in paragraph 2 (a) of Schedule 4 hereto, as same may be amended from 
time to time, and such term includes any schedules to the Project Implementation 
Plan;
(j)
“National Parks” means the Borrower’s designated national parks; 
namely, Chimanimani, Chizarira, Gonarezhou, Hwange, Kazuma Pan, Mana Pools, 
Matobo, Matusadona, Nyanga, Zambezi and Victoria Falls; and
(k)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) 
of this Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms 
and conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an 
amount in various currencies equivalent to forty six million three hundred 
Page  3
thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 46,300,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the 
Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement 
for expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in 
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project 
described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds 
of the Credit.
(b)
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and 
maintain in Dollars a special deposit account in a commercial bank on terms and 
conditions satisfactory to the Association including appropriate protection 
against set-off, seizure and attachment.  Deposits into, and payments out of, 
the Special Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 
5 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be September 30, 2005, or such later 
date as the Association shall establish.  The Association shall promptly notify 
the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment 
charge on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at 
a rate to be set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to 
exceed the rate of one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days 
after the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on 
which amounts shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or 
canceled; and (ii) at the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the 
accrual date and at such other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter 
pursuant to paragraph (a) above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year shall 
be applied from the next date in that year specified in Section 2.06 of this 
Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind 
imposed by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency 
specified in this Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General 
Conditions or in such other eligible currency or currencies as may from time to 
time be designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge 
at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the 
principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on May 1 and November 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) below, the 
Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semi-annual 
installments payable on each May 1 and November 1, commencing November 1, 2008, 
and ending May 1, 2033.  Each installment to and including the installment 
payable on May 1, 2018, shall be one and one-fourth percent (1-1/4%) of such 
principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be two and one-half 
percent (2-1/2%) of such principal amount.
(b)
Whenever: (i) the Borrower's per capita gross national product 
(GNP), as determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for three 
consecutive years  the level established annually by the Association for 
determining eligibility to access the Association's resources; and (ii) the Bank 
shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for Bank lending, the Association may, 
subsequent to the review and approval thereof by the Executive Directors of the 
Page  4
Association and after due consideration by them of the development of the 
Borrower's economy, modify the repayment of installments under paragraph (a) 
above by (A) requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each such 
installment not yet due until the principal amount of the Credit shall have been 
repaid, and (B) requiring the Borrower to commence repayment of the principal 
amount of the Credit as of the first semiannual payment date referred to in 
paragraph (a) above falling six months or more after the date on which the 
Association notifies the Borrower that the events set out in this paragraph (b) 
have occurred, provided, however, that there shall be a grace period of a 
minimum of five years on such repayment of principal.
(c)
If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise the 
modification referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu of some or 
all of the increase in the amounts of such installments, the payment of interest 
at an annual rate agreed with the Association on the principal amount of the 
Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the 
judgment of the Association, such revision shall not change the grant element 
obtained under the above-mentioned repayment modification.
(d)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph 
(b) above, the Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the 
Borrower, further modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of 
installments as provided in paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby 
specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives 
of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and, to this end, 
shall carry out the Project through MMET with due diligence and efficiency, and 
in conformity with appropriate administrative, financial, engineering and 
technical practices, and with due regard to ecological and environmental 
factors, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services 
and other resources required for the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this 
Section and, except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, 
the Borrower shall carry out the Project in accordance with the Implementation 
Program set forth in Schedule 4 to this Agreement and the respective 
Environmental Management Plan.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement 
of the goods, works, and consultants' services required for the Project and to 
be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the 
provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions 
and without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall:
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association 
and furnish to Association, not later than six (6) months after the Closing 
Date, or such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower 
and the Association, a plan for the future operation of the Project; and
(b)
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views 
with the Borrower on said plan.
Page  5
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01.  (a)  The Borrower shall establish and maintain a financial 
management system, including records and accounts, and prepare financial 
statements in a format acceptable to the Association, adequate to reflect the 
operations, resources and expenditures for and in connection with the carrying 
out of the Project.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
(i)
have the records, accounts and financial statements referred 
to in paragraph (a) of this Section, and the records and 
accounts for the Special Account for each fiscal year 
audited, in accordance with auditing standards acceptable to 
the Association consistently applied, by independent 
auditors acceptable to the Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any 
case not later than six months after the end of each such 
year, (A) certified copies of the financial statements 
referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section for such year 
as so audited, and (B) an opinion on such financial 
statements, records and accounts and a report of such audit 
by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the 
Association shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning 
such records and accounts and the audit thereof, and 
concerning said auditors, as the Association may from time 
to time reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the 
Credit Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower 
shall:
(i)
maintain, or cause to be maintained, in accordance with 
paragraph (a) of this Section, records and separate accounts 
reflecting such expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Association has 
received the audit report for the fiscal year in which the 
last withdrawal from the Credit Account was made, all 
records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and 
other documents) evidencing such expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Association’s representatives to examine such 
records; and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the 
annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section, 
and that the report of such audit contains a separate 
opinion by said auditors as to whether the statements of 
expenditure submitted during each fiscal year, together with 
the procedures and internal controls involved in their 
preparation, can be relied upon to support the related 
withdrawals.
Section 4.02.  The Borrower shall take steps to ensure that DNPWLM shall:
(a)
not later than September 30 of each year, prepare and submit to the 
Association, for review and comments 
(i)
its annual business plan established on a rolling basis to 
achieve the five-year business and financial objectives of 
Page  6
DNPWLM, including financial targets, proposed tariff 
increases, capital investment program and financing, a 
forecast of profitability, and the projected balance sheet, 
and
(ii)
an annual work program, including information on (A) 
measures to strengthen management capacity, along with 
details on implementation of the training program, (B) 
measures to improve financial management and accounting 
systems, (C) tariff adjustments and measures to increase 
revenue collection, (D) procurement plans, (E) specific 
financial and conservation goals for each park, and (F) 
allocation of surpluses and financing of anticipated 
deficits; and
(b)
proceed thereafter to implement such business plan and such work 
program, taking into account such comments as may have been made thereon by the 
Association.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
a situation shall have arisen which shall make it improbable that 
the Program or a significant part thereof will be carried out;
(b)
the Fund Constitution shall have been amended, suspended, 
abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect materially and adversely the 
ability of the Borrower to perform any of its obligations arising under this 
Agreement; and
(c)
(i)
subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph, the right of 
the Borrower to withdraw the proceeds of the GEF Grant shall 
have been suspended, canceled or terminated in whole or in 
part, pursuant to the terms of the agreement providing 
therefor, or
 (ii)
subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply if the 
Borrower establishes to the satisfaction of the Association 
that (A) such suspension, cancellation or termination is not 
caused by the failure of the Borrower to perform any of its 
obligations under such agreement, and (B) adequate funds for 
the Project are available to the Borrower from other sources 
on terms and conditions consistent with the obligations of 
the Borrower under this Agreement.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified: namely, any event specified in 
paragraph (b) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions 
to the effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of 
Section 12.01 (b) of the General Conditions:
Page  7
(a)
the Project Implementation Plan has been duly approved by the 
Association, and adopted by the Borrower;
(b)
the Borrower has appointed a suitably qualified and experienced 
official to be the Chief Finance Officer of DNPWLM;
(c)
a revised Fund Constitution, acceptable to the Association, and 
providing for a clear, coherent and authoritative governance and oversight 
structure in respect of  the Fund, shall have been adopted;
(d)
the Borrower has implemented measures, acceptable to the 
Association, pertaining to the financial management of the Fund and listed in 
paragraph 6 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement;
(e)
the Borrower has taken appropriate steps to transfer control to 
DNPWLM over water supply assets of the Water Department of MRRWD, and housing 
and building assets of MLGNH, located in the National Parks, and owned and 
operated by the Water Department of MRRWD and MLGNH, respectively; and
(f)
the procurement plans referred to in Part D.1 of Section I, and 
Part D.1 of Section II, of Schedule 3 to this Agreement have been furnished to, 
and approved by, the Association.
Section 6.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement 
is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of 
Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
The Senior Secretary
Ministry of Finance
Private Bag 7705
Causeway, Harare
Zimbabwe
Cable address:
Telex:
MINFIN
22141 ZW
Harare
Zimbabwe
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address: 
Telex:
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI)or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
Page  8
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their 
respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of 
the day and year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF ZIMBABWE
By /s/ Amos Midzi
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Callisto Madavo
Regional Vice President
Africa
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit 
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each 
Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each 
Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated
   % of
(Expressed in
Expenditures
Category
SDR Equivalent
to be Financed
(1)
Civil works
   32,200,000
100% of foreign
expenditures and
80% of local
expenditures
(2)
Vehicles, goods and
    3,300,000
100% of foreign
materials
expenditures and
80% of local
expenditures
(3)
Consultants' services
100%
and training:
(a) under Part A of
    3,400,000
the Project
(b) under Part B of
    2,800,000
the Project
(4)
Unallocated
    4,600,000
TOTAL
   46,300,000
Page  9
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency 
of any country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied 
from the territory of any country other than that of the Borrower, and
(b)
the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of 
the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the 
Borrower.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall 
be made in respect of  payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this 
Agreement.
4.
The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to be made 
on the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures for works under 
contracts not exceeding $500,000 equivalent, goods and consultants' services 
(firms) under contracts not exceeding $100,000 equivalent, consultants' services 
(individuals) under contracts not exceeding $50,000 equivalent, and training, 
under such terms and conditions as the Association shall specify by notice to 
the Borrower.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objective of the Project is to enhance the Borrower’s ability to 
protect wildlife populations and their habitats, and develop the parks and 
wildlife sector, by rehabilitating or improving essential elements of 
infrastructure, and strengthening the institutional capacity of agencies 
responsible for ensuring the sustainability of investments, formulating policy 
and implementing wildlife programs.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to 
achieve such objectives:
Part A: 
Institutional Strengthening
1.
Provision of technical advisory services, and acquisition of materials and 
equipment, to assist in the review, formulation and communication of policies 
linked to the proposed transition of DNPWLM from its current status as a line 
agency to that of a body operating along commercial lines.
2.
Provision of technical advisory services, and acquisition of materials and 
equipment, to assist in organizational development of DNPWLM, including 
strengthening of the decision-making process, and management and oversight 
functions, support for the development of a modern, service-oriented, 
professional and technically-proficient organization operating along sound 
commercial lines, review of decentralization options, assessment of skills and 
training needs, and establishment of a performance and evaluation system.
3.
Provision of technical advisory services, and acquisition of materials and 
equipment, to assist in the development and implementation of financial 
management and management information systems for the Fund, including 
computerization of accounting functions, decentralization of accounting and 
computerization to the provincial and station levels, development of internal 
control systems, determination of accounting policies, production of a 
procedures manual, determination of the cost and revenue structure of parks and 
stations, and the pricing structure of the parks estate, valuation of assets and 
Page  10
business planning linked to the park planning process.
4.
Provision of technical advisory services, and acquisition of materials and 
equipment, to assist in the preparation of an overall strategic plan for the 
parks and wildlife estate, including a proposed strategy on issues pertaining to 
the entire system of protected areas, and a guide for management planning in 
individual parks.
5.
Provision of technical advisory services, and acquisition of materials and 
equipment, to assist in strengthening of park planning processes within DNPWLM, 
preparation of management plans for National Parks, and preparation of a 
practical planning manual.
6.
Provision of technical advisory services, and acquisition of materials and 
equipment, to support development of park planning capacity. 
7.
Provision of technical advisory services, and acquisition of materials and 
equipment, to support monitoring programs and applied research pertaining to 
protected area management and biodiversity conservation.
8.
Provision of technical advisory services, and acquisition of materials and 
equipment,  to support strengthening of interpretation programs for the benefit 
of visitors to the National Parks, and education and awareness programs for the 
benefit of the local public.
9.
Implementation of a comprehensive training program, including carrying out 
of a training needs assessment, regular in-service training in core substantive 
and skills areas, and training in park planning for the benefit of the Planning 
Unit of DNPWLM and National Parks staff.
Part B:
Infrastructure
Rehabilitation or improvement of elements of the infrastructure of 
National Parks, which are essential to the efficient management of the National 
Parks for wildlife and habitat conservation and for sustainable commercial 
development, including:
(a)
rehabilitation and construction of roads, water and electricity 
supply systems, communications, and other elements of National Parks 
infrastructure critical for National Parks functioning and tourism access;
(b)
acquisition of tractor-based plant and equipment for road 
maintenance;
(c)
improvement of existing housing facilities and provision of 
additional housing facilities for staff to replace existing sub-standard 
accommodation;
(d)
provision of improved National Parks administrative facilities, 
including office space, and acquisition of equipment; and
(e)
acquisition of vehicles and other equipment needed for improved 
National Parks management and anti-poaching operations.
Part C: 
Gonarezhou National Park
Strengthening of biodiversity conservation in Gonarezhou National Park and 
the nearby South East Lowveld, through interventions in the parks and in areas 
Page  11
adjacent to the parks, including:
(a) 
rehabilitation and improvement of essential infrastructure in the 
park, and implementation of the park management plan;
(b)
establishment of a consultative process to involve local 
communities and other relevant stakeholders in park planning and management and 
in promoting conservation opportunities outside park boundaries;
(c)
provision of grants to support community-based activities outside 
the park to promote or develop sustainable wildlife utilization and other forms 
of land use that are compatible with biodiversity conservation; and
(d)
provision of technical advisory services, and acquisition of 
materials and equipment, to support monitoring and applied research programs, as 
well as interpretation, and education and awareness programs.
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by March 31, 2005.
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:
General
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of 
Section I of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" 
published by the Bank in January 1995, and revised in January and August 1996, 
and September 1997 (the Guidelines), and the following provisions of this 
Section.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods and works 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of 
Section II of the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to goods and works to be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this 
Part B.
(a)
Grouping of contracts
To the extent practicable, contracts for goods shall be grouped in bid 
packages estimated to cost $500,000 equivalent or more each.
(b)
Notification and Advertising
The invitation to bid for each contract estimated to cost $10,000,000 
equivalent or more shall be advertised in accordance with the procedures 
applicable to large contracts under paragraph 2.8 of the Guidelines.
Page  12
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
1.
National Competitive Bidding
Goods estimated to cost less than $200,000 equivalent per contract, up to 
an aggregate amount not to exceed $1,000,000 equivalent, and works estimated to 
cost less than $1,000,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount not 
to exceed $29,000,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines.
2.
International Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract may be 
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of international shopping 
procedures in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the 
Guidelines.
3.
National Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $10,000 equivalent per contract may be 
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of national shopping procedures in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
4.
Procurement of Small Works
Works estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract, up to 
an amount not to exceed $2,000,000 equivalent, may be procured under lump-sum, 
fixed-price contracts awarded on the basis of quotations obtained from three (3) 
qualified domestic contractors in response to a written invitation. The 
invitation shall include a detailed description of the works, including basic 
specifications, the required completion date, a basic form of agreement 
acceptable to the Association, and relevant drawings, where applicable. The 
award shall be made to the contractor who offers the lowest price quotation for 
the required work, and who has the experience and resources to complete the 
contract successfully.
5.
Force Account
Works under Part B of the Project, which meet the requirements of 
paragraph 3.8 of the Guidelines, and costing $300,000 equivalent or less in the 
aggregate, may, with the Association's prior agreement, be carried out by force 
account in accordance with the provisions of said paragraph of the Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the 
proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Association 
for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall be 
undertaken in accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been approved 
by the Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
With respect to each contract for works estimated to cost the equivalent 
of $500,000 or more, or goods estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or 
more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the 
Page  13
Guidelines shall apply
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, 
the procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall 
apply.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions 
of the Introduction and Section IV of the "Guidelines: Selection and Employment 
of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" published by the Bank in January 1997 
and revised in September 1997 (the Consultant Guidelines) and the following 
provisions of Section II of this Schedule.
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ 
services shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the 
provisions of Section II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 
thereto, Appendix 2 thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 
thereof applicable to quality- and cost-based selection of consultants.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to consultants services to be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of the 
preceding paragraph.  The short list of consultants for services, estimated to 
cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, may comprise entirely national 
consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant 
Guidelines.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
1.
Individual Consultants.
Services for institutional strengthening initiatives under Part A of the 
Project, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $2,500,000 equivalent, may be 
procured under contracts awarded to individual consultants in accordance with 
the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines.
2.
Single Source Selection
Services for technical assistance under the Project, estimated to cost 
less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, in the case of consulting firms, and 
$50,000 equivalent per contract, in the case of individual consultants, may, 
with the Association's prior agreement, be procured in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.8 through 3.11 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Association of the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the 
proposed plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be 
furnished to the Association for its review and approval, in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines.  Selection 
of all consultants’ services shall be undertaken in accordance with such 
Page  14
selection plan as shall have been approved by the Association, and with the 
provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting 
firms estimated to cost the equivalent of $200,000 or more, the procedures set 
forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third subparagraph of paragraph 2 (a)) 
and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting 
firms estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, but less than the 
equivalent of $200,000, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than 
the second subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant 
Guidelines shall apply.
(c)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the 
qualifications, experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the 
consultants shall be furnished to the Association for its prior review and 
approval. The contract shall be awarded only after said approval shall have been 
given.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 1 of this Part, 
the procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant 
Guidelines shall apply.
SCHEDULE 4
Implementation Program
1.
(a)
The Borrower shall appoint the members of the project 
implementation team (PIT) located in the Planning Unit, and comprising a project 
coordinator, an engineer, a planner and an accountant, to be responsible for 
day-to-day management of the activities of the Project.
(b)
Subject to the oversight functions and policy guidance of MMET,  
PIT shall be responsible for: (i) coordination of procurement and disbursement 
activities, and audits under Article IV of this Agreement, and preparation of 
annual and quarterly progress reports, and work plans and training programs, 
under the Project; and (ii) monitoring of the achievement of objectives of the 
Project, and evaluation of the impact of the activities thereof. 
(c)
The Borrower shall ensure that the higher level positions of PIT, 
which are referred to in subparagraph (a) of this paragraph, shall be kept 
filled at all times by appropriate officials, having qualifications, experience 
and terms of reference which shall have been communicated to, and deemed 
acceptable by, the Association.
2.
The Borrower shall: 
(a)
prepare and transmit to the Association a Project Implementation 
Plan, acceptable to the Association, giving details of all procurement and 
disbursement arrangements, performance indicators and other administrative, 
financial and organizational arrangements, as shall have been agreed with the 
Association for purposes of the Project; and
(b)
carry out the Project in accordance with procedures set out in the 
Page  15
Project Implementation Plan and, except as the Association shall otherwise 
agree, shall not amend or waive any provision thereof, if such amendment or 
waiver may, in the opinion of the Association, materially or adversely affect 
the implementation of the Project.
3.
Based on the environmental impact analysis of the Project, the Borrower 
shall prepare an environmental management plan, acceptable to the Association, 
in respect of each of the National Parks, giving details of measures needed to 
address, prevent or mitigate any adverse environmental impact of investments 
under the Project
4.
The Borrower shall:
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor 
and evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with performance indicators 
referred to in paragraph 2 (a) of this Schedule, the carrying out of the Project 
and the achievement of the objectives thereof;
(b)
not later than November 30 of each year, undertake, in conjunction 
with the Association, a joint annual review of the Project or, in the case of 
the review to be undertaken not later than November 30, 2001, a midterm review, 
during which they shall exchange views generally on all matters relating to the 
progress of the Project and the performance by the Borrower of its obligations 
under this Agreement, including 
(i)
the progress achieved by the Borrower in the implementation 
of the Project, having regard to the performance indicators 
referred to in paragraph 2 (a) of this Schedule,
 (ii)
a review of the proposed work plans and budget for the 
forthcoming fiscal year, and
(iii)
a review of the impact of the Project;
(c)
not later than one month prior to each review, furnish to the 
Association, for its comments, a report, in such detail as the Association shall 
reasonably request, on the progress and status of the Project, and giving 
details, of the various matters to be discussed at such review; and
(d)
following each review, undertake to act promptly and diligently in 
order to take, or cause to be taken, any corrective action deemed necessary to 
remedy any shortcoming noted in the implementation of the Project, or to 
implement, or cause to be implemented, such other measures as may have been 
agreed upon between the parties in furtherance of the objectives of the Project.
5.
The Borrower shall take steps to ensure that DNPWLM shall:
(a) 
not later than March 30, 1999, commission a pricing study to 
determine an appropriate structure for its tariffs and fees and, based on the 
results thereof, (i) prepare and submit to the Borrower and the Association, not 
later than September 30, 1999, for review and comments, a proposed pricing 
structure, including provision for the adoption of tariff and fee increases 
sufficient to meet its financial objectives as specified in the annual corporate 
plan referred to in Section 4.02 of this Agreement, and (ii) proceed thereafter 
to implement such pricing structure, taking into account such comments as may 
have been made thereon by the Association; and
(b)
not later than June 30, 2000, have in place, for purposes of Part 
A.3 of the Project, adequate financial management systems and decentralized 
commercial accounting systems.
Page  16
6.
Pending completion of the execution of Part A.3 of the Project, the 
Borrower shall take a series of measures relating to the financial management of 
the Fund, and designed to improve internal controls, and the quality and 
timeliness of financial information, including:
(a)
filling of clerical posts, as needed, at park level to allow the 
transfer of cash and collection functions from officials with no financial 
background to accounting clerks;
(b)
filling of the following positions at the headquarters of DNPWLM, a 
chief accountant, an accountant (revenue) and an accountant (expenditure);
(c) 
implementation of a training program in business planning, 
reporting and monitoring for the benefit of park wardens;
(d)
implementation of a computer training program for accounting staff 
at the headquarters of DNPWLM;
(e)
development of basic financial reporting and monitoring system for 
DNPWLM;
(f)
acquisition of a server and network cables to expand the current 
capacity of the computing capability of the headquarters of DNPWLM; and
(g)
development of a review process covering budgets and tariffs.
SCHEDULE 5
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1) through (3) set 
forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of 
the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project, and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to time to the 
eligible Categories in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to 
$3,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited into the 
Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, provided, however, 
that unless the Association shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation 
shall be limited to an amount equivalent to $2,000,000 until the aggregate 
amount of withdrawals from the Credit Account plus the total amount of all 
outstanding special commitments entered into by the Association pursuant to 
Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall be equal to or exceed the 
equivalent of SDR 20,000,000.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the 
Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation 
and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as 
follows:
Page  17
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Association a request or requests for deposit into the Special 
Account of an amount or amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the 
Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the Association 
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit 
into the Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have 
requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Association requests for deposits into the 
Special Account at such intervals as the Association shall 
specify.
(ii)
Prior to, or at the time of, each such request, the Borrower 
shall furnish to the Association the documents and other 
evidence required pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule 
for the payment or payments in respect of which 
replenishment is requested. On the basis of each such 
request, the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, 
withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into the 
Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have 
requested and as shall have been shown by said documents and 
other evidence to have been paid out of the Special Account 
for eligible expenditures. All such deposits shall be 
withdrawn by the Association from the Credit Account under 
the respective eligible Categories, and in the respective 
equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said 
documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the 
Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, 
furnish to the Association such documents and other evidence showing that such 
payment was made exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the 
Association shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special 
Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that all 
further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions 
and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Association, 
within the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, 
any of the audit reports required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to 
said Section in respect of the audit of the records and accounts for the Special 
Account;
(c)
if, at any time, the Association shall have notified the Borrower 
of its intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to 
make withdrawals from the Credit Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 
6.02 of the General Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the 
eligible Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding special 
commitments entered into by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the 
General Conditions with respect to the Project, shall equal the equivalent of 
twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.  Thereafter, withdrawal from the 
Credit Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to 
the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the Association shall 
specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only 
after and to the extent that the Association shall have been satisfied that all 
Page  18
such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such 
notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any 
payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an 
amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not 
justified by the evidence furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, 
promptly upon notice from the Association (A) provide such additional evidence 
as the Association may request, or (B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if 
the Association shall so request, refund to the Association) an amount equal to 
the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. 
Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the 
Association into the Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has 
provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
(b)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any 
amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further 
payments for eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice 
from the Association, refund to the Association such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraph 6 (a), (b) 
and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account for subsequent 
withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of 
this Agreement, including the General Conditions.
