Report No. PID1096
Project Name                     Zimbabwe-Park Rehabilitation and (@+) ...
Conservation Project
Region                           Africa
Sector                           Environment
Project ID                       ZWPA3318
Implementing Agencies            Ministry of Mines, Environment and Tourism
P/Bag 7753, Causeway
Harare, Zimbabwe
Contact: The Permanent Secretary
Tel: 263 4 794445
Department of National Parks and Wildlife
Management
P.O. Box 8365, Causeway
Harare, Zimbabwe
Contact: The Director
Tel:   263 4 724027
Fax: 263 4 724914
Project Cost                     US$75 million
Financing Plan                   IDA (US$62.5 million)
GEF Grant (US$5 million)
Government (US$7.5 million)
Appraisal Date                   November 1997 (completed)
Board Date                       June 1998 (completed)
Estimated Effectiveness Date     September 1998
Objectives
1.      The project aims to enhance the Government's ability to protect wildlife
populations and their habitats and to develop the parks and wildlife sector,
by rehabilitating or improving essential elements of infrastructure, and by
strengthening the institutional capacity of the agencies responsible for
ensuring the sustainability of investments and for formulating policy and
implementing wildlife programs.
2.      The global environmental objective is to improve biodiversity
conservation in Gonarezhou National Park and nearby South East Lowveld areas.
Key features of biodiversity conservation and management would be protection
of adequate range for mobile wildlife populations in this semi-arid and
periodically drought-prone region, protection of vegetation from destruction
by fire and other human-caused impacts, protection of water resources, re-
establishment of migration corridors, protection of wildlife from illegal
killing, and minimization of conflict between wildlife and agriculture or
other land uses outside the park.
Description
3.      The project comprises three parts as follows:



I. Institutional Strengthening: Reinforce institutional and organizational
capacity to insure the sustainability of investments and the effective
management of the Parks Estate and wildlife resources by (i) supporting
organizational development (strengthen decision-making, management and
oversight functions, review decentralization options, assess skill and
training needs, establish performance and evaluation review system); (ii)
implementing Statutory Fund financial management and management information
systems (commercial accounting practices, decentralized cost centers,
integrated management, planning, resource base and financial information
systems); (iii) instituting comprehensive park planning (preparing overall
National Parks and Estate plan and individual park management plans,
strengthening the planning unit, linking park plans to budget and management
systems); (iv) improving capacity for policy development; (v) supporting
monitoring programs and applied research for protected area management and
biodiversity conservation; and (vi) providing interpretive and educational
materials and programs.
II. Infrastructure: Rehabilitate or improve elements of national park
infrastructure (in each of Zimbabwe's nine national parks) essential to the
management of parks for wildlife and habitat conservation and for sustainable
commercial development, including: (i) rehabilitating infrastructure (roads,
water supplies, electricity, communications) critical for park functioning and
tourism access; (ii) providing basic "tractor-based" plant and equipment for
road maintenance; (iii) improving existing staff housing and provide
additional housing to replace sub-standard accommodations; (iv) providing
improved park administrative facilities (office space) and equipment; (v)
providing vehicles and other equipment for improved park management and anti-
poaching operations.
III. GEF - Gonarezhou National Park: Strengthen biodiversity conservation in
Gonarezhou National Park and the nearby South East Lowveld, by supporting
activities both in the park and in nearby areas (particularly communal lands),
including: (i) rehabilitating and improving essential infrastructure in the
park, and supporting implementation of the park management plan; (ii)
establishing a consultative process to involve local communities and other
relevant stakeholders in park planning and management and in promoting
conservation opportunities outside park boundaries; (iii) supporting
community-based sub-projects outside the park to promote or develop
sustainable wildlife utilization and other forms of land use that are
compatible with biodiversity conservation; and, (iv) supporting monitoring and
applied research programs, and interpretive and education facilities and
programs.
Financing
4.      The project's cost of US$75 million is apportioned as follows:
infrastructure (civil works) US$57 million, (goods) US$4 million; services
(design and supervision; studies and technical assistance, training) US$9
million; GEF - Gonarezhou National Park and South East Lowveld (infrastructure
and institution building) US$5 million.
Benefits and Target Population
5.      The project is expected to have the following benefits:
- 2 -



a)      Improved protected area management would contribute to healthy wildlife
populations in both parks and adjacent lands, providing opportunities to local
communities to benefit from wildlife tourism and wildlife utilization;
b)      Employees of DNPWLM working in remote areas would benefit from improved
living conditions, and from more reliable compensation derived from stabilized
financial management;
c)      Residents of lands near national parks would benefit from greater
integration of park management in regional development;
d)      Park visitors, both residents and foreigners, and the populations of
communities near parks, would gain a greater environmental awareness and
understanding from educational and interpretive programs.
Implementation
6.      The implementing agency is the Ministry of Mines, Environment and
Tourism Department of National Parks and Wild Life Management. Project
coordination will be provided by the Planning Unit within DNPWLM. This unit
comprises a project coordinator, engineer, planner and accountant. It is
anticipated that the project coordinator, planner and accountant would be
DNPWLM staff but fully allocated to the project. Independent consultant
engineers will be employed under the project to review the planning and
execution of infrastructure works.
Environmental Impact
7.      The project, an EA category B, is fundamentally directed at improving
environmental conditions and natural resource management. The EA has been
defined in two complementary parts, with the first comprising a programmatic
section which focuses on Zimbabwean rules and regulations; the capacity of
park wardens to supervise and help mitigate potentially negative environmental
and social impacts; and on ways and means to introduce environmental
safeguards in capacity building and in standards and norms to be used for all
works performed within the National Parks and in their immediate surroundings.
The second deals with the environmental impacts of the works to be conducted
in each park. The project will not involve resettlement.
Lessons Learned from Past Operations in the Country/Sector
8.      This is the first project addressing the national parks and wildlife
sector in Zimbabwe.
Poverty Category
9.      The project is not part of the Program of Targeted Interventions.
Contact Point:           The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone No. (202)458 5454
Fax No. (202) 522 1500
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain activities and/or
components may not be included in the final project.
- 3 -



Processed by the InfoShop week ending August 21, 1998.
- 4 -



Annex
Because this is a Category B project, it may be required that the borrower
prepare a separate EA report. If a separate EA report is required, once it is
prepared and submitted to the Bank, in accordance with OP 4.01, Environmental
Assessment, it will be filed as an annex to the Public Information Document
(PID) .
If no separate EA report is required, the PID will not contain an EA annex;
the findings and recommendations of the EA will be reflected in the body of
the PID.



