Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 2845-MA
MALAYSIA
KELANTAN LAND SCHEMES REHABILITATION PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
July 25, 1980
Projects Department
East Asia and Pacific Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performnance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency unit  =  Ringgit (M$)
M$1.00           =  $ 0.47
$1.00            =  M$2.15
M$1,000,000 (m) =  $465,116
WEIGHT AND MEASURES
1 pound (lb)       =  0.454 kg
I metric ton (mt) =  1,000 kg = 2,205 lb
1 acre (ac)        =  0.405 ha
1 mile (mi)        =  1.6 km
ABBREVIATIONS
AID     -  Agricultural Intensification and Diversification Program
AFNP    -  Applied Food and Nutrition Program
BPM     -  Bank Pertanian Malaysia
EPU     -  Economic Planning Unit
FAMA    -  Federal Agricultural Marketing Authority
DOA     -  Department of Agriculture
DOE     -  Department of Education
DOH     -  Department of Health
DVS     -  Department of Veterinary Services
DOF     -  Department of Fisheries
DID     -  Drainage and Irrigation Department
ERR     -  Economic Rate of Return
FELCRA  -  Federal Land Consolidation and Rehabilitation Authority
FELDA   -  Federal Land Development Authority
FNP     -  Fourth Malaysian Plan (1981-85)
FOA     -  Farmers' Organization Authority
GPC     -  Group Processing Center
ICU     -  Implementation Coordination Unit
KEMAS   -  Department of Community Development (Min. of Agriculture)
LDA     -  Livestock Development Authority
MARDEC  -  Malaysian Rubber Development Corporation
MARDI   -  Malaysian Agriculture Research and Development Institute
MOA     -  Ministry of Agriculture
MOH     -  Ministry of Health
NPV     -  Net Present Value
OCC     -  Opportunity Cost of Capital
PWD     -  Public Works Department
RISDA   -  Rubber Industry Smallholder Development Authority
RRIM    -  Rubber Research Institute of Malaysia
SEDC    -  State (Kelantan) Economic Development Corporation
SEPU    -  State (Kelantan) Economic Planning Unit
TAKDIR  -  Kelantan Darul Naim Land Development and Rehabilitation Corporation
GOVERNMENT OF MALAYSIA FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
MALAYSIA
KELANTAN LAND SCHEMES REHABILITATION PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
Page No.
1. BACKGROUND . . . . . . . . . . . . .                                       1
A.  Project Background  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .             1
B.  Agricultural Sector 1  . . . . . . . o . . .             . .        1
C.  Government Policy . .  . . . . . . . . . ...                        2
Problems  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .            2
Objectives  . .         . .  . . . . . . . . .  .  .  .          3
Strategies  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. .                     3
Bank Lending Strategy . . . . . .          . . .  .  .  .        4
2.  THE PROJECT AREA  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .             4
A.  Kelantan State  . . . . . . . .   . .   . . .   . . . . .   .       4
Bo  South Kelantan  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .             5
C. Kelantan Darul Naim Land Development and Rehabilitation
Corporation (TAKDIR) . . . . . . .   . .               . .  .     5
Organization and Staffing . . . . . . . . . . . . . .            5
Financial Status        . . .  .  .  .   .   ..          .       6
Accounts and Audits          . .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .           7
D. The TAKDIR Schemes...                            ....   7
3.  THE PROJECT . . . . . . .  . .  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .           9
A.  Project Objectives  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .             9
B.  Brief Description . . . . . . . .   .   . .   .   . . .             9
C.  Detailed Features           . . . . . . . .  .   .  .  .           10
Agricultural Development  . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    10
Settler Housing           . . . . . . . .  .   .  .  .          14
Roads and Tracks  . . . . . . .           ......                15
Social Infrastructure          . . . . .  .   .  .  .           15
Institution Building  . . 1 . .  .           .  .       .       16
Road Construction Sector Study  . . . . . . . . . . .    18
D.  Implementation Schedule   . . . .         .. .....                19
E.  Project Cost  . . . . . . .   . . . . . . .            .          19
F.  Financing . .. . .. . .. .. ...                                   19
G.  Procurement . .        . . .             .   . . . . . . .        23
H. Disbursements ....  .         .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .    23
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission that visited
Ilalaysia in September/October 1979, consisting of Messrs. J. English,
T. Prins, Ms. A. Sjamsu (Bank), H. Cooke and P. Harrison (consultants).
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their oMcial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Page No.
4.  ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT .  . . . . . . . . . . . .   . . .    24
A.  Project Organization .  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    24
B.  Criteria for Participation in the Project .  . . . . . .    24
C.  Agricultural Development .  . . . . . . . . . . .. . . .    25
Institutional Responsibility .  . . . . . . . . . . .    25
Rubber . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                     26
Orchards  ....  .       .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .    27
Hybrid Coconuts/Intercropping Trials . . . . . . . . .    27
Fish Ponds  ....  .       .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .    28
D. Infrastructure ............. .                                    28
E. Social Services .29
F.  Monitoring and Evaluation   . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    30
G.  Operation and Maintenance   . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    30
H.  Accounts and Audit ................. .    31
5.  TECHNOLOGY AND PRODUCTION SPECIFICATIONS .  . . . . . . . . .    31
Rubber New Planting and Replanting .  . . . . . . . . . . .    31
Rubber Rehabilitation ...  .       .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .    33
Rubber Processing ...  .       .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .    34
Orchards . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  34
Hybrid Coconut/Intercrop Trials Program .  . . . . . . . . .    35
Fish  ....  .       .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .    35
6.  PRODUCTION, MARKETING, PRICES AND INCOMES . . . . . . . . . .    36
Incremental Production  . . . . . . . . . . . . ... . . . .    36
Organization of Marketing ................ .    36
Product Prices  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    38
Farm Model Summary  . . . . . . .-. . . . . . . . . . . . .    38
Cost Recovery .40
7. BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION .41
Benefits and Beneficiaries .41
Rate of Return and Sensitivity Analysis . . . . . . . . . .    41
Fiscal Impact . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    43
Employment Impact   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    43
Impact on Women .43
Environmental Impact .44
Risk   .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .   .    .    .    .    .  44
8.  AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATIONS  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    44



- iii -
Page No.
LIST OF TABLES IN THE MAIN TEXT
3.1  Summary of Project Elements  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 11
3.2  Land Use Before and After the Project  . . . . . . . . . . . . 12
3.3    Project  Cost   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   20
3.4    Financing  Plan   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   21
3.5  Project Lending Terms  ....  .  .  .   .  .   .......  .  .  .   .  22
4.1  Proposed Land Development by Agency and Crop/Activity  . . . . 26
5.1  Rubber Yield Projections Under Different Conditions  . . . . . 32
5.2  Present and Projected Yields of Fruit Crops  . . . . . . . . . 35
6.1  Summary of Incremental Production under the Project  . . . . . 37
6.2  Estimated Farm Gate Prices for Commodities Produced  . . . . . 38
6.3  Farm Model Suinmary ....  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   ......  .  .  .  .   .  39
6.4  Sensitivity Analyses . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 42
ANNEXES
1. Tables 1-7
1 - Phasing of Rubber, Orchards, Hybrid Coconuts/Intercropping
and Fish Pond Development . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 47
2 - Rate of Development of Construction Under Project
(Physical Quantities) ... .  .  .    ..... .  .  .  .     .... 48
3 - Purchases of Project Vehicles (Physical Quantities) . . . . 49
4 - TAKDIR Staffing (excluding Nursery Workers) . . . . . . . . 50
5  -  Project  Cost  .  .  .  .  ...  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   51
6 - Project Financing Plan. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 52
7 - Estimated Schedule of Disbursements . . . . . . . . . . . . 53
2.  Economic Analysis . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 54
Tables 1-8
1 - Economic Price Calculations ... .  .    ..... .  .  .   .  .   .  57
2 - Domestic Rubber Price - Financial . . . . . . . . . . . . . 58
3 - Fertilizer - Financial Prices . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 59
4 - Conversion Factors  ....  .  .   . ......  .  .  .  .  .  .   . 60
5 - Sensitivity Analysis
Input Streams for Base Case . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 61
6 - Sensitivity Analysis
Aggregated Streams for Base Case. . . . . . . . . . . . . 62
7 - Sensitivity Tests ....  .  .  .   . ......  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  63
8 - Sensitivity Analysis for Present Values . . . . . . . . . . 64
3.  Road Construction Study - Scope of Consultant Services. . . . . 65
4.  Related Documents and Data Available in the Project File. . . . 67



- iv -
CHARTS
WB 21388 - TAKDIR Organizational Structure
WB 21389 - TAKDIR Operational Divisions
MAP
IBRD 14768R - Kelantan Land Schemes Rehabilitation



1. BACKGROUND
A. ProJect Background
1.01      The Government of Malaysia has requested a Bank loan to help finance
a project to improve and complete the development of 26 existing land settle-
ment schemes in the State of Kelantan. The schemes were opened between 1957
and 1972. Development was by self-help and progress was slow, hampered
particularly by relative remoteness and lack of access to several of the
schemes. Close to 60% of the suitable area has been planted, almost entirely
to rubber. Kelantan has the lowest per capita incomes in Malaysia and, as a
part of its efforts to increase the pace of development in the State, the
Government has embarked on a major program of rural road construction which
will include improved access to these schemes and it wishes to complete their
agricultural development and improve living conditions within them. Project
components include: planting and developing the remaining areas on the
schemes and, where appropriate, rehabilitating or replanting existing areas;
constructing housing; completing the provision of basic infrastructure in the
settlement villages; and strengthening the capability of the Kelantan Darul
Naim Land Development and Rehabilitation Corporation (TAKDIR) to develop and
supervise the schemes. The total project cost is estimated at $70 million of
which $25 million would be provided as a Bank loan.
1.02      The proposed project was prepared by the Kelantan State Government,
based on a consultant feasibility study financed under the North Kelantan
Rural Development Project (Loan 1294-MA); Bank preparation missions assisted
the State Government.
B. Agricultural Sector
1.03      Of Malaysia's total land area of 128,370 sq mi, 50,800 sq mi is in
Peninsular or West Malaysia. Less than 25% of Peninsular Malaysia is culti-
vated. Tropical rain forest covers most of the remainder. Temperatures are
uniformly warm to hot, and rainfall is abundant. The population in 1978 was
estimated at 12.9 million, with a growth rate of about 2.7% per annum. About
85% of the population live in Peninsular Malaysia, with the highest densities
on the west coast and the south. About 53% of the population is Malay, 35%
Chinese, and 11% Indian.
1.04      Malaysia is one of the most prosperous countries in Southeast Asia.
It is the world's leading exporter of tin, rubber and palm oil; it is also a
principal exporter of tropical hardwoods and has significant reserves of oil
and natural gas. By exploiting its rich natural resources, the country
achieved a GNP of about $1,090 per capita in 1978. Moreover, the manufactur-
ing sector, although still small in relation to the rest of the economy, has
registered substantial growth in recent years. The rapid growth of this
sector, and the increased investment by the public sector, have been the main
forces behind the acceleration of the growth rate of GDP from 6% a year during
the 1960s to about 8% in the mid-1970s.



- 2 -
1.05      Notwithstanding this impressive overall performance, some 37% of the
population in 1978 had annual per capita incomes of less than $270, which is
the estimated income necessary to provide accepted minimum levels of food,
shelter, clothing and other basic needs. Two thirds of those in poverty were
to be found in the agricultural sector, which has developed in a highly
dualistic way, and where the incidence of absolute poverty is about 55%.
Despite very productive estate agriculture, most households in the sector are
engaged in low income, traditional activities on rice and rubber
smallholdings. Other factors which have contributed to this poverty included
a high population growth rate of 3% in the 1960s, which is now reflected in
the current high growth rate of the labor force, and a severe decline in the
agricultural sector terms of trade prior to 1974, which particularly affected
the incomes of rubber producers.
1.06      MIalaysian agriculture has a strong comparative advantage in the
cultivation of tropical tree crops which explains the dominance of rubber,
coconut and oil palm. Altogether, 8 million acres have been brought under
cultivation in Peninsular Malaysia, of which almost 6 million are devoted to
rubber and oil palm. Nearly two-thirds of this acreage is in smallholdings.
The only other major crop is padi with one million acres. Other crops (each
occupies below 100,000 acres) are pineapple, cocoa, cassava, sugarcane,
tobacco, coffee and groundnuts. Over the past decade and a half, output has
grown strongly - rubber output has expanded by 100% and oil palm by 300%.
Output of rice has expanded by 90% due to improved irrigation and double
cropping, and on average rice imports are now about 10% of domestic require-
ments.
1.07      Despite the strong output growth in volume terms the shift in the
terms of trade has held the growth in real value added down to about 5.5%
p.a., compared with total GDP growth of 7.5%.  The agricultural sector has
performed well but it will naturally decline in relative importance as
industrialization proceeds. For the present it remains extremely important in
the overall economy, providing about 29% of GDP, 44% of employment, and 40% of
export earnings in 1978.
C. Government Policy
Problems
1.08      Even though agriculture remains extremely important in the overall
Malaysian economy (and over the past decade its average annual growth rate
of 5.5% in real terms has been among the highest in the world), its
dualistic development has resulted in about 55% of Malaysia's rural
households (25% of the national population) living in absolute poverty
(para.  1.05).  As a consequence, two principal challenges face the Government
in the agricultural sector:
(a) maintaining high growth rates in the sector so that agricultural
incomes can increase in line with those of other sectors of



- 3 -
the economy and thus minimize the number of rural families that will
slip into poverty; and
(b) improving the welfare of the rural poor.
Objectives
1.09      The main objectives of the Government's agricultural policy are:
(a)  to alleviate rural poverty and to redress interregional and
intergroup income disparities;
(b)  to increase incomes in agriculture as rapidly as possible;
(c)  to maintain a reasonable relationship between agricultural incomes
and incomes earned in other sectors; and
(d)  to generate employment opportunities for new entrants to
the rural labor force.
Strategies
1.10      The Government's efforts to pursue these objectives involve the
following five major strategies:
(a)  the absorption of surplus and low productivity labor from agri-
culture into more productive jobs in the industrial and service
sectors. To this end, the Government is pursuing a policy of
rapid economic growth and investment in human resources particu-
larly within rural areas;
(b)  new land development in order to generate additional employment
within agriculture at adequate income levels;
(c)  increased emphasis on raising productivity and incomes in existing
traditional smallholder agriculture;
(d)  increasing transfer payments to rural people, if moving them
out of agriculture or increasing their incomes from agriculture
are not feasible; and
(e)  increasing export earnings, especially from tree crops, to
finance the industrial and other investments needed to
achieve rapid economic growth.
1.11      Field operations of agricultural programs in existing smallholder
areas are vested in state departments of agriculture and several single-
purpose federal agencies, e.g. Rubber Industry Smallholder Development
Authority (RISDA), Federal Land Consolidation and Rehabilitation



- 4 -
Authority (FELCRA), Livestock Development Authority (LDA) and Fisheries
Development Authority (FDA). Major emphasis is being placed on improving
coordination among these entities and increasing their individual capacity for
effective implementation. In addition, because of its increased emphasis on
raising productivity within areas of traditional agriculture the Government is
placing greater reliance on general purpose agencies such as the Farmers
Organization Authority (FOA), and service agencies such as Bank Pertanian
Malaysia (BPM).
Bank Lending Strategy
1.12      Prior to 1975, Bank lending for agriculture was heavily concentrated
in expansion of irrigation and land development as means of expanding output,
raising incomes and creating employment opportunities. To reach more rural
households, greater emphasis has been given since then to programs designed to
raise productivity in existing smallholder areas,such as those for improvement
of irrigation and drainage systems, rehabilitation of tree crops, extension,
research and credit.  The Bank is directing its current efforts particularly
towards strengthening relevant institutions, such as FELCRA and BPM, and
assisting the Government to prepare and implement projects that focus on
specific areas with a high incidence of poverty, such as Kelantan.
2. THE PROJECT AREA
A. Kelantan State
2.01      The State of Kelantan has the lowest per capita incomes in Malaysia.
In 1978, GDP per capita was estimated to be only 38% of the national average.
The population is overwhelmingly Malay and predominantly rural. The State has
traditionally been physically isolated from the rest of the country and its
economy is heavily agricultural. This sector accounted for about 62% of
employment and 40% of GDP in 1978. Productivity and incomes in all sectors
are low. In 1970 it was estimated that 76% of households in the state were
living in poverty, largely because of the concentration of population in low
productivity agriculture. High transport costs, resulting from physical
isolation, have hindered both agricultural and industrial development.
2.02      Public amenities and social services are also more poorly deve-
loped in Kelantan than the rest of Peninsular Malaysia. In 1973 only 14% of
living quarters had piped water and 19% electricity, compared to national
averages of 49% and 44% respectively. In the health field, the State had
only 10.8 hospital beds and 1.1 doctors per 10,000 population in 1978,
compared to national averages of 15.8 and 2.1.   Provision of rural health
centers, however, is only slightly below average. W4hile the general
nutritional status of the population is not known with accuracy, the
mortality rates for infants, of 38.3 per 1,000 and for toddlers of 4.0 per
1,000 were both the highest in Peninsular Malaysia and confirm the State
as a nutritional priority area.



- 5 -
B. South Kelantan
2.03      The proposed project would be carried out in the southern region
of the State of Kelantan. Except for the northern coastal plain, which
covers less than 20% of its area, the topography of the State is predomi-
nantly mountainous and 75% of the area is still forest covered. The climate
is hot and humid, rainfall averages 2,700 mm per year with a peak in the
September-January northeast monsoon. Soils are typical of inland Malaysia,
moderately to well drained, and subject to erosion on slopes when exposed.
Terrain is generally sloping and annual cropping is inadvisable. The area is
best suited to perennial crops, in particular, rubber.
2.04      Land Use.  Agricultural lands in this region are principally con-
centrated around Kuala Krai at the confluence of the Galas and Lebir rivers
(which then form the Kelantan river), and in subsidiary areas in the valleys
around Jeli, Dabong and Gua Musang. These areas account for only around
250,000 ac (8% of the State's area) of which 190,000 ac (76%) are in use or
planned for rubber production. Only about 15% of the area is in estates and
20% cultivated by independent smallholders. The remaining 65% is being
developed by various agencies, including 26% by TAKDIR.
2.05      Communication.  A major factor hampering development has been lack
of accessibility. At the present time the predominantly mountainous country
of South Kelantan remains largely inaccessible. While a railway passes
through the region, there are few motorable roads other than logging tracks
and minor roads negotiable only by four-wheel-drive vehicles. As of
mid-1978 only four of the TAKDIR schemes had direct access to an all-weather
road. The Government is now undertaking a major program of highway
construction. Trunk highways are being constructed to Perak and Pahang
which will provide direct access to the west coast and Kuala Lumpur (Map
14768). A large-scale program of rural road construction is also under way
which will provide all-weather access to all parts of rural Kelantan. It is
expected that these improvements will be completed in the next 3 to 5 years.
C. Kelantan Darul Naim Land Development and Rehabilitation
Corporation (TAKDIR)
2.06      In order to provide land for development by low-income rural
families, who were either landless or had very small holdings, Kelantan, in
common with several other states, initiated group land settlement schemes in
the late 1950s. TAKDIR (previously known as the Kelantan State Land
Development Board) was established in 1960 under the Land Development
Ordinance of 1956. It was to take over management of the four schemes
established to that date, and to undertake an expanded program of land
settlement.
Organization and Staffing
2.07      TAKDIR has an 18-member board whose chairman is the Chief Minister
of the State of Kelantan. The membership of the board was changed in late
1979 to strengthen the representation of the Federal Government. The board
now comprises the State Chief Minister, the State Deputy Chief Minister,



six State Assemblymen, the State Secretary, State Financial Officer, State
Director of Lands and Mines, representatives of the Federal Ministries of
Finance, Lands and Regional Development, and Agriculture, EPU, the General
Manager of the South Kelantan Development Authority (KESEDAR) and the
Director-General of FELCRA.  The main board normally meets every three months.
It is supported by a working committee headed by the Deputy Chief Minister
which meets more frequently. This committee includes five State Assemblymen,
the State Financial Officer, the State Director of Lands and Mines, and
representatives of the Federal Ministries of Finance, and Lands and Regional
Development.
2.08      The Director of TAKDIR acts as secretary to the main board and also
as secretary to the working committee. He is the TAKDIR chief executive
officer and is supported by an Assistant Director. Both are seconded from the
Kelantan State civil service. The role of the main board is to set TAKDIR
policy while its operations are supervised by the working committee which has
an executive role.
2.09      At the end of 1979, TAKDIR had a total staff of 157.  Besides the
Director and Assistant Director, head office staff includes a project manager
who is an agriculture diploma holder, an assistant project manager, an
agricultural adviser (made available under the Colombo Plan) an accounting
officer (diploma holder), a chief clerk, a settlement officer (surveyor), and
two religious supervisors as well as a number of typists, clerks and drivers.
At the three regional offices and on the settlement schemes there are 37
supervisors and assistant supervisors, 25 surveyors and various supporting
staff including 68 laborers. Most of the TAKDIR staff are not professionally
qualified and the agency has operated under severe technical, managerial and
financial constraints in recent years.
Financial Status
2.10      The annual operating budgets over the years 1975-78 have varied
between $350,000 in 1975 and $642,000 in 1976. Expenditures were reduced
during 1977 and 1978, with 1978 actual expenditure having been $456,000.
About 85% of the total budget in recent years has been for personnel, and in
consequence TAKDIR has been short of operating funds for support services such
as input supplies, transportation and training. In the 1979 budget, however,
TAKDIR has had a substantial increase in funds allocated particularly for
capital expenditures. However, the indications are that at present they lack
the staff and experience to operate effectively at an intensified level
without substantial strengthening of their cadre.
2.11      In 1979, TAKDIR-s budgeted recurrent expenditures of $0.56 million
were financed by Kelantan State and the $1.12 million of capital expenditures
by Government through a loan to the State. Repayment of this loan is the
responsibility of the State Government. TAKDIR has no significant assets of
its own and relies month by month on budgetary allocations from the State
Government to meet its obligations.



-7-
Accounts and Audit
2.12       TAKDIR operates a very simple centralized accounting system using
order forms, delivery notes, payment vouchers and an analyzed cash book.
While the system appears to have worked with the past low level of activity it
will require a major overhaul if TAKDIR is to assume greater responsibilities.
Additional and better qualified staff are required, as well as the implemen-
tation of a more flexible and complete system which would need to provide for
improved recording procedures for settlement schemes, regional offices and
headquarters. Auditing is the responsibility of State Government, but has not
been carried out within the past four years. Clearly, this is inadequate, and
regular annual auditing should be introduced.
D. The TAKDIR Schemes
2.13       The 26 TAKDIR schemes, based on rubber, are located in the districts
of Kuala Krai (10), Machang (1), Tanah Merah (9) and Ulu Kelantan (6) (Map
14768R)./l These comprise a total gross area of 70,800 acres, initially
planned for allocation among some 7,000 settlers. Each settler is provided
with a total of 8.25 ac. A 6-ac plot for rubber, a 2 ac for orchards /2 and a
0.25 ac houselot within a designated village area.
2.14       Development of the schemes has been slow.  Of the 58,050 ac
designated for development, some 34,400 ac have been developed (Table 3.2).
Fourteen of the schemes were initially opened before 1965 and nine between
1965 and 1970. Major factors in this slow rate of development were the
inaccessibility of many of the schemes, particularly those opened after 1965,
and the lack, both of assistance provided by TAKDIR to the settlers, and of
social infrastructure on the schemes.
2.15       Settlers were provided with some planting materials, but no other
assistance. Many developed their plots slowly, alternating periods of work on
the plots, and income-earning activities elsewhere. Limited assistance was
provided by other agricultural support services, e.g., in development of small
group processing centers (GPCs) for rubber and other rubber extension services
by RISDA, crop and livestock extension by the Department of Agriculture (DOA)
/1 One additional scheme, Beris Lalang, is located in an area of coastal
sands and poorly drained clays and peats, and is partially developed for
padi and tobacco. The feasibility of drainage of this area is under
study. It is, therefore, not proposed to undertake development activi-
ties in this project.
/2 Mixed orchards containing largely perennial fruit crops, e.g., banana,
coconut, pineapple, rambutan, durian, and coffee.



- 8 -
and the Department of Veterinary Services (DVS), respectively.  This support
has, however, been limited by accessibility, and lack of resident population.
Departments have been reluctant to utilize scarce staff to serve few people.
Because of this lack of support, the development period was greatly extended,
most settlers did not use fertilizer or other purchased inputs, maintenance
standards were low and, consequently, most plantings of rubber and orchards
show below-recommended densities and poor growth.
2.16      The general lack of infrastructure reflects TAKDIR's past financial
constraints and earlier lack of support from the Federal Government. In
mid-1978 only 4 schemes could be reached by all weather road, 3 had a piped
water supply, 8 had primary schools and 1 a secondary school, and 6 had
clinics. Lack of these facilities, and the need to leave the scheme periodi-
cally to earn a subsistence income, resulted in reluctance by settlers to
construct houses on the schemes and move in with their families, and
contributed significantly to the slow pace of scheme development.
2.17      Incomes.  A survey of settlers resident on schemes carried out in
1978 indicated average household cash incomes of $1,165 per year, of which
about $755 was from farm sources, predominantly rubber. All households
reported off-farm income, the most common sources of which were other
agricultural work, and petty trading. More than 15% of settler households
reported at least one member with regular nonagricultural employment, e.g.,
driver, teacher, government servant. Income in kind, e.g., from home produced
foods, was not recorded, but has been estimated at about $140 per year.
2.18      Nutrition and Health.  A survey of nutritional and health conditions
on the schemes indicated the presence of anemia and that protein/calorie-
malnutrition is common particularly among children. Malaria is also endemic
in these areas and intestinal parasites are common. A number of factors
appeared to contribute to these nutritional conditions. Most schemes do not
have areas suitable for padi production, so that rice must be purchased. Poor
accessibility of schemes has restricted availability of many food items,
especially in the monsoon season, and prices are higher than in towns. While
incomes for families with rubber in tapping may be above average for rural
Kelantan, this has been offset by these higher food prices. Further, income
from rubber is lowest during the monsoon season, when the food problem is most
acute. Problems are also caused by local dietary practices which restrict
intake of certain foods by pregnant and lactating women and children, and
because newly settled schemes have available a narrower range of fruits and
vegetables than established villages.



- 9 -
3. THE PROJECT
A. Project Objectives
3.01      The Bank has assisted the Government in financing a series of six
land settlement projects based on perennial crops under the auspices of FELDA.
The proposed project is the first in which the Bank would assist in financing
rehabilitation and development of existing land settlement schemes, and the
first to be carried out primarily by an agency of a State Government, namely
TAKDIR.
3.02      The principal objective of the proposed project would be to increase
the incomes and improve living conditions and well being of 7,500 low-income
households in Kelantan by:
(a) assisting 5,700 existing settlers on TAKDIR schemes to complete the
development of their holdings and to replant or rehabilitate their
existing perennial crops;
(b) settling and assisting 1,800 low-income rural households to
develop land holdings on the schemes; and
(c)  completing the bK  c 3.i)frastructure on the schemes.
The proposed project would also strengthen TAKDIR to enable it to provide
adequate support directly to settlers, and to improve coordination with other
state and federal agencies providing services to settler households. During
project preparation, emphasis was placed on living and nutritional conditions
in the schemes and this would be reflected in the programs to be applied in
the project area. A strengthened TAKDIR could also subsequently undertake
additional smallholder land settlement schemes in Kelantan, either in new land
development or rehabilitation.
B. Brief Description
3.03      The proposed project would comprise TAKDIR's development activities
in the 26 schemes for a period of 6 years, 1980-85. Main project components
would be:
(a) development through replanting, new planting and rehabilitation
of 49,900 ac of rubber, 4,000 ac of orchards, 250 ac of hybrid
coconuts/coffee experimental planting, 300 ac of fish ponds,
and 450 ac of houselots;
(b) construction of 3,850 settler houses, 8 primary schools and 1
secondary, 11 rural clinics, 24 community centers, 8 water systems,
and 730 miles of settlement, secondary access and field roads;
(c) settlement of 1,800 families;



- 10 -
(d) assistance to TAKDIR management through additional staffing,
vehicles, equipment, facilities, and technical assistance; and
(e) technical assistance to RISDA to strengthen its extension services
for rubber and to ICU for development of a monitoring system for
the Applied Food and Nutrition Program (AFNP).
(f) consultant services to EPU to undertake a road construction sector
study.
3.04      The main elements of the proposed project are summarized in
Table 3.1.
C. Detailed Features
Agricultural Development
3.05      In addition to a 0.25 ac houselot within the designated village
area, each settler on the schemes is provided with 8 ac of cropland. To date
this holding has been subdivided into two separate plots, 6 ac for rubber and
2 ac for orchard crops. Market prospects for fruit crops are limited and many
settlers have indicated a preference for developing these plots for rubber.
Formal approval of any change of use must be obtained from the Land Office.
The State of Kelantan has agreed to permit settlers to plant rubber in areas
designated for orchard where technically feasible. The distribution of land
by uses before the proposed project, and at the end of the initial six year
period, is summarized in Table 3.2. About 4,850 ac of State land adjacent to
the existing schemes and suitable for agricultural development have been
identified. Assurances were obtained that the State of-Kelantan would
alienate these areas for development under the proposed project.
3.06      Rubber - Existing Settlers.  About 5,700 settlers had begun plot
development as of mid-1979. Of the 46,850 acres alloted to them, 27,900 ac is
planted to rubber, 4,800 ac planted with orchards, 250 acres used for padi and
13,900 ac undeveloped. Of the 27,900 ac presently planted to rubber, about
20,300 ac are in tapping and 7,600 ac are still immature. Due to a lack of
supervision during the establishment period, bud grafting was poor and many
unselected seedlings were allowed to develop. Because few inputs, such as
fertilizers, were used and maintenance standards were low, most plantings show
below-recommended densities and poor growth. Most settlers resort to
overintensive tapping to earn acceptable incomes, reducing economic tapping
life to less than 15 years.  It is estimated that about 40% (8,100 ac) of the
mature rubber stand and about 80% (6,000 ac) of the immature rubber stand are
in good enough condition to warrant improvement. It would be uneconomical to
rehabilitate the balance of 13,800 ac, which should be exploited using
intensive tapping, and replanted when yields become uneconomic. During the
project period it is proposed to replant 7,200 ac. The balance of 6,600 ac
would be replanted subsequently. The proposed project would therefore assist
these settlers to:
(a) plant an additional 14,500 ac of rubber;/l
/1 1,800 acres of this would be planted on land now planted to orchard crops.



- 11 -
Table 3.1: SUMMARY OF PROJECT ELEMENTS
Unit             Total base   % of
cost    Units       cost      base
Item                             Unit         ($)     served    ($'000)    cost
Agricultural Development
Rubber
Rehabilitation                  ac         n/a   14,100       2,235       4
Replanting                      ac          n/a    7,200      2,532        5
New planting                    ac          n/a   28,600    16,886       34
Orchards                          ac
Rehabilitation                  ac         n/a    3,000         408       1
New planting                    ac         n/a    1,000          74       -
Hybrid coconuts/coffee trial    ac            n/a      250        245        1
Fish ponds                        ac          n/a      300        628        1
Houselots                         ac          n/a      450          -        -
Subtotal                                      54,900    23,008       45
Housing                             No.       1,400    3,850      5,372       10
Roads and Tracks
Settlement roads               households   700    7,500        5,218       10
Agricultural access               ac          125   63,200      7,892       16
Vehicles & equipment
for maintenance               n/a           n/a       n/a      1,107       2
Subtotal                                -         -    14,208       28
Social Infrastructure
Schools                         pupils        690    1,750      1,209       2
Water                           households   430    2,170         930        2
Clinics                         households   106    2,840         307        1
Community centers               schemes    7,000        24        167       -
Subtotal               -               -         -     2,613        5
Management
Facilities                      -               -        -        407        1
Incremental salaries            -               -        -      2,028       4
Other overhead                  -               -        -        785        2
Vehicles & equipment            -               -        -        710        1
Technical assistance            -               -        -      1,002        2
Subtotal                -               -         -     4,932       10
Road Construction Sector Study  -                 -         -     1,000        2
Total                   -               -         -    51,133      100



- 12 -
Table 3.2: LAND USE BEFORE AND AFTER THE PROJECT
Before           Developed
Project             under           Total
1979             project          1985
------------------- (ac) ----------------
Rubber                               27,900                             56,500 /a
New planted                                          28,600 /b
Replanted                                             7,200
Rehabilitated                                        14,100
Orchards                              4,800                              4,000
Rehabilitated                                         3,000
New planted                                           1,000
Padi                                    250                                250
Hybrid Coconuts/Coffee                    -               250              250
Fish Ponds                                -               300              300
House Lots                            1.450               450            1,900
Undeveloped Suitable Land
In schemes                        23,650
Adjacent to schemes                 4,850
Total Suitable Land             62,900                              63,200
Waste land/public area               12,750                             12,450
Total Gross Project Area        75,650                              75,650
/a  Including 6,600 ac of rubber being exploited and unaffected by the
project.
/b Including 1,800 ac from designated orchard area.



- 1 3 -
(b) replant 7,200 ac of existing rubber; and
(c) rehabilitate 14,100 ac of existing rubber.
3.07      About 5,400 of the existing settlers would plant 14,500 ac of new
rubber, averaging about 2.7 ac each. Much of this area is in relatively
scattered blocks of secondary jungle or scrub. An estimated 2,000 settlers,
would replant 7,200 ac, averaging 3.6 ac each, which would also not be in
contiguous blocks. Over the six to seven years of immaturity, material
inputs to the value of $380 per ac would be required consisting of planting
material (13%), fertilizer (59%), agro-chemicals (11%) and tools (17%). In
addition, an estimated labor input of 163 man-days per ac (valued at $455)
would be required, which would be supplied by the settler. Major
requirements of 50 man-days and 40 man-days/ac are faced in years 1 and 2
respectively, and because of labor requirements for existing crops, it is
proposed that each settler undertake no more than 3 ac of new
planting/replanting per year, unless contracting arrangements are made.
3.08      The rubber rehabilitation program would have two elements, increased
production inputs and improved exploitation techniques. Participants would
apply inputs to the value of $143 over a three-year period, comprising
fertilizer (79%) and agro-chemicals (21%). Coincident with this supply of
inputs, settlers would be trained in weed, pest and disease control, and in
tapping. Particular emphasis would be placed on reducing the overall tapping
intensity to expand the economic life of the rubber tree, and thereby lengthen
the replanting cycle.
3.09      Rubber - New Settlers.  About 14,100 ac of agricultural land would
be available for development by about 1,800 new settlers. Settlers would be
allocated 8 ac of cropland and, while each settler could plant up to 2 ac to
orchards, it is anticipated that almost all would choose to plant the full 8
ac to rubber. Inputs would be the same as for rubber planting by existing
settlers. Where feasible, land clearance would be carried out by contractors.
Because of limitations on labor available to the farm family, development
would be spread over two years. The proposed project would assist these
settlers to plant about 14,100 ac of rubber.
3.10      Orchards.  The 5,700 existing settlers who have started development
of their holdings have planted about 4,800 ac to mixed fruit, mainly compri-
sing rambutan, durian and limited areas of bananas, coconuts, Liberica coffee
and pineapple. Access limitations have created marketing difficulties and
settlers have concentrated their efforts on rubber.  Thus, orchard maintenance
standards are low. It is estimated that about 60%, or 3,000 ac, of the
planted area would warrant improvement. The other 1,800 ac would be replaced
with rubber (para. 3.06). Further, it is anticipated that, with improved
access and marketing prospects, some additional settlers would wish to plant
fruits. The project would:
(a) rehabilitate about 3,000 ac of existing orchards; and
(b) plant 1,000 ac of new orchards.



- 14 -
3.11      The orchard rehabilitation program would have two elements,
increased production inputs and improved maintenance techniques.  Participants
would apply inputs to the value of $140 per ac over a period of three years, -
comprising fertilizers (81%), agro-chemicals (10%) and tools (9%).  In addi-
tion, a substantial program of manual weeding, requiring about 72 man-days per
ac (valued at $200) would be undertaken by the settler.
3.12      It is anticipated that new planting of orchards would primarily be
undertaken by existing settlers. Land clearance, preparation, planting and
maintenance would be the responsibility of the individual settlers. Plantings
would be predominantly mixed and comprise bananas, rambutan, durian and
pineapple. Over a four-year period, material inputs to a value of $200 per ac
would be applied comprising fertilizers (63%), planting material (18%),
agro-chemicals (11%) and others (8%).  In addition, the settler would
undertake about 190 man-days of work per ac (valued at $530.)
3.13      Hybrid Coconut/Intercrop Trials.  Hybrid coconuts intercropped with
robusta coffee have been proposed as a possible and attractive diversification
crop combination for the project area. However, performance of local tall
coconuts in existing orchards in the area has not been promising. Large-scale
plantings of hybrid coconuts in the area, without initial trials are therefore
not considered advisable. The proposed project would, however, establish
experimental plantings totalling 250 ac on 5 sites, representative of soil and
terrain conditions of inland Kelantan, using principally coffee and cocoa as
intercrops.
3.14      Fish Ponds.  Fish constitutes a major source of protein in the
Kelantanese diet. Fresh sea fish supplies are limited in inland areas, and
inadequate supplies and high prices, particularly during the monsoon season,
are a factor in the nutritional deficiency problems in the area. Settlers
have established about 30 ac of fish ponds on the schemes and the proposed
project would expand this area by 300 ac.  Ponds would be between 0.25 and
0.5 ac in size, and would be operated by individual settlers. Settlers
would receive grants of $580 for ponds of this size which would cover the
cost of a contractor digging the pond and its initial stocking.
Settler Housing
3.15      Settler houses would be built of locally sawn timber to a standard
plan prepared by TAKDIR, which would also supply a package of building
materials on a credit basis. Technical advice and basic supervision of
construction would be given by TAIKIR. The house, consisting of three rooms
each 100 sq ft in area, would provide basic accommodation, which could be
added to as and when the settlers have the money and the time to make any
improvement. TAKDIR would organize settlers into small groups for housing
construction.  It is expected that about 3,850 houses would be constructed
under the proposed project.



- 15 -
Roads and Tracks
3.16       The ongoing Accelerated Rural Roads Program will provide all weather
access to all but two schemes, which will remain accessible only by boat.
Under the project, roads and tracks would be constructed to provide field
access to support agricultural development, and to provide internal access
within village areas. Agricultural roads and tracks would be provided on the
basis of minimum accepted standards for perennial crop development in
Malaysia, i.e. about 0.8 chains/ac, amounting to a total of about 645 miles.
Over 80% of this length would be field tracks of 12 ft formation width,
surfaced with laterite in difficult sections, and designed for use by tractor
trailers or motorcycles. Less than 20% of the total would be of 18 ft forma-
tion width with a 12 ft laterite pavement, 4 in thick, to provide an all-
weather surface. All roads and tracks would be planned to follow the contours
as far as possible in order to minimize gradients and avoid major earthworks
and stream crossings. They would be graded and rolled to the required forma-
tion width, and essential drainage culverts or paved fords would be provided.
The cost per mile of field tracks is estimated to be $7,170 and major field
roads is $33,250, including engineering costs. The estimated cost of agricul-
tural roads of $125/ac of land developed is about 25% above average road costs
for new land development in Peninsular Malaysia, as estimated by FELDA. This
reflects the rather difficult conditions, i.e. broken terrain and the neces-
sity of designing and constructing tracks in areas already partially planted,
and the above average unit costs currently experienced in Kelantan.
3.17       Village areas would be serviced by 85 miles of settlement roads.
About 20% of this length carrying major traffic would be of 28 ft formation
width and be provided with an 18 ft surface of laterite 6 in thick. The
remaining minor internal roads would be of 24 ft formation width with a 14 ft
laterite surface 4 in thick. The estimated per mile cost of settlement roads
is $61,400. Engineering design and construction supervision for the roads and
tracks would be carried out by consultants. The lump sum contract cost, which
is estimated to be $1.2 million, is based on 10% of estimated construction
costs.
Social Infrastructure
3.18       Each scheme contains a designated village area in which sites have
been allocated for basic public infrastructure i.e. school, mosque, clinic,
playing field, scheme offices etc. and a 0.25 ac houselot for each settler.
At present approximately 3,700 settlers are living on the schemes and about
2,000 continue to live in their villages and travel periodically to the
schemes. Not all of the resident settlers, however, are living within the
villages, some preferring to stay on their rubber lots. The objective of the
proposed project is to complete the provision of basic infrastructure for
scheme villages, and each village would have a primary school and community
clinic (or have immediate access to these facilities), piped water supply,
community center, playing field, and religious facilities. The proposed
project would provide 8 primary and one secondary school, 11 clinics, 24
community centers and 8 water supply systems.



- 16 -
3.19       Schools and Health Clinics.  PWD standard drawings would be used for
all public buildings according to scales of accomodation approved by the
education and health authorities. These buildings are all of good standard
permanent construction and would include staff accommodation.
3.20      Rural Water Supplies.  In the mountainous, high rainfall project
area, reasonably safe, potable water can be easily collected by small dams
located above settlement sites. The water is fed by gravity to elevated water
tanks in the settlement area where it would be treated. All houses would have
a piped supply of treated water and an outside flush toilet leading to a soak
pit. The Department of Health (DOH) would supply the bowl and trap, which is
locally manufactured, and a standard plan, under the Kampung Improvement
Program.
Institution Building
3.21      TAKDIR.  Under the proposed project, TAKDIR would be substantially
expanded and strengthened.  Specifically the project would:
(a) create a position of Deputy Director (Operations) to take charge
of TAKDIR's field operations. This post would require a profes-
sional with experience in the management of smallholder land
development projects;
(b)  provide for up to 165 scheme level staff (excluding scheme
supervisors) to supervise and record field operations, and three
additional agricultural assistants at the regional level, who
would provide general oversight of field operations, supported by
an internationally recruited agricultural adviser;
(c)  provide a small headquarters engineering staff responsible for
supervision of engineering design and construction of project
roads and TAKDIR facilities, and three regional units responsible
for maintenance of project roads and for minor construction.
Staffing would total 58 and each regional unit would be supplied
with a bulldozer, grader, loader, roller and 4 trucks;
(d)  provide funds to engage consultants to make proposals for the
implementation of an improved acounting system (incorporating
individual settler accounts), manage the implementation of this
system for the first three years of the project, and train TAKDIR
staff. TAKDIR's own staff would be augmented with two qualified
accountants, one with experience in materials procurement and
contract procedures;
(e)  establish a small settler services staff with the principal
functions of liaising with other agencies to ensure effective
delivery of services to settlers, and assisting scheme supervisors
in establishment of settler organizations;



- 17 -
(f) establish a small planning staff; and
(g) provide expanded office facilities at regional level, housing for
additional field staff, central and scheme level storage facili-
ties, a tractor/trailer at each scheme, 6 four-wheel drive
vehicles, 6 pick-ups, motorcycles for field assistants, and a boat
to improve transportation to the two schemes inaccessible by road.
3.22      The proposed project would finance technical assistance to TAKDIR
for provision of financial management and an agricultural adviser. Assistance
in financial management would be provided by domestic consultants at an
estimated cost of $209,000. This would comprise a lump sum of $62,000 for
an initial study of TAKDIR's accounting system and $147,000 for 40 man-months
of accountancy services at an average cost of $3,675 per man-month. An
internationally recruited agricultural advisor would be provided for 36
man-months at an estimated cost of $6,500 per man-month (based on individual
salary, international travel and allowances). It would be a condition of
loan effectiveness that suitably qualified and experienced individuals were
employed for the post for Deputy-Director (Operations) and as consultants
for financial management.
3.23      RISDA.  RISDA would establish a separate unit within its Kelantan
office to undertake all extension operations within the TAKDIR schemes. The
unit would be headed by a senior staff member and have a staff of about 30.
RISDA views this program as a pilot effort to refine its approach to provision
of extension services to rubber smallholders, and the project would also
provide funding for technical assistance in extension and training. This
assistance would be provided by an individual specialist and is estimated to
require about 36 man-months at a total cost of $234,000. The man-month cost
(based on individual salary, international travel, and allowances) is expected
to be about $6,500. The adviser would focus particularly on the development
of the extension program and associated staff and small-holder training
programs within the TAKDIR schemes, but would also provide advisory input to
RISDA as a whole. An assurance was obtained that RISDA would establish and
adequately staff this extension unit, satisfactory to the Bank, to
specifically service the project.
3.24      Nutrition.  Significant nutrition/health problems have been a con-
straint on development in the project area. Close attention was paid to these
issues as part of the conceptual design and preparation of the project. The
collective and synergistic effects on nutrition of provision of basic social
infrastructure (water supply, clinics) and improved access, together with the
application and strengthening of nutrition-related programs (home gardens,
poultry and freshwater fish production, supplemental child feeding) are



- 18 -
expected to be significant, and in direct response to specifically identified
needs. A major function of the TAKDIR settler services staff would be to
coordinate the application of such programs. To support this effort the
project would finance approximately 36 man-months of local professional
expertise, to be supervised by the Ministry of Health, to undertake a
baseline nutrition/health survey, assist in training settler services staff,
supervise ongoing monitoring of nutrition/health conditions, and undertake a
post project evaluation. The estimated cost of these inputs is $99,000 at
an average cost of $2,750 per man-month. In addition, the field cost of the
baseline and post project nutrition/health surveys, including enumerators
and laboratory testing, is estimated to be $70,000. Further, the project
would provide 24 man-months of technical assistance to ICU in strengthening
the capacity for effective formulation, implementation and evaluation of the
National Applied Food and Nutrition Programme. The man-month cost (based on
individual salary, international travel, and allowances) is expected to be
about $6,500.
Road Construction Sector Study
3.25      In recent years, Malaysia's capability in planning, designing,
constructing and maintaining its road network, including rural roads as well
as primary highways has been under severe strain. Delays in access road
construction have been a principal implementation bottleneck in. land develop-
ment projects and could be a constraint in the proposed project. The improved
resource position of Malaysia in the 1970s and Government-s commitments of
funds to an accelerated development program, have outpaced the capacity of the
agencies dealing with public sector construction, and in particular that of
the Federal and State Public Works Departments. At the same time, the private
road construction industry does not yet have the capacity to undertake a major
share of the country's road development effort.
3.26      For these reasons, the Government wishes to undertake a comprehen-
sive study of the road construction sector (public and private) throughout
Malaysia. The study's objectives would be to investigate the present
situation in detail, identify reasons and causes for the observed implemen-
tation problems in this sector, and recommend solutions and actions necessary
to modify Government policies and organization(s), and to remove existing
constraints so that the present trend may be reversed (see Annex 3). The
draft terms of reference for this study have been agreed with Government and
agreement on implemention of the study results will form the basis for our
next lending operation in the transport sector. The study is expected to
start before the end of 1980, with the first phase taking about 9 months and
requiring 75 man-months, and the second phase requiring an input of 5 man-
months. The estimated cost of consultant services, comprising management,
engineering and financial/economic specialists, is $800,000. The man-month
cost (based on salary fees, international travel and allowances) is expected
to be about $10,000.



- 19 -
D. Implementation Schedule
3.27      The perennial crop planting program would be implemented over a
five-year period commencing in the third quarter of CY1980. The total devel-
opment period would extend over 12 years, reflecting the long gestation period
for rubber. Investments would rise to a peak in the third year. Details of
phasing of principal activities are shown in Annex 1, Tables 1 and 2.
E. Project Cost
3.28      Total project costs are estimated at $70.2 m (inclusive of taxes and
duties of $3.5 m) of which $25.0 m or 36% is foreign exchange cost. Project
costs are based on unit prices existing in the project area in late 1979 and
are indexed to a common level, March 1980. Physical contingencies have been
included, amounting to 10% for agricultural development,]L housing materials,
administration and management and 20% for civil works. Overall physical
contingencies represent 12.2% of base cost. The contingency due to expected
price increases over the implementation period amounts to about 22.4% of the
base cost plus physical contingencies, assuming cost escalation (including
both local and foreign elements) of 9.0% in 1980, 8.0% in 1981 and 7.0% in
1982-85.
3.29      Project cost details are presented in Annex 1, Table 5 and are
summarized in Table 3.3.
F. Financing
3.30      The proposed Bank loan of $25.0 m would finance the full foreign
exchange cost of the project, equivalent to 37% of project costs, exclusive of
taxes and duties. Kelantan State would provide $3.40 m (5% of total project
cost) as grants to TAKDIR to cover management costs. The Government would
provide $18.3 million (26% of project cost) to the State, in the form of loans
for onlending to settlers to finance development of rubber and settler
housing, and $17.7 m (25% of project cost) in the form of grants, for funding
of infrastructure, development of agricultural enterprises other than rubber,
and local cost for the road construction sector study. RISDA would provide
$5.7 m (8% of project cost) from its own resources for rubber development. In
addition, project beneficiaries would contribute noncash inputs to the value
of $9.1 m. A detailed financing plan is presented in Annex 1, Table 6 and
summarized in Table 3.4.
/1 Physical contingencies were not applied to replanting and new planting
financed by RISDA, as these are costed on a grant-per-acre basis.



- 20 -
Table 3.3: PROJECT COST
% of
Base Foreign
Component                        Local  Foreign  Total   Local  Foreign  Total  Cost  Exchange
--- (M$ million)          ----- ($ million)              -- (-) -
A. Agricultural Development
Rubber: TAKDIR-new planting   23.17    7.32   30.49   10.78    3.40   14.18   28             24
-rehabilitation  0.97    3.84    4.81    0.45    1.79    2.24    4            80
RISDA-new planting       4.03    1.42    5.45    1.87    0.66    2.53    5          26
-replanting        4.30    1.51    5.81    2.00    0.70    2.70    5           26
Other agriculture /a             1.53    1.38    2.91    0.72    0.64    1.36    3           47
Subtotal               34.00   15.47   49.47   15.82    7.19   23.01   45           31
B.  Housing                           8.08    3.47   11.55    3.76    1.61    5.37   10          30
C.  Roads and Tracks                 17.17   13.38   30.55    7.99    6.22   14.21   28          43
D.  Social Infrastructure             3.66    1.96    5.62    1.70    0.91    2.61    5          35
E. Management
Facilities                       0.57    0.31    0.87    0.27    0.14    0.41    1           35
Vehicles & equipment             0.45    1.08    1.53    0.21    0.50    0.71    1           70
Salaries & overhead              5.58    0.46    6.04    2.59    0.22    2.81    6            8
Technical assistance             0.65    1.52    2.15    0.30    0.70    1.0n    2           70
Subtotal                 6.25    3.37   10.59    3.37    1.56    4.93   10          31
F.  Road Constr tion Sector Study  0.43    1.72    2.15    0.20    0.80    1.00    2             80
Total Base Cost         70.61   39.32  109.93   32.84   18.29   51.13  100          36
Physical contingencies           8.60    4.73   13.33    4.00    2.20    6.20   12           36
Price contingencies             17.93    9.70   27.63    8.34    4.51   12.85                35
Total Project Cost            97.14   53.75  150.89   45.18   25.00   70.18                36
/a   Includes orchards, hybrid coconuts/intercropping trial and fish ponds.



Table 3.4: FINANCING PLAN
Federal Government               State
RISDA         Grants           Loans           Government         Bank
Component                      Amount   %   Amount    %       Amount    %       Amount    %    Amount    %    Total   %
($ m)        ($ m)             ($ m)             ($ m)            ($ m)
Agricultural Development
Rubber - TAKDIR                    -        -    -         -    10.88      66        -         -     5.54/a  34   16.42  100
- RISDA                     3.55   66    -         -      -          -       -         -       1.68/b  34    5.23  100
Other Agriculture                  -        -    1.36   100      -          -        -         -        -      -    1.36  100
Housing                              -        -    -         -      2.69     50        -         -      2.69/a  50    5.38  100
Roads and Tracks
Works                              -        -    7.87    60      -          -        -         -     5.24/b  40   13.11  100
Vehicles & equipment               -        -    -         -     -          -        0.22    20      0.89/a  80    1.11  100
Social Infrastructure                -        -    2.61   100      -          -        -         -        -      -    2.61  100
Management
Facilities                         -        -    -         -     -          -        0.20    50      0.2Oja  50    0.40  100
Vehicles and equipment             -        -    -         -     -          -        0.14    20      0.57/a  80    0.71  100
Incremental salaries & overhead  0.71   26    -            -     -          -        2.10    74      -         -    2.81  100
Technical assistance               0.04    4    0.07       7     -          -        0.09      9     0.80/a  80    1.00  100
Road Construction Sector Study       -        -    0.20    20      -          -        -         -     0.80    80    1.00  100
Contingencies                      1.36    7    5.58    29       4.76      25        0.76      4     6.59    35   19.05  100
Total Financing                    5.66    8   17.68    25    18.33        26        3.51      5    25.00    36   70.18  100
/a On-lent from Government to Kelantan.
/b Made available as grants.



- 22 -
3.31      The following table summarizes lending terms under the proposed
project:
Table 3.5: PROJECT LENDING TERMS
Repayment /a   Grace    Interest rate
(years)       (years)        (X)
From Bank to Government              17             4      prevailing at loan
approval
From Government to
State of Kelantan:
Bank funds                       25            10       as for Bank loan /b
Government's own funds /c        25            10           5-1/2 /d
State of Kelantan to settlers:
Rubber development /c            24             9           6-1/4 /b
Rubber rehabilitation             9 /e          3           6-1/4 7i
Housing                          15 7e          -           6-1/4 7T
/a   Including grace period
7T   Capitalized and compounded.
/c   Traditional lending terms.
7d   Interest free for first five years.
7e   When settler borrows for more than one purpose, longer repayment
period would apply to whole loan.
The Government would assume the foreign exchange risks. The above lending
terms to the State of Kelantan and settlers are based on the rubber crop's
immaturity and production periods, and would be at prevailing rates in
Malaysia for similar land development schemes, i.e. with an interest rate of
6-1/4%. For new planting of rubber, loans would have a maturity of 24 years
with interest compounded during the grace period of 9 years. Those settlers
borrowing for rubber rehabilitation or other purposes would obtain shorter
repayment periods based on their expected ability to service debt.  The
inflation rate over the past three years in Malaysia has averaged about 5%
and is expected to remain at that level for the next few years. The proposed
rates are positive in real terms and compare favorably with current commercial
rates of 9% - 11%. Assurances were obtained that these terms would not be
materially amended except in agreement with the Borrower and the Bank, and
would be incorporated in a Subsidiary Loan Agreement between the Federal and
State Governments.  It would be a condition of effectiveness that this
Subsidiary Loan Agreement, acceptable to the Bank, has been signed by the
Government and the Government of the State of Kelantan.



- 23 -
G. Procurement
3.32      Vehicles and equipment would be procured under international compe-
titive bidding in accordance with Bank group guidelines. A 15% preference
margin, or the prevailing customs duty if lower, would be extended to local
manufacturers of these items. Off-the-shelf items, costing less than $40,000
each and limited to a total of $800,000, would be procured through normal
Government procedures. Materials for agricultural development and housing
would be procured by local competitive bidding. There are numerous suppliers,
foreign firms are well represented, bids would be accepted from foreign
suppliers and competition is adequate.
3.33      Civil works in the project area would be relatively small for most
of the construction subprojects, and are widely scattered. They would include
offices, storage facilities, small clinics, water supply systems, village and
field access roads, staff housing and fish ponds. Steps have been taken in
recent years to strengthen local contractors, there is adequate competition
and foreign firms can participate. Competitive bidding in accordance with
local procedures is appropriate for the work to be executed under contract.
H. Disbursements
3.34      The disbursement of the loan proceeds would be as follows:
(a) Fertilizers, chemicals and supplies for TAKDIR rubber development
at 80% of delivered cost or 100% of foreign cost against normal
documents;
(b) RISDA rubber development: 100% of Treasury grant payment to RISDA
of $140 (M$300) per acre, payable against quarterly certified
statements of expenditure;
(c) Construction of roads and tracks: 40% of contractual expenditure;
(d) Engineering services for design of roads: 40% of total cost against
normal documents;
(e) Farm housing and TAKDIR facilities: materials at 50% of delivered
cost against normal documents, construction at 50% of contractual
expenditure;
(f) Vehicles and equipment at 80% of delivered cost or 100% of
foreign costs against normal documents; and
(g) Technical Assistance: consultant and contractual services (except
(d) above); 100% of foreign exchange cost or 80% of total cost of
Bank approved items or programs, against normal documents.



- 24 -
3.35      Disbursement of the Bank loan would be against import documentation,
contracts and certified records of payment of expenditure.  In all cases where
disbursement is to be made against certified statement of expenditure, the
supporting documents would be retained by the Borrower and made available for
inspection during the course of review missions. It is expected that
disbursements would be completed by June 30, 1987, approximately 18 months
after the end of construction. The proposed project would provide $500,000 in
retroactive financing to cover expenditures incurred after January 1, 1980 on
project start-up activities, and vehicles, equipment and supplies required
for the 1980/81 land development program. A semi-annual disbursement
schedule is given in Annex 1, Table 7.
4. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
A. Project Organization
4.01      Overall responsibility for implementation of the proposed project
would rest with the State of Kelantan. The project would be carried out
through TAKDIR. The board of TAKDIR has been strengthened to include
Government representation. It is chaired by the Chief Minister of the
State, and includes representatives from the Federal Ministries of Finance,
Lands and Regional Development and Agriculture, EPU and FELCRA, and the
State Deputy Chief Minister, the State Secretary, State Financial Officer
and the State Director of Lands and Mines (para. 2.07). The board would
provide overall guidance in implementation and set policies.
4.02      A Technical Coordinating Committee has been established for the
project which is chaired by the State Chief Minister and comprises the
Deputy Chief Minister, State Financial Officer, Director of State Economic
Planning Unit, representatives of the Federal Ministries of Finance,
Agriculture, and Lands and Regional Development, RISDA, FELCRA, and the
Director of TAKDIR. This committee has greater Federal representation than
the Working Committee (para. 2.07) and will take over its executive role.
The Technical Coordinating Committee will take steps to ensure adequate
Federal-State and interagency coordination, and would act on behalf of the
Board as a Steering Committee for the project. The Director of TAKDIR would
act as Project Manager and be responsible for day-to-day implementation of
the project. He would report monthly to the Technical Coordinating
Committee.
B. Criteria for Participation in the Project
4.03      The maximum number of settler households in the 26 TAKDIR schemes
would be about 7,500. All the settlers would reside in the schemes with their
families. Following the May 1979 census records it was estimated that 5,700
settlers had begun development of their holdings. Not all of these were the
original allottees. The current occupants will qualify as bona fide
settlers if they satisfy the following conditions:



- 25 -
(a) have begun development of a significant proportion of their plots
by September 1980; and
(b) maintain reasonable agricultural standards on their plots.
They would then be confirmed as settlers and would be eligible to participate
in the proposed project-s replanting and development programs.
4.04      A maximum of 1,800 additional settlers would be recruited to take
up either the vacant lots or the newly allocated ones. The minimum criteria
for new settlers would be:
(a)  resident in Kelantan;
(b)  21 - 45 years old;
(c)  married;
(d)  he and his immediate family owning less than 2 ac of cultivated
land;
(e)  have a low income /1; and
(f)  prepared to live with his wife and family on a TAKDIR scheme.
At the time of appraisal, about 700 new settlers (from about 1,500 applicants)
were being selected and allocated holdings so that they could start land
clearance in November 1979. The balance would be selected by mid-1981. An
assurance was obtained that remaining settlers would be selected according to
the above criteria, which would not be changed without prior consultation with
the Borrower and the Bank.
C. Agricultural Development
Institutional Responsibility
4.05      Financial support for agricultural development would be either on a
grant or credit basis. Credit would be supplied by TAKDIR, while grants would
be supplied by either RISDA, DOA or DOF. Details of implementation responsi-
bility and nature of funding for the different agricultural activities are
given below.
/1 At most a household income of $250 per capita per annum; typically incomes
are below about $175 per capita per annum.



- 26 -
Table 4.1: PROPOSED LAND DEVELORPENT BY AGENCY AND CROP/ACTIVITY
TAKDIR     RISDA      DOA        DOF       Total
Crop/activity                 -------------------- (ac) -----------------
Funding:   Credit      Grant    Grant       Grant
Rubber
Rehabilitation               14,100          -         -         -     14,100
New planting                 23,100      5,500         -         -     28,600
Replanting                        -      7,200         -         -      7,200
Orchards
Rehabilitation                    -          -    3,000         -       3,000
New Planting                      -          -    1,000          -      1,000
Hybrid Coconut/intercropping
trials                            -          -      250 /a      -         250/a
Fish ponds                          -          -         -       300         300
Total                     37,200    12,700    4,250        300      54,450
/a Federal responsibility.
Rubber
4.06      TAKDIR.  TAKDIR and RISDA would collaborate on the development of
rubber in the project area. TAKDIR scheme supervisors would have overall
responsibility for supervision of TAKDIR-financed agricultural development
activities, including development of village areas and houselots. They would
be supported by field assistants responsible for supervising and reporting
activities on up to 400 ac of rubber under development, or of 600 ac under
rehabilitation. The scheme supervisors would report through the regional
supervisors to the Deputy Director (Operations). The Chief of Agriculture,
supported by three technical assistants, one per region, would provide general
oversight of the agronomic aspects of field development, and be responsible
for liaison with other agencies undertaking agricultural support activities
within the schemes.
4.07      TAKDIR would provide credit assistance for establishment of new
rubber to settlers not qualifying for RISDA grants. This assistance would be
in the form of required material inputs at $379 per ac, and cash payments
based on labor inputs estimated at $455 per ac, over the whole development
period of about 6 to 7 years. Assistance would be supplied at specified
intervals based on the certification of satisfactory completion of specified
operations. TAKDIR field staff would be responsible for inspection of these



- 27 -
operations. TAKDIR would also be responsible for the rubber rehabilitation
program. Material inputs, up to the value of $140 per ac, over a three-year
period, would be supplied on credit.
4.08      RISDA.  Settlers replanting rubber would receive grant assistance
from RISDA in the form of cash and materials to the total value of $558
(M$1,200) per ac over a five-year period. Cash payments and material
deliveries would be made upon certification of satisfactory completion of
specified operations. RISDA field inspectorate would be responsible for field
inspection of such operations. In addition to its grants for replanting,
RISDA currently provides grants for new planting to established smallholders
with mature rubber, whose rubber holding does not exceed 7 ac. These grants,
with a maximum of 5 ac per smallholder, are under the same terms as for
replanting. /1
4.09      RISDA would establish a separate extension unit within its Kelantan
State office to carry out its operations within the TAKDIR schemes. An exten-
sion staff, operating on a ratio of about 1 person:2,000 ac of rubber, would
be responsible for extension activities. They would work through TAKDIR and
RISDA field staff, in collaboration with the TAKDIR Chief of Agriculture, to
provide overall guidance on crop development standards and exploitation tech-
niques. The unit, assisted by the Extension Adviser, would develop appropri-
ate courses and training materials for smallholders in rubber production.
Longer inservice training for RISDA and appropriate TAKDIR staff would be
conducted at RISDA's training center in Kuala Lumpur.
Orchards
4.10      Responsibility for assistance in planting and rehabilitation of
orchards would rest with the DOA. DOA would supply fertilizers, chemicals and
where appropriate, planting materials, to a maximum of $140 per ac as a grant
under the ongoing Agricultural Intensification and Diversification Program
(AID), together with extension support. Provision has been made under the
Bank financed North Kelantan Project (Loan 1294-MA) for a substantial increase
in DOA staff for the State. An assurance was obtained that adequate support
services and staff would be provided for orchard development.
Hybrid Coconuts/Intercropping Trials
4.11      The Federal DOA would be responsible for the development of the
experimental plantings of hybrid coconuts intercropped with coffee or cocoa.
The Soils and Analytical Branch of DOA would supply the necessary data for the
selection of five sites representative of soils and topographic conditions in
/1 A smallholder with a total existing holding of over 10 ac receives a
replanting grant of only $419 (M$900) per ac.



- 28 -
inland Kelantan while MARDI would establish the experimental layout and super-
vise monitoring of the program and analysis of the results. An assurance was
obtained that Federal DOA and MARDI would establish and maintain these trial
plantings.
Fish Ponds
4.12      Responsibility for assistance in construction of fish ponds would
rest with the DOF. Settlers applying for fish pond grants of $581 for ponds
1/4 - 1/2 acre in size would need to have suitable sites, and to demonstrate
that family labor would be available for pond maintenance. DOF would assist
farmers in site selection and would organize contractors to excavate ponds.
They would also facilitate arrangements for farmers to take short-term loans
from Bank Pertanian to pay the contractors. (These loans would be repaid on
receipt of grant about 3 months later.) In addition to cash payments, to
cover excavation costs, DOF would provide fry for the initial stocking of the
ponds, and a limited quantity of fertilizer and rice bran. They would also
give training to settlers in operation of ponds and would attempt to ensure
that stocking and harvesting of ponds be staggered so as to avoid excessive
local fish supplies. An assurance was obtained that DOF would provide
adequate support services and staff for fish pond development.
D. Infrastructure
4.13      TAKDIR would establish a small central engineering staff.  This
would be headed by a qualified engineer provided by PWD who would be
responsible for the preliminary planning and phasing, and for overall
supervision of all the infrastructure works, including settler housing, and
for the procurement of equipment, including international competitive bidding
procedures. Preliminary and detailed engineering of project road works would
be carried out by consultants who would also supervise construction by
contractors. Due to the disproportionate cost of carrying out complete
engineering surveys for low standard roads and tracks in advance of
construction, it is proposed that engineering and design be carried out on a
yearly program basis. The program and cost estimates would be approved
annually by the TAKDIR board before the work is put in hand. Three suitably
equipped regional units would be established to undertake maintenance of
roads, and limited construction of field tracks, when the work to be
undertaken is not suitable for contract.
4.14      The PWD would be directly responsible for detailed engineering and
planning the buildings and rural water supply elements through their existing
organization, with the assistance of some additional junior technical staff.
The PWD would also undertake the preventative maintenance of project equip-
ment, on a reimbursible basis, througlh its district workshops. This is sub-
ject to the authorization of a small addition to its technical establishment.



- 29 -
The Survey Department would undertake the preparation of topographic maps for
the design of secondary access roads and tracks, and the Town and Country
Planning Department would review settlement plans. Assurances were obtained
that the State PW1D would provide a civil engineer and engineering assistant to
TAKDIR for the duration of project, and would undertake maintenance of project
road equipment.
E. Social Services
4.15      Nutrition and Health.  The following agencies would provide
health/nutrition related programs in the project area, where appropriate.
Funding would not be included as part of the project, except for construction
of fish ponds, but would be met from departmental recurrent budgets and
specific appropriations through the Federal Implementation Coordination Unit
(ICU) of the Prime Minister's Department. The level of provision would be
dependent upon the results of the baseline survey and subsequent monitoring
(see para. 4.17).
(a) DOA would; provide grant assistance to settlers for establishment
of home gardens (under its AID program) in the form of seeds,
fertilizers and pesticides; provide backup extension support
emphasizing home food production;
(b) Department of Veterinary Sciences (DVS) would; provide grant
assistance in establishment of back-garden poultry (provision of
chicks and starter feed); assign priority to the project area
within Kelantan in the application of its cattle development pro-
gram; coordinate with DOA staff on encouragement of production of
pasture and feeds and; provide supplemental milk to schools and
preschool child centers as available;
(c) DOF would provide assistance in construction of fish ponds and
extension support;
(d) Ministry of Health (MOH) would; staff community clinics; provide
pre- and postnatal care, and maternal health/nutrition guidance;
undertake routine anthropometric measurements of infants and
toddlers; provide milk supplementation as appropriate; assist in
provision of simple latrines and; undertake anti-malarial
measures;
(e) The Community Development Division (KEMAS) (MOA) would; establish
preschool child centers; provide supplemental feeding as
appropriate; collaborate with MIOH and DOA staff in providing health/
nutrition improvement programs; and



- 30 -
(f) Ministry of Education would apply its school feeding program,
scheduled to cover at least 50% of primary children in TAKDIR
schemes in 1980.
4.16      Many of these nutrition-related programs of the different agencies
are coordinated by the ICU at the federal level, under the umbrella of the
AFNP. Supervision at the state level is by the State Development Officer and
local coordination by the District Action Committee chaired by an Assistant
District Officer. These programs have not been applied in the project area
and, in general, effective application has been hindered by inadequate
coordination both among departments and between them and beneficiaries. The
TAKDIR settler services staff would be responsible for liaising with scheme
supervisors, state and federal departments and the District Action Committee,
and organizing settlers in order to maximize participation/benefits from
programs undertaken. The staff would also assist new settlers in obtaining
employment during periods of low labor requirement on farms, e.g. by
organizing labor groups for work on land development and infrastructural
projects planned for South Kelantan, outside the project area.
F. Monitoring and Evaluation
4.17      Monitoring of project implementation would be undertaken by the
Office of the Director, TAKDIR. Within its Extension Unit, RISDA would
develop a capacity to monitor and evaluate the impact of its own extension
programs and other interventions.  DOA and MARDI would collaborate in
evaluation of the hybrid coconut/intercropping trial plantings. The Kelantan
State Nutrition Officer would monitor basic anthropometric data as a part of a
statewide program. A nutrition baseline survey would be-carried out by local
consultants who would provide continuing support to the state level monitoring
program, and undertake a postproject evaluation of nutritional impact. They
would also collaborate with the ICU Monitoring Advisor. An assurance was
obtained that the nutrition baseline survey would be carried out by June 30,
1981.
G. Operation and Maintenance
4.18      Operation and maintenance, including staffing, would be the respon-
sibility of the government agency involved. Maintenance costs for TAKDIR
facilities and agricultural and village roads are estimated to amount to
$800,000 (in 1980 prices) over the project period and $300,000 per annum
thereafter, and would be borne by the State of Kelantan. Assurances were
obtained that the Governments would make adequate arrangements for the timely
provision of funds and resources required to maintain all civil works
constructed under the project, and to staff, maintain and operate all other
project-supported facilities.



- 31 -
H. Accounts and Audit
4.19      TAKDIR's main sources of funds would be Government loans and grants,
and settler loan repayments. Federal Government loans would be received
through the State Government for relending to settlers to cover the cost of
agricultural development and housing at prevailing terms for such funding in
Malaysia (para. 3.31). Grant assistance would be received from the State
Government to cover administrative and maintenance expenses, and from the
Government to cover costs of road construction. TAKDIR's projected cash flow
shows accumulated surpluses throughout the project's life, eventually
amounting to $17 m. This results from TAKDIR's favorable borrowing terms in
relation to its lending terms.
4.20      The financial management consultants, to be financed under the
project, would design and implement an appropriate accounting system for
TAKDIR. These accounts would be audited by the Auditor-General, or an
independent auditor approved by the Auditor-General and acceptable to the
Bank. An assurance was obtained that TAKDIR would furnish audited project
accounts to the Bank within six months following the close of the fiscal year.
RISDA would retain supporting documentation for certificates of expenditure
which would be audited by the Auditor-General and be available for inspection
by the Bank during the course of project supervision.
5. TECHNOLOGY AND PRODUCTION SPECIFICATIONS
Rubber New Planting and Replanting
5.01      Under the proposed project, in addition to the new planting program,
about 40% of the existing mature rubber area and 80% of the existing immature
stand would be rehabilitated, and 35% of the mature stand replanted. The
balance of 25% of the mature, and 20% of the immature stands, are judged not
to have adequate production potential to warrant rehabilitation, but could be
economically tapped for about five more years before being replanted. The
expected yield performance of rubber in the project area is shown in
Table 5.1.



- 32 -
Table 5.1: RUBBER YIELD PROJECTIONS UNDER DIFFERENT CONDITIONS
Averag e
Years     Total    annual
Years to    in    production   yield
Condition                          maturity  tapping ----- (lb/ac) -----
Existing situation                     8         14      12,110       865
Mature rubber rehabilitated            8         19      18,210       960
Immature rubber rehabilitated          7        25       25,380    1,015
New plantings and replantings        6-1/2      25       28,645    1,145
5.02      Land Preparation.  Techniques for rubber planting and replanting
using contractors are well established in Malaysia. These standard practices
for land clearing operations would be followed by settlers who could either
employ contractors individually or in groups, or organize themselves in groups
to do the work. Land clearing and burning would be carried out manually in
the period between October and April/May. Because of the nature of the
terrain, terracing would be necessary over about 50% of the plantable area.
Where terracing is not required, a catch crop of upland padi would be
planted in May and harvested in September/October. Rubber planting would be
carried out from September/October through November/December, the height of
the monsoon rains.
5.03      Planting Density.  Budded stumps would be planted at a high density
of 240/ac, preferably spaced at 18' x 10' on flatter lands, but at a wider
interrow spacing and closer in-row spacing on steeper lands. A high planting
density results in a faster closing of the canopy, leading to shading out of
weeds and reduced maintenance requirements. It is estimated that, on an
8-ac holding, a maximum of 1,500 trees would be in tapping in the third year
of production, decreasing to about 1,300 in year 10.  Seven hundred to 750
trees represents a full daily tapping task for a settler with some assistance
from other members of his family. A holding of 1,300 to 1,500 trees would
require that the operator adopt an alternate day tapping regime, which is
desirable to extend the productive life of the stand and maintain
satisfactory yields.
5.04      Planting Material.  TAKDIR has opted to use GTI, PR255 and PR261
clones, following the advice of the Rubber Research Institute of Malaysia
(RRIM4). PR255 and PR261 are potentially higher yielding clones under good
conditions but are less tolerant to poorer conditions. GTI performs
relatively better in hilly situations and when planted at high density. It is
therefore proposed that GTI be used for about 50% of plantings and the balance
divided between PR255 and PR261.  Participants would be provided with plant
material in the form of budded stumps.



- 33 -
5.05      Intercropping.  During the first three years of the immature period
intercropping with annual or short-term perennial crops would be feasible on
land which did not require terracing. However, since new plantings would be
concentrated in more remote schemes, and RISDA has experienced considerable
difficulties in marketing small quantities of vegetables and fruits from
rubber areas under intercropping, it is not proposed to encourage smallholders
to undertake intercropping, except for home consumption. The proposed new
planting and rehabilitation program will stretch the capability of TAKDIR's
field staff and the use of manpower to train these staff in production of
intercrops, combined with the problems of marketing the products, could
adversely affect the development standards for rubber.
5.06      Maintenance.  Under the proposed project it is assumed that
smallholders would maintain adequate establishment and upkeep standards which
are well established in Malaysia. Weed control would primarily be done
manually, but chemical methods would be utilized for eradicating noxious
weeds, e.g. lallang (Imperata cylindrica). Fertilizer applications would be
based on well-established levels peaking in the fifth and sixth year after
planting when about 300 lbs of Sulphate of Ammonia (or equivalent), 125 lb of
Rock Phosphate, 65 lbs of Muriate of Potash and 50 lbs of Kieserite per ac
would be applied.
5.07      Tapping.  Miajor emphasis would be placed on the adoption of an
alternate daily tapping regime. Due to the high frequency of rain in N4ovember
and December, which restricts tapping, this would allow about 150 tappings
per year, in contrast to current practice of over 200 tappings.  Settlers
would be instructed in correct tapping techniques by RISDA extension staff,
and particular attention would be given to angle of the slope of the cut, bark
consumption and depth of tapping to prevent wounding.
Rubber Rehabilitation
5.08      In order to offset the previous lack of nutrients, mature rubber
under rehabilitation would receive high doses of fertilizers for the first
three years, equivalent to that applied to new planted rubber during the peak
years of application before initiation of tapping. Following this initial
period, normal levels of inputs would be applied. Emphasis would also be
given to improving maintenance standards, using chemical weed control where
appropriate, and reduction in tapping intensity to an alternate daily system.
It is estimated that these measures, on average, would result in an increase
of (a) tapping life to 19 years and (b) yields to 960 lb/ac.
5.09      Application of increased fertilizer inputs to existing immature
rubber would promote more vigorous growth of the young trees, enabling them to
be brought into tapping in their seventh year, one year sooner than without
additional inputs. Given improved tapping standards throughout, the expected
tapping life would be 25 years, the same as for new planted (and replanted)
rubber. The estimated average yield of 1,015 lb/ac/annum would be about 12%
below that for new planted rubber because of the lower plant density, presence
of less suitable clones, and a small proportion of seedlings.



- 34 -
Rubber Processing
5.10       Rubber latex is generally coagulated and processed into air dried
sheets in Group Processing Centers (GPCs) located close to the tapping areas.
These centers normally contain one to three mangling units and serve up to
30 individual smallholders. RISDA has provided about 160 GPCs in the
project area; 102 single units of 500 lb daily capacity and 58 double units
of 1,000 lb daily capacity, totalling an annual processing capacity of
14,800 mt.
5.11      Under the proposed project, annual rubber production would initially
decline from 7,750 mt in 1980 to 7,100 mt in 1985 and then gradually increase
to a maximum of 29,200 mt in 1996. The existing processing capacity, with
limited additional GPCs to serve areas now coming into production, is
considered to be sufficient to process the rubber produced till well after
1985. Following the improvement of transport infrastructure in the area and
an increase in the amount of rubber produced, it may be worthwhile introducing
larger and modern processing facilities. This possibility should be
reassessed after 1984 when it will be possible to evaluate more precisely
the quantity of rubber likely to be available, the effectiveness of rural
infrastructure improvements, and market demands.
Orchards
5.12       Incremental production of orchard crops would result from rehabil-
itation of the best 3,000 ac of the existing orchards and the additional
planting of about 1,000 ac towards the end of the project implementation
period. Rehabilitation would involve adequate weeding and upkeep, improvement
of terracing, replacement of diseased trees, application of recommended levels
of fertilizer, and appropriate pest control measures.  Existing orchards are
estimated to comprise 35% durian, 30% rambutan, 15% banana, 10% pineapple and
10% local tall coconuts. Estimates of current and improved yields after
rehabilitation and for new plantings are given in Table 5.2. Projected yields
for new plantings are realistic, because it is difficult to maintain high
cultural standards in small mixed stands of fruit crops and most settlers give
highest priority to their rubber holdings. Because of the current neglect of
planted orchards, projected yields for rehabilitated areas are about double
present levels, but only 60% to 80% of those for new plantings.



- 35 -
Table 5.2: PRESENT AND PROJECTED YIELDS OF FRUIT CROPS
Rehabilitation              New Planting
Years to    Production
Crop                       Before         After       first crop   in 10th yr
(lb/ac)       (lb/ac)                    (lb/ac)
Durian                       900           2,000            6          3,000
Rambutan                   1,500           3,000            3          4,000
Banana                    3,000           4,000             2          6,700/a
Pineapple                 4,500            8,000            1          11,050/a
Coconut (copra)             375              900          n.a.          n.a.
/a Average of first 10 years.
Hybrid Coconut/Intercrop Trials Program
5.13      Proposals have been made for the introduction of hybrid coconuts as
a cash crop in the project area. However, evidence on their suitability for
these inland areas on sloping sites is lacking. Yields of local tall coconuts
in existing orchards and houselots are below those in coastal areas. On less
fertile soils Liberica coffee has been used as an intercrop for coconuts, and
along the west coast cocoa has been highly successful. Experience of Robusta
coffee in Malaysia is limited, but it has been proposed as a suitable
intercrop for inland Kelantan conditions. Other crops, including fodders, are
possible as intercrops with coconut. Before encouraging farmers to undertake
planting of these and other possible crop combinations, it is considered
prudent to establish trials under representative conditions. For purposes of
project evaluation, coffee has been assumed as the intercrop and projected
yields under smallholder conditions are:
(a) Hybrid Coconuts. Year 5, 570 lb copra/ac; rising to 2,200 lb/ac in
year 10; and
(b) Robusta Coffee. Year 4, 180 lb/ac (dry beans equivalent); rising
to 525 lb/ac in year 9.
Crop yields for the experiment itself are expected to be 30% higher than the
above estimates.
Fish
5.14      Fish constitutes the major source of animal protein in Kelantan.
Pond production in the project area would provide fresh supplies to substitute
for dried fish (extensively used at present) and complement limited supplies
of fresh sea fish. Settlers would construct ponds of about 0.25 ac each. Fry



- 36 -
would be supplied by the DOF.  Species supplied would vary, but a typical
combination and stocking rate would be 1,000 Lampan Jawa, 500 Likoh and 500
Chinese carp per acre of pond. Harvesting would be carried out after 6 to 8
months. Total yields are projected to average 2,700 lb/ac/annum.
6. PRODUCTION, MARKETING, PRICES AND INCOMES
Incremental Production
6.01      Quantity and timing of incremental project production is given in
Table 6.1.
Organization of Marketing
6.02      Incremental rubber production, which is insignificant until after
1985, would initially be marketed along the present lines, with air dried
sheets being sold by farmers either to RISDA for smoking and inclusion within
their smoked sheet tender offers, or to local traders. Local traders would
also continue to handle scrap. Under the proposed project, no allowance is
being made for the cost of improving marketing and processing facilities
(which may be required by 1990), nor have any benefits been attributed to
the raising of rubber quality which would stem from such a development.
However, even in the absence of further development of marketing facilities,
the present system would be adequate to dispose of incremental rubber
production over the project life.
6.03      Production of fruits would be marketed through private traders, as
at present. Total production, peaking at about 6,000 mt amounts to about
15% of current State production. Most of the incremental production, which
would rise to about 2,000 mt by 1988 would be marketed. This is equivalent
to about 10% of present marketed production in the State.  Project production
would be concentrated on the more developed schemes which are accessible to
major state markets. Likely growth in population and per capita consumption
should allow the incremental quantity to be absorbed into the market without
problem.
6.04      Copra and coffee from the DOA experimental plots would also be
marketed through local traders although the possibility of using the Federal
Agricultural Marketing Authority (FAMIA) would exist. It is expected that
most of the production of rice and fish would be consumed within the schemes
themselves and would be marketed or bartered between scheme settlers.
Quantities surplus to local requirements would be sold to local traders.



Table 6.1:  SUMMARY OF INCREMENTAL PRODUCTION UNDER THE PROJECT /a
Total
1980   1982    1985    1988       1992      1997       2009    (30 years)
_________________________- (mt) ---------------------    ('000 tons)
Rubber new plantings (total)        -      -        -   3,651   17,309    24,678    15,014         407.0
Rubber rehabilitated (net)         49    -21      637   1,773    3,310      2,683        603        52.8
New Plantings without
project (total)                  -       -       -    (688)  (4,045)   (6,335)   (4,891)    (117.3)
Incremental rubber              49    -21      637   4,735   16,574    20,580    10,726         324.5
Orchards (net)                    202   -323   1,367   1,985    2,002       1,926      1,926        47.7
Coffee (DOA exp)                    -      -       24     160        76        76         76         1.8
Copra (DOA exp)                     -      -       22     192       320       320        320         7.0
Padi (upland)                  1,456  2,493         -       -         -         -          -         7.8
Fish                               36    209      350     357       357       357        357         9.9
/a  The quantities and phasing of incremental project production are calculated
by comparing projected production of existing trees plus plantings under the
project (the "with project" case) against production in a "without project"
case. In the "without project" case, orchard and houselot production
are projected to continue at the 1979 estimated levels. Rubber production
is based on the output from trees already planted, output from replantings
expected to be made in 1980-84 (at a rate slightly below that "with
project") and production from new rubber assumed to be planted at a rate of
about 1,000 ac/year over the next 20 years. No account is taken of
production from replantings beyond 1984 in either the "without project" or
"with project" cases.



- 38 -
Product Prices
6.05      Financial prices /1 for rubber are estimated on the basis of Bank
projections for world rubber prices adjusted for international freight, the
domestic cost of marketing, and the present level of taxation of rubber.
Details of the estimates and the calculated adjustments are given in Annex 2,
Tables 1 and 2. The average farmgate rubber price is based on the assumption
that, on a dry rubber basis, 20% would be of RSS I quality, 60% of RSS III
quality and 20% scrap. Prices of fruits and vegetables are much more volatile
than those of rubber and for purposes of project analysis average prices based
on the 1979 farmgate levels have been taken. Farm gate prices for the
different commodities are given below.
Table 6.2: ESTIMATED FARM GATE PRICES FOR COMMODITIES PRODUCED
(1980 constant /lb)
1980            1985           1990
Rubber                                     32.1            34.0           37.2
Rambutan                                   ------------    5.6    ----------
Banana                                     ------------    2.3    ---------
Durian                                     ------------   16.0    --------
Pineapple                                  ------------    8.1    ----------
Copra                                      ------------   14.0    ----------
Coffee (unprocessed berries)               ------------    4.2    ----------
Fish                                       ------------ 17.2-21.9 ---------
Padi                                        9.3         not applicable ------
Farm Model Summary
6.06      In order to assess the impact of the proposed project on settler
households, three farm models have been examined. Model 1 represents the
1,800 new settlers. The existing settlers comprise a continuous range of
situations, from those with fully developed holdings of old rubber and
orchards, to those whose holding is essentially undeveloped. Two models have
been taken to broadly represent this range of types. Model 2 represents a
nonresident settler whose holding is currently partially developed. Model 3
represents a resident settler who has developed 7 ac, and has only 1 ac
undeveloped. These models are summarized in Table 6.3.
/1 In March/April 1980 constant currency terms.



- 39 -
Table 6.3:  FARM MODEL SUMM!ARY
Model Number
1             2             3
------------- (Acres) -----
Land Use
(a) Preproject use:
Rubber                                                5.00          6.00
Fruits                                  -             -             1.00
Undeveloped                             8.25          3.25           1.00
Houselot                                -             -             0.25
(b) Project activity
Rubber - new planting                   8.00          3.00           1.00
- Replanting                    -             _              3.00
- Rehabilitation                               5.00          3.00
Fruits - Rehabilitation                 -             -             1.00
Houselot development                    0.25          0.25          -
(c) Postproiect
Rubber                                  8.00          8.00          7.00
Fruits                                  -             -             1.00
Houselot                                0.25          0.25          0.25
Financial Performance                          ------------- ($)/a ----------
(a) Preproject
Net Income - farm                       -           450         1,100
- nonfarin                840           430           215
Subtotal                            840           880         1.315
(b) Development period /b
Funding - loan                      7,718         4,552           420
- grant                        -             -         2,372
Net income - farm /c                  651         1,466         1,341
- nonfarm                 360           100           200
Subtotal                          1,011         1.566         1,541
(c) Full development /d
Net income - farm /e                2,560         2,412         2,422
- nonfarm                   -           140           180
Subtotal                         2.560          2,552         2,602
Debt service                        1,271           640             -/f
Farm Labor Requirement (man-days/year)
Preproject                                    -            150           325
Development period                          260            403           323
Full development                            496           378            343
Return to Farm Labor ($/man-day)
Preproject                                   -             3.0           3.4
Development period                           2.5           3.6           4.2
Full development                            5.2            6.4           7.1
/a 1980 prices.
/b Years 1-10.
/c  Includes net grant and loan income.
/d Years 11-20.
/e After debt service.
/f Repaid years 4-9.



- 40 -
6.07      Model 1.  The new settler is assumed to develop his 8 ac of rubber
in two phases of 4 ac each in succeeding years. Income earned from the farm
during the first 10 years of the project is low, averaging $650 per annum.
However, during years 4 to 8, labor requirements of the holding are limited
and it is proposed to assist the head of household obtain off-farm income;
e.g., in construction or other land development in South Kelantan, and it is
expected that about $3,500 could be earned during this period. This would
raise the overall average income to a level at least equivalent to the
settler's current situation and to that of FELDA settlers during the develop-
ment period. Loan repayment is spread over 15 years at $1,270 p.a. At full
development (the average of years 11 to 20) the holding would require
full-time input from two persons and yield an annual net income of $2,560,
about three times preproject income.
6.08      Projected farm incomes at full development under Models 2 and 3 are
slightly lower at about $2,420 per annum. The major crop production activi-
ties would require about 378 and 343 man-days in Models 2 and 3 respectively,
creating some potential either for additional farm activities; e.g. livestock
or fish, or off-farm work.  Total cash incomes are estimated at about $2,575,
almost three times preproject income for the nonresident settler (Model 2) and
twice that for the resident settler (Model 3). They would be approximately
60% above the current rural poverty income level of $1,580 per household, and
compare favorably with the current critical consumption level (CCL) of $430
per capita (equivalent to a household income of about $2,365). Productivity
increases generated by the project are indicated by the approximate doubling
of net income per day. However, by full development (after 1990) the CCL is
expected to have risen substantially, to about $3,300 per household in 1980
prices, so that project beneficiaries would on average remain below the CCL,
although be above the poverty level at that time.
Cost Recovery
6.09      Farm development costs, excluding grant aided elements such as
orchard rehabilitation, would be financed as loans and recovered fully. The
farm models indicate that, under the terms and conditions proposed, settlers
borrowing for rubber planting or rehabilitation (models 1 and 2) would obtain
incomes after debt repayment comparable to existing settlers whose borrowings
are minor (blodel 3). In addition to loan repayments, all settlers would pay
indirectly export duties which amount to 50-70% of net farm cash income, and
which more than offset governments direct expenditure on the proposed project
(para. 7.07).



- 41 -
7. BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION
Benefits and Beneficiaries
7.01      The main benefits of the proposed project would stem from increased
production of rubber with minor benefits coming from fruits, fish and other
crops. The main beneficiaries would be the 7,500 families who would live on
the project settlement schemes and who make up nearly 5% of the State's
population. Average aggregate incremental cash income accruing to the project
beneficiaries would be in excess of $13 million p.a. at full development.
About 75% of the direct beneficiaries (5,600 families, 30,000 people) are
expected to belong to the target group with per capita incomes below $250 and,
since projected incomes at full development are relatively uniform, this group
would obtain more than 75% of the additional income generated. As a result of
the project, incomes of individual families are expected to increase to two to
three times their preproject levels. While these incomes at full development
would take the project households out of the poverty group, it is anticipated
that their incomes would still remain below the critical consumption level for
Malaysia at that time (para. 6.08).
7.02      Additional benefits would accrue to the settlers through improvement
of support services. Improved coordination of activities would enable exis-
ting programs to be delivered more effectively. In particular, the speedier
delivery of support under the available package of nutrition-related programs
would enable families to move more quickly to the schemes and maintain
adequate dietary and health standards, particularly during initial years of
low income. This movement, supported by the settler services staff, would
assist in the development of more cohesive communities. The development of
this resident population with its greatly enhanced income would, together with
other major land development programs in the region, provide significant
impetus to the development of South Kelantan. This development is an impor-
tant part of the State's growth strategy of assisting the movement of
population out of agriculture in the northern plain, into newly developed
agriculture in the south of the state, or secondary or tertiary sectors of the
economy.
Rate of Return and Sensitivity Analysis
7.03      The proposed project gives a base economic rate of return of 17%.
The economic rate of return (ERR) is calculated on the basis of comparing, at
economic prices, forecast agricultural production and costs with the project
and the expected situation without the project (Table 6.1). Forecasts of
yields and input requirements are made on the basis of the present level of
technology and, in consequence, it has been assumed that improvements in
yields due to nonproject factors would be the same with the project as without
the project. The derivation of economic prices and costs and benefit streams
is described in Annex 2.
7.04      In order to test the stability of the ERR of the proposed project, a
number of sensitivity tests were carried out, the principal of which are
summarized below:



- 42 -
Table 6.4: SENSITIVITY ANALYSES
Economic rate Net present
Case                            of return        value
x          $ million
1.  Base case                                                17.0            33.2
2.  Value of rubber down 10%                                 15.4            24.4
3.  All costs up 10%                                         15.6            27.8
4.  Labor costs up 33%                                       15.5            27.0
5.  Agricultural benefits and costs lagged 2 years           15.3            23.4
6. Agricultural benefits, and agricultural and
construction costs, all reduced 50%                   15.5             14.0
7. Agricultural benefits and costs delayed 3 years,
construction costs delayed 1 year                      14.9            20.1
8. Construction delayed 2 years and lower agricul-
tural inputs and benefits (materials-40%;
labor-10%; benefits-25%)                              16.6             22.9
7.05      Overall, the ERR is quite robust and the proposed project is fairly
insensitive to changes of costs or benefits. The possibility of significantly
lower rubber prices is considered to be small. A rise of one third in the
real cost of labor would reduce the ERR by only 1-1/2 percentage points.
"Switching Values" calculated on the basis of an opportunity cost of capital
of 10% indicate that benefits could fall by as much as one-third and the
proposed project would still have a positive net present value (NPV). With
costs, the economic price of labor alone would have to increase by 177% for
the ERR return to fall below 10%. The percentages by which agricultural
materials, construction or management costs could increase (ceteris paribus),
yet the ERR remain above 10%, are 171%, 294% and 645% respectively.
7.06      Similarly, delayed implementation of construction and agricultural
development would only reduce the ERR slightly, but would have a much greater
effect on the project's NPV. This is exemplified by the fact that a one year
delay in construction and a three year delay in agricultural costs and
benefits would reduce the ERR by less than 2 percentage points but would cause
NPV to fall from $33.4 million to $20.1 million (Case 7). Under another case,
if construction were delayed by two years, but agricultural development
continued as planned but with a lower level of inputs (Case 8) the ERR would
fall by less than one percentage point but the NPV would decline from $33.4
million to $23.4 million.



- 43 -
Fiscal Impact
7.07      State and Federal Governments  total financial commitment to the
proposed project would amount to about $58 m over a 30-year period, excluding
funds loaned to settlers. Over the life of the proposed project, the value
of incremental rubber exports generated would average about $18 m per annum.
The Government would receive incremental export duties amounting to $139 m
over the 30-year period. In addition, about $16 m would be generated for
the Rubber Replanting Fund and $3.6 m for the Research Cess. Additional
taxes of $13 m would also be generated. The duties and taxes generated
would result in accumulated surpluses totalling about $82 m by the end of
the project's life in year 2012.
Employment Impact
7.08      The main employment effect of the proposed project would be to
create new employment for about 1,800 new settlers and their families and to
reduce underemployment for the 5,700 settled semi-settled families presently
farming the scheme areas. At full development, incremental family labor
requirement of the proposed project would be about 6,000 man-years, i.e. the
equivalent of 0.8 persons per family overall. During the construction period,
about 3,000 man-years of employment would be created for people working on
road construction, digging fishponds and building village infrastructure.
Furthermore, about 1,000 man-years of casual labor would be required to
operate the nurseries and the hybrid coconuts/coffee trials, and about 200
additional staff positions would be required on the cadres of TAKDIR, RISDA,
and DOA to support and administer the development program.
7.09      Beyond the end of the project implementation period, the incremental
staffing of TAKDIR, RISDA and DOA would be reduced to about 150 permanent
positions. A further 50 personnel would be required for road maintenance, and
a labor complement of about 100 persons would continue to be employed on the
hybrid coconut/intercrop trial plantings.
Impact on Women
7.10      The proposed project would substantially increase the labor input
required by farm holdings in the project area. It is anticipated that, in
line with experience on other settlement schemes in Malaysia, this labor will
be largely met from within the farm household and that in a typical household,
while the husband would undertake the major burden of farm work, the wife
would assist in the rubber tapping and latex collection task, and in
maintenance and weeding operations. The proposed child care centers would
assist in relieving the burden of infant care during these work periods. The
proposed project, through financial assistance for housing and land
development, and provision of infrastructure, would reduce the need for
extended absences by the head of the household and increase cash incomes.
Women would play the major role in the development of home gardens and small



- 44 -
livestock in the new settlements. TAKDIR settler services staff would
coordinate the activities of relevant departments in order to assist in timely
development of these home food sources, and in application of supplemental
nutrition programs, with particular emphasis on pregnant and nursing mothers
and young children (para. 4.16).
Environmental Impact
7.11      It is estimated that 50% of the area to be developed will be
terraced in order to prevent runoff and erosion. The scattered nature of the
development will limit the impact of such increased runoff and of dissolved
plant nutrients. No major processing facilities for rubber are proposed
within the project area. Increasingly stringent standards for effluent from
agricultural processing have been introduced by GOM and these, and existing
regulations controlling land development, would ensure that implementation of
the project would not result in an adverse environmental impact.
Risk
7.12      Project risks are no greater than can normally be expected with
operations of this type. The present outlook for the world rubber market is
favorable and there is considered to be little risk of significant adverse
price changes.  The main project risk is not that the project would fail to
show a reasonable rate of return, but that its rate of development could be
retarded by poor performance on the part of the implementing agency. Delayed
project implementation would probably manifest itself through lagged con-
struction as well as slower or less intensive agricultural development, with
a consequent reduction in yields. Sensitivity tests have indicated that even
with severe delays the project's rate of return would be affected little
although its NPV would be considerably reduced. Provided the strengthening of
TAKDIR is effected quickly, this risk would be limited. If, however, TAKDIR
does not rationalize its accounting system and appoint an experienced Deputy
Director (Operations) soon, the chances of the project falling behind schedule
and settlers becoming dissatisfied would increase markedly.  The nature of the
settler response is of importance because of the voluntary nature of major
elements of the agricultural development program.
8. AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATIONS
8.01      During negotiations agreement was reached with the Government on
the following points:
(a) RISDA would establish and adequately staff an extension unit
(satisfactory to the Bank) to specifically service the project
(para. 3.23);
(b) lending terms to Kelantan State Government would not be materially
amended except in agreement with the Bank (para. 3.31);



- 45 -
(c) DOA and MARDI would establish and maintain the hybrid coconuts/
intercrop trial plantings (para. 4.11);
(d) a nutrition base line survey would be carried out in the project
area by June 1981 (para. 4.17); and
8.02      Assurances were obtained from the Kelantan State Government that:
(a) it would alienate about 4,850 acres of State Land suitable for
agricultural use and adjacent to the TAKDIR schemes for development
under the proposed project (para. 3.05);
(b) lending terms to the settlers would not be materially amended except
in agreement with the Borrower and the Bank (para. 3.31);
(c) 1,800 additional settlers would be selected according to existing
criteria which would not be changed without prior consultation with
the Borrower and the Bank (para. 4.04);
(d) State DOA would provide adequate support services and staff for
orchard development (para. 4.10);
(e) State DOF would provide adequate support services and staff for fish
pond development (para. 4.12);
(f) State PWD would (i) provide a civil engineer and an engineering
assistant to TAKDIR for the duration of the project, and (ii)
undertake maintenance of project road equipment (para. 4.14);
(g) it would make adequate arrangements for the timely provision of
funds required to maintain all civil works constructed under the
project and staff, maintain and operate all other project-supported
activities (para. 4.18); and
(h) it would furnish the Bank with audited project accounts within six
months following the close of the fiscal year (para. 4.20).
8.03      It would be a condition of loan effectiveness that (a) the
consultants to TAKDIR for financial management and (b) the Deputy Director
(Operations) have been employed (para. 3.22).
8.04      It would be a condition of loan effectiveness that a Subsidiary Loan
Agreement, acceptable to the Bank, had been signed by the Government and the
Kelantan State Government (para. 3.31).
8.05      It is recommended that the Bank approve retroactive financing of up
to $500,000 for expenses incurred on project start-up activities (para.
3.35).



- 46 -
8.06      Subject to the above assurances and conditions, the proposed project
would be suitable for a Bank loan of $25 million for a period of 17 years,
including a grace period of 4 years. The borrower would be the Government of
Malaysia.



ANNEX 1
- 47 -                                    Table 1
MALAYSIA
KELANTAN LAND SCHEMES REHABILITATION PROJECT
Phasing of Rubber, Orchards, Hybrid Coconuts/Intercropping and Fish Pond Development
(Area of activity started in each year)
1980    1981    1982    1983    1984    Total
Activity/responsible agency                ------------------- (Acres) -- ---------------
Rubber New Planting
Existing settlers            TAKDIR /a   2,240   2,740   2,940   1,043           -   8,963
RISDA lb    1,000   1,500   1,500   1,500           -   5,500
3,240   4,240   4,440   2,543         -  14,463
New settlers                 TAKDIR /c   2,196   4,632   4,868   2,432           -  14,128
Total New Planting                        5,436   8,872   9,308   4,975          -  28,591
Rubber Rehabilitation /d
Immature rubber              TAKDIR       6,000        -       -        -        -   6,000
Mature rubber                TAKDIR       8,100        -        -       -        -   8,100
14,100        -       -        -       -  14,100
Rubber Replanting              RISDA        1,100      600      600   1,300   3,600   7,200
Orchards Rehabilitation /e   DOA            1,000   1,000   1,000         -        -   3,000
Orchards New Planting          DOA              -        -      200     300      500   1,000
Hybrid Coconuts/Coffee Trial DOA               50      100      100       -        -     250
Fish Ponds                     DOF             50      100      100      50        -     300
Ia  About 1,100 settlers would complete about 5 acres of their undeveloped rubber area
over 2 years at 3 acres and 2 acres each.
/b About 900 and 200 acres in 1980 and 1981, respectively, from land originally
allocated to rubber and a total of 4,400 acres from land originally allocated to
orchards.
/c These settlers would develop their 8-acre rubber holdings over 2 years.
/d About 80% of the immature stand and 40% of the mature stand in 1979 are considered
suitable for rehabilitation over a 3-year period, starting in 1980.
/e A total of about 3,000 acres of existing orchards considered to be suitable for
rehabilitation over a 3-year period, at 1,000 acres each, starting in 1980, 1981
and 1982.



ANNEX 1
- 48 -                              Table 2
MALAYSIA
KELANTAN LAND SCHEMES REHABILITATION PROJECT
Rate of Development of Construction Under Project (Physical Quantities)
Year
1980    1981   1982   1983   1984   1985  Totals
On-farm Development
Fish ponds (acres)             50     100    100       50       0     0       300
Farmers' houses               500   1,000  1,350  1,000         0     0    3,850
Village Infrastructure
Secondary schools               0        0      1       0       0     0         1
Primary schools                 0        4      4       0       0     0          8
Health posts                    3        4      4       0       0     0        11
Village halls                   0       12     12       0       0      0       24
Water supply systems            2        3      3       0       0     0         8
TAKDIR Facilities
TAKDIR offices                  0        4      0       0       0     0         4
Tractor shelters                0       26      0       0       0     0        26
TAKDIR staff houses             0      40      40      18       0     0        98
Road and Track Construction
(Miles)
Settlement roads                0      25      35      25       0     0        85
Agri'al roads (principal)    0          15     25      30      30    25       125
Agricultural roads (minor)   0        100    120    120    120    60          520



ANNEX 1
-49 -                              Table 3
MALAYS IA
KELANTAN LAND SCHEMES REHABILITATION PROJECT
Purchases of Proiect Vehicles (Physical Quantities)
Year
1980    1981   1982   Totals
Headquarters
Saloon cars                   1        0      0        1
Lorries for nursery           2        0      0        2
Provincial Admin.
4 W D prov. hq. vehicles    3          0      0        3
Pick-ups                      6        0      0        6
Prov. Road M4aint. Units
4 W D maintce. vehicles       0        3      0        3
Service vehicles              0        3      0        3
Bulldozers                    0        3      0        3
Motor graders                 0        3      0        3
Front end loaders             0        3      0        3
Tipping lorries               0        9      0        9
Flat bed lorries              0        3      0        3
Road rollers                  0        3      0        3
Fuel tankers                  0        2      0        2
Settlement Schemes
Tractors and trailors        16       10      0       26
Motor boats                   1        0      0        1
Motor cycles                 54       29      6       89



50 -                                     ANNEX I
Table 4
MALAYSIA
KELANTAN LAND SCHEMES REHABILITATION PROJECT
TAKDIR Staffing (excluding Nursery Workers)
Total requirements
Current   1980   1981  1982  1983  1984  1985
Head Office
Director                                 1          1       1      1      1      1      1
Deputy Director                          -          1       1      1      1      1      1
Planning and Budget Officer              -          1       1      1      1      1      1
Administration
Assistant Director                     1          1       1      1      1     1      1
Chief Clerk/Office Yr.                 1          1       1      1      1     1      1
Personnel Officer                      -         -        I      I     I      I      I
Clerk/Typists                          4         4       5      6      7      7      7
Drivers                                4         4        5     5      5      5      5
Office Boys                            2         2        2     2      2      2      2
Finance and Accounts
Assistant Director                     -         1        1      1     1      1      1
Executive Officer (Accounts)           1         1        1      1     1      1      1
Executive Officer (Procurement)   -              1        1     1      1      1      1
Executive Officer (Credit)             -         1        1     1      1      1      1
Accounts Clerks                        3         5        6      7     8      8      8
Field Services
Assistant Director                     -          1       1      1      1     1      1
Agricultural Officer                   1          1       1      1     1      1      1
Engineer                               -         1        1     1      1      1      1
Assistant Engineer                     -          1       1      1      1     1      1
Chief of Settler Services              -         -        1     1      1      1      1
Religious Supervisors                  2         2        2     2      2      2      2
Survey Coordinator                     1         1       1      1      1      1      1
Equipment Manager                      -         -        1     1      1      1      1
Engineering Technician                 -         -        1     1      1      1      1
Water Supply Technician                -         -       -       1     1      1      1
Agricultural Technicians               1         4       4      4      4      4      4
Draftsman                              -         -        I      1      1     1      1
Regional Offices
Supervisors                              3          3       3      3     3      3      3
Assistant Supervisors                    -          2       2      3      3      3      3
Engineering Assistants                   -          -       2      3      3      3     3
Social Services Supervisors              -         -        2      3      3      3     3
Equipment Operators /a                   -         -       6    12    12    12    12
Drivers /a                               -          -      10    18    18    18    18
Mechanics /a                             -          -       4      6      6      6     6
Operators/Assistant Mechanics /a    -               -      10    15    15    15    15
Survey Foremen                          25         18       9      9      9     9      9
Chainmen/Laborers                       68         50      40    30    18    18    18
Office Boys                              -          1       2      3      3      3      3
Clerk Typists                            3          6       9      9      9     9      9
Schemes
Supervisors                             25        26      26    26    26    26    26
Storemen/Clerks /b                       -        26      40    50    50    50    50
Tractor Drivers                          -          -      26    26    26    26    26
Field Assistants /c                      8        42       83    89    58    46    46
/a  Salaries excluded from  TAKDIR staffing  costs as they are covered under "road
construction" or "road maintenance" unit costs.
/b  Some posts filled by junior supervisors and survey foremen at present on
establishment.
/c Partly filled by chainmen on existing establishment.



ANNEX 1
- 51-                                                  Table 5
MALAYS IA
KELANTAN LAND SCHEMES REHAB ILITATION PROJECT
Project Cost
(M$ 000)
1980     1981      1982      1983      1984      1985    Total
A. Farm Development
Rubber nurseries                     537       688       539       179         -         -    1,943
New rubber - TAKDIR                1,521     3,923    6,093    6,514    5,686    4,812   28,549
New rubber - RISDA                   440       840    1,110    1,350         895       810    5,445
Replanted rubber                     484       462       570       953    2,159    1,182    5,810
Rehabilitated rubber               1,499    1,523    1,363         213       139        69    4,806
Orchards                              98       195       293       216       144        92    1,038
Hybrid coconuts/coffee                45       108       138        78        82        76       527
Fishponds                            225       450       450       225         -         -    1, 350
Subtotal A                   4,849    8,189   10.556    9,728    9,105    7,041   49,468
B.  Settler Housing                       1.500    3,000    4,050    3,000            -         -   11,550
C.  Roads and Tracks
Construction                           -    5,913    8,256    7,293    3,993    2,712   28,167
Vehicles                               -    2,380          -         -         -         -    2,380
Subtotal C                        -    8,293    8,256    7,293    3.993    2,712   30,547
D.  Social Infrastructure                   680    1,970    2.670         300      _            -    5,620
E. Management
Facilities                                     526       240       108         -         -       874
Vehicles & equipment                 908       507       112         -         -         -    1,527
Incremental salary & overhead        695    1,076    1,167    1,057    1,038    1,011    6,045
Technical assistance                 324       798       555       306        70       100    2, 153
Subtotal E                    1,927    2.907    2,074      1,471    1,108    1,111   10,598
F.  Road Construction Sector Study            -    1,612        538         -         -         -    2,150
Total Base Cost              8,955   25.970   28,145   21.792   14,205   10,865  109,933
Physical contingencies                 871    3,308    3,763    2,719    1,514    1,158   13,333
Price contingencies                    221    3,203    6,145    6,767    5,744    5,544   27,624
Total Cost                  10,047   32,481   38,053   31.278   21,464   17,567  150,890



- 52 -
ANNEX I
Table 6
MALAYSIA
YELAI1TAN LAND SCHEMES REHABILITATION PROJECT
Project Financing Plan
(11$ 000)
Respon-                     Federal government           State
sible       RISDA          Grant         Loan        government        IBRD
agency  Amount   %   Amount   %   Amount   x   Amount   %   Amount   %   Total
A. Farm Development
Rubber
New planting - materials         TAKDIR        -      -        -    -   2,015   20         -      -   8,061   80  10,075
- labor            TAKDIR       -      -        -    -  20,416  100         -      -        -    -  20,416
RISDA   3,920    72          -    -         -    -       -      -   1,525   28   5,445
Replanted                         RISDA   3,718    64          -    -         -    -       -      -   2,092   36   5,810
Rehabilitated - materials         TANDIR       -      -        -    -      961   20        -      -   3,845   80   4,806
Subtotal                                7.638    17         -    -  23,392   50          -     -  15,523   33  46,553
Dusun                               DOA           -     -   1,038  100          -    -       -      -        -    -   1,038
lybrid coconuts/coffee              DOA          -      -      527  100                                            -     527
Fishponds                           DOF          -      -   1,350  100          -    -       -      -        -    -   1,350
Subtotal                                  I        -   2,915  100          -            -           -         -   2,915
Subtotal A                              7,638    16   2,915    6  23,392   47            -     -  15,523   31  49,468
B.  Housing                               TAIDIR        -      -        -    -   5,775   50         -      -   5,775   50  11,550
C. Roads and Tracks
Construction                        TANDIR       -      -  15,364   60          -    -       -      -  10,242   40  25,606
Vehicles & equipment                TANDIR       -      -        -    -         -    -    476    20   1,904   80   2,380
Engineering                         TAKDIR       -      -   1,537   60          -    -       -      -   1,024   40   2,561
Subtotal C                                   -     -  16,901   55          -    -    476       2  13,170   43  30,547
D.  Social Infrastructure                  PID          -      -   5,630  100          -    -       -      -        -    -   5,620
E.  Prolect Management
TAIDIR - facilities                              -      -        -    -         -    -    437    50        437   50      874
- vehicles                               -      -        -    -         -    -    256    20   1,022   80   1,278
- equipment                              -      -        -    -         -    -      50    20       199   80      249
- incremental salaries                   -      -        -    -         -    -  3,215   100          -    -   3,215
- other overhead                         -      -        -    -         -    -  1,286   100          -    -   1,286
- technical assistance                   -      -        -    -         -    -    191    20        763   80      954
Subtotal TAlDIR                              -     -        -    -         -    -  5,435    69   2,421   31   7,856
RISUA - incremental salaries                 1,142   100         -    -         -    -       -      -        -    -   1,142
- other overhead                        402   100         -    -         -    -       -      -        -    -      402
- technxical assistance                 101    20         -    -         -    -        -     -      403   80       504
Subtotal RISDA                          1,645    80          -    - .            -       -     -      403   20   2,048
Other - technical assistance                     -      -      139   20         -    -       -      -      556   80      695
Subtotal E                              1,645    16       139    1         -    -  5,435    51   3,380   32  10,559
F.  Road Construction Sector Studv                      -      -      430   20        -                        1,720   80   2.150
Total All Components                    9,283       8  26,005   24  29,167   27  5,911          5  39,568   36 109,934
Contingencies                                  2,930       7  11,985   29  10,219   25  1,640         4  14,182   35  40,956
Total Financing                        12,213       8  37,990   25  39,386   26  7,551          5  53,750   36 150,890



ANNE X 1
- 53 -                           Tab le 7
MALAYS IA
KELANTAN LAND SCHEMES REHAB ILITATION ROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
IBRD Fiscal Year                          Accumulated Disbursement
and semester                            (US$ million equivalent)
FY81   2nd                                       0.4
FY82   1st                                        2.1
2nd                                       4.8
FY83   1st                                        7.0
2nd                                       9.8
FY84   1st                                       12.7
2nd                                      15.7
FY85   1st                                       18.0
2nd                                      19.8
FY86   1st                                       21.7
2nd                                      23.4
FY87   1st                                       24.4
2nd                                      25.0



ANNEX 2
- 54 -                               Page 1
MALAYSIA
KELANTAN LAND SCHEMES REHABILITATION PROJECT
Economic Analysis
Derivation of Economic Prices
1.        Project output prices for rubber are based on the Bank's commodity
price projections for 1980, 1985, and 1990 expressed in constant first quarter
1980 dollars, adjusted for international freight, local marketing costs and
quality differentials. Details of these calculations are given in Table 1.
Fertilizer prices are also based on Bank price projections for 1980, 1985 and
1990. Other prices, with the exception of labor, are based on present
financial levels, inflated through to March/ April 1980 constant currency
values and adjusted by standard conversion factors, which take account of the
distortions between Malaysian internal and external price levels. The con-
version factors used are those developed under the State and Rural Development
Project by Michael Veitch. They are summarized in Table 4.
2.        The shadow price of family labor is calculated by considering farm
family labor to fall into three different categories - new settlers, existing
settlers and semi-settled families. New settlers would come from the over-
populated area of the Kelantan plain where there is considerable underemploy-
ment; these settlers are assumed to have an opportunity cost of labor of 0.8
times the wage rate reflecting the reported underemployment in the area.
Existing settlers, who as a result of the project, would expand their area
under production and therefore the amount of labor input into their farms,
would have a low opportunity cost for incremental labor; a figure of 0.6 times
the wage rate is estimated.  Semi-settled farmers, who presently are combining
development of their plots with jobs outside the scheme, are assumed to have
an opportunity cost of labor equal to the wage rate. The overall weighted
average of these three types of settler is estimated at about 0.75 times the
wage rate of M$6 per day, i.e. M$4.5 per day (US$2.1 per day) . Hired labor
for the nurseries and coffee/coconut trials is assumed to have the same
opportunity cost coefficient (0.75) as farm family labor.  These labor rates
are then further adjusted by the consumption conversion factor of 0.8 for
rural households. An opportunity cost of unity is taken for salaries of
incremental salaried staff working for TAKDIR, DOA and RISDA because middle
level staff in Malaysia are in relatively short supply, and it is sometimes
difficult to fill positions in outlying areas.
Cost and Benefit Streams
3.        Project benefits are considered as the total value of the
incremental agricultural production of the project, i.e. the incremental



ANNEX 2
- 55 -                               Page 2
quantities produced multiplied by the economic prices derived either from
border prices or in the case of nontradables, from local prices modified by a
conversion factor (see Table 4). Economic costs attributable to the project
include the incremental cost of agricultural development, the construction of
farm tracks, secondary access roads, and incremental farm houses, the costs of
road maintenance on the farm roads and local access roads, the capital costs
of TAKDIR infrastructure and vehicles, the incremental operating costs of
TAKDIR, RISDA and DOA; and the costs of technical assistance. Included within
the cost streams are physical contingencies of 20% on construction and 10% on
all other items.
4.        The capital costs of village infrastructure (village roads, water
supplies, schools, health centers and village halls) and the maintenance costs
for village roads have been excluded from the economic analysis as they are
part of the general social infrastructure which would be needed to provide
basic facilities for the same number of people that benefit from the project
with or without the project. (Were these items to have been included as part
of project cost, social benefits from them would be considered as project
benefits. By excluding them both as costs and benefits, it is implicitly
assumed that benefits from a social infrastructure are equal to costs when
discounted at the project economic rate return (ERR).
5.        Aggregated economic benefit and cost streams (including contingen-
cies - see para. 3) are listed in Tables 5 and 6; project sensitivity
analyses based on variations of these 5 main benefit and cost streams are
presented in table 7; and switching values under different opportunity cost
of capital (OCC) assumptions are shown in table 8. In the base case, the
project shows an ERR of 17%. The effects of variations in incremental
output are shown in cases 1-5. As over 90% of project benefits, by value,
are from rubber sales, incremental output is a good proxy for rubber price.
Calculation of "switching values" indicates that with OCC = 10% (the base
case) incremental output, either as a result of quantity or price changes
could fall by up to 37% and, ceteris paribus, the project would remain
valid. At an OCC of 7% the fall could be as great as 49%. Conversely, if
the OCC were considered to be 13%, output could still fall by up to 24% and
the project remain viable. On the output side therefore the project is
reasonably robust, and stays valid over a wide range of assumptions.
Similarly, the project is relatively insensitive to wide changes in costs.
At a 10% OCC, ceteris paribus, agricultural labor costs could increase by
177%; or agricultural inputs by 171%; or construction costs by a factor of
nearly three; or management costs by a factor of 6, and the project would
remain viable.
6.        The main project risks are of delay, or possibly a lower than
planned level of agricultural expansion. These situations are modeled in
cases 9-17 of table 7. Even with a delay of up to 4 years in agricultural
benefits and production costs (cases 9-11), yet with management and construc-
tion costs being on time, the project would still show an ERR of over 13 1/2%.



ANNEX 2
- 56 -                                Page 3
Case 17 represents the most likely delay situation. Under this case, manage-
ment costs are incurred as in the base situation, but a two year delay in the
provision of agricultural roads would cause farmers to develop their land with
lower levels of inputs, particularly fertilizer (-40%) and labor (-10%) and,
as a result, yields would be lower (-25%). Under this scenario, the ERR
hardly charges, but because the project would be at a lower level of intensity
the net present value (NPV) would fall dramatically from M$71 million to M$49
million.
7.        The effects of a lower overall level of land development but cons-
truction and management costs remaining at the base level are shown in cases
14 and 15, while case 16 covers the possibility of the project operating at
the planned level of intensity but on only half of the incremental area.
Generally, the effect of delay or scaling down the project is to reduce the
NPV much more significantly than the ERR. This is because the project does
not have heavy initial capital commitments and many costs are related
directly to agricultural production.



- 57 -
ANNEX 2
Table 1
MALAYSIA
KELANTAN LAND SCHEMES REHABILITATION PROJECT
Economic Price Calculations
(March/April 1980 /a constant currency)
Rubber-                Ammonium                 Muriate of
RSSI                  Sulphate                   potash                    CIRP                     Kieserite
USC/lb       ------------- -(US$/ton) -----_             
World Bank 1990 price in 1977 dollars            54.2                     83/c                      72
Adjusted /a to 1980 CM/A) dollars                75.9                    116                       101
Basis of World Bank price                     Spot N.Y.    Urea price /c f.o.b. Japan  F.o.b. Vancouver
Basis for calculation                      Export parity           Import parity             Import parity    Adjusted 1978 prices /d  Adjusted 1978 prices /e
Ocean freight adjustment                          6.3/b                 +30/b                     +35/b
F.o.b. main Malaysia port (US$)                  69.6                    146                      136
Convert to M$ (US$1.00 - MS$2.15)              (MC/lb)      ---------------------- --                 C---------- (M$/ton) -----------------------------------------
149.6                   314                       292
Fertilizers
Unloading/loading                               -                       10                       10
Transport/handling to Kota Rharu                -                      25                        25
Transport/handling from Kota Bharu
to schemes                                   -                       20                        20
Farm-gate price                                 -                     369                       347                      239                         318
Rubber
Msrketing/processing/transport cost            12.4/g
Value DRC RSSI at farm-gate                   137.2
Value average rubber at farm-gate If
(1990)                                     123.75
Economic Prices for Selected Years
1980                                           101                    319                       300                      216                         318
1985                                           109                    369                       324                      246                         318
1990                                           124                    369                       347                      246                         318
/a  March/April 1980 dollars are 1977 dollars adjusted by 30.8% for 1977 to 1979 snd 7.1% for mid-1979 to January 1980, i.e., the index January
1980:1977 is 140.
Ab  Fertilizer figures include bagging.  Rubber freight/insurance differential based on 1978 price spread Malaysia-New York at $116/ton adjusted for
inflation (1978-March/April 1980) of 19-1/2%.
/c  Based on 50X of urea price f.o.b. Japan (i.e., European price + US$10 in 1977 dollar terms).
Id  CIRP price based on 1978 FELDA price (N$180 - US$76).  Price assumed as US$45 rock phosphate c.i.f. Malaysia, and US$31 local value added.
Inflation to January 1980 gives US$54 phosphate rock, $37 local value added. Rock price assumed to increase in line with World Bank forecasts
for phosphate rock, value added remains constant in real terms. Economic transport costs take as M$25 higher than for FELDA due to remoteness
of schemes.
Economic price in Malaysian dollars is calculated as follows:
1980   1985   1990
Rock phosphate                     128    156    156
Value added (economic price
taken as 0.8 times
financial price of 1979)         63      63      63
Extra transport                     25     25      25
Total CIRP Price             216    246    246
/e  Kieserite price:  Estimated financial price in March/April 1980 constant dollars is based on mid-1978 prices paid by FELDA, plus an adjustment
for extra transport to the project area. Mid-1978 FELDA price M$275/ton; mid-1978 exchange rate M$2.35 - US$1.0; mid-1978 US$ price - US$117.
Conversion mid-1978 dollars to N/A 1980 dollars - 1.19. Therefore price in March/April 1980 dollars - $140. Conversion March/April 1980
U$ to March/April M$ - 1:2.15. Therefore FELDA price in March/April 1980 M$ - 301. (M$260 assumed import; M$41 local value added). After
adjusting for extra transport costs of M$25 per ton, and applying a standard conversion factor of 0.8 to the local value added, the farm-gate
economic price is estimated at M$318/ton.
/f Assming 20X RSSI, 60X RSS III and 20% scrap. RSS III value is 97% of RSSI and scrap value 60% RSSI both on DRC basis.
La Based on estimated FELDA 1978 costs of MC12/lb adjusted for remoteness of Kelantan by MCl/lb, converted to March/April 1980 currency terms,
and deflated by a standard conversion factor of 0.8.



ANNEX 2
- 58 -                           Table 2
MALAYSIA
KELANTAN LAND SCHEMES REHABILITATION PROJECT
Domestic Rubber Price - Financial
(MC/lb) /a
1980           1985           1990
Gazetted Price RSSI                           (124)          (133)           (150)
Economic price RSSI (farm-gate)              112            121            137
Less transport cost adjustment               3              3              3
Less replanting cess                       4.50           4.50           4.50
Less research cess                           1              1              1
Less export tax /b                        26.75          31.25          39.75
Farm-gate price RSSI (DRC)                  76.75          81.25          88.75
Average farm-gate price /c (DRC)              69             73             80
/a  Expressed in March/April 1980 constant currency values.
/b  Tax calculated on gazetted price (in Me/lb):  below 60 - 0%, 61-65 -
20%, 66-70 - 25%, 71-75 - 30%, 76-80 - 35%, 81-85 - 40%, 86-90 - 45%,
over 91 - 50%.
/c  Based on 20% RSSI, 60% RSS III and 20% scrap.



- 59 -                                 ANNEX 2
Table 3
MALAYSIA
KELANTAN LAND SCHEMES REHABILITATION PROJECT
Fertilizer - Financial Prices
(M$/ton) /a
Ammonium       Muriate of
sulphate         potash       CIRP            Kieserite
Base Calculation
Economic price (1990)   369               347            246            318
Adjustment for local
value added /b           14              14             22              14
Financial price (1990)  383               361            268             332
Financial Prices for
Selected Years
1980                      333            314             238            332
1985                      383            338             268            332
1990                      383            361             268            332
Prices Used in Project
Analysis
/c
Years  1- 6               358 (16.24)   326 (14.78)   253 (11.47)   332 (15.06)
Years  7-10               383 (17.37)   349 (15.83)   268 (12.15)   332 (15.06)
Years 11-39               383 (17.37)   361 (16.37)   268 (12.15)   332 (15.06)
/a Prices expressed in constant March/April 1980 currency terms.
/b The financial price is greater than the economic price of local value added
by a factor of              1             , i.e. 1.25,
(1 - conversion factor)
/c  Figures in parentheses (   ) are Me/lb.



ANNEX 2
- 60 -                                 Table 4
MALAYSIA
KELANTAN LAND SCHEMES REHABILITATION PROJECT
Conversion Factors /a
Output Items
Rice                                                             0.92
Fruits and houselot produce                                      0.91
Investment Costs
Weed killer/herbicides                                           0.86
Small tools                                                      0.86
Planting material                                                0.86
Nursery costs                                                    0.86
Fish ponds                                                       0.77
Construction                                                     0. 77
Housing materials                                                0.88
Office equipment                                                 0.75
Vehicles                                                         0.76
Farm labor                                Opp. cost
New settlers                             0.80 }
Existing semisettled farmers             1.00 } Av.            0.60/b
Existing old settlers                    0.60 } 0.75
Casual labor                             0.75 }
Government salaries                                              0.80
Value added/marketing costs /c                                   0.80
Government and other social services                             0.80
Consumption - Rural households                                   0.80
Technical assistance                                             0.90/d
/a Factors developed from input/output data which are used to
convert "financial" costs and benefits to "economic" costs
and benefits. Rubber and fertilizers are excluded as economic
prices are estimated separately on the basis of World Bank
Commodity Division forecast (see Table 1).
/b Opportunity cost of labor times the consumption conversion
factor for rural households.
/c Partly transport @ 0.66, partly other intermediate goods
@ 0.9 and partly other services @ 0.72.
/d Assumed 50% foreign at 1.0; 50% domestic at 0.8.
Source: Malaysia SRD Project Report - Michael Veitch.



- 61 -                                 ANNEX 2
Table 5
MALAYSIA
KELANTAN LAND SCHEMES REHABILITATION PROJECT
Sensitivity Analysis
Input Streams For Base Case
(Aggregated economic benefits and costs expressed in M$'000)
Incremental    Incremental
Per-    Incremental   agricultural   agricultural   Construction   Incremental
iods       output          labor          inputs /a        costs /b       management /c
1         971.2         2,010.8         2,387.2           1,452.0          1,741.6
2          844.7        3,670.3         3,532.2           71,96.7          2,072.8
3       1,600.5         4,647.5         4,446.1           7,566.0          1,798.6
4       1,889.8         4,069.5         4,725.8           6,850.4          1,433.4
5       2,402.2         3,160.9          5,093.9          3,939.0            977.7
6       3,368.2         2,302.0         5,044.8           2,847.3            985.1
7       4,515.6         1,760.0         5,375.5             401.9          1,013.1
8       7,391.7         2,342.2         5,553.5             445.8          1,597.9
9      14,732.6         4,088.9         5,537.7             401.9            706.7
10      23,245.3         6,079.5         5,309.6           1,259.3            682.5
11      33,479.7         7,251.8          5,184.8            401.9            675.7
12      41,812.4         7,757.2         4,966.7             401.9            605.6
13      48,641.9         7,540.5         4,806.0             401.9            768.6
14      52,858.5         7,245.0          4,643.2            445.8            814.6
15      56,082.1         6,793.4         4,509.6             401.9          1,257.7
16      58,359.8         6,296.8         4,355.0             401.9            605.6
17      59,680.1         5,846.7          4,204.4            401.9            605.6
18      59,764.7         5,436.4         4,115.7           1,224.1            605.6
19      58,303.9         5,037.5          4,077.0            401.9            768.6
20      55,570.0         4,841.6          4,051.6            445.8            814.6
21      53,519.0         4,882.0          4,119.9            401.9            634.9
22      51,346.4         4,781.1          4,130.3            401.9          1,257.7
23      49,086.9         4,699.7          4,044.3            401.9            605.6
24      46,605.3         4,602.5          3,938.9            401.9            605.6
25      45,151.6         4,599.1          3,850.8            401.9            768.6
26      42,440.1         4,433.1          3,751.7          1,303.1            814.6
27      39,682.5         4,267.5          3,668.4            401.9            605.6
28      37,058.2         4,143.8          3,669.6            401.9            605.6
29      34,992.9         4,245.1          3,596.6            401.9            605.6
30      32,392.7         4,177.4          3,215.5            401.9            605.6
/a Inputs other than labor.
/b Construction costs attributable to agricultural development.
/c Incremental capital and operating costs of the management agencies.



- 62 -                                 ANNEX 2
Table 6
MALAYSIA
KELANTAN LAI) SCHEMES REHABILITATION PROJECT
Sensitivity Analysis
Aggregated Streams for Base Case (M$'000)
Total incre-              Total incre-              Net incre-
Periods            mental benefits            mental costs            mental benefits
1                     871.2                   7,591.7                  -6,720.5
2                     844.7                  16,472.0                 -15,627.2
3                   1,600.5                  18,458.3                 -16,857.9
4                   1,889.8                  17,079.0                 -15,189.2
5                   2,402.2                  13,171.5                 -10,769.3
6                   3,368.2                  11,179.3                  -7,811.0
7                   4,515.6                   8,550.4                  -4,034.8
8                   7,391.7                   9,939.4                  -2,547.8
9                  14,732.6                  10,735.2                   3,997.4
10                  23,245.3                  13,330.8                   9,914.5
11                  33,479.7                  13,514.1                  19,965.6
12                  41,812.4                  13,731.5                  28,081.0
13                  48,641.9                  13,517.0                  35,124.8
14                  52,858.5                  13,148.7                  39,709.8
15                  56,082.1                  12,962.7                  43,119.4
16                  58,359.8                  11,659.3                  46,700.5
17                  59,680.1                  11,058.6                  48,621.5
18                  59,764.7                  11,381.8                  48,382.8
19                  58,303.9                  10,285.1                  48,018.9
20                  55,570.0                  10,153.7                  45,416.3
21                  53,519.0                  10,038.8                  43,480.2
22                  51,346.4                  10,571.0                  40,775.4
23                  49,086.9                   9,751.6                  39,355.4
24                  46,605.3                   9,549.0                  37,056.4
25                  45,151.6                   9,620.4                  35,531.3
26                  42,440.1                  10,302.6                  32,137.5
27                  39,682.5                   8,943.5                  30,739.1
28                  37,058.2                   8,820.9                  28,237.3
29                  34,992.9                   8,849.3                  26,143.6
30                  32,392.7                   8,400.4                  23,992.3



- 63 -                                       ANNEX 2
Table 7
MALAYSIA
KELANTAN LAND SCHEMES REHABILITATION PROJECT
Sensitivity Tests /a
Present    NPV as a X   Internal
value      of present    rate of
at OCC   costs at OCC   return
Test cases            Test case variations                     of 10.0%       of 10%
(M$'000)       (X)            (%)
Base case                                                         71,425.7    60.731         16.972
Test case I   B. Incremental outputs up                10%        90,329.2    76.805         18.414
Test case 2   B. Incremental outputs up                20%       109,232.7    92.878         19.755
Test case 3   B. Incremental outputs down              10%        52,522.2    44.658         15.403
Test case 4   B. Incremental outputs down             20%         33,618.7    28.585         13.672
Test case 5   B. Incremental outputs down              30%        14,715.2    12.512         11.723
Test case 6   C. Incremental agric. labor up           10%
C. Incremental agric. inputs up    10%
C. Construction costs up               10%
C. Incremental management up           10%        59,664.8    46.119         15.552
Test case 7   C. Incremental agric. labor up           20%
C. Incremental agric. inputs up    20%
C. Construction costs up               20%
C. Incremental management up           20%        47,903.9    33.943         14.270
Test case 8   C. Incremental agric. labor up           33%        58,092.4    44.365         15.511
Test case 9   B. Incremental outputs lag              2 years
C. Incremental agric. labor lag    2 years
C. Incremental agric. inputs lag   2 years   50,290.9    49.026              15.252
Test case 10  B. Incremental outputs lag               3 years
C. Incremental agric. labor lag    3 years
C. Incremental agric. inputs lag   3 years   40,979.1    42.659              14.426
Test case 11  B. Incremental outputs lag              4 years
C. Incremental agric. labor lag    4 years
C. Incremental agric. inputs lag   4 years   32,383.6    35.929              13.622
Test case 12  B. Incremental outputs lag               3 years
C. Incremental agric. labor lag    3 years
C. Incremental agric. inputs lag   3 years
C. Construction costs lag              1 year    43,210.6    46.051          14.938
Test case 13  B. Incremental outputs lag               4 years
C. Incremental agric. labor lag    4 years
C. Incremental agric. inputs lag   4 years
C. Construction costs lab              2 years   36,643.6    42.672          14.582
Test case 14  B. Incremental outputs down              50%
C. Incremental agric. labor down   50%
C. Incremental agric. inputs down  50%            18,023.7    23.562         12.820
Test case 15  B. Incremental outputs down              25%
C. Incremental agric. labor down   25%
C. Incremental agric. inputs down  25%            44,724.7    46.083         15.354
Test case 16  B. Incremental outputs down              50%
C. Incremental agric. labor down   50%
C. Incremental agric. inputs down  50%
C. Construction costs down             50%        30,181.3    46.912         15.536
Test case 17  B. Incremental outputs down              25%
C. Incremental agric. labor down   10%
C. Incremental agric. inputs down  40%
C. Construction costs down             2 years   49,198.1    53.142          16.638
/a   For discussion of sensitivity tests see Annex 2, para. 5-7.



- 64 -                                ANNEX 2
Table 8
MALAYSIA
KELANTAN LAND SCHEMES REHABILITATION PROJECT
Sensitivity Analysis for Present Values
(M$'000)
Incremental    Incremental
Discount    Incremental   agricultural   agricultural   Construc-    Incremental
rate        output           labor         inputs         tion costs   management
Appraisal Values
7.00       298,328.4       55,295.0        55,114.2       27,711.0        13,644.8
10.00       189,034.9       40,403.9        41,827.0       24,315.3        11,063.1
13.00       124,231.5       30,878.8         33,045.7      21,687.3         9,305.9
Switching Values
7.00       151,765.0      201,858.4       201,677.7      174,274.4      160,208.2
10.00       117,609.2       111,829.6       113,252.7       95,741.0       82,488.8
13.00        94,917.8       60,192.5         62,359.5      51,001.0        38,619.7
Percentage Change
7.00            -49.1          265.1           265.9          528.9        1,074.1
10.00            -37.8          176.8           170.8          293.7          645.6
13.00           -23.6            94.9            88.7          135.2          315.0
Net                           Internal
Discount        Present       Present       present     NPV as a % of       rate of
rate         benefits        costs        value       present costs    return (%)
Summary Economic Characteristics
7.00        298,328.4    151,765.0    146,563.4             96.6           16.972
10.00         189,034.9    117,609.2       71,425.7          60.7           16.972
13.00         124,231.5     94,917.8      29,313.7           30.9           16.972



- 65 -                                 ANNEX 3
Page 1
MALAYSIA
KELANTAN LAND SCHEMES REHABILITATION PROJECT
Road Construction Study -
Scope of Consultant Services
1.        The objectives of the consulting services are:
(a) to determine a comprehensive strategy for strengthening the Govern-
ment agencies and domestic construction and consulting industries
within the road sector, with emphasis on assisting these industries
and agencies improve their capacity and competence to design and
execute the normal range of road construction works and to balance
their respective involvement; and
(b) to advise and assist in the initial stages of actual implementation
of this effort.
5.        These objectives are to be achieved through two phases as follows:
Phase I
- to estimate the demand of the domestic road construction and
consulting industries in the next five year plan (1981-85),
with a general outlook over a further five-year period;
- to examine and analyze present government agencies involved in
planning and implementing road construction and maintenance;
- to inventory the existing capacity of the construction and
consulting industries (e.g. past experience, manpower, equip-
ment, construction materials);
- to examine their work environment (e.g. financing, procurements,
contracts, relations with Government);
- to develop a basic strategy for strengthening the government
agencies involved in the road construction sectors, with
particular attention to road maintenance, and to propose
improvements, reorganization where desirable, as well
as the most efficient mix of works by force account and by
contract;
- to propose a level of future capacity and competence for the
industries in line with demand and their employment opportunity,
considering the domestic market.



- 66 -                                  ANNEX 3
Page 2
-  to develop a basic strategy for promoting the industries and
building up their capacity and competence to the appropriate
level; and
-  to determine specific actions over the short (1-3 years),
mid- (3-5 years) and longer term required on the part of the
Government, the industries themselves, and other concerned
parties (equipment and materials industries, banks) to carry
out the proposed basic strategy.
Phase II
- to prepare a detailed implementation program of the actions
suggested above upon review and approval by Government.



- 67 -                                  ANNEX 4
MALAYSIA
KELANTAN LAND SCHEMES REHABILITATION PROJECT
Related Documents and Data Available in the Project File
A. General Reports and Studies on the Agriculture Sector
A.1 S. Selvadurai "Agriculture in Peninsular Malaysia" Ministry of
Agriculture, April 1977.
A.2 IBRD "Malaysia - Agriculture and Rural Development" Draft Country
Sector Memorandum. June 1980.
B. General Reports and Studies Relating to the Project
B.1 Kelantan State Economic Planning Unit "A Development Strategy for
Kelantan" July 1978. 2 vols.
B.2 Government of Kelantan "Kelantan An Economic Survey and Implemen-
tation Programme." May 1979.
B.3 SGV - Kassim Chan. "Study on the Rehabilitation of the Schemes of
the Lembaga Kamajuan Tanah Negeri Kelantan" February 1979. 3 vols.
B.4 Veitch M.D. "National Parameters for Project Appraisal in Malaysia"
Vol. 1. Economic Planning Unit (EPU) Kuala Lumpur, 1977.
C.  Materials Related to the Project
C.1. Agricultural cost and working tables.
C.2. Detailed cost and production estimates.
C.3. Farm models.
C.4. Infrastructure cost and working tables.
C.5. Working Paper on the Kelantan State Land Development Board including
enabling Act.
C.6. Working Paper on Food and Nutrition.
C.7. The Project Area.
C.8. Technical Assistance.






MALAYSIA
KELANTAN LAND SCHEMES REHABILITATION PROJECT
TAKDIR
ORGANIZATIONAL STRUCTURE
Tech nicdl
Coordinating                       Board
Committee
Director
:
Deputy                        Budneingi
Assistant                                          Assistant                                           Assistant
Asctanto                                            Director                                           Director                       gricultural
f inance/                                         Administra-                                        Development                       Advisor
Accounts                                              tion
Executive            E dit         |     Executven                                 District           Agricultural           Nursery             Settler Affairs
Officer              Officer               Officer                               ManagersOfieMagrDvlonntEier
Accounts              Credi            Procurement                                                                                                  Ofie
Scheme              Agricultural         Plant Material          Social &             Engineering
Development            Support/               Supply                Religious             & Survey
Advisory                                    Services
World Bank - 21388






MALAYSIA
KELANTAN LAND SCHEMES REHABILITATION PROJECT
TAKDIR
OPERATIONAL DIVISIONS
|    Deputy Director
RISDA  |  .  Assistant DirectoA
Agricultural                              Development
Advisor
Agicltra                   Nusr                                              Settler Affairs 
andicer                     Nager                                          and Development                              Engineer
Officer   Manager                                        ~~~~~~~~~~~~Officer
Technical l-
l Ass istan t    lReligious                                                                                 Assistant Engineer|
Supervisors (2)                            Technical      X
Support Staf f 
HQ                                                                                                                   iDistrict                        
Level                                                                                                                                  Units
adiStrchem District Managers                                                                                                             I         
andSeme                Advisry                               (3)                             Settler                               Maintenance        
Agricultural       _  _        Scheme Supervisors (26)                Services                              and Support |
Assistants (3)                       and                            Assistants  3                               Staff (51) | 
Support Staff (165) *__ _ __ _ _ _ _ 
|  Settlers                                                                              B
(7,500) 
VVorlId B ank k-21389






SIKEDAH UA                                                                                         P tAUV5S \  0; 0; 0 ::;0 00000 ;0 MAtAYSIA
KEDAH
KELANTAN LAND SCHEMES REHABILITATION
)rEOAIJ It LAIIT~ -Y.EI1EN5O                                                                             LANT. .. l X : ......... \  :  AOSETTLEMENT IEMES
) PERAJ-7) 11    _ERENGGAI                        
TAXKOIR HiEADOUARTERS
TAKOIR REGIONAL OFFlCES
:   :\   -   FEDERAL/STATE ROADS (PAVED)
P t VAHA;G                                                                          - -... --w FEDERAL/STATEt RADS UNDERCONSTRUCTtON
.-EL N ORNG                                                                                            : 
......  rEDERAL Y sTATE POADS PROJECTED
RURFAL ROADS CONSTRUCTION PROGRAM IPAVEDI
;lRUNAtLROADCORtOTRU0T  'PROGRAM 1GRAVEL)
< <_4SEMEIL-A                         THAILAND                                         kA    lX4S*PWD StStTFFtFESANRDWORKSHOPS
KAV                                                                                        RO O t} \ E > 2Kota  / *   POSED07W  DiStRICT OFfFCES AND WORKSHOPS
~~e    CAXA~~~~~~~                              ha                    U    ROEEE~~~~~~FBKR NURME-WES
INOONESIA     -;'
-SLWoyIE             .)                                      1-' -            T,tERAT( i3bt$,tY, i ;tQNAO   My
Thismap has been prepared by the World Bk staffexclusivel for the convenience--
of the realers of the report to .hich it is attached The den,min-et,ons used and the
boundaries sho-n on this map do not imply, n the prt of the World Bank and ts  --
affliates, any udgmet n the Iel stats ofany territory or any edorsementor
aeccptlance of-suh boondarien,tH
AIR LAN                         /      J      AIR BELAGA
LAK0T      lIRCNA 
Men                  I                            \                             To KUALA TEREGAN
P30'                         0                t               SAHAGIA   g     t   A G   PALSNG                                                   5RTA
To KFDAI4 STATE    r     ASIR D SLANG
onpr. tOO( K.
Es-W Wet Hiihe-ay
KEBANGAN
(                                  MERANTO  5 X\___Z 
B h a r     u           J          X                a                ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~KILOMETERS
J  0            &  L{MAU KASTURIg                      )             g ,   4                   |              j~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~5 0
$  0   SG TRAH4i4,J -/    \                       PAS
K.iA       '  F                                               a A
PERA                            Xrt   Wn 
<:~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~G S<        :                  '  AM 1/ SG                  ~ R                                                cK
\)   1nl3N                                     g0152000oor                                         1030        i_                               o 0 4



