Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY             FILE COPY
Report No. P-2705-MA
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT
OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO MALAYSIA
FOR A
KELANTAN LAND SCHEMES REHABILITATION PROJECT
August 7, 1980
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency unit = Ringgit (M$)
M$1.00     = $0.47
$1.00     = M$2.15
M$1,000,000 = $465,116
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 acre        =  0.405 ha
I mile        =  1.6   km
ABBREVIATIONS
AFNP     - Applied Food and Nutrition Program
BPM      - Bank Pertanian Malaysia (Agricultural Credit Bank)
FELCRA   -  Federal Land Consolidation and Rehabilitation Authority
FELDA    - Federal Land Development Authority
ICU      -  Federal Implementation Coordination Unit
KEMAS    - Department of Community Development (Min. of Agriculture)
PWD      -  Public Works Department
RISDA    - Rubber Industry Smallholder Development Authority
TAKDIR   - Kelantan Darul Naim Land Development and
Rehabilitation Corporation
GOVERNMENT OF MALAYSIA
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLl
MALAYSIA
KELANTAN LAND SCHEMES REHABILITATION PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:       Government of Malaysia
Beneficiary:    State of Kelantan
Amount:          $25 million equivalent
Terms:           17 years with 4 years grace at 9.25%.
Relending
Terms:        $14.5 million would be relent to the State of Kelantan,
repayable in 25 years including 10 years grace at the same
interest rate as in the Bank loan to the Government. The
foreign exchange risk will be borne by the Government. The
balance would be provided to project agencies as grant.
Project
Description:  The principal objective of the proposed project is to
increase incomes and improve the living conditions and
well-being of 7,500 low income rural households in the State
of Kelantan by:
(a) assisting 5,700 existing settlers on Kelantan Darul
Naim Land Development and Rehabilitation Corporation
(TAKDIR) land settlement schemes to complete the
development of their holdings and to replant or
rehabilitate their existing perennial crops (principally
rubber);
(b) settling and assisting about 1,800 households to develop
landholdings on the schemes;
(c) completing basic infrastructure on the schemes; and
(d) strengthening TAKDIR to provide adequate support to
settlers and to coordinate its activities with other
agencies.
About 75% of the beneficiaries would be rural households
whose present incomes fall below the poverty line. At
full development, the project would enable these benefi-
ciaries to more than double their incomes. The project
faces no special risks, although realization of the expected
benefits would depend heavily on the ability of TAKDIR to
strengthen and expand its staffing.
This document has a mstricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Estimated Cost: The table below summarizes the total cost of the project.
Local   Foreign   Total
($ million)--
Rubber:
New planting               12.7       4.0      16.7
Rehabilitation              0.4       1.8       2.2
Replanting                  2.0       0.7       2.7
Other agriculture             0.7       0.7       1.4
Settler housing               3.8       1.6       5.4
Roads and tracks               8.0      6.2      14.2
Social infrastructure         1.7       0.9       2.6
Management                     3.3       1.6      4.9
Road construction study       0.2       0.8       1.0
Subtotal:  base cost       32.8      18.3      51.1
Physical contingencies        4.0       2.2       6.2
Expected price increases    8.4         4.5      12.9
Total project cost /L    45.2        25.0      70.2
Financing Plan
Government                       36.0        -      36.0
State                             3.5        -        3.5
RISDA                             5.7        -        5.7
Bank                              -        25.0      25.0
Total                      45.2    -25.0       70.2
Estimated
Disbursement: Bank FY    1981   1982   1983   1984   1985   1986   1987
Annual       0.4    4.4    5.0    5.9    4.1    3.6    1.6
Cumulative  0.4    4.8    9.8   15.7   19.8   23.4   25.0
Rate of Return: 17%
Staff Appraisal Report:   No. 2845-MA, dated July 25, 1980.
/1 Including $3.5 million of taxes and duties.



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO MALAYSIA
FOR A KELANTAN LAND SCHEMES REHABILITATION PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
loan to Malaysia for the equivalent of US$25.0 million for a Kelantan land
schemes development project. The loan would have a term of 17 years,
including 4 years grace, with interest of 9.25% p.a. Of the proceeds of the
loan, US$14.5 million would be relent to the State of Kelantan for a period
of 25 years, including 10 years grace at the same interest rate as in the
Bank loan to the Government. The foreign exchange risk will be borne by the
Government.
PART I - THE ECONOIY /1
2.        The latest economic report, "Malaysia:  New Perspectives on the
Third Malaysia Plan" (No. 1594-MA), is dated October 14, 1977.  Since that
report was circulated, a book has been prepared at the request of the
Government, which reviews the overall performance of the Malaysian economy
since 1960, discusses current issues and assesses future prospects.
Entitled "Malaysia: Growth and Equity in a Multiracial Society." The book
was published in July 1980. Detailed data on Malaysia's economy are shown
in Annex I.
3.        By most economic indicators, Malaysia has done well in the past.
The per capita income of US$1,090 in 1978 is among the highest in Southeast
Asia. During the past two decades, the Malaysian economy achieved an
average real growth of GNP of about 7% a year. This sustained high growth
rate is basically a reflection of the country's wealth in natural resources,
especially its ample reserves of cultivable land; an outward-oriented growth
strategy; good, albeit cautious, economic and financial management; and, not
least, stable social and political institutions. Three specific factors
were important: sharp rises in productivity in the rubber sector - rises
which cushioned the effects of steep price declines and helped maintain
the Malaysian share in the world rubber market; a big push for export
diversification through rapid expansion of the production of palm oil and
the extraction of timber; and rapid manufacturing growth, which has averaged
about 13% a year since 1968 and has been increasingly oriented toward exports.
4.        A look beyond the macroeconomic aggregates reveals that Malaysia
has been trying to overcome a serious poverty problem. Since 1960, signi-
ficant improvements have been made in raising production in agriculture,
diversifying output and improving social services. However, the impact of
these improvements on the incomes of the poor has been offset to a
/1 Part I is essentially the same as the corresponding section of the
President's Report No. P-2715-MA, dated February 22, 1980 on the Ninth
Power Project (Ln. 1808-MA), which was approved on March 13, 1980.



significant extent by other factors. Continuing rapid population growth has
substantially reduced the impact of production increases on per capita
incomes. In addition, Malaysia suffered a serious and sustained terms of
trade loss during the 1960s which further reduced average real income growth
during the period. As a result, a serious poverty problem persists: the
Government estimates that almost 40% of the population has incomes
insufficient to provide minimum requirements of food, shelter, clothing and
other basic needs. Further, this problem is complicated by considerable
racial inequalities in income and employment. Malay income on average is
only about 40% the income of Chinese and about two thirds the income of
Indians. Malays still predominate in employment in agriculture and
non-Malays in the industry and services sectors.
5.        Because the problems of poverty and racial inequalities are both
serious and persistent, the Government has given top priority to solving them.
Thus, the twin objectives of the New Economic Policy, introduced by the
Government in 1971, are to eradicate poverty and to reduce the racial
imbalance in income, employment, and the ownership of assets. More
specifically, it is targeted that by 1990 the incidence of poverty will be
reduced by two-thirds, that the pattern of employment will reflect the
racial composition of the population, and that the share of bumiputras /1 in
the ownership of the corporate sector will increase from 2% in 1970 to at
least 30% in 1990. The New Economic Policy emphasizes the need for rapid
growth in the industrial and services sectors as the principal means by
which these objectives will be attained. The Government's long-term plan is
based on the requirement that about 2 million, or almost 90%, of the new
jobs to be created during 1975-90 would be in industry and services. This
requirement implies a substantial reduction in the share of agricultural
employment. It also implies a net shift out of agriculture of more than a
million jobs from the number that would be employed if present employment
patterns were to persist.
6.        If the targets of the New Economic Policy are to be reached, the
economy must maintain a long-term GNP growth rate of at least 8% a year.
The growth of the manufacturing sector will have to be even more rapid.
Without the expansion, employment growth of more than 3% a year will not
materialize if rural incomes are to be significantly increased. A more
moderate growth rate would substantially reduce the creation of new employ-
ment in the modern sector and make it more difficult to achieve the
targets for restructuring employment and reducing poverty.
7.        Malaysia's strong natural resource base together with a favorable
outlook for the prices of her major commodity exports should provide the
economy with sufficient financial resources to achieve rapid growth. Aside
/1 Bumiputra literally means "son of the soil." The word is used to refer
to Malays and other indigenous groups.



from short term fluctuations, th-e balance of payments current account should
continue in surplus for the foreseeable ftuture enabling an adequate level ot
reserves to be maintained together with a moderate l.evel of debt service.
The elasticity of tax revenues should also enable the Government to finance an
expanded development prcgram.  Thus the availability of resources, which
has not been a serious problem in the past, is expected to be even less of a
constraint in the future.  Compared with most other developing countries,
Malaysia is fortunate in this respect.
8.        Although Malaysia appears to have the financial capacity to achieve
rapid growth, the economy will no longer be able to rely so heavily on rapid
growth of primary production. While Malaysia is rich in natural resources,
which will provide a reliable base for the expansion of the economy, the
growth rates of the prodluction of such commodities as rubber, palm oil-,
petroleum and forest products are all likely to be lower than in the past.
With growth decelerating in the resource sectors, rapid industrial growth
will increasingly become essential to successful economic performance.  This
imperative arises not only from the viewpoint of production and the creation
of real incomes but also from the viewpoint of employment and its racial
restructuring.
9.        In addition to rapid industrial growth, successful achievement of
the targets of the New Economic Policy will require a concerted effort to
accelerate the pace ot rural develcpment. Most of the poor live in rural
areas. Although rapid growth of indust:rial employmient can ease the problem
of rural poverty by absorbinig migrants from rural areas, poverty will
continue to be a largely rural phenomenon. Thus, even if there is rapid
sustained growth of employment in industry and services, the projections of
the Third Malaysia Plan indicate that more than three-quarters of Malaysia's
poor will be in rural areas in 1990. An expansion of income and employment
opportunities for rural Malaysians is of high priority.  Furthermore, the
expected decline in the growth rates of the production of rubber and palm oil
makes expansion of government programs even more necessary, for example,
accelerating land development programs, increasing settler participation in
those programs, expanding programs of replanting for rubber smallholders,
expanding extension and credit for rice farmers, intensifying efforts to
promote intercropping by coconut smallholders and improving the access of
po,nr families to such basic services as education, housing, electricity and
water supply - all of vwich deserve priority because of the substantial
impact they can have in reducing poverty. The greater availability of
public resources will enable the Government to undertake that expansion.
But the main constraint on mounting a more effective attack on rural poverty
appears to be the capacity of the public sector to identify and prepare
projects that can affect large numbers of rural poor.
10.       The Government does not have the direct control over private
investment that it has over public investment, but it can play a strong role
in providing a policy framework conducive to vigorous growth in the private



-4-
sector.  Because the more obvious areas of import substiltutiori have been
exhausted, sustained rapid growth in manufacturing will have to rely
increasingly on export expansion.  Policies will therefore havie to ensure a
favorable export environment.  With regard to institutional factors, the
Government has already acted to alleviate fears in the private comnffllity
about the Industrial Coordination Act and the Petroleum Developmenit Act.
The Government has also stressed that it will implement the Industrial
Coordination Act in a flexible and pragmatic manner so as to encourage
investment and growth. Because much of the concern in the private sector
has been over how that Act will be implemented, flexible implementation by
the Government should help to ease the concern in the business community.
11.        In summary, the prospects appear to be good for achieving rapid
growth and for ameliorating the twin problems of poverty and racial im-
balances. Certainly there should be no serious constraints imposed by the
availability of resources. To achieve the targets of the New Economic
Policy will nevertheless require vigorous action by the Government along a
number of fronts. The policy framework will have to be readjusted to ensure
sustained growth of the industrial sector. A pragmatic attitude will be
needed in interpreting and implementing the quantitative restructuring
targets to ensure that sight is not lost of the overall goal of improving
the racial balance. Growth in the supply of technically trained manpower
will require close scrutiny to ensure that it does not constrain the
restructuring potential made possible by rapid economic growth.  Finally,
larger and more effective programs to reduce poverty by direct action will
require a concerted effort to expand the capacity of the public sector to
prepare and implement such programs.
12.        Assuming a continuing 7-8% rate of economic growth during the
1980s, Malaysia's balance of payments is projected to remain in modest
surplus. The cumulative current account surplus is projected to average
about 1.0% of GDP during the 1980s. Net direct investment medium- and
long-term loans equivalent to about 4.0% of GDP would be required to
maintain a reasonable level of reserves and to offset short-term and other
outflows. At present about 15% of public debt outstanding and disbursed is
from the World Bank; this percentage may increase somewhat during the early
1980s. Debt service is expected to be maintained at a level equivalent to
about 4% of exports. The Bank's share of debt service is currently about
10% and may increase to about 20% by the end of the decade.
13.        In general, over the next few years, it is likely that the
Government will need less external capital than previously forecast, largely
because of strong commodity prices and oil earnings. At the same time,
Malaysia has a serious income distribution and poverty problem. The
country needs technical assistance and expertise to help develop poverty
alleviation programs and to assist in designing and packaging projects that
reach out directly to low-income families. The Malaysians believe strongly
that project borrowing, particularly from development institutions such as



the World Bank, is necessary to assist them to mount an effective attack on
poverty. Bank lending is therefore focused on strengthening government
efforts to reduce poverty directly.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN MALAYSIA
14.       The Bank has made 47 loans to Malaysia, totaling $1,102.5 million
for projects in agriculture, education, population, power, water supply,
sewerage, telecommunications, ports, railways, roads, and urban transport.
Although in a number of cases disbursements have been slower than expected,
the execution of Bank projects in Malaysia has generally been satisfactory.
As of May 31, 1980, the effective loans to Malaysia held by the Bank
amounted to $909.71 million. Nineteen loans have been fully disbursed.
Annex II contains a summary of Bank Loans and IFC investments, as well as
notes on the execution of ongoing projects.
15.       Since Malaysia is currently a resource surplus country, the need is
past for Bank lending for infrastructure projects. The Bank-s present
lending strategy in Malaysia is to support the Government-s programs to combat
the deep-rooted problem of poverty in the country, particularly in the rural
areas. The thrust of this strategy is not simply to provide financial support
to poverty alleviation projects but to develop an institutional and policy
framework to enable the Malaysians eventually to design and implement
antipoverty programs independently. With this in mind, the Bank has proposed
to undertake projects with relevant institutions, such as the Agricultural
Credit Bank (BPM), the Federal Land Consolidation and Rehabilitation Authority
(FELCRA), the Rubber Industry Smallholders Development Authority (RISDA), and
area and state development agencies in the poorer states in Malaysia, which
should broaden their experience in the designing of projects and serve as a
basis for building managerial and technical skills within these institutions.
Technical assistance of this nature with a financial underpinning is
considered to be the most effective way in which the Bank can best support the
Malaysian development at present.
16.       Malaysia's own commitment to assist its low-income groups has
strengthened significantly in the past few years. The Bank has been heavily
involved in helping Malaysia identify and prepare projects geared toward the
rural poor. Prior to 1975, this was done primarily through expansion of
irrigation and land development as means of expanding output, raising incomes
and creating employment opportunities. To reach more rural households,
greater emphasis has since been given to programs designed to raise produc-
tivity in existing smallholder areas. The number of rural development
projects recently financed and in the current pipeline is impressive.  Six
rural development projects were financed in the last three years, which
include improvement of irrigation and drainage systems, rehabilitation of
tree crops, national extension and research. At least 16 additional rural
development projects have been identified for possible Bank support in the
coming 5 years.



-6-
17.       The Government's capability to develop such projects, however,
remains weak, largely because of a shortage of trained manpower. With the
help of the UNDP-financed and Bank-executed State and Rural Development
Project, which provides technical assistance to selected federal and state
agencies, the Bank is helping the Government to develop further its programs
and projects for reducing paverty. The proposed project is a significant step
towards establishing an effective institutional framework in Malaysia insofar
as it will be the first Bank project in that country to be implemented by a
state agency, the Kelantan Darul Naim Land Development and Rehabilitation
Corporation (TAKDIR)./1
18.       As part of its lending strategy, the Bank proposes to continue its
involvement in the education sector in Malaysia by concentrating more heavily
on technical and skill training. It is also seeking new initiatives in
providing support to the manufacturing sector in Malaysia, especially in
promoting the growth of small-scale industries, in order to enable the
Government to realize its growth, employment and restructuring objectives.
Assistance to infrastructure will be selective, concentrating on providing
access to rural areas and rural electrification.
19.       IFC has made six investments in Malaysia totalling $8.69 million.
The total investments held by IFC as of May 31, 1980 amounted to $1.14 million
(Annex II).
PART III - THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
Background
20.       Malaysian agriculture has a strong comparative advantage in tropical
tree crops, which explains the dominance of rubber, coconut palm and oil palm.
Altogether, 8 million acres have been brought under cultivation in Peninsular
Malaysia, of which almost 6 million are devoted to rubber and oil palms.
Nearly two thirds of the rubber acreage is in smallholdings. The only other
major crop is padi, with one million acres. Other crops (all below 100,000
acres each) are pineapple, cocoa, cassava, sugarcane, tobacco, coffee and
groundnuts.
21.       Over the past decade and a half, physical output in the sector has
grown strongly, but because of adverse terms of trade, this growth has not
been matched by growth in the value of cutput. Rubber output has expanded
by 100% and oil palm by 300%. In addition, rice output has expanded by 90%
/1   Formerly known as the Kelantan State Land Development Board (KSLDB).



7-
due largely to improved irrigation and double cropping; on average, rice
imports have fallen to oily about 10% of annual consumption.  The average
annual growth of 5t5% for the sector in real terms has been among the
highest in the world. HoDwever, this compares with a real growth rate of
7.5% for the economy as a whole. The sector will continue its gradual
decline in relative importance as industrialization proceeds. For the
present though, agriculture remains extremely important in the overall
economy, providing about 29% of GDP, 44% of employment, and 40% of export
earnings in 1978. However, its dualistic development has resulted in the
absolute poverty of about 55% of MalaysiaTs agricultural households (25% of
the national population).
22.        In the past, the Bank has provided extensive assistance for
developing and settling large new land areas, which have been primarily
planted with rubber and oil palm. The program has not only contributed to
raising production and income of the settlers recruited from among the rural
poor, but it has also helped to reduce the pressure of population on existing
agricultural land. Nearly 50% of the land development effort over the past
two decades has been undertaken by FELDA, which has been the Bank-s princi-
pal vehicle for agricultural assistance and is now a mature organization
capable of managing its programs independently. However, the land develop-
ment picture is now changing.  In Peninsular Malaysia, the principal
opportunities for large-scale land development projects - of the type the
Bank has financed with FELDA - are running out. Although at least 3-4 million
acres potentially suitable for agriculture remain undeveloped in the
Peninsula, this land is principally in smaller blocks. Besides, state
governments, which under the constitution control land alienation, are
becoming increasingly reluctant to allow concessions for further land
development by a Federa.l Agency.  It is for these reasons, and because so
many of the poor rely on traditional agriculture, that for the future we
propose to emphasize an improvement in productivity and incomes in existing
smallholdings rather thani the development of new lands. The proposed
project is the first in which the Bank would assist in financing
rehabilitation and deve:Lopment of existing land settlement schemes.
23.       A Prolect Performance Audit Report on the First and Second Jengka
Triangle Land Settlement Projects (Loans 533-MA and 672-MA) (No. 2122)
dated June 30, 1978 and a Project Performance Audit Report on Loan 672-MA
(No. 3240) dated June 11, 1980 examine the activities of FELDA under these
two projects. The reports describe the development program under FELDA as
remarkably successful and FELDA as one of the few land development agencies
in the world which has succeeded in reaching all its settlement and income
objectives. Mos of the comments deal with FELDA-specific issues. However,
some lessons can be applied to the proposed project:
(a) Delays occurred in the settlement program principally due to
difficulties encountered by the Public Works Department in
keeping up with FELDA's schedule. The Road Construction Sector
Study being undertaken under this project (and the subsequent
Road Construction Sector Project proposed for FY82) will address
inter alia the improvement of Federal and local PWDs.



- 8 -
(b)  Under the first two FELDA projects self-help was rejected as
ill-suited and unworkable. The report suggests that perhaps
FELDA had not properly tested the limits of what the settlers
could be asked to contribute. In later FELDA projects the self-
help issue seems to have received better response. Under the
proposed project, groups of settlers will be organized for
housing construction and farm labor will largely be supplied
from within the farm household.
(c)  The Bank's insistance on reforms in financial administration
and accounting benefited all FELDA activity, equipped the
institution to handle its greatly increased load, and earned
the respect of FELDA management. Under the proposed project,
institution building, with special attention to accounting
procedures, constitutes a major component of the project.
Objectives and Strategies
24.       The main objectives of the Government's agricultural policy are:
(a) to increase incomes in agriculture as rapidly as possible; (b) to
alleviate rural poverty and to redress interregional and intergroup income
disparities; (c) to maintain a reasonable relationship between agricultural
incomes and incomes earned in other sectors; and (d) to generate employment
opportunities for new entrants to the rural labor force.
25.       The Government's efforts to pursue the above objectives involve
the following five major strategies: (i) the absorption of surplus and low
productivity labor from agriculture into more productive jobs in the
industrial and service sectors. To this end, the Government is pursuing a
policy of rapid economic growth and investment in human resources parti-
cularly within rural areas; (ii) new land development in order to generate
additional employment within agriculture at adequate income levels; (iii)
increased emphasis on raising productivity and incomes in existing
traditional smallholder agriculture; (iv) increasing transfer payments to
rural people, if moving them out of agriculture or increasing their incomes
from agriculture are not feasible; and (v) increasing export earnings,
especially from tree crops, to finance the industrial and other investments
needed to achieve rapid economic growth. The project is designed to meet the
Government's objectives (a) and (b) above, through increasing productivity
and incomes in traditional smallholder agriculture. New land development is
included under the project and rubber exports will incidently be increased.
26.       Field operations of agricultural programs in existing smallholder
areas are vested in state departments of agriculture and several single-
purpose federal agencies, e.g., Rubber Industry Smallholder Development
Authority (RISDA), Federal Land Consolidation and Rehabilitation Authority
(FELCRA), Livestock Development Authority and Fisheries Development
Authority. Major emphasis is being placed on improving coordination among



these entities and increasing their individual capacity for effective
implementation. In addition, because of its increased emphasis on raising
productivity within areas of traditional agriculture, the Government is
placing greater reliance on general purpose agencies such as the Farmers'
Organization Authority (FOA) and service agencies such as the Bank Pertanian
Malaysia (BPM).
PART IV - THE PROJECT
27.       The project was prepared by the Kelantan State Government, based on
a consultant feasibility study; Bank preparation missions assisted the State
Government. The project was appraised in September/October 1979. A Staff
Appraisal Report entitled "Kelantan Land Schemes Rehabilitation Project" (No.
2845-MA, dated July 25, 1980) is being distributed separately. Supplementary
project data are provided in Annex III. Negotiations were held in Washington
from June 9 to 11, 1980, with the Malaysian delegation led by Duleep Singh,
Under-Secretary, the Treasury.
Project Area
28.       The project would be carried out in the southern region of the State
of Kelantan. Except for the northern coastal plain, which covers less than
20% of its area, the State is predominantly mountainous and 75% of the area is
still forested. The climate is hot and humid; rainfall averages 2,700 mm per
year, with a peak during the September-January northeast monsoon. Soils are
typical of inland Malaysia, moderately to well drained, and subject to erosion
on exposed slopes.   The project area is best suited to perennial crops,
particularly rubber.
29.       Kelantan has the lowest per capita income in Malaysia.  In 1978, GDP
per capita was estimated to be only 38% of the national average. The popula-
tion is heavily Malay, rural, and dependent upon agriculture, particularly
rice and rubber. Population concentration in the northern plain is heavy, and
farm size small. The State has traditionally been isolated from the rest of
the country, with no direct surface access to the West Coast and major ports.
The resultant high transport costs have hindered both agricultural and
industrial development. Public amenities and social services are also less
well developed than in the rest of Peninsular Malaysia.
30.       The State of Kelantan initiated small self-help land development
schemes in the late 1950s to provide land for rural families who were landless
or who had very small holdings. TAKDIR /1 was established in 1960 to be
responsible for this effort; 26 schemes based on rubber totalling 71,000 acres
had been established by 1971. The schemes were located in progressively more
remote areas in the south of the State (Map 14768R). TAKDIR activities have
been restricted by the general financial constraints facing the State. tIost
of its small headquarters staff are not professionally qualified, and the
/1 See footnote on page 6.



- 10 -
agency has been able to provide little more than general guidance to settlers.
Access to the schemes and living conditions on them have been poor. By mid-
1978, only four schemes could be reached by allweather access roads, three
had a piped water supply and six had clinics. An Accelerated Rural Roads
Program is underway which will provide allweather access to schemes, and 16
water supply systems and two clinics are under construction. Poor access has
resulted in restricted and high priced food supplies and infrequent service by
government agencies, e.g. extension and health services, consequently settlers
were reluctant to move onto the schemes.
Project Objectives
31.       The main objectives of the project are to assist 7,500 settler
families to increase their incomes and improve their living conditions and
well being by: (a) improving or completing development of their holdings, and
improving housing and the physical and social infrastructure on these schemes;
and (b) strengthening TAKDIR so that it can provide adequate support directly
to settlers, or improve coordination with other state and federal agencies
providing services to settler households. A strengthened TAKDIR could subse-
quently undertake additional smallholder land settlement schemes in Kelantan,
either in new land development or rehabilitation. The proposed project would
benefit 5,700 existing and about 1,800 new settler families on the 26 TAKDIR
rubber schemes. The area involved would be about 76,000 acres: 71,000 acres
are within the existing 26 schemes and an additional 5,000 acres of adjacent
state land would be alienated by the State of Kelantan (Section 2.08 of the
draft Project Agreement).
Criteria for Participation in the Project
32.       The current occupants will qualify as bona fide settlers if they:
(a) have begun development of a significant proportion of their plots by
September 1980; and (b) maintain reasonable agricultural standards on their
plots.  The 1,800 additional settlers to be recruited would need to meet the
following criteria:  (a) resident in Kelantan; (b) 21-45 years old; (c)
married; (d) he and his immediate family owning less than 2 ac of cultivated
land; (e) have a low income /1; and (f) prepared to live with his wife and
family on a TAKDIR scheme.
Detailed Features of the Project
33.       Agricultural Development.  By mid-1979 about 5,700 plots had been
taken up on the schemes. Each plot comprises a 6 acre lot for rubber, 2 acres
for mixed fruits or other perennials and a 1/4-acre houselot. Twenty eight
thousand acres of rubber and about 5,000 acres of other crops had been planted
on the 26 schemes.  However, due to lack of support and supervision, the
quality of many plantings is low. Settlers often had difficulty obtaining
/1 At most a household income of $250 per capita per annum; typically
incomes are below about $175 per capita per annum.



- 11 -
good planting material, used few inputs, and carried out inadequate
maintenance. As a result, most rubber plantings show below average densities,
poor growth and low yields; to earn acceptable incomes, most settlers resort
to overintensive tapping. It is estimated that about half of the rubber
stands and 60% of the fruit crops are in good enough condition to warrant
improvement. Development of fruit lots has been slow largely because of
marketing uncertainties. In fact, many settlers would prefer to plant these
areas to rubber and the State of Kelantan has agreed to permit settlers to
do so, where technically feasible.
34.       The proposed project would improve about 26,000 acres of the
existing perennial crop area of 32,800 acres by:
(a) rehabilitating about 14,000 acres of rubber through intensive
fertilizer application, chemical weed control and improved tapping
methods. Credit assistance of up to $140 per acre would be
provided;
(b) rehabilitating about 3,000 acres of mixed fruit crops through
fertilizer application, chemical weed control, some replacement of
inferior stock, and improved management. Grant assistance in kind
of up to $140 per acre would be provided;
(c) replanting about 7,200 acres of rubber. Grant assistance of $560
per acre in materials and cash would be provided over a six-year
period under the national replanting program; and
(d) replacing about 1,800 acres of mixed fruits with rubber.
The most viable alternative for the remaining existing crop area (6,800 acres)
would be continued rubber production without undertaking any improvements.
35.       The proposed project would support new crop planting on about
27,800 of the remaining project area of 43,200 acres by:
(a) establishing about 26,800 acres of rubber. Some existing settlers
would qualify for grant assistance from RISDA for new planting
of rubber./l These settlers would receive cash, materials and
services of $560 per acre over a six-year period to plant about
5,500 acres. Planting on the balance of about 23,100 acres
(including the 1,800 acres is referred to in para. 31(d)) would be
financed by credit assistance from TAKDIR in the form of materials
and cash, amounting to about $834 per acre over a six to seven year
period. Where appropriate, land clearance would be performed by
contractors. However, much of the undeveloped area is in scattered
plots and will have to be cleared by the settlers: credit payments
would be made on a predetermined schedule and charged to the
settlers loan account; and
/1 Those qualifying would be established smallholders with mature rubber with
landholdings of less than 10 acres, of which less than 7 acres in rubber.



- 12 -
(b)  establishing about 1,000 acres of mixed fruit.  Settlers would
receive grant assistance of up to $140 per acre in the form of
planting materials, fertilizers, and chemicals.
The balance of the project area (about 15,400 acres) would be left
as wasteland/public areas, or used for houselots.
36.       Intercropping hybrid coconuts with robusta coffee has been suggested
as an alternative to rubber for parts of the project area. However,
experience with this crop in the area is lacking.  The proposed project would
therefore provide for trial plantings of 250 acres of interplanted hybrid
coconuts on 5 sites with soil conditions representative of inland Kelantan
(Section 3.04, Loan Agreement).
37.       Fish constitutes a major source of protein in the Kelantanese diet,
but supplies of fresh sea fish are limited in inland areas. To Improve
local fresh fish supplies, the project would assist in the development of 300
acres of fishponds. Settlers would construct ponds of about 1/4 acre, and
grant assistance of $581 per pond (for ponds of 1/4-1/2 acre size) would be
provided as materials and cash. Farmers applying for the fish pond grants
would need to have suitable sites and demonstrate that family labor is
available for pond maintenance.
38.       Infrastructure and Services.  Each of the 26 schemes has a desig-
nated village site in which the settler is allocated a houselot. Eighteen
villages have already been provided with, or have easy access to, a primary
school. The proposed project would provide for the construction of eight
primary schools to serve the remaining schemes, and one secondary school.
Similarly, the proposed project would include the construction of 11 local
clinics and 8 gravity-fed water supply systems to complete provision of these
services where they are required. Materials would also be provided for the
self-help construction of 24 small community centers. Partially prefabricated
materials would be made available on a credit basis to settlers for construc-
tion of 3,850 settler houses.
39.       The ongoing Accelerated Rural Roads Program will provide all-
weather access to all but two schemes which will remain accessible only by
boat. Under the proposed project, roads and tracks would be constructed
to provide field access to support agricultural development and to provide
internal access within village areas. A total of 645 miles of agricultural
roads and tracks would be provided on the basis of minimum accepted standards
for perennial crop development in Malaysia of 1 mile per 100 acres. The more
heavily used sections (about 20% of the total) would be surfaced to enable
all weather use. Within village areas, 85 miles of surfaced roads would be
constructed to provide access to settler houselots.
40.       Significant nutrition/health problems have been a constraint on
development in the project areas.  Close attention was paid to these issues



- 13 -
as part of the conceptual design and preparation of the project. The project
would fund approximately 36 man-months of local professional expertise to
undertake a baseline nutrition/health survey and supervise subsequent
monitoring (Section 3.06, Loan Agreement). Nutrition related programs (home
gardens, poultry and freshwater fish production, supplemental child feeding),
largely coordinated under the Applied Food and Nutrition Program (AFNP),
would be applied in the project area as required. The collective and
synergistic effects on nutrition of provision of basic social infrastructure
(water supply, clinics) and improved access, together with the application and
strengthening of nutrition related programs, are expected to be significant,
and would be in direct response to specifically identified needs. Further,
the project would provide two man-years of technical assistance to the Federal
Implementation Coordination Unit (ICU) to assist in strengthening the capacity
for effective formulation, implementation and evaluation of the AFNP.
41.        Institution Building.  TAKDIR would be substantially expanded and
strengthened. Specifically, the project would:
(a) create a position for a Deputy Director who would take charge
of TAKDIR's field operations. This post would be filled
by an experienced professional, whose employment would be a
condition of effectiveness (Section 6.01(c) of the Loan
Agreement);
(b) provide for up to 165 field level staff (excluding scheme super-
visors) to supervise and record field operations and for three
additional agricultural assistants at the regional level, who
would provide general oversight of field operations; provision
would also be made for three man-years of technical assistance
in agricultural development;
(c) provide a small headquarters engineering staff responsible for
supervision of engineering, design and construction of project roads
and TAKDIR facilities, and three regional units responsible for
maintenance of project roads and minor construction. Staffing would
total 58 and each regional unit would be supplied with a bulldozer,
grader, loader, roller and trucks;
(d) provide funds for engaging consultants to make proposals for
implementing an improved accounting system that incorporates
individual sector accounts, managing the implementation of this
system for the first three years of the project, and train TAKDIR
staff. Employment of these consultants would be a condition of
effectiveness (Section 6.01(c) of the Loan Agreement). TAKDIR s
own staff would be augmented with two qualified accountants, one
with experience in materials procurement and contract procedures;



- 14 -
(e) establish a small settler services staff with the principal
functions of liaising with other agencies to ensure effective
delivery of services to settlers, assisting scheme supervisors in
establishing settler organizations, and helping settlers to obtain
off-scheme enployment until their rubber crops mature;
(f) establish a planning and budgeting capability; and
(g) provide expanded office facilities at the regional level, housing
for additional field staff, central and field level storage
facilities, a tractor/trailer at each scheme, 6 four-wheel drive
vehicles, 6 pick-ups, motorcycles for field assistants, and a boat
to improve transportation to the schemes inaccessible by road.
42.       RISDA would establish a separate unit, with a staff of 30, in its
Kelantan office to be responsible for its extension activities within TAKDIR
schemes (Section 3.03(b) of the Loan Agreement). For RISDA, this would
represent an experimental approach to providing extension services to small-
holders, and the project would provide support through additional funding for
three man-years of technical assistance in extension and training. Provision
of materials and supervision of replanting and new planting would be by
RISDA's existing field inspectorate.
43.        Road Construction Sector Study.  In recent years, Malaysia's
capacity to plan, design, construct and maintain its road network, including
rural roads as well as primary highways, has been under severe strain. Delays
in road construction have been a principal Implementation bottleneck in land
development projects. The commitment of funds to road construction has
outstripped the capability of the public sector, while the private road
construction sector does not yet have the capacity to undertake a major share
of the program. To address this problem the Government wishes to undertake a
comprehensive study of the road construction sector (public and private)
throughout Malaysia. The study's objectives would be to investigate the
present situation in detail, identify reasons and causes for the observed
implementation problems in this sector, and recommend solutions and actions
necessary to modify government policies, and organization(s), and to remove
existing constraints, so that the present trend may be reversed. The project
would provide approximately 80 man-months of consultancy services to the
Economic Planning Unit (EPU) to undertake the study.
Organization and Management
44.        Overall responsibility for implementing the proposed project would
rest with the State of Kelantan. The project would be carried out through
TAKDIR.  The Board of TAKDIR has been strengthened to include Government
representation. It is chaired by the Chief Minister of Kelantan and includes
representatives from the Federal Ministries of Finance, Lands and Regional
Development, and Agriculture, EPU, and FELCRA, and the State Deputy Chief
Minister, the State Secretary, State Financial Officer and the State Director
of Lands and Mines. The Board would provide overall guidance in implemen-
tation and set policies.



- 15 -
45.       A Technical Coordinating Committee has been established which is
chaired by the State Chief Minister and comprises the Deputy Chief Minister,
State Financial Officer, Director of the State Economic Planning UUnit,
representatives of the Federal Ministries of Finance, Agriculture, and Lands
and Regional Developnent, FELCRA, and RISDA, and the Director of TAKDIR. This
committee will take steps to ensure adequate Federal-State and inter-agency
coordination and would act on behalf of the Board as a Steering Committee
for the project. The Director of TAKDIR would act as Project Manager and
be responsible for day-to-day implementation of the project. He would report
monthly to the Technical Coordinating Committee.
46.       Specific responsibilities of individual agencies would be as
follows:
(a)  TAKDIR: overall scheme management; supervising new rubber
planting (TAKDIR will provide credit for new rubber planting for
settlers not qualifying for RISDA grants); and rehabilitation
activities for which it provides credit; procuring required
materials and inputs; supervising construction of scheme roads,
offices and facilities; procuring materials, and supervising
construction of settler housing; providing credit to settlers and
maintaining individual accounts;
(b)  RISDA:  replanting, and new planting of rubber covered by RISDA
grants; procuring required materials and inputs; and overall
extension activities for rubber cultivation and exploitation;
(c)  DOA (Department of Agriculture):  supervising new planting and
replanting of fruit crops; providing plant materials and inputs;
extension for fruit and annual crops (including garden crops); and
developing 250-acre pilot project of hybrid coconut and coffee
(with assistance from the Malaysian Agriculture and Research and
Development Institute on statistical layout and analysis);
(d)  PWD (Public Works Department):  constructing schools, clinics
and water supply facilities; providing engineering staff to
TAKDIR for the duration of the project; and
(e)  the Departments of Fisheries, Veterinary Services, Health and
Education would staff facilities to be constructed under the
proposed project and provide appropriate assistance and extension
to project participants as a part of their normal programs.
Project Costs and Financing
47.       Total project costs (inclusive of $3.5 million of taxes and duties)
are estimated at $70.2 million, of which $25.0 million or 36% represent
foreign exchange. Physical contingencies of 10% on agricultural development,
housing materials, vehicles and equipment, administration and management, and
20% on roads and public facilities have been added to base costs. Price



- 16 -
increases were assumed at 9% for 1980, 8% for 1981 and 7% thereafter.
Expected price increases amount to 23% of base costs plus physical contingen-
cies. The proposed Bank loan of $25.0 million would finance the full
foreign exchange cost of the project, equivalent to 37% of project costs
exclusive of taxes and duties.
48.        Project financing would be as follows:
(a) $11.9 million of the proceeds of the Bank loan would be relent to
the State of Kelantan, together with $18.3 million of Federal
Government loans, for onlending to settlers to finance farm
development;
(b) $7.2 million of the proceeds of the loan, together with $11.4 mil-
lion of Federal Government funds, would be provided to the State of
Kelantan as a grant to finance construction of roads and tracks;
(c) $6.0 million of Federal Government funds would be provided as grants
to Federal line agencies for provision of social infrastructure, and
agricultural support, including grant-aided programs such as orchard
improvement;
(d)  $2.6 million of the proceeds of the loan would be relent to the
State of Kelantan to finance facilities, vehicles and equipment,
and technical assistance for TAKDIR, and would be combined with
$3.5 million of State Government funds which would finance the
balance of TAKDIR's administrative costs;
(e)  $2.3 million of the proceeds of the loan would be provided
to RISDA as a Treasury grant and would be combined with $5.7 mil-
lion of RISDA's own funds to finance RISDA's activities under the
project; and
(f) $1.0 million of the proceeds of the loan, and $0.3 million
of Government funds, would be provided to EPU to finance
the road construction sector study.
49.        The Government would ensure that adequate funds are made available
to complete the project (Section 3.01(a), Loan Agreement). The beneficiaries
would also supply noncash inputs, mostly in the form of settler labor, to an
estimated value of $9 million. The production and extension advisory
services, financial management and assistance in nutritional monitoring are
estimated to require about 192 man-months of professional expertise at a
total cost of about $1.0 million. The average manmonth cost (based on the
individual fees, travel and local allowances) is expected to be about $4,840.
The average local man-month cost is $3,200 (96 man-months) and the average
expatriate man-month cost is $6,500 (96 manmonths).  In addition, the cost of
the baseline and post-project nutrition health survey, including field staff
and laboratory testing is estimated to be $70,000. Engineering design and
construction supervision for the roads and tracks would be carried out by
domestic consultants.  The lump sum contract cost, which is estimated to be
$1.2 million, is based on 10% of the estimated construction cost.  The Road
Construction Sector Study will require about 90 man-months of specialist



- 17 -
consultancy services in engineering, management and finance. The average
man-month cost, including salary, costs, fees, international travel and
subsistence is expected to be about $10,000. In addition to these personnel
costs the estimated cost includes the cost of vehicles, local transportation
and office expenses and other minor items.
Relending Terms
50.       The Government would bear the foreign exchange risk.  It would
relend approximately $14.5 million of the proceeds of the loan to the State
of Kelantan, at the Bank interest rate and with a maturity of 25 years with 10
years grace, for onlending to settlers and for financing TAKDIR-s facilities,
equipment, and technical assistance. Government funds would be onlent to the
State on terms averaging 5-1/2% p.a. for 25 years with 10 years grace and no
interest in the first 5 years. Onlending terms to settlers would be at
prevailing rates for similar land settlement schemes in Malaysia at 6-1/4%
p.a. For new planting of rubber, terms would be the same as under current
FELDA rubber schemes, i.e. loans would have a maturity of 24 years with 9
years grace with interest compounded during the grace period. Borrowings for
other purposes, e.g., rubber rehabilitation, would have a shorter maturity,
based on the borrower's expected capacity to service debt. The inflation rate
over the past three years has averaged about 5% and is expected to remain at
that level for the next few years. The proposed rates are positive and
compare favorably with current commercial rates for agricultural borrowing,
which are 9-11%. No material changes would be made in relending terms without
prior consultation with the Bank (Section 3.03, Project Agreement). These
terms would be incorporated in a Subsidiary Loan Agreement between the Federal
and State Governments. It would be a condition of effectiveness that this
Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been executed between the Federal Government and
the State of Kelantan (Section 6.01(b), Loan Agreement).
Procurement
51.       Vehicles and equipment amounting to $2.0 million would be procured
under international competitive bidding in accordance with Bank Group guide-
lines. A 15% preference margin, or the prevailing customs duty if lower,
would be extended to local manufacturers of these items. Off-the-shelf items
costing less than $40,000 each and limited to a total of $800,000, would be
procured locally through normal government procedures. Materials for
agricultural development and housing amounting to $24.2 million would be
procured by local competitive bidding. There are numerous suppliers, foreign
firms are well represented, bids would be accepted from foreign suppliers and
competition is adequate. Civil works ($23.5 million) would be relatively
small and scattered for most of the construction subprojects. Competitive
bidding in accordance with local procedures, involving no domestic or other
preferences, would be appropriate for the work to be executed under contract.
Disbursement
52.       Disbursements for vehicles, equipment, fertilizers, and chemicals
for TAKDIR would be at the rate of 80% of total costs, or 100% of foreign



- 18 -
exchange costs.  F'o;r nroctbin of roads and related engineering services,
disbursement would be at the rate of 40X of total costs.  Disbursement for
TAKDIR facilities and housing materials would be at the rate of 50% of total
costs. Disbursement for technical assistance and consulting services (except
engineering) would be at the rate of 80% of total costs, or 100% of foreign
costs. For rubber development financed by RISDA, disbursement would be at the
rate of 100% of the Treasury grant payment to RISDA, amounting to 34% of
RISDA's field development expenditure during the project period. Normal
supporting documents would be submitted for vehicles, materials and civil
works. Certified statements of expenditures, audited by the Auditor-General,
would be submitted for RISDA payments. To allow key project staff, including
financial consultants, to be recruited immediately, and project activities to
be undertaken as planned for the 1980/81 clearing and planting season, retro-
active financing of $500,000 from January 1, 1980 is proposed (Schedule 1,
para. 4 of the Loan Agreement). It is expected that disbursements would be
completed by June 30, 1987, approximately 18 months after the end of
construction.
Accounting and Auditing
53.       TAKDIRs existing financial condition is weak and its accounting
system inadequate to meet the needs of the proposed project.  The appointment
of a financial consultant to implement an improved accounting system, that
incorporates individual settler s accounts, would be a condition of loan
effectiveness (Section 6.01(c) of the draft Loan Agreement) and TAKDIR-s over-
all accounts would be audited by the Auditor-General or independent auditors
approved by the Auditor-General and acceptable to the Bank (Section 3.02 of
the draft Project Agreement).
Cost Recovery
54.       Government-s total commitment to the project over its life would be
about $85 million. About $30 million would be in the form of loans made over
a period of 12 years to settlers for development of rubber and housing, which
would be fully recovered at an interest rate which is positive. The balance
would comprise $10 million in grant assistance for agricultural development,
$20 million for economic and social infrastructure and $28 million for manage-
ment, administration and maintenance, and would be borne directly by the
Government, the State of Kelantan and RISDA. The project would generate
export duties and taxes amounting to about $180 million over its life.
Historically, RISDA's revenue from the replanting cess has been fully adequate
to cover the replanting grants paid to smallholders.
Impact on Women
55.       The project would substantially increase the labor input required by
farm holdings in the project area. It is anticipated that, in line with
experience on other settlement schemes in Malaysia, this labor will be largely
supplied from within the farm household and that in a typical household, while



- 19 -
the husband would undertake the major burden of farm work, the wife would
assist in the rubber tapping and latex collection task, and in maintenance and
weeding operations. The proposed child care centers would assist in relieving
the burden of infant care during these work periods. The project, through
financial ass-stance for housing and land development, and provision of
infrastructure, would reduce the need for extended absences by the head of the
household and would increase cash incomes. Women would play the major role in
the development of home gardens and small livestock in the new settlements.
TAKDIR settler services staff would coordinate the activities of relevant
departments in order to assist in timely development of these home food
sources, and in application of supplemental nutrition programs, with
particular emphasis on pregnant and nursing mothers and young children.
Environmental Impact
56.        It is estimated that 50% of the area to be developed will be
terraced in order to prevent runoff and erosion. The scattered nature of the
development will limit the impact of such increased runoff and of dissolved
plant nutrients. No major processing facilities for rubber are proposed
within the project area.  Increasingly stringent standards for effluent from
agricultural processing have been introduced by GOM, and these and existing
regulations controlling land development, would ensure that implementation of
the project would not result in an adverse environmental impact.
Project Benefits and Risks
57.        The project is designed primarily to generate increased incomes for
7,500 existing settlers on the TAKDIR schemes and to provide for the settle-
ment of another 1,800 low-income rural families. The incomes of existing
settlers are generally below the accepted poverty income level of $1,600 per
year per household, largely because of the lack of support they have received
in the past. It is projected that incomes of existing settler households
would rise from an annual average of $1,160 to $2,580 at full development (the
average of years 11 to 20). New settlers are estimated to have preproject
incomes of $840, which would also rise to $2,550 per year. These higher
incomes reflect both increased productivity and reduced underemployment.
Labor input would increase by about 65% for new settlers and 35% for existing
settlers. Returns per day worked on the holding would be more than double for
existing settlers.
58.        The project is expected to yield several benefits which cannot be
quantified. The completion of public infrastructure, schools, clinics and
water supply facilities and the provision of assistance in housing construc-
tion would enable families to move onto the schemes at a much earlier stage
than in the past, thus hastening the development of viable communities.
In addition, nutrition programs, together with improved access and consequent
greater availability and lower prices for food, would reduce the incidence of
malnutrition, particularly among children.



- 20 -
59.       At full dev,01drTfenIL.  ,he pr :posed project would induce annual pro-
duction of rubber (all of which would be exported) amounting to about $24
million. In addition, production of fruits, fish, coffee and coconut, to the
value of about $1 million per annum would be generated for domestic consump-
tion.  During the develol-nent period about 3,000 man-years of employment in
total would be generated in construction and at full development additional
family labor requirements of about 6,000 man-years per annun would be
generated.
60.       The risks associated with the project are limited.  Rubber produc-
tion technology is well known in Malaysia. Market prospects for rubber are
favorable. The economic rate of return for the proposed project is estimated
to be 17%, calculated on the basis of comparing, at economic prices, forecast
agricultural production <ad related costs with the project and the expected
situation without the project. A reduction of 20% in price would reduce the
rate of return for the project from 17% to 14%. The major risk associated
with the project is that of delayed agricultural development because of poor
performance on the part of the major implementing agency, TAKDIR, but this
would not have a substantial impact on the rate of return. For example,
delaying the agricultural development of the project by three years and
construction by one year would reduce the rate of return to 15%.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENT AND AUTHORITY
61.        The draft Loan Agreement between Malaysia and the Bank, the draft
Project Agreement between the State of Kelantan and the Bank, and the Report
of the Committee provided for in Article III, Section 4 (iii) of the Articles
of Agreement are being distributed separately to the Executive Directors.
Special conditions of this loan are listed in Section III of Annex III.
62.        I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
63.        I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Washington, D.C.
August 7, 1980



ANNEX I
- 21 -                                                  Page 1 of 5
TALE 3A
MLLAYSIA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
MALAYSIA                           REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVERAGES
LAND AREA (THOUSAND SQ. KM.)                                                              - MDST RECENT ESTIMATE)-li
TOTAL             329.8
AGRICULTURAL       65.1                                 MOST RECENT           MIDDLE INCOME            MIDDLE INCOME
1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b         ASIA & PACIFIC    LATIN AMERICA & CARIBBEAN
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                  240.0        450.0    1090.0                 894. 8                   1384.1
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)      242.0        469.0     716.0                 842.4                    1055.9
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, MID-YEAR (MILLIONS)       8.0         10.7      13.3
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 25.2          27.0      28.8                  39.1                      63.4
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                        20.0
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                          30.0
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                   2070
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. KM.                        24.0         32.0      40.0                 376.1                      28.1
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND    152.0         185.0     204.0                2350.4                     81.7
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                          45.1         45.4      42.2                  40.4                     41.4
15-64 YRS.                          51.3         51.5      54.4                  56.2                     54.7
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                    3.6          3.1       3.4                   3.4                      3.9
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                               2.5          2.9       2.7                   2.4                       2.7
URBAN                               5.5          3.6       3.6                   4.1                       4.1
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)      39.1         32.6      29.0                  28.7                     34.8
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)       9.1          6.8       6.0                   7.9                       8.9
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                ..           ..        1.9                   1.9                      2.5
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)        ..         56.0      80.4
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)    ..           7.0      36.0                  39.0
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)           85.0         99.0     107.0                 116.9                    106.9
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                   105.0        113.0     117.0                 108.9                    107.4
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)           48.0         51.0      57.0                  60.3                     65.6
OF WHICh ANIMAL AND PULSE        16.0         18.0      22.0                  18.8                     33.7
ChILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE       9.0          5.0       3.0                   5.3                       8.4
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)    57.0          64.0      67.0                  63.0                     63.1
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                            75.0/c       41.0      31.0                  52.8                     66.5
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                                ..           ..      62.0                  42.4                     65.9
URBAN                                ..           ..      93.0                  62.1                     80.4
RURAL                                ..           ..      49.0                  29.7                     44.0
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                ..         59.0      60.0                  52.8                     62.3
URBAN                                ..        100.0     100.0                  71.1                     79.4
RURAL                                ..         43.0      43.0                  42.4                     29.6
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN           6937.0       4260.0    4347.0                4120.1                    1849.2
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON      1776.0/d    1246.0    1079.0                 2213.6                   1227.5
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                             265.0/e      285.0     306.0                 819.4                    480.3
URBAN                                ..         86.0
RURAL                                ..       1900.0
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED            ..           ..      17.2                  28.8
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                               5.9          5.6/e
URBAN                               5.9          5.9/e
RURAL                                ..          5.5/e
AVERAGE NUMBER OP PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                               3.0          2.6/.
URBAN                               2.3          2.3/.
RURAL                                ..          2.8/e
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                                ..         43.0/e
URRAN                              82.9         84.72        ..
RURAL                                ..         30.0/e



- 22 -                                                 ANNEX I
Page 2 of 5
TABLE 3A
MALAYSIA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA 5HEET
MALAYSIA                        iEFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVEItES
- MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)A
MOST RECENT           MIDDLE INCOME            MIDDLE INCOME
1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE fb          ASIA & PACIPIC    LATIN AMERICA & CARIBBEAN
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                  96.0         91.0      93.0                    98.6                     99.7
MALE                 108.0         95.0       94.0                   99.2                    101.0
FEMALE                83.0         87.0      91.0                    97.7                     99.4
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                  19.0         35.0      43.0                   55.5                      34.4
MALE                  25.0         40.0      47.0                    60.7                     33.5
FEMALE                13.0         29.0      38.0                    49.9                     34.7
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (2 OF SECONDARY)   5.0            3.2       2.9                    13.7                     38.2
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                             28.0         31.0      32.0                    34.6                     30.5
SECONDARY                           38.0         26.0      27.0                    28.5                     14.5
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)         53.0         55.0         ,,                   85.8                     76.3
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                            ..           ..        ..                     9.0                     43.0
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                            ..           ..        ..                  118.9                     243.3
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           3.2         18.0      45.0                   39.4                      84.2
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                   61.0         65.0      87.0                      .                      63.3
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA 16.0            9.4       9.1                     4.9
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)       2745.3       3622.2    4789.0
FEMALE (PERCENT)                    27.0        31.4       33.0                    36.8                     22.2
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)               63.1         56.0      50.0                    51.9                     37.1
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                  11.7        14.0       16.0                   21.9                      23.5
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                 34.2         33.8      33.9                    39.1                     31.5
MALE                                  48.8         45.7      45.9                    48.5                     48.9
FEMALE                                18.9         21.5      21.5                    29.6                     14.0
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                1.4          1.5       1.3                     1.1                      1.4
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS       ..         27.0
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    ..           56.6
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS       ..          3.3
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS       ..         10.6        ..
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 ..           ..     279.0
RURAL                                 ..           ..     252.0                   192.1                    190.8
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 ..           ..     313.0                      ..                    474.0
RURAL                                 ..           ..     283.0                   182.5                    332.5
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                 ..           ..      16.0
RURAL                                 ..           ..      46.0                    33.2
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
L    The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means. Coverage of countries
among the indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
Lb   Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Mosc Recent Estimate, between 1974 and 1978.
7c   1957;  /d 1962;  /e West Malaysia.
April, 1980



- 23 -                                                                                   ANNEX I
Page 3 of5
REtfPNTtOaIS OP SOCIAL tOlaICATnOt
Notes:  Although the date se  dtce  tro  core  generally judged the sst authoritatIve nd reliable, it should ale  be ntetd abet they any not he tee--
eatienall1y o-pse-ble hetanse at the leot of etoderdiced def.toirina    ad concepts need hy di fferent  .o.etetee to -niletieg the data,  The dare are, none-
thelega. neetal tn descolbe nWde   of eagattoda, tdi-eta tacoda, end oh-cticcttatn maor ditfer-os  hetaveen.. annaie..
Th' reeeeo  gon. are (1) our sate ona-y groa  of the cubject rona.try cad f It a...ntry ncanp altO  sutehur hialrrav--ge  Ieco   than the an...rry anouc
of the sbjeot ....aty tear..Pt f-o 'Cail Surpln Oitl Ep-rre-s  grop  hee   Middle tints North Afrtta cad Middle taut  tc ah.c.- hbaen at strager
-iata-rat 1a otf 'ietic).  Ira the ref-reno  greup deic the a                -oge   r  popuait- reighted arithtocto asea  fur auth i~daetur ned shun only abet at
Isg..r halt of the  nnast  a goon  lass d.ta for abet indi.et-r  Si..e the  -neasofourte   aa  the  nisusdyoen  t~he_ vuiabIlity at
de-  gad Is not n-tf-rt  nattn ot hr saraiscd In relating s-rgs.  of ane lodtctnr to nnabe.  Th.ce e-ercc  areary asetof                                 ~ truproartcna-ln
at ncldiono. t a Ita sang the tont"nr  end raf-.n.no  Arous.
Lot  SA(thousand aq,t.)                                                               .uneoa   er'vdcia    .oouta  auiur   fnnurn   aaoainp
Totl    Total eartuo  e-e  capoteieg land eo   aed jaland eate.,                             etaca-  qua1if.od  .oe a ..edleleh.o   tudoroylr
Agritltura  - Ecasa f atcgi-ultn-l area need esaporatly ur pentnetly               PnatuorturigPcn  -Populetion dinided hranhe   f.poat.tiaog
foe noos. pastun.. cahtk sad kiteoha  gandea -r ta Lie fauna; 1977 data,                  ale and totele graduat  nree, p-ctit.l a...e.a *ed  -seletanarec
1015PSICAPTA fSt)-GIP per a-pi-a ectista  ct  ......o .en p.irs, -l-                    ura,sdrrl   iie   ythe it  -Psntio  ancho  of huepitaI bade
o-se  b  e  areiun marina cc Woald lb-. Atitia  fi976-7a bhciu); 19601            anaichin. in pablir and Pi-tat  genera  and cycoinled hncpitcl cad e-
19)0 .ad 1978 date,                                                                        habtlitati-eoete.-   HPiteainle an         tblet hllsaut  Pere-etir staffed
by at  -at one Phaycirie.  Ecteblistaccte sennidiag prieip.lly ouctnd1el
ENERGY CONSoTIeONu PtER CAPITA-Anna  cuumrnoa   e oiieeg  fonI                                acereet iroludad.  aru1 hapiteals, incense  itnlud  heslth ned  edirl"
and lignite'       . -erac,at 1a gc. end hydn-, nuolec  and geurbarcaelco-                  re  -r   u  permeectly crafted by a Phyetilcn  that by a adica  sutocn
tricity) in kilugrecs of oo.al eqoivant per aepita; 1960, 1970, and 1978                    rsesidrift, atc.)  hbiab uff icr -p.tiar eo--detin    and proVide
dare.  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~   ~      ~     ~    ~     ~     ~    ~    ~ ~ Iitoard raga at eadica1 taciliti-c  Par statistical  purp-e  -rbr h-c'-
tale includ  b'OO  principalg ..nra  sa d  pyctiulicd huepitale, and rura
POpttLATIttt 0011 VITAL SIAIISTICO                                    hocyituls 1oat on  .. rua  b-paral  nod sediru1 ad coterityaa--r-
TatalPonulalue.Mid-tco (clliun) -Ah  of July 1; 1960, 1970. and 1978            daeonortoyaled-Total ...rber of adnia...n ra iort hcoerge
daafothsiasdvddb  rh o anhe  ot beds.
lrba  Posolarir (Erneo-t  f_ut ana   - tatia of arhan to taral yapulctiae;
dffenear dfiebiane of urban arose cay affet  -pt-rbility at darn                   HnUIoiGa
sng  ontie;1960, 1970. and 1970 den. a,ueA Seicei   oshl   snoesnbnead      ua,uhn   e   ed
________________________                                            ~~~~~~~A hanasbold -n-a-ic.t. of   gru-p of iadLvidais attn shreliviag qIrr
Poalain  i  ynr  IP  -Cuten  ppuatOapraeoinc  rebeed  n  98        .ad their coin  ac       A hoarder or 1de  saY orsY at be n_iided I
nrlpopulation by age and sen ed abeir  -utulity sad fertility oce.                  the he..e.hold for etaticti-I  parpasOa.
Prutaj,iluep Ocrceo  fur -nrolity rains  -omane of ihrac Is...cl,aseov-EE                                               A-ecenbro   esn   e  an-o~ oa.ndrrl -ovrge  ur
letlif   npettenct atbth ino-nieg wintaneyspeinPits Ionte                              b-o of Parc... panrot      I   I ura,adrrl  coidcoeti ...l
1n-1, ard fct1i  lite noytiuny stbiliniut at 77.5 yean-   The pare-                    doelinasg, recyonionly.                 -1liraenlde  e-eena   -tn  uread
micra fur fertiliy .rtealo baca  abree level  -eanmd.delior In                    .noot-pied part-
fertility ....nrdin0 to Incote mod  ned Pas  fis        PIa... pleotn  p-rfontac..   An    tu ale-trll ieoeto ell           -ian)-naa.uhe.ad  ua
fE-h -nutoy Ic ohm   sige  orof thnee nine onbiontiune of  -oeritay                    onnaltld_elinaauithlrc inity  ~In livig quarter  .cc                      t8
and fer tility t-ede fn- projeatina Pariancra.                                          of total, urbar, nod rura  deeIliigcr-yetoivalY.
Otatnoen anniio-tIo.us.ratinanr   population thoe I. no genth since
the birth rate Ic aqua  in tie death rare, and also iba age nanto-  o-             EfDUCATION
same  _ontiat.  ThaIa Is  abin-ad only utte  fCeriuity rtet  dsnlia_ to               duae  Enoal1an  Rtime
ibe  . repaceen  1-e  of unit era r-pr-dutaiooaat, ala. an..h g ...netiat              Pinyahn      oa.  b    noaae-O  a  tota, onla ned retaI
.t.to  b   vr20,adaert  o   elu    tfrilpre  anh.i..    . j Io      osla-yue  u   duhd  o   ifr    lopheto  pri                                  hiyldnotie  tar611ti
teal larni.                                                              anunarleauitbualversaledataiinn  earo, ptity  ..-llylant sa'y eand  ill peneI
Sean eatitnan  pruerian  s reated -The Year uh-. atationay popuItile:ttna        nicene   roith          ur  n  or. ebon rho  atfatta :achoa   ag.' .
.ine hasb.   .enreahe.                                                                 Stanyaoa  d.              .  aend  eae - oputed aabov;sandy
PFclaio   lntoeuainrqiaut acforynrof approved ptic-ry i-strutina;
Pen e.  Iak-  Mid-y-nypunii  e   qurn kilnaino  (100 h-a-ar) at                            provides g-nrIa...tetianal.  or tenhr  tatninio i-t-tutaitot  to  P-pi).
taia1 are.                                                                                -eouly nf 12 an 17 yare of a o; correepond.once couse  ar  9 ...ralIY
Poolatiln Anearuture  (rerien      Children  70-101 yntrs), eahn-g    15                     ald       aatk        eucro,o   thrpora   hich                  .t uprin  desen-
hi  ean),an  mlte   ty per ad   nie   nprrt so  i-year  .poP                         dentlyora  depart-tai  of a-andarylctuto.
lation; 1960. 1907, and 1970 data.                                                       Poliabrrto-oiao  sdaancy-Ttlnue    "arle  it L
Ponuatio  OturtlaRun  feeceno  - ite A-..tIa ga-wa  raonf tonal nid-               piryndscaayenldiaddhatroofteaher- n  h
yearPnyuniinu  fr 190-h. 190-f..cd 1970,4,a7r8oaitteea
Pnlio Rocith  cRepnrt)-ea- Annu     groanh roar  atuban  pup-                         Adut lireno   ai-      (ecet    Li- tirnndult. fablat  edndeo
ictioe funt 1950-6.9h-i  ne   190-78.                                                        naprett   yailautpplto    ed1  ytnr  and none.
Crude B10th Rit.  "Iee  ah"n d) - Annu  line birtha Per ibo-d at aid-fea
Cpopuletiot; 1900, 1970.R ad 1970 tat,.COtlilMOPTiti
Crde tenh Ptun  InPo thauand),-E Manua Ide-t   per thbana.d of cod-yea                   Oaenn   ae   rcouud  oosot  - Paeano' 0rrcar  onepriar ent-
populatui-; 196O, 1910, and 1970 data,                                                    care nanitg lees than eigt p-raon;  -,nodsa  -bhul.otac, h--ue  and
Gaeat   erdutu  ii-A-eoaoe onchcr of daughaero-                aauill bea-  Itillitary -hlicl-a
bin  --rIa ry-d-taiv- period ifih abeepertino     preeo   tepcIIr let                   idia k..vrelr.aosndrylair   All tYPra ofreevsInrdt
tility mono.;  -nully f_in-yc    -ncrgec rndtn  In  9 191970,. and17.                     boacs  to generl publap0hondofyPulto;aair   eo
Fanily Platoio&A-Acetnre  A...uu    thauca.        -~ ..oe  inu-ho  of ...octttor          aasdccvr   t  onoe   o   nyer   o rf                      eraaaa   ai   e
on  irb-annurci-1-  devices under nupio-a of -co_na  ic_ily Poun..ing progrun.           on .i ftf-nt  dote foo   . mann  Prare nay an  be oapurable tonic eas
Potty Pua    r-fDuec   (nernociefmartird .-Ae) - Pe-onnlag  of    "lrie                     couirie  ubaliabd 1i i...niog,
cerof  hilid-b-aio  nor (11-AS y_st) ahan    birth-anttro  devites tO               7       J..ev .r .notohuad eIuai)- TV reaive- for broudocat_ta
all,I  r_Id neoIn  a   age orp.                                                           gana  pbi  Par_h.u..d population;  -uludes ooliate-d  OrPiv_ra
tOOlDta AND    TRITin coo -trire nod it yeara oh.n engiea-tit  of TV notnuec ~a._
praducain  at all tad noesnootlee.  prduocina icludes n-d cud teed ead    lic-ian devoted prisarily to   . raodfi   gara  om    Iti. In  o-ide-d
In  ondoa   erbtn   Cu-edIt,tienr.r petiacy gooda tog.  uga-an                            to be "dully" if irapyaseant leant taut tienanek
inut_ud  of sga) ohiph ar  edfib  nod ootoinoatrtente  te,g. coffee ard                loeaAta    tedueynCni   e   er-Ssd at the unth of
taoin  onldd.Aao9-aat  p-d-ati- af oath a-atry is ban n..i.ir  sold  .d-ru  O    er  taldr  ae .f.   o   ro-i   io
nationa  averge produce  prie grta ; 1961-65S. 1970, and 1978 data,                       and nobile unto,
e gy pqoivlet if art toad supp1i-ec-iiben anutry P., taptin                      LBOt FORE
Pen day.  va-ilblo ropplirs  -npolo- d-melio p-od-toaro   imyote           : lain    tril ijpo~ Parpd(a_b_o...odut - Etanorirully uti-e Persona, it-ludinil
duati in  au  I  fod  ooesia,  nd   oas  v  ienisaia.Ocuio-       Oriniit   nvriu    unr    ate ice anep...ble; 19i0. 1970 and
etcueatIcuied by FAl bear.d at physiolatital aeedc. for noma  nata-             7970 dora.
oily ndboib Pieidrn   rvr dnna  ta1 prarue, bdyI aIg to   a                           eca oant-frl lah-   far   tpre  tog ... tota-antre
n-od uhodlu       196baOr 65n ponaln,ndulnig1   errofranea                           broulua  nta)-  ao  tui  Inb tauit tI                   roy  btlg
hanchol  levl;  961-f,i970, and 1927 dam,.                                       fl~ioaa   nyraeg   nmn   aa   om o9f0,i7y  nod 1978 darn.
Pat -aI-u. annol~ orf ro(cs  ta-a)      rou               -oaa  of per cyi-o           todotry   itrniI- LOor form  In nina.   artutn,r fetct
no-apply of find Per duy.  let supply if feud in done          icne    e               o   lirily    ue   a   o   tpoolot   ftta   ao   otr   90
qnirnantu  lot all a-tti-t ectebliebod by 2000A ycneide Ont soian17   a  17                               c
alracof it  ran  of tainPttcriei  por day etA 20 uSue ofnaa   nad               'ciouiomttean    otl   ee   o   eae-rtlli na
coda ate One or nun1th.  th,:, of  5  cuc  o            -iicnrn d 23 areas          yrnoaaof total, tale  a  female pupulnain.oaf ellgroayecvi-
animal  tnteln  c ciavaage fa  ohe nrd, prFo.nud by tAp it the Third            19600  1970, nod 1971 data.  Theasero. 1Li'e pecticiyaioo  --tn  ceflecoig
Wtold Food nu,-ny; 1961-iS, 1970 cod 1977 dtta.                                                  o          frtoaraooo  the PpayletOno, ocd long. ti.. att..d    f_retI
Par nenito ceniria eunolo fine animal and puinn- ptteia suPply ef fond de-   mate  ae  ra  a-too...l e--e.
oivd  en  animain and pois.. In grte Par day;19..-..., 19170 cad 1977 d--.         in.tl  eednt   ai   toni  of pnrulcooaa under tI nid iS tad --r
aga group 1-4 year, to ahildreu in this afe oc_p; fan nea  developingaen
acice data dnrlv-d fran life tables; 19b0, 1970 ond 1977 duta.                       INTOME DISTRIBUTION
REALM                                                                                         Lo~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~freroo  Piuet_cr  (btho  In at..  nod hia) - R.i-aod by rlah-i
ttEAf.T                                                  S ceroat, niceer 70  etanat,ponanna70 prca'rt, ad   --oeu  40 pnrie-
life  tnrsaianca at Orab (recta) - Avera.ge n a.beto fatatlift rhata              at ...nehold-.
tofnt   oraliy   ore(yt tuoand  -Ao.,,ul dentha of it aai  onden oar y-u    POVEtn  TARGET GOnoaS
4of age P yth o..u.a  Live births.                                                       tainr    banlin... Paety  aa   Love1 (il per -Piat)  -oban aid rural-
hoccato  at  Haerisrrer  f ocuatont-  ota,  rbn,  ndrurl             Aaciteyanco  lcon  lvnlIntSr lcae lve  blnonu    o  tarI
M~aer  f papi  (ttal  uran,endenrl)   ub   nooibl  urewain  afn    aaao ntu. ..... I        itcueectil  o-odnqtccraa   o
esnrupl   lelde    ceod  an c  wtrsO  eteae  htanoraire             ffrobo
wae   uh  sta  fa   rtcodbchne,cnig,adcoieycel)c                    Atbre   elt ynPonrytim   LnI(i   e  eet)-iba   o   no 
pecaeotuge  of thei t-ep-iti-epnuao               Lo.Ina   bchn  nteac.pulic              tota  -enive invetty nt   ee   ta-iedo   vrg   e    pt
f...etaia or steadpct Ioac-d not mar  at,an 200  nact. fromah.uc. may be                  Peono..al manna of the r--try.  Urb-t level I0 deni-d flnonh tie -ura
considered sa being alohin r...a..nble --ara  of that boe,it rura  arena                  level olth udletne.t f orhigh-n aunt of livit In urban
ranun..lhi.urcesaunaid toi y that thobunc -n at-nm-r  of ihi househol.d                 Croae    uoaioOlnAelt   oen   naeLnl acn)-ra
dontIhave to sped adiapropon Iun.n.  parVt of the doy it ftobig tbo                        nod --o----l --P-c--nt n-  pup---ot-no  (o hat- an  --r----- ae- aboltepor"
disposal an Pre.recicce  ut itir respecti-etaoct              E-.-prr  die-                                              -aauit ted Soaia1 Dtet  Division
Pn.a  ca y Include the anlletiun and duIlytia, eibh or aitlh-tca             ;tnana  nlpoin and PnofJttiaa Dleputnnt..t
of h_  _neoroaad ..ast_-_le  by caerba...e cys-  at tie ace of                       'Apri, 119807
Pii pelaion and clail-rineltns



-24 -                                  ANNEX 1
Page 4 of 5
COUNTRY DATA - MALAYSIA
GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT IN 1979:                          ANNUAL RATE OF GROWTH
(% in constant _rices and M$)
US$ Mln     %         1961-70  1970-76  1977  1978  1979
GNP at Market Prices           19,370    100.0         6.4      7.7      7.1   7.0   8.3
Gross Domestic Investment       5,082     26.2         6.7      9.4    19.7   9.5  10.5
Gross National Saving           6,173     31.9          .
Exports of Goods, NFS          11,744     60.6         6.0      7.9     3.9   7.9  10.1
Imports of Goods, NFS           9,774     50.5         2.9      6.9    13.7  13.9  18.3
OUTPUT, LABOR FORCE AND
PRODUCTIVITY IN 1978
Outout             Employment        Output Per Worker
US$ Mln     %           Mln     x %                    %
Agriculture              4,041     25.6         2.0    43.9       2,049       58.5
Industry                5,017      31.8        0.9    20.0        5,568      159.0
Services                6,701      42.5        1.6    36.1        4,188      119.6
Total/Average      15.759    100.0         4.5   100.0        3.502      100.0
GOVERNMENT FINANCE
General Government
M$ Mln                      Z of GDP
1979         1979         1971-75        1976/78
Current Receipts                 12,424        28.0           24.0            27.5
Current Expenditures              9,875        22.3           22.5            24.5
Public Authorities Surplus          369         0.8            0.8             1.1
Current Surplus                   2,918         6.6            2.3             4.1
Development Expenditures          5,544         12.5          10.8            12.4
Foreign Borrowing (net)             754          1.7           2.3             1.8
MONEY, CREDIT AND PRICES       1970   1971   1972   1973   1974   1975    1976    1977    1978    1979
(Million M$ outstanding end period)
Money and Quasi-Money         4,131  4,666  5,770  7,574  8,729  10,001  12,769  14,861  17,520  21,738
Bank Credit to Public
Sector                        833  1,045  1,186  1,375  1,746   2,148   3,036   3,583   3,379   3,873
Bank Credit to Private
Sector                      2,246  2,572  3,014  4,586  5,278   6,084   7,471   8,970  11,627  14,109
(Percentages or Index Numbers)
Money and Quasi-Money
as % of GDP                  33.3   36.0   40.4   40.0   37.8    45.1    46.4    46.4    48.0    49.0
Consumer Price Index
(1967 = 100)                101.3  102.9  106.2  117.4  137.8   144.0   147.7   154.8   162.4   168.3
Annual Percentage
Changes in:
Consumer Price Index            1.9    1.6    3.2   10.5   17.4      4.5      2.6     4.8     4.9      3.6
Bank Credit to Public
Sector                       -8.4   25.5   13.5   15.9   27.0    14.6    41.3    18.0    -5.7    13.7
Bank Credit to Private
Sector                       21.9   14.6   17.2   52.2   15.1    15.3    22.8    20.1    29.6    21.3
not applicable
NOTE: All conversions to dollars in this table are at the average exchange rate prevailing
during the period covered.



- 25 -                                 ANNEX I
Page 5 of 5
TRADE PAYMENTS AND CAPITAL FLOWS
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS                                      MERCHANDISE EXPORTS (AVERAGE 1976-79)
(US$ Million)
1977   1978   1979
(US$ million)                                             _
Exports f.o.b.                  6,038  7,295  10,857   Rubber                        1,561    21.2
Imports f.o.b.                  4,467  5,749   7,860   Timber                       1,235    16.8
Nonfactor Services (net)         -505   -651  -1,027   Petroleum                     1,058    14.4
Resource Gap (deficit)          1,066    895   1,970   Tin                             820    11.1
Factor Services (net)            -517   -606    -880   Palm Oil                        800    10.9
Net Transfers                     -32    -42       -53   All Other Commodities    1,880    25.6
Balance on Current Account        517    247   1,037
Total                7,360   100.0
Direct Foreign Investment          477    542      594
Net MLT Borrowing /a
Disbursements                   644  1,044       978   EXTERNAL DEBT, DECEMBER 31, 1978
Amortization                    318    558       245
Subtotal                        326    486       733                                     US$ Mln
Other Items n.e.i.               -644   -464  -1,121   Public Debt, incl. Guaranteed   2,671
Increase in Reserves (-)         -199   -269  -1,244   Nonguaranteed Private Debt
Total Outstanding & Disbursed   2,671
International Reserves          2,973  3,243   4,487
(end year)
DEBT-SERVICE RATIO FOR 1979
Fuel and Related Materials                                                                      x
Imports                         578    634
Exports                         854  1,010             Public Debt, incl. Guaranteed         4.0
Of which:  Crude Petro-                              Nonguaranteed Private Debt
leum            770    969             Total Outstanding & Disbursed         4.0
RATE OF EXCHANGE                                         IBRD/IDA LENDING (MAY 31, 1980)
(US$ million)
Average rate during period:
IBRD
M$ per US$    US$ per M$
Outstanding & Disbursed            465.2
1971              3.05           0.33                Undisbursed                         514.1
1972              2.82           0.35                Outstanding incl. Undisbursed    979.3
1973              2.44           0.41
1974              2.41           0.41
1975              2.40           0.42
1976              2.54           0.39
1977              2.46           0.41
1978              2.32           0.43
1979              2.19           0.46
/a Medium and long-term capital flows are obtained from World Bank debt data and are not
comparable with balance of payments estimates.
not available



-26 -                        ANNEX II
Page 1 of 14 pages
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN MALAYSIA
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS (AS OF MAY 31, 1980)
Amount in
US$ million
(Less cancellations)
Loan No.  Year   Borrower           Purpose                        Bank   Undisbursed
Nineteen loans fully disbursed                                    361.00
810      1972   Malaysia          Education (II)                 15.50        1.43
880      1973   Malaysia          Population                      5.00       1.61
885      1973   Malaysia          Land Settlement                25.00       0.73
908     1973   Malaysia           Water Supply (II)              13.50       0.17
931      1973   Malaysia          Highway (II)                   19.50       3.92
967     1974   Malaysia           Land Settlement                40.00       8.62
973      1974   Malaysia          Agricultural Development    45.00         31.34
974      1974   Malaysia          Education (III)                19.00      10.09
1044      1974   Malaysia          Land Settlement                36.00      20.54
1115      1975   Malaysia          Agricultural Research
and Extension               20.50       13.84
1178      1975   National
Electricity
Board          Power (VII)                    35.00       8.50
1213      1976   Malaysia          Sewerage                       21.50      15.89
1214      1976   Malaysia          Urban Transport (II)           26.00      14.28
1294      1976   Malaysia          Rural Development              21.00      18.51
1329      1976   Malaysia          Education (IV)                 35.00      31.30
1376      1977   Malaysia          Highway (III)                  35.00      21.09
1443      1977   National
Electricity
Board          Power (VIII)                   22.00      17.80
1444      1977   Malaysia          Irrigation                     39.00      34.64
1493      1978   Malaysia          National Extension             19.00      18.28
1522      1978   Malaysia          Agricultural Development    26.00         24.62
1580      1978   Sabah Ports
Authority      Ports (II)                     13.00       12.61
1590      1978   Malaysia          Land Settlement                28.00      27.39
1608      1978   Malaysia          Population (II)                17.00      16.90
1618      1978   Malaysia          Coconut Smallholders Dev.   19.50         18.11
1632      1978   Malaysia          Agricultural Development    26.50         24.62
1657      1979   Malaysia          Education (V)                  38.00      37.74
1717      1979   Malaysia          Irrigation                     31.00      29.48
1808      1980   National
Electricity
Board          Power IX /a                    50.00      50.00
Total loans (less cancellations)                     1,102.50
of which has been repaid                             123.16
Total now outstanding                                  979.34
Amount sold                                 44.57
of which has been repaid                  24.94       19.63
Total loans now held by Bank                           959.71
Total undisbursed                                                 514.05
/a Not yet effective.



- 27 -
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 14 pages
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS (AS OF MAY 31, 1980)
Type of          Amount in US$ million
Year                                         business        Loan    Equity    Total
1964  Malaysian Industrial Development    Development
Finance Ltd. (MIDF)                   financing        -      1.31       1.31
1966  Tasek Cement Ltd.                     Cement           1.28     0.28       1.56
1968  Malayawata Steel Ltd.                  Steel           2.45     1.01       3.46
1969  Malayawata Steel Ltd.                  Steel              -     0.23       0.23
1970  India-Malaysia Textiles, Ltd.         Textiles         1.25     0.25       1.50
1974  Malaysian Industrial Development    Development
Finance Ltd. (MIDF)                   financing        -      0.63       0.63
Total gross cammitment                                4.98      3.71       8.69
Less: repayments, sales, cancellations,
terminations and write-offs                    4.09     3.46       7.55
Total cnmmitments now held by IFC                     0.89      0.25       1.14
Total undisbursed                                     ____



- 28 -                     ANNEX II
Page 3 of 14 pages
MALAYSIA
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION /1
GENERAL AGRICULTURE
Loan No. 885 Third Jengka Triangle Land Settlement Project; US$25.0 Million
Loan of March 30, 1973; Effective Date: June 22, 1973; Closing
Date: December 31, 1981
The project consists of the third and last stage of the Jengka
Triangle program (under which overall 62,000 acres of palm oil and 35,000
acres of rubber will be established and 10,000 families will be settled).
Under the project, about 22,600 acres of oil palm and 16,600 acres
of rubber have been planted. Planting and maintenance standards are satisfac-
tory. A severe drought in 1976 and 1977 caused heavy losses in rubber planted
in schemes 21 and 22. A major program to supply replacements was completed in
April 1979. Oil palm on schemes 15, 17, 18, 19 and 23 has been brought into
production. Good progress has been made in village development but settler
intake is generally 2-2.5 years behind appraisal estimates because of earlier
delays in construction of access roads. So far, about 3,400 houses have been
completed and about 2,700 settlers moved into schemes 15-20, and 23. Settler
intake in schemes 21-23 is expected to be completed in 1981. Water supplies
are now satisfactory on all schemes but delays are still being experienced in
school and clinic construction. Oil palm mill construction in scheme 18 has
been completed and the plant is operative.
Loan No. 967 Johore Land Settlement Project; US$40.0 Million Loan of
February 27, 1974; Effective Date: May 16, 1974; Closing
Date: June 30, 1982
The Project consists of clearing of 81,000 acres of land and
planting about 65,000 acres of oil palms, construction of 5 palm oil mills,
8 villages, roads and provision for power and water and settlement of
6,500 families.
Clearing of 80,900 acres has been completed and 69,800 acres oil
palm have been planted. Planting and maintenance standards are satisfactory.
All schemes except one are now in production and production has recovered
/1  These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any prob-
lems which are being encountered and the action being taken to remedy
them. They should be read in this sense, and with the understanding that
they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths and
weaknesses in project execution.



- 29 -                      ANNEX II
Page 4 of 14 pages
from initially disappointing levels. A major resupplying program to replace
losses to game is under way and boundary trenches have been completed. Due
to delays in infrastructure developnent, village development is one to three
years behind schedule. About 3,400 settler houses have been constructed and
3,100 families settled. Rising timber prices and labor shortages are also
creating difficulties for contractors. Regular coordination committee
meetings have improved interagency relationships, but shortfalls in
construction of water supply and access roads will cause some further
slippage. The third and the fourth oil mills were completed in June 1979.
Loan No. 1044 Keratong Land Settlement Project; US$36.0 Million Loan of
October 3, 1974; Effective Date: January 9, 1975; Closing
Date: June 30, 1983
The project consists of clearing about 63,000 acres of land and
planting and maintenance of about 55,000 acres of oil palms; construction
of three palm oil mills and establishment of two urban settlements for about
5,500 families.
About 60,100 acres have been planted and 49,800 acres planted to
oil palm. On four schemes, 25% of palms were damaged by game. Perimeter
trenches are being dug and seedlings resupplied. So far, 1,900 houses have
been completed and 1,800 settlers moved in in schemes 1, 2, 4, and 5. The
Bahau Keratong highway has been opened for all traffic and the project area
is no longer isolated.
Loan No. 1115 Agricultural Research and Extension Project; US$20.5 Million
Loan of May 30, 1975; Effective Date: October 21, 1975;
Closing Date: June 30, 1984
The project is designed to expand and strengthen research programs
and establish an Extension Liaison Unit in the Department of Agriculture.
The project was restructured in July/August 1979 and the loan agree-
ment was substantially amended to cover all agricultural research programs of
the institute, substantially reduce the manyears of consultants, reduce the
loan from $28.5 million to $20.5 million, and extend the closing date to June
1984.
Loan No. 1493 National Extension Project; US$19.0 Million Loan of January 10,
1978; Effective Date: September 8, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1983
This project is designed to strengthen agriculture extension and
related services on a national basis in Malaysia. An uncertain federal/state
relationship continues to constrain implementation. Specifically, the main
constraints are (a) the federal supernumerary status of project posts, and
(b) the inability of the Public Works Department to prepare timely civil works



- 30 -                       ANNEX II
Page 5 of 14 pages
designs. However, the interest and enthusiasm in the T&V extension methodol-
ogy has spread among the staff and the farmers, and pilot programs have been
implemented in all Peninsular States. Sabah and Sarawak have not yet accepted
federal control of staff; physical implementation is proceeding satisfactorily
in Sarawak.
Loan No. 1590 FELDA VI Land Settlement Project; US$28.0 Million Loan of
August 11, 1978; Effective Date: March 9, 1979; Closing
Date: June 30, 1985
The project consists of land clearing, planting and maintenance
of 62,000 acres of rubber and up to 10,000 acres of cocoa and 500 acres of
experimental plantings in Pahang and Negri Sembilan, recruitment and
settlement of 6,200 rubber smallholders and 1,500 hired labor and construc-
tion of necessary housing and infrastructure facilities.
Clearing and planting operations are seriously delayed in Pahang
State due to delayed forest clearances by the State. FELDA is preparing
proposals to include the expansion of the project area in Negri Sembilan in
the project to offset slow development in Pahang. Planting and maintenance
standards are satisfactory. The cocoa planting program has been tentatively
postponed till 1983 pending further soil and climatological studies. A
start has been made (100 acres) with the crop diversification experimental
program. Some fruit and annual food crops will be grown on areas 5 to 50
acres each.
Loan No. 1618 Coconut Smallholders Development Project; US$19.5 Million
Loan of October 24, 1978; Effective Date: February 23, 1979;
Closing Date: March 31, 1984
The project consists of rehabilitation of about 44,200 acres of
traditional MT Coconuts and intercropping with cocoa, coffee, fruits, etc;
replanting of about 17,000 acres with hybrid coconuts and associated cash
crop gardens in the initial years; the provision for the importation of about
6,400 crossbred dairy animals for the development of about 3,340 integrated
dairy and beef operations; and the strengthening of support services for crop
and dairy production.
Physical implementation has exceeded the appraisal targets for
year 1 of the project. About 2,000 farm families have received assistance
to rehabilitate 3,600 acres of coconut and 1,500 acres were scheduled for
replanting in 1979. Contracts have already been let for purchase of 6,600
cross-bred heifers and delivery will commence in the last quarter of 1980.
The only problem encountered has been general concern about supernumerary
posts; however, prospects for continued satisfactory achievements under the
project are very good.



- 31 -                    ANNEX IT
Page 6 of 14 pages
IRRIGATION AND RURAI, DEVELOPMENT
Loan No. 973 Western Johore Agricultural Development Project; US$45.0 Million
Loan of April 5, 1974; Effective Date:  August 14, 1974;
Closing Date: June 30, 1980
The project includes main and feeder drains, farm roads, coastal
embankments and tidal gates to improve drainage and access in an area of about
135,000 ha in southwest Peninsular Malaysia, as well as an integrated agri-
cultural development program to introduce intercropping and other changes in
cropping patterns, construction of farmers development centers, and improve-
ments in research, extension, and crop processing. Civil works got off to a
slow start and are about 3-1/2 years behind schedule, but progress is now
accelerating. Staffing and land acquisition problems have been largely
overcome. Work is progressing on drainage and farm road contracts. Construc-
tion of the Macap Dam began in October 1979. Progress on the agricultural
side is generally satisfactory, particularly in developing an integrated
agricultural service system to coordinate the efforts of the crop-based
development agencies with the extension activities in the project area. Work
is also proceeding on the preparation of a second phase project. The Govern-
ment has been contacted regarding the extension of the Closing Date to
June 30, 1983.
Loan No. 1294 North Kelantan Rural Development Project; US$21.0 Million
Loan of July 21, 1976; Effective Date: October 28, 1976;
Closing Date: December 31, 1981
The project includes drainage and flood protection for 30,000 ha
and intensive irrigation for 12,000 ha of padi land; construction of 190 km of
rural roads; 15 small irrigation schemes service 1,300 ha; construction,
rehabilitation and equipment of 25 Farmers Development Centers; and establish-
ment of an agricultural extension service. Implementation of civil works has
fallen about 2-1/2 years behind schedule, due mainly to staffing shortages,
particularly at DID headquarters for design and tendering. Construction of
flood bunds has been slow due to delays in land acquisition and the need for
studies to define the final alignments. Shortages of agricultural extension
technicians has delayed the implementation of the T&V extension system;
progress in the first two districts is good, but introduction of the progress
in the two other districts is behind schedule due to staff shortages. A good
start has been made in the pilot credit programs.
Loan No. 1444  National Small-Scale Irrigation Project; US$39.0 Million
Loan of August 3, 1977; Effective Date: October 25, 1977;
Closing Date: March 31, 1983
This project includes construction of small irrigation systems with
a total irrigable area of about 54,000 ha distributed throughout Malaysia;
technical assistance and training for DID; procurement of equipment and a
feasibility study for the Rompin-Endau irrigation project. Construction is
proceeding satisfactorily and most schemes should be completed on schedule
by the end of 1982, although some work may extend into mid-1983. Of the
195 proposed schemes to be implemented under the project, 53 schemes have



- 32 -                         ANNEXII
Page 7 of 14 pages
been rejected/deleted by the Preparation and Evaluation Team and 18 new
schemes have been added; the revised number of schemes proposed under the
project is now 160. Of these, 96 have been approved by the Bank for inclu-
sion in the project following appraisal by the Preparation and Evaluation
Team. Construction of nine schemes has been completed and 67 schemes are
under construction as of December 31, 1979. The final draft of the feasi-
bility report for the Rompin-Endau Project has been submitted by the
Consultants to the Goverment in December 1979.
Loan No. 1522 Northwest Selangor Integrated Agricultural Development Project;
US$26.0 Million Loan of March 8, 1978; Effective Date:
June 21, 1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1983
The project includes intensification of irrigation network for
20,000 ha of padi; drainage work for 77,000 ha of tree crops and facilities,
equipment, and training to support an intensified program of agricultural
services for the Northwest Selangor region's smallholders. The project
started out about one year behind schedule due primarily to staff shortages,
but significant progress has not been made on staffing, design and tendering
of structural tertiaries, and planning, survey and design of drainage works.
Progress on the agricultural component is satisfactory. A draft agricultural
services operation manual has been prepared. Total project cost is now esti-
mated at about US$104 million, or about 70% above appraisal estimate, due
mainly to cost increases in irrigation and drainage works.  The project is
expected to be completed by end 1983, about one year behind appraisal
schedule.
Loan No. 1632 Krian-Sungei Manik Integrated Agricultural Development Project
US$26.5 Million Loan of December 13, 1978; Effective Date:
March 6, 1979; Closing Date: December 31, 1984
The project will provide Improved drainage and irrigation facili-
ties, access roads, training and intensifed agricultural supporting services
in two separate areas, covering a total of about 30,000 ha of padi land in
the state of Perak. Despite Government action before loan signing to create
additional positions for DID engineers and district land offices, these
positions are only now being filled, with the result that the project is
starting off more slowly than planned.
Loan No. 1717 Muda II Irrigation Project; US$31.0 Million Loan of
July 30, 1979; Effective Date: September 4, 1979;
Closing Date: December 31, 1984
The project is the first phase of tertiary irrigation and drainage
development in the Muda irrigation area, whose storage facilities and main
canal system were constructed under a previous Bank-financed project
(Loan 434-MA) during the period 1965-70. The project will provide tertiary
irrigation canals, drainage channels, and farm roads to serve nearly 25,000 ha



- 33 -                   ANNEX II
Page 8 of 14 pages
of padi land, representing about 25% of the total commaind area. It also
includes establishment of a highly organized extension system, improvement of
operation and maintenance facilities, drainage and coastal protection works
serving the entire 98,000 ha area, and two studies, one dealing with the
development of groundwater resources and the other to prepare a phased
integrated rural development project. Despite staff shortages, mostly at the
technician level, and the recent cost increases and difficulties in the
delivery of construction and materials, progress in civil works is
satisfactory. Good progress is being achieved on most aspects of the
agricultural development program.
EDUCATION
Loan No. 810   Second Education Project; US$15.5 Million Loan of April 5,
1972; Effective Date: July 7, 1972; Closing Date:
December 31, 1980
The project provides for: (a) educational television in Peninsular
Malaysia, (b) a national curriculum development center, (c) a science
university and (d) technical and vocational secondary schools. Construction
and procurement is practically cmpleted, about three years behind schedule.
Delays in appointing consultant architects, completion of design, delays in
obtaining approvals of designs and making contract awards, slow performance by
contractors and understaffing of the implementation unit were the main causes
of delays. The implementation staff has been strengthened and disbursements
are nearing completion. Closing date extensions beyond the current December
31, 1980 date are not envisaged.
Loan No. 974   Third Education Project; US$19.0 Million Loan of April 5,
1974; Effective Date: June 26, 1974; Closing Date:
December 31, 1980
The Project includes eight general secondary schools, four teacher
training colleges and one polytechnic institute in Peninsular Malaysia and
education mass media in Sabah/Sarawak. Project implementation is about
three years behind schedule because of site selection problems, slow design
and tendering, poor performance by contractors and shortages of building
materials and labor. The implementation staff has been expanded and
strengthened and construction is in progress at all project locations.
Disbursements are slow but improving. A two-year extension of the Closing
Date is expected to be required.
Loan No. 1329 Fourth Education Project; US$35.0 Million Loan of
November 18, 1976; Effective Date: January 14, 1977;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982
The project provides for: (a) improved planning and construction of
approximately 850 primary schools in seven most disadvantaged states of



- 34 -                      ANNEX II
Pag    Of 14 pages
Malaysia; (b) establishment of four educational resource centers and one
teacher training college; (c) expansion of two and establishment of three
industrial training institutes; and (d) further study of community education
needs. The pace of primary school construction program (75% of project total)
is satisfactory; over 300 schools have been completed and another 310 are
under construction. Although none of the educational resource centers or
industrial training institutes is more than 10% completed, steps are being
taken to accelerate implementation.
Loan No. 1657 Fifth Education Project; US$38.0 Million Loan of March 14,
1979; Effective Date: May 7, 1979; Closing Date: June 30,
1985
The project provides for: (a) construction and equipment for 76
lower secondary schools to be located in areas of poor access to education;
(b) establishment of administrative training institutes for headmasters and
other educational officers; (c) a new central campus and three regional
centers to expand the capacity and improve the program of the national public
administration academy; and (d) assistance to long-range planning of occupa-
tional training. Implementation performance is good and the project is on
schedule.
ENERGY
Loan No. 1178 Seventh Power Project; US$35.0 Million Loan of December 17,
1975; Effective Date: March 10, 1976; Closing Date:
June 30, 1981
Loan No. 1443 Eighth Power Project; US$22.0 Million Loan of August 3,
1977; Effective Date: January 9, 1978; Closing Date:
June 30, 1982
Extension of Prai Power Station under the Seventh Power Project is
proceeding satisfactorily, about 75% complete at the end of September 1979.
Unit No. 4 was commissioned in September 1979. Commissioning of Units No. 5
and No. 6 is targeted for the end of February and August 1980, respectively,
as originally scheduled. Progress on the Pasir Gudang Thermal Power Station
under the Eighth Power Project was about 30% complete at the last review,
about 5 months behind schedule due to delays in the delivery of structural
steel columns and boiler parts.
Loan No. 1808 Ninth Power Project; US$50.0 Million Loan of May 21, 1980;
Effective Date: August 21, 1980; Closing Date: August 31, 1985
The loan has not been made effective yet. The project estimated to
cost $232.9 million will be cofinanced by Commonwealth Development Corporation
(UK), Canadian International Development Agency, Overseas Economic Cooperation
Fund (Japan) and commercial banks. It includes construction of two dams and
hydroelectric power stations (192 MW) and about 174 km of transmission lines
and associated substations.



35                       ANNEX II
Page 10 of 14 pages
WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE
Loan No. 908 Second Kuala Lumpur Water Supply Project; US$13.5 Million
Loan of June 14, 1973; Effective Date: August 27, 1973;
Closing Date: June 30, 1980
The project consists of the expansion of water supply facilities to
meet increasing demand in Kuala Lumpur and the Klang Valley area. The first
part of the project, comprising ordinary water works, was completed in 1976,
practically on schedule and within the cost estimates and is operational.
The construction of the Langat Dam, the last and major work of the project,
after delays due to land acquisition, is now substantially completed and
impoundment of the reservoir has started. Overall project completion was
about two years behind the appraisal schedule.  Staffing problems persist
within the Selangor State Water Department, which is responsible for the
project. There are deficiencies in the accounting, billing and collection,
and reporting system. Although the project is virtually completed, the Loan
is not yet fully drawn down. Requests have been made to WD and the Treasury
to expedite applications for disbursement of the US$86,000 remaining as of
June 30, 1980. No extension of the Closing Date is envisaged; completion of
the disbursement is expected soon.
Loan 1213-MA Kuala Lumpur Sewerage Project; US$21.5 Million Loan of
March 11, 1976; Effective Date: August 25, 1976;
Closing Date: December 31, 1981
The project is the first stage (1976-81) of a 30-year master plan
for sewerage development in the Kuala Lumpur metropolitan area. It includes
the extension of sewage collection (about 70 miles of trunk and lateral
sewers) and treatment facilities to serve an additional population of 200,000
in the Kuala Lumpur Federal Territory; the institution of a separate Sewerage
Department within the Kuala Lumpur City Hall with its own accounting system
and finances; engineering and management consultant services; staff training;
and the preparation of sewerage and pollution control system in the Kuala
Lumpur metropolitan area. The engineering of the project has been satisfac-
torily completed. Construction of the three major contracts is progressing.
Land acquisition and resettlement of present occupants have created serious
problems but these are now being solved.  Sewerage surcharges on water bills
were instituted after delays. Compliance with covenants regarding longterm
sewerage and urban planning in Selangor State is lagging. The project is
expected to be completed by mid-1982, about two years behind the original
schedule, at about the estimated cost.
TRANSPORTATION
Loan No. 931   Second Highway Project; US$19.5 Million Loan of August 22,
1973; Effective Date: October 25, 1973; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981
The project includes: (a) construction and improvement of two
sections of Federal Route I totalling about 90 miles in length; and (b)
consultant services for (i) feasibility studies and detailed engineering of



- 36-                     ANNEX II
Page 11 of 14 pages
about 22 miles of Route I and connecting roads in the vicinity of Kuala
Lumpur, (ii) detailed engineering of about 200 miles of roads in West and East
Malaysia, (iii) town development studies for Kuantan and for the region of
North-East Negri Sembilan and an urban road improvement study for Kuala
Lumpur, and (iv) supervision of (a) above.
The project, several months after its original completion date, is
about 92% complete. The new Kuala Lumpur-Seremban Expressway was open to
traffic for about 80% of its length by the end of 1977, and except for a
one-mile section at the northern end, the balance of the Expressway and its
access ramps were opened to traffic by the beginning of June 1979. The
northern extremity, while completed, will be open to traffic only after the
completion of the interchange and access ramps which form part of the Kuala
Lumpur Traffic Dispersal Scheme (Loan No. 1214). The Expressway is operating
fairly well under traffic. However, traffic hazards are being created by
unauthorized use of road and shoulders for roadside stands, cattle driving and
general lack of driver discipline by road users. Government is slowly taking
action. The improvement work for the previously existing Kuala Lumpur-
Seremban Road has been completed and the entire length of the road is open to
traffic. There have been, however, long delays in the completion of the
widening and improvement works for the Kuala Lumpur-Batang Kali Road,
construction of which began in November 1976; it is now 64% completed.
Construction costs have escalated sharply due to the delays in project
execution combined with rapid inflation and the total project cost is now
estimated to be approximately US$53 million compared to an appraisal estimate
of US$37 million, an increase of 43%.
Loan No. 1376   Third Highway Project; US$35.0 Million Loan of April 4, 1977;
Effective Date: May 4, 1977; Closing Date: June 30, 1982
The project consists of: (a) reconstruction and improvement of trunk
roads in Sabah; (b) four-year maintenance program for Sabah, including procu-
rement of equipment, upgrading 290 miles of 13 road sections and consultants
services for supervision of construction and technical assistance to Sabah's
PWD; (c) development of pilot road maintenance and pavement strengthening
programs for the states of Johore, Perak and Kelantan in Peninsular Malaysia,
including pavement strengthening of about 120 mi in Johore; and (d) a
transport/railway study for Peninsular Malaysia and an urban study of Kota
Kinabalu.
The project overall is about 60% completed. Construction work on
the east and west coast roads in Sabah started in September 1977, about five
months behind schedule. Progress is slow at present on all three contracts,
but the situation on one of them is particularly serious. The Government is
now considering terminating his contract and appointing other contractor(s) or
rebidding the contract to complete the work.  The Highway Maintenance and Road
Upgrading Program in Sabah is now proceeding satisfactorily with the help of
consultants but the program is more than a year behind schedule. While
satisfactory progress is now being made on the Pavement Strengthening Program



ANNEX II
Page 12 of 14 pages
in the three pilot states in Peninsular Malaysia, the reorganization and
upgrading of the State Maintenance Sections and of the Maintenance Unit within
the Federal Public Works Department is far behind schedule, primarily due to
staff shortages. The Project also included an urban study of Kota Kinabalu in
Sabah and a transport/railway study in Peninsular Malaysia. Both of these
studies have been completed. Procurement of the first tranche of maintenance
equipment for the Sabah Highway Maintenance Program has been completed.
Procurement of the second tranche, which represents the balance of the
equipment to be acquired under the project, is underway.
Loan No. 1580   Second Sabah Ports Project; US$13.0 Million Loan of
September 20, 1978; Effective Date: November 10, 1978;
Closing Date: September 30, 1982
The project aims at: (a) providing Tawau Port with the capacity to
meet forecasted traffic; (b) providing the ports of Kota Kinabalu, Sandakan
and Tawau with cargo handling equipment to meet future traffic growth and to
replace worn-out items; and (c) improving the performance of the Sabah Ports
Authority by providing technical assistance and staff training. The contract
for civil works has been awarded and work commenced in December 1979. Traffic
and financial results for 1978 were generally better than forecasted.
Management consultants commenced work in August 1979.
POPULATION
Loan No. 880   First Population Project; US$5.0 Million Loan of February 9,
1973; Effective Date: June 21, 1973; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981
The objective of the project is to: (a) strengthen administration
of the family planning program; (b) extend family planning services to rural
areas; (c) expedite in-service training of medical and paramedical personnel
in family planning; (d) introduce population education in schools; (e)
improve family planning, nutrition and health education programs for the rural
population; (f) broaden research and evaluation through establishment of
population research centers.
The National Family Planning Board (NFPB), by activating the
national and state level committees and subcommittees, has recently gained
greater managerial control over the project implementation. With the creation
of the Project Construction Coordination Unit (PCCU), the Government has
succeeded in halting the slow progress in the civil works. To date, 453
buildings out of a total of 571 have been completed and a further 95 are
under construction. According to the revised schedule, construction of some
facilities will be completed only by mid-1981. Due to this delay, the closing
date has been extended to December 31, 1981. Annual contraceptive acceptors
rose from about 75,000 in 1976 to over 87,000 in 1979; nearly 40% of
these acceptors were reported to have been recruited through the integrated



- 38 -                  ANNEX II
Page 13 of 14 pages
rural health facilities supported through the project. The percentage of
women in childbearing age using contraception increased from 16% in 1970 to
over 39% in 1978. The estimated rate of current users of contraceptives is
about 45% of the women in reproductive age.
Loan No. 1608 Second Population and Family Health Project; US$17.0 Million
Loan of July 17, 1978; Effective Date: December 15, 1978;
Closing Date;  December 31, 1983
The project is designed to strengthen further the national family
planning program in order to achieve the demographic goal of reducing the
birth rate from 30.3 per 1,000 in 1975 to 26 in 1985, with a corresponding
reduction in the population growth rate from 2.4% to 2% in Peninsular
Malaysia, and to extend family planning services to Sabah and Sarawak for the
improvement of maternal and child health.
Due to recent changes in several key management positions in the
Ministry of Health and National Family Planning Board and those agencies'
preoccupation with the preparation of the Fourth Malaysia Plan, progress of
project implementation has slowed down. Procurement of equipment and vehicles
is proceeding on schedule. National program performance, in terms of the
number of new acceptors, reached an all time high of over 87,000 during 1979
compared to about 85,000 in 1978. Project components related to health in
Sarawak and those under the Ministry of Agriculture in the whole of Malaysia
are progressing well. Of the 200 buildings under the project, sites for 150
have been acquired, of which 22 are either under construction or have been
tendered. The Government has taken action to locate and acquire sites for the
remaining 50 buildings. NFPB will review NFSC building plans in terms of its
special functional requirements and seek Bank's comments prior to its final-
ization. Considerable progress has been made in establishing specialized
services, training, and research under the National Family Planning Center.
URBAN
Loan No. 1214 Second Kuala Lumpur Urban Transport Project; US$26.0 Million
Loan of March 11, 1976; Effective Date: November 11, 1976;
Closing Date: June 30, 1981
The main objective of the project is to increase the efficiency of
the transport system in Kuala Lumpur. Public transport services will be
improved while the use of private cars will be restrained. Although primarily
concerned with urban transport, the project also introduces new approaches to
residential development for low-income families. The main components are:
(a) road and intersection improvements, traffic engineering and control
schemes and construction of new radial roads; (b) transport policy measures
including introduction of minibus services, traffic priorities for high-
occupancy vehicles and area road pricing; (c) provision of new serviced plots
for households and businesses, and improvement of infrastructure services for



- 39-                     ANNEX II
Page 14 of 14 pages
existing households; and (d) technical assistance to support traffic manage-
ment and transport planning, to prepare an urban development project for
Kuantan, and to review national housing policies and programs. Overall
progress of the physical components on the transport side has been quite
satisfactory. Initial delays, however, will not be overcome and the estimated
project completion date has been moved back 30 months. Execution of the
residential components has been less satisfactory due to administrative and
policy problems which are in the process of being resolved. There is also
concern about delays in implementing the various policy measures included in
the project. Discussions with the Government are currently in progress to
ensure their implementation.



- 40 -                              ANNEX III
Page 1
MALAYSIA
KELANTAN LAND SCHEPES REHABILITATION PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken to prepare the project:    2 years
(b) The agencies which have prepared
the project:                            Kelantan State Economic
Planning Unit; Kelantan
Darul Haim Land Development
and Rehabilitation Corpo-
ration
(c)  Date of first presentation to Bank:   January 1976
Date of first Bank mission to
consider the project:                   June 19, 1976
(d) Date of departure of appraisal
mission:                                September 19, 1979
(e)  Date of completion of negotiations:   June 11, 1980
(f)  Planned date of effectiveness:             December 31, 1980
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Actions
The Bank plans to send a supervision mission shortly after
Board approval.
Section III: Special Conditions
(a)  about 5,000 acres of State land adjacent to the schemes will be
alienated to settlers by the State of Kelantan (para. 31);
(b) a Deputy Director (Operations) acceptable to the Bank will be
appointed as a condition of effectiveness (para. 41);



- 41 -                                 ANNEX III
Page 2
(c) RISDA will establish a Project Extension Unit (para. 42);
(d) no material changes in the relending terms to beneficiary and
ultimate borrowers are to be made without prior consultation with
the Bank (para. 50);
(e) a Subsidiary Loan Agreement will be executed between the Government
and the State of Kelantan as a condition of effectiveness (para.
50); and
(f) acceptable financial consultants will be appointed as a condition of
effectiveness (para. 53).






Sm, '+    S     0:   &OUS('&&X: 0 X          :   : ;'; 0  X   : 3; '        0 0  .    '      ' -MALAY51A
0'Dti p      '                                                         X 0 ;   X  - KELANTAN  LAND SCHEMES REHABILITATION
K(   J2cn 3 l'SANhi  K't s c                                        =                            D      LANDSETTLEMwrT SCOiEMES
k  )   - - -AX- - o       \                                                   :          @  : TAKOIR HEAOOUARTERSf
.)   TAKDIR REGIONAL OFFICES
-   )\5  FEDERAL ISTATE ROADS (PAVED)
---- FEDERALI STATE RADS UNDER CONSTRUCTION
nA..N                                                                            ........ FEDOERAL/ STATE ROADSPROJECTED
ECANOORX,                                                                                   ___0   RURAL ROADS CONSTRUCTION PROGRAM (PAVED)
555cR)                                                           NEGER;\ t 0 t _  RQRALROAONSTRU               CTION PROGRAM iGRAVEL)
NE GE.                                                                                           ExIsTING FWD DISTRICT OFFICES AND WORKSKOPS
A    PROPOSED PWD DfSTRICT ODFiCES AND WORKSHOPS
- ~~~~~"'~~~~  '-~~~~~~ ~~~                                        U    lI~~~~TUBBER NURSERIES
<Nt-<' -\ JOdOR t ' 4 ? - ~~~~~~~~~~~~RAI LWAYS
*550555Ifl  D ODR                              E -t  \ asr M                       - -.  STATE BOUNDARIES
-6_____________J_______________I_______                                                                      -    JNTERPPATIIOML BOUNDARY               8
This map has bess prepared by the World Bask's staff eaclusively for the csrnis_os
of the readers of the rsport to which it is attached The deosmisatisos used ead tha S X\ l     \\:  
ooutdartes shows as this map do sat imply, a the part at the World Bark and its    1  )
affiliates. any judgment on the legal status of any terfioy or ary endorsement Or  |    U TANG/\
acetas f suh b-udari-s                                 \~
IEsti                      RISDA        PosYt st\e,E,  /itSDA
JAKA               n    r       /
AI                              A           Alf? BELAGA
To KMALA TERENGGA 1
-                I'_                    <+/        _             |         W S LONG  OMETARS
S               S        SG FRAH     {aK  /       \     /                    a          /~~~RAL
To KEG/AI STATPAR  SU1L,G
moms t60 Ks,
MERANTO  _____~~~~~~~~~EIAN
105RA K~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~10 2   54
'                    ) 't-S a                            X<~~~~~~~~~~~~.   ,   a5NGAVL
I 10130'  LIMA.IK  I                          12O0 h                                      C 20
MI LES
m-.g~~~~~~~~.
( ~~~OA  A V 
PAI-/ANG~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
N                                                                                           m 00.



