UOCUMENTS      LOAN NUMBER 1899 MA
Loan Agreement
(Kelantan Land Schemes Rehabilitation Project)
between
MALAYSIA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated                              , 1980


﻿LOAN NUMBER 1899 MA
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated    ANMkoI2       1          , 1980, between
MALAYSIA (hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK
FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called the Bank).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower has requested the Bank to assist
in the financing of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement by making the Loan as hereinafter provided;
(B) the Project will be carried out by the State of Kelantan
and the Rubber Industry Smallholder Development Authority with the
Borrower's assistance and, as part of such assistance, the
Borrower will make available to the State of Kelantan and the
Rubber Industry Smallholder Development Authority the proceeds of
the Loan as hereinafter provided; and
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis inter alia of
the foregoing, to make the Loan available to the Borrower upon
the terms and conditions set forth hereinafter and in a project
agreement of even date herewith between the Bank and the State of
Kelantan;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all
the provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan
and Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, dated March 15, 1974, with
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein
(said General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agree-
ments of the Bank being hereinafter called the General Condi-
tions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth
and the following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "Project Agreement" means the agreement between the Bank
and the State of Kelantan of even date herewith, as the same may
be amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules


﻿-2-
to the Project Agreement and all agreements supplemental to the
Project Agreement;
(b) "Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to
be entered into between the Borrower and the State of Kelantan
pursuant to Section 3.01 (b) of this Agreement, as the same may be
amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules to
the Subsidiary Loan Agreement;
(c) "TAKDIR" means Kelantan Darul Naim Land Development and
Rehabilitation Corporation referred to in this Agreement;
(d) "RISDA" means the Rubber Industry Smallholder Develop-
ment Authority referred to in this Agreement;
(e) "DOA" means the Department of Agriculture referred to
in this Agreement;
(f) "DOF" means the Department of Fisheries referred to
in this Agreement;
(g) "PWD" means the Public Works Department referred to
in this Agreement;
(h) "MARDI" means the Malaysian Agriculture Research and
Development Institute referred to in this Agreement;
(i) "AFNP" means the Borrower's Applied Food and Nutrition
Program;
(j) "EPU" means the Economic Planning Unit; and
(k) "Project Area" means the land development schemes
under the jurisdiction of TAKDIR with the exception of Beris
Lallang Scheme.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions in the Loan Agreement set forth
or referred to, an amount in various currencies equivalent to
twenty-five million dollars ($25,000,000).


﻿-3-
Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn
from the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from
time to time by agreement between the Borrower and the Bank, for
expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods and civil works to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan, shall be governed by the provisions of the
Schedule to the Project Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1987 or
such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commit-
ment charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn
from time to time.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest at the rate
of nine and one-fourth per cent (9-1/4%) per annum on the prin-
cipal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to
time.
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on February 15 and August 15 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set
forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) Without any limitation or restriction
upon any of its other obligations under the Loan Agreement, the
Borrower shall cause the State of Kelantan to perform in accor-
dance with the provisions of the Project Agreement all the obli-
gations therein set forth, shall take or cause to be taken all
action including the provision of funds, facilities, services and


﻿-4-
other resources, necessary or appropriate to enable the State of
Kelantan to perform such obligations, and shall not take or permit
to be taken any action which would prevent or interfere with such
performance.
(b) The Borrower shall make available the proceeds of
the Loan allocated to Categories (1), (2), (3) and (4) of Schedule
1 to this Agreement to the State of Kelantan under a Subsidiary
Loan Agreement to be entered into between the Borrower and the
State of Kelantan, under terms and conditions acceptable to the
Bank and the Borrower.
(c) The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement in such manner as to protect the
interests of the Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the
purposes of the Loan, and except as the Bank shall otherwise
agree, the Borrower shall not assign, nor amend, abrogate or
waive materially the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision
thereof.
Section 3.02. The Borrower shall make available the proceeds
of the Loan allocated to Category (6) of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement on a grant basis to RISDA.
Section 3.03. The Borrower shall cause RISDA: (a) to carry
out Part A (ii) of the Project with due diligence and efficiency
and in conformity with appropriate administrative, agricultural,
and financial practices; and
(b) to establish and adequately staff an extension unit,
satisfactory to the Bank, to specifically service the Project.
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall cause Federal DOA and
MARDI to establish and maintain the hybrid coconuts/intercrop
trial plantings described in Part A (iii) of the Project.
Section 3.05. In carrying out Part E of the Project, the
Borrower shall cause RISDA and the Implementation Coordination
Unit of the Borrower to employ consultants for agricultural
extension and for monitoring AFNP, such consultants shall be
appointed in consultation with the Bank.
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall cause a nutrition base line
survey satisfactory to the Bank to be carried out in the Project
Area by June 1981.


﻿-5-
Section 3.07. The Borrower shall cause RISDA to: (i) main-
tain records adequate to reflect in accordance with consistently
maintained appropriate accounting practices, the operations,
resources and expenditures, in respect of Part A (ii) of the
Project, including without limitation to the foregoing, separate
accounts reflecting all expenditures described in Category (6) of
the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement on
account of which withdrawals are requested from the Loan Account
on the basis of certificates of expenditure; and (ii) retain,
until one year after the Closing Date, all records (orders,
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing the
expenditures on account of which withdrawals are requested from
the Loan Account on the basis of certificates of expenditure and
shall enable the Bank's accredited representatives to examine such
records.
Section 3.08. The Borrower shall cause EPU to carry out
Part F of the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in
conformity with terms of reference prepared in consultation with
the Bank.
Section 3.09. In carrying out Part F of the Project, the
Borrower shall cause EPU to employ consultants. Such consultants
shall be appointed in consultation with the Bank.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) It is the policy of the Bank, in making
loans to, or with the guarantee of, its members not to seek, in
normal circumstances, special security from the member concerned
but to ensure that no other external debt shall have priority
over its loans in the allcation, realization or distribution
of foreign exchange held under the control or for the benefit
of such member. To that end, if any lien shall be created on
any public assets (as hereinafter defined), as security for
any external debt, which will or might result in a priority
for the benefit of the creditor of such external debt in the
allocation, realization or distribution of foreign exchange,
such lien shall, unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, ipso
facto and at no cost to the Bank, equally and ratably secure
the principal of, and interest and other charges on, the Loan,
and the Borrower, in creating or permitting the creation of
such lien, shall make express provision to that effect; provided,


﻿-6-
however, that, if for any constitutional or other legal reason
such provision cannot be made with respect to any lien created on
assets of any of its political or administrative subdivisions, the
Borrower shall promptly and at no cost to the Bank secure the
principal of, and interest and other charges on, the Loan by an
equivalent lien on other public assets satisfactory to the Bank.
(b) The foregoing undertaking shall not apply to: (i) any
lien created on property, at the time of purchase thereof,
solely as security for payment of the purchase price of such
property; and (ii) any lien arising in the ordinary course of
banking transactions and securing a debt maturing not more
than one year after its date.
(c) As used in this Section, the term "public assets"
means assets of the Borrower, of any political or administrative
subdivision thereof and of any entity owned or controlled by,
or operating for the account or benefit of, the Borrower or
any such subdivision.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the
General Conditions, the following additional events are specified
pursuant to paragraph (k) thereof:
(a) the State of Kelantan shall have failed to perform any
of its obligations under the Project Agreement; and
(b) the State of Kelantan shall have failed to perform any
of its obligations under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
Section 5.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General
Conditions, the following additional event is specified pursuant
to paragraph (h) thereof, namely, that any event specified in
Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue
for a period of 60 days after notice thereof shall have been given
by the Bank to the Borrower and the State of Kelantan.


﻿-7-
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as addi-
tional conditions to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement
within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions:
(a) the execution and delivery of the Project Agreement on
behalf of the State of Kelantan has been duly authorized or
ratified by all necessary governmental action;
(b) the execution and delivery of the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement, acceptable to the Bank, on behalf of the Borrower and
the State of Kelantan, respectively, has been duly authorized or
ratified by all necessary governmental action; and
(c) the State of Kelantan has employed suitably qualified
and experienced: (i) TAKDIR Deputy-Director (Operations); and (ii)
consultants for financial management for TAKDIR.
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional
matters, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Bank:
(a) that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized
or ratified by the State of Kelantan, and is legally binding upon
the State of Kelantan in accordance with its terms; and
(b) that the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly
authorized or ratified by the Borrower and the State of Kelantan,
respectively, and is legally binding upon the Borrower and the
State of Kelantan in accordance with its terms.
Section 6.03. The date      ,4A     3 /9f/ . is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Condi-
tions.


﻿-8-
ARTICLE VII
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance or Deputy Minister
of Finance or such other person or persons as the said Minister
or Deputy Minister shall appoint in writing of the Borrower are
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes
of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
The Ministry of Finance
Kuala Lumpur 01-01
Malaysia
Cable address:                     Telex:
TREASURY                           MA 30242
Kuala Lumpur
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                     Telex:
INTBAFRAD                          440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused
this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the


﻿District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and
year first above written.
MALAYSIA
By 1 2a              6w
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By  1Sf     &o-'le
Regional Vice President
East Asia and Pacific


﻿- 10 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated           % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category                 Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed
(1) Fertilizers,                   8,000,000
chemicals, agri-
cultural supplies,
vehicles and
equipment
(a) Directly                                   100% of for-
imported                                  eign expendi-
tures
(b) Manufactured                               100% of local
locally                                   expenditures
(ex-factory)
(c) Procured                                   80%
locally
(2) Roads and tracks               6,000,000        40%
including engineer-
ing services
(3) Housing materials              3,300,000        50%
and buildings
(4) Consultants'                     400,000        80% of total
Services to the                                expenditures
State of Kelantan                              or 100% of
foreign
expenditures


﻿- 11 -
Amount of the
Loan Allocated          % of
(Expressed in       Expenditures
Category                Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed
(5) Consultants'                  1,500,000        80% of total
services                                      expenditures
or 100% of
foreign ex-
penditures
(6) Treasury Payments for         1,800,000        100%
RISDA Replanting and
New Planting
(7) Unallocated                   4,000,000
TOTAL         25,000,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures
in the currency of any country other than the Borrower and for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than the Borrower; and
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of the Borrower and for goods or services supplied
from the territory of the Borrower.
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in com-
pliance with the policy of the Bank that no proceeds of the
Loan shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or services,
or on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof;
to that end, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in
respect of any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
decreases or increases, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower,
increase or decrease the disbursement percentage then applicable
to such item as required to be consistent with the aforementioned
policy of the Bank.


﻿- 12 -
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expen-
ditures prior to the date of this Agreement, except that with-
drawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent
of $500,000 may be made in respect of Categories (1) to (4) on
account of payments made for such expenditures before that date
but after January 1, 1980.
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Loan or
the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in paragraph
1 above, if the Bank has reasonably estimated that the amount
of the Loan then allocated to any Category will be insufficient
to finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures in that
Category, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower: (i) reallocate
to such Category, to the extent required to meet the estimated
shortfall, proceeds of the Loan which are then allocated to
another Category and which in the opinion of the Bank are not
needed to meet other expenditures; and (ii) if such reallocation
cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall, reduce the disbursement
percentage then applicable to such expenditures in order that
further withdrawals under such Category may continue until all
expenditures thereunder shall have been made.
6.   If the Bank shall have reasonably determined that the
procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with
the procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no
expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan and the Bank may, without in any way restricting
or limiting any other right, power or remedy of the Bank under
the Loan Agreement, by notice to the Borrower, cancel such amount
of the Loan as, in the Bank's reasonable opinion, represents
the amount of such expenditures which would otherwise have been
eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Loan.


﻿- 13 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project is designed to increase the incomes and improve
the living conditions and well being of 7,500 households in
Kelantan. It comprises development activities in the Project Area
for a period of 6 years, 1980-85, and consists of the following:
Part A: (i)    Development through new planting, and rehabili-
tation of about 37,200 acres of rubber, 4,000 acres
of orchards, 300 acres of fish ponds, and 450 acres
of houselots by the State of Kelantan.
(ii) Development through replanting, and new planting
of about 12,700 acres of rubber by RISDA.
(iii) Development of about 250 acres of hybrid coconuts/
intercrop trial planting by appropriate agencies
of the Borrower.
Part B:   Construction of about 3,850 settler houses, 8 primary
and 1 secondary school, 11 rural clinics, 24 community
centers, 8 water systems by the State of Kelantan.
Part C:   Settlement of about 1,800 families by the State of
Kelantan.
Part D:   Assistance to TAKDIR management through additional
staffing, vehicles, equipment, facilities, and technical
assistance by the State of Kelantan.
Part E:   Technical assistance to RISDA to strengthen its exten-
sion services, and to the Borrower's Implementation and
Coordination Unit for development of a monitoring system
for AFNP.
Part F:   Technical assistance and consultant services to EPU
to undertake a study of the road construction sector in
Malaysia.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31,
1985.


﻿- 14 -
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                           (expressed in dollars)*
On each February 15 and August 15
beginning February 15, 1985
through   February 15, 1997                 960,000
On August 15, 1997                             1,000,000
*    To the extent that any portion of the Loan is repayable in
a currency other than dollars (see General Conditions,
Section 4.02), the figures in this column represent dollar
equivalents determined as for purposes of withdrawal.


﻿- 15 -
Premiums on Prepayment
The following percentages are specified as the premiums
payable on repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of
the principal amount of the Loan pursuant to Section 3.05 (b)
of the General Conditions:
Time of Prepayment                               Premium
Not more than three years                              1.65%
before maturity
More than three years but not                          3.25%
more than six years before
maturity
More than six years but not                            6.00%
more than eleven years
before maturity
More than eleven years but not                         8.15%
more than fifteen years
before maturity
More than fifteen years                                9.25%
before maturity


﻿INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Bank for Reconstruction and Develop-
ment.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Bank thereunto
this       Lday of 0    ,.,198 2
FOR SECRETARY


