Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 14782
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
URUGUAY
DEBT AND DEBT SERVICE REDUCTION LOAN
(LOAN 3323-UR)
JUNE 12, 1995
Country Operations Division
Country Department I
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY UNIT - Uruguayan Peso (Ur$)
Ur$1.00 = US$0.167 (as of March 8, 1995)
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS
BROU  -    Bank of the Republic of Uruguay
DDSR -    Debt and Debt Service Reduction
DRE  -      Debt Reduction Equivalent
IDB  -      Inter-American Development Bank
LDC  -      Lesser Developed Countries
IMF  -      International Monetary Fund
IFIs -      International Financial Institutions
LIBOR -    London Inter-Bank Offered Rate
MYRA  -   Multi-Year Rescheduling Agreement
SAL  -      Structural Adjustment Loan



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Table of Contents
Table No.
Preface            .....................    i
Evaluation Summary  .....................    H
PART I: PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
A.  Project Identity  ..................    I
B. Background ...................                                              1
C. The Program  ..................  3
D.  The Debt Agreement  ..................    5
E.  Role of the Bank ....................................  5
F. DDSR Loan ..............  7
G. Program Results ..............  8
H.  Bank and Borrower Performance  ..........................   11
I.  Conclusions ...........................   12
J.  Lessons Learned ...........................   13
PART II: PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
(To be completed)
PART m: BASIC DATA
Table 1. Uruguay DDSR Agreement
Table 2. Costs and Financing
Table 3  Debt Reduction Equivalent of DDSR Operations
Table 4. DDSR Operations - "Forgiveness"
Table 5 . DDSR Operations - Liquidity Relief
Table 6  Decomposition of Increase in Portfolio Inflows after 1989
STATISTICAL INFORMATION
Table 1. Summary of Assessments
Table 2. Related Bank Loans
Table 3. Project Timetable
Table 4. Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Table 5. Loan Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
This docurnent has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed wiLhout World Bank authorization.






- j -
IMPLEMIENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
URUGUAY
DEBT AND DEBT SERVICE REDUCTION LOAN
(LOAN 3323-UR)
PREFACE
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Debt and Debt
Service Reduction Loan (DDSR Loan) to the Republic of Uruguay in the amount of US$65
million equivalent. The Loan was approved on May 14, 1991 and fully disbursed on July
25, 1992.
The ICR was prepared by the Country Operations Division of Country
Department I of the Latin American and Caribbean Regional Office (Preface, Evaluation
Summary, Parts I and E). The Borrower's comments on Parts I and m and contribution to
Part II have not yet been received. Of the co-financiers, the IMF's views have been
incorporated, while the IDB has not furnished any comments. Preparation of this ICR
started in April 1995. It is based on the Report and Recommendation of the President, Loan
Agreement, Letter of Development Policy and internal Bank memoranda.
The Loan was the fifth in the IBRD program of debt and debt service reduction
activities, and nine additional DDSR operations have since been approved. These
experiences (including Uruguay's) have been extensively assessed in reports to the Board
(ref. "Analytical Aspects of Debt and Debt Service Reduction Operations", March 9, 1992,
and "Review of IBRD Debt Reduction Program", April 4, 1995). In addition, the "World
Debt Tables 1992-93" contained a special analysis of these activities. Further, there have
been Project Completion Reports distributed covering similar operations in several other
countries. This documentation has elaborated in considerable detail on the underlying
assumptions, methodology, evaluation and other aspects of DDSR operations.
This ICR thus concentrates mainly on the significance of the Loan within
Uruguay's economic experience, with less attention to the internal aspects of the DDSR
operation. In addition, the Loan was approved after the debt restructuring transaction was
closed and the Government provided its financing. Its President's Report provided a
comprehensive description and evaluation of the transaction, its assumptions and underlying
financial parameters. This ICR therefore does not re-examine these matters in depth.






- ii -
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
URUGUAY
DEBT AND DEBT SERVICE REDUCTION LOAN
(LOAN 3323-UR)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Project Objectives
The Debt and Debt Service Reduction Loan (3323-UR) of US$65 million equivalent
was designed to support the Debt and Debt Service (DDSR) Agreement reached between
Uruguay and its commerical bank creditors in late 1990 and implemented in February 1991.
(DDSR). This agreement covered the US$1.6 billion of Uruguay's medium- and long-term
commercial bank debt which had previously been rescheduled. Of this, US$628 million (39
percent) was bought back at a discount, US$535 million (33 percent) converted to
collateralized par bonds at a below-market interest rate, and US$447 million (28 percent)
rescheduled and converted into new money.
Implementation Experience and Results
The Loan was fully disbursed on July 27, 1992. The DDSR activity achieved a debt
reduction equivalent of 50 percent of the aforementioned eligible debt. The operation also
resulted in a debt "forgiveness" fraction of slightly over 31 percent (an alternative calculation
designed to capture the size of the windfall transfer from creditors to debtors compared to the
original terms). The benefits of this reduction/forgiveness were limited however, partly
because the commercial bank claims in the DDSR package were only about half of total
external debt.
The corresponding financial returns amounted to a relatively small percent of GDP.
DDSR-fueled savings were estimated at 4.5 percent of 1991 exports. An assessment of
benefits against a counterfactual based on extrapolation of Uruguay's historic payment record
calculated subsequent cash flow savings at 4.4 percent of consolidated public sector revenues
(after the Government's initial up-front payments for collateralization of the instruments and
the buyback). Significantly too, the subsequent savings were also equivalent to 34.5 percent
of the consolidated fiscal deficit prior to the operation.
The DDSR arrangement stabilized the level of long-term debt. It increased by 8
percent in the three years after the agreement, compared to 42 percent in the three previous
years. Public and publicly guaranteed external debt only increased by two percent in the
former period. Further, debt service on long-term obligations to private creditors fell in
1992-93 to two-thirds its level in 1990-91. The ratio of debt service to exports of goods and
services was 31.4 percent in 1993, nearly 40 percent smaller than before the DDSR
transaction.



- iii -
Its other attendant benefits included the improved matching of future debt service
with Uruguay's payment capacity as a result of an upside recapture clause. It provided that
the value of the par bonds would rise with higher prices for the country's three principal
exports divided by oil prices. In addition, the DDSR operation was followed by the
substitution for local short-term borrowings by longer term bill placements in international
markets and at lower costs. Furthermore, the transaction moved the bulk of the US$1.6
billion external debt it encompassed from floating to fixed nominal interest rates, also helping
to stabilize the Government's financial risk management.
Moreover, a 1994 study of recent increases in net portfolio inflows in 13 middle-
income developing countries found an 0.72 percent of GNP rise in such inflows for Uruguay
(compared to 0.69 percent for the entire sample). The study concluded that Uruguay's
improved domestic investment climate figured importantly, although the capital inflow surge
appeared to have largely been driven by low returns in more industrialized nations. In this
connection, private investment in Uruguay in 1992-93 averaged 53 percent greater than in the
nine years before the DDSR transaction.
The Government's effective design of the DDSR package, together with its steps to
tighten macroeconomic management at key intervals, combined to speed the debt reduction
operation. It could not have been concluded without the support of the Bank and the other
donors. The Bank and the Government collaborated closely during the processing of the
DDSR Loan. Its delayed disbursement for over a year until Uruguay regained access to IMF
resources, however, caused some strain between the two, when the Bank insisted in
"-maintaining parallelism with the Fund".
Summary of Findings
The Loan made a valuable contribution and led to significant macroeconomic
improvements. It accomplished less in advancing pivotal long term reform measures
however, and several core developments constraints still remain formidable. These could
ultimaelty undermine the benefits of the Loan and make sustainability uncertain.
The analysis of Loan 3323-UR did not add any particularly new findings to the
already well documented assessments of the methodology and other aspects of the Bank's
DDSR operations. However, Uruguay's success in gaining eligibility for DDSR assistance,
and in obtaining the market-based resolution of its external debt problem demonstrated that,
when debt workouts are needed, it is important to adhere to at least quasi-voluntary rather
than mandatory solutions.



- 1 -
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
PART I: PROJECT REVIEW FROM TIHE BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
A. Project Identity
Name:            Debt and Debt Service Reduction Project
Loan Number:    3323-UR
RVP Unit:        LAlCO
Country:        Uruguay
Sector:         Non-sector specific (DDSR)
B. Background
1.    This project originated from the adversities which beset Uruguay and other Latin
American nations in the early 1980s. Nonfuel commodity prices fell during a global
recession while world borrowing costs reached historic highs. Underlying these were the oil
price shocks and the unprecedented international lending to LDCs in the late 1970s.
Uruguay's unwise domestic policies exacerbated the situation. It had adopted a declining
preannounced rate of nominal devaluation to stem inflation--but without first controlling
public finances. The exchange rate then became overvalued, and the stabilization and
liberalization programs lost credibility.
2.    Simultaneously, the external resource flow that had provided the equivalent of 5.5
percent of GDP in 1979-81 suddenly halted. Uruguay, along with other Latin American
countries, saw their international reserves depleted. Then, after Mexico suspended payments
in mid-1982 and over 30 countries representing half of LDC debt fell into arrears, the "debt
crisis" was underway.
3.    Uruguay for a decade had averaged 3 percent growth p.a. with moderate inflation
rates and balance of payments equilibrium. These trends now reversed. Output fell 4.1
percent a year on average through 1985; per capita GDP in 1989 was still 6 percent lower
than when the decade began. Large fiscal imbalances surfaced and inflation accelerated.
The some 60 percent devaluation in 1982 provided the adjustment. But it made heavily
exposed private borrowers insolvent and further weakened the banking system.
4.    By 1982, the country's gross external debt was more than twice its 1980 level.
Midway through the decade, it had further increased to over 70 percent of GDP and over
250 percent of exports. The debt service ratio similarly rose from 17.5 percent of exports in
1981 to over 45 percent in 1985. Simultaneously, there was an over one half billion dollar
reduction in net transfers between 1980 and 1986, which turned substantially negative. Net



- 2 -
outward resource transfers rose to 7.7 percent of GDP in 1985, while debt payments abroad
rose by over 300 percent.
5.    In order to remain current on debt service, the authorities reduced the public sector's
wage bill, took other steps to cut the fiscal deficit and restrained monetary aggregates. The
necessary internal resource transfer was brought about by constraining domestic consumption
(-12 percent during 1982-84) and public investment (from 8 percent of GDP in 1982 to 3
percent in 1985). There were also heavier short-term borrowings in the Montevideo
financial center. In 1985, gross capital formation was less than half of its 1981 value as a
share of GDP, making the capital stock even more obsolescent. Imports fell to about half (in
value) their level of 1980.
6.    The Government also undertook to expand exports, fortify the balance of payments
and make public finances more sustainable. It moved to rehabilitate the banking system and
curb social security benefits, with secondary attention to modernizing the economy and
making it more competitive. It also continued timely debt service payments and
collaborating with creditors in order to regain access to voluntary capital markets (and
safeguard the regional financial center).
7.    The results were mixed. Through 1987, an initial strong recovery enabled real GDP
to grow at roughly 10 percent yearly with large increases in investments and exports.
Unemployment dropped to 9 percent, inflation to 57 percent. However the situation then
again worsened. At the end of the 1980s, the combined public sector deficit increased to 7.8
percent of GDP. It consequently appeared that the adjustment effort was badly flawed by the
absence of sustained basic reforms.
8.    Meanwhile, under the then-limited response to the global debt problem, Uruguay had
won a deferral in 1983 of two years' service on a small part of its obligations. Soon
afterwards, it became apparent that the restoration of LDC debt servicing capacity was not
coming about as hoped; nor was the envisaged world-wide economic recovery. The strategy
then shifted to longer-term consolidations. In 1986, over US$1.7 billion of Uruguay's
obligations were postponed on softer terms than before, and this multi-year rescheduling
agreement (MYRA) was improved in 1988. But these applied to less than half of the debt
and only briefly contained rising interest payments.
9.    Nonetheless, these measures temporarily eased the problem, as did stabilization
program gains and lower international financing costs. The debt-to-GNP ratio decreased
from 70.3 (1986) to 52.5 (1988), and the latter year's total debt level was only 3 percent
higher than 1986's. Unfortunately though, Uruguay's debt service-export ratio soon again
rose, as did the ratio of interest payments to GNP. Thus, when the 1980s ended, Uruguay
still faced severe macroeconomic problems while its debt payments took over 45 percent of
export returns. With low savings, the country foresaw implementing even more
contractionary policies to service its debt although per capita consumption was still below its
1980 level.
10.   As the same conditions applied to many highly indebted nations, the "growing out of
debt" strategy had failed. Also, the magnitude of--and the responses to--the crisis had been
seriously underestimated. The result was the evolution of a new international approach



- 3 -
which switched from debt management to debt resolution. The Brady Plan accepted the
concept of reducing debt, abetted by greater official financial resources, linked to growth-
oriented policy reforms.
11.   Shortly after its March 1989 announcement, the Uruguayan officials sought to be
included among the Plan beneficiaries, but they were rebuffed. There was then praise for
the 1986-87 recovery, competitive exchange rate regime and unrestricted international
payment, transfer and transaction policies. But developments showed a widening of the
fiscal deficit, intensified wage indexation and inflation pickup. Accordingly, the creditors
insisted on an IMF standby as a pre-requisite to a debt deal.
12.   There were also questions raised about the balance-of-payments justification for debt
relief in a country which was current on its obligations (after MYRA reschedulings).
Moreover, Uruguay then had both significant gold and several months of foreign exchange
reserves. (These were defended on the grounds of the volatility of dollar deposits in the
Montevideo banks, the need for a cushion against possible higher global interest rates, and
adequate liquid cover to maintain foreign depositors' confidence.) In September 1989, the
banking advisory committee adopted a wait-and-see stance, pending the results of the
upcoming national elections and Government-IMF negotiations.
C. The Program
13.   The new administration that assumed office in March 1990 immediately began to re-
tighten macroeconomic management, while simultaneously preparing a comprehensive,
ambitious debt resolution plan based on the Brady formula. It successfully laid the
groundwork for this scheme by strengthening the fiscal position and Uruguay's relations with
the IMF.
The authorities knit better ties thereby with the commercial banks, abetted by support for
Uruguay's case from the Brady Plan sponsors and the IFIs. In June 1990, the creditors
sanctioned the repurchase of some of the US$1.6 billion rescheduled debt, clearing the way
for a DDSR package.
14.   The Government's strategy in designing the package was based on:
(a)   relieving Uruguay from making any principal payments on its commercial debt
over an extended period. (Amortization under the MYRA agreements was due
to resume in 1991.) This was intended to provide time for strengthening the
country's capacity to repay;
(b)   reducing by nearly half interest payments on the debt covered during 1991-96;
(c)   retiring as much as possible of the commercial debt stock; and
(d)   on the basis of the above, generating sufficient savings to pernit attainment of
public sector deficits consistent with long-run debt equilibrium, and without
further squeezing public investment.



- 4 -
15.   During its preparations for the DDSR transaction, the Government altered the
composition of the package, originally limited to cash buybacks at the secondary market
price and new money offers. Uruguayan strategy had for some time concentrated on the
buyback device (originally they had been seeking to repurchase some 60 percent of the debt.)
However, about this time, the interests of the creditor banks diverged increasingly,
particularly on debt reduction as opposed to rescheduling. The Government therefore
enlarged the menu (an approach which was devised to reconcile these differences) so as to
include the option of par bonds.
16.   Another change also demonstrated the Government's eagerness to ensure substantial
participation in the program. This was fixing the cash buyback rate somewhat higher than
the then secondary market price (52-54 cents on the dollar). Before then, the secondary
market discount on Uruguayan debt had already long been either the lowest in Latin America
or second only to Chile's. The Government was aware that offering prices above the market
level would be costly because of the reduced yields resulting from the lower discount. But
because of their priority on debt reduction, the authorities felt it necessary to enhance the
attractiveness of this option.
17.   The design strategy also called for liberalizing debt conversions, following several
other heavily indebted countries' successes with this device for retiring borrowings. The
authorities feared these instruments' impact on monetary expansion but recognized the Brady
Plan's impetus for market-oriented devices. (They later set a ceiling of US$40 million on
these operations for 1991-92).
18.   A further change stemmed from the new administration's decision to speed private
enterprise entry and competition in areas hitherto restricted to the public sector. All new
debt issued through the DDSR program was declared eligible for participation in debt-equity
swaps without sectoral restrictions. The "new money" offer permitted 30 percent of these
notes to be converted at par over three years for sums applied to debt-equity swaps or
privatization. This was designed to protect investors from declines in the secondary market
value of these (uncollateralized) notes as long as they opted to participate in the
Government's new initiatives.
19.   The package encompassed all of the US$1.6 billion 1988 MYRA debt, which covered
about half of Uruguay's outstanding medium and long-term public and publicly guaranteed
external debt. In keeping with the new market-oriented mode, the menu presented three
options:
(a)   tender the debt for a buyback at 56 cents on the dollar;
(b)   exchange debt into par bonds with a 30 year bullet maturity and 6.75 percent
fixed interest rate; and
(c)   reschedule existing claims and provide 20 percent of their amounts with 15-
year maturities (including 7 years of grace) at interest of LIBOR plus 1
percent.



- 5 -
The par bonds had principal and 18 months of interest payments collateralized. In addition,
the par bond offer contained an upside recapture clause providing for additional debt service
keyed to possible terms of trade improvements. The value of the bonds would rise
proportionately with higher prices for Uruguay's three principal exports divided by the price
of oil. This recapture clause was then unique, as previous Brady deals only included a
higher export price formula.
D. The Debt Agreement
20.  In November 1990, the authorities and the banks concluded negotiations on a Brady
Plan agreement and the associated financing plan. One month later, the Fund approved a
standby with elements of support for the plan and all 69 creditor banks had committed to one
or more of the options. The banks' elections resulted in 39 percent being subjected to the
cash buyback (US$628 million); another 33 percent (US$535 million) being exchanged for
fixed rate notes; and the remaining 28 percent (US$447 million) converted into new money
(effectively US$89 million). The details are shown in Table 1.
21.   The choices showed the banks' preferences for maintaining claims on Uruguay: 61
percent of the debt would be exchanged for instruments involving no reduction in principal
value. The substantial outturn for uncollateralized new money notes pointed in the same
direction. The banks opting for these notes were effectively maintaining roughly one-third of
Uruguay's exposure.
22.   The financing requirement for the DDSR operation amounted to US$463 million
($352 million for the buyback, $57 million for collateral on the principal, and $54 million for
collateral concerning the three semi-annual interest payments of the fixed rate notes). The
Government was the sole source of this funding, for which it employed the new money, gold
swaps and sales, and reserves drawdown. Incidentally, Uruguay's operation was atypical in
the relatively high portion of the financing costs which the debtor bore. Domestic resources
fimanced 67 percent of the deal, substantially more than Costa Rica, Mexico, the Philippines
and Venezuela, partly because of the Government's desire to minimize new borrowing for
the deal (ref. Table 2).
E. Role of the Bank
23.  IBRD adjustment support to Uruguay began in the late 1980s after the Government
undertook the stabilization and revitalization of the economy. The Bank continued
subsequently to be extensively involved in adjustment measures and aspects of
macroeconomic management aimed at stimulating renewed growth and strengthening
creditworthiness. On the latter incidentally, the 1985 Power Sector Rehabilitation Project
(Ln. 2622-UY) and the followup "B" Loan Guarantee helped cover the foreign exchange gap,
thereby facilitating the 1986 stand-by and MYRA.
24.   SAL I (Ln. 2836-UY) was designed to support actions strengthening public sector
finances, reforming the financial sector, enhancing export-led growth and improving public
investment. Its balance of payments assistance and Bank backing of the Government
program facilitated the maintenance of an effective exchange rate. The SAL also was
instrumental in advancing to the forefront of Government policy consideration the most



- 6 -
important structural reforms needing to be addressed. These included the social security
system, the inefficient public enterprises and the revitalization of the banking system. SAL
I did not help solve these problems. Rather, it was limited to enhancing local capacity to
analyze and design constructive approaches to these problems, as well as drawing greater
public attention to the underlying issues. It did though usefully improve public investment
planning.
25.   From the outset, the Bank had contemplated a series of adjustment operations. This
plan was given more impetus with the resurgent fiscal deficits and high inflation, and the
1985-90 administration's slippage on long-term reforms. It was clear that further policy-
oriented assistance would be required to keep the adjustment process alive. Thus, SAL II
was provided to extend the previous gains over the term of the new Government. Apart
from further opening the economy, it focused on the financial sector's problems:
rehabilitation of failed banks, inadequate regulation and supervision, and the special
advantages of the state commercial bank (BROU). Program results were mixed. There was
good progress in tackling some of the systemic problems of the financial system, much less
in privatizing the intervened banks.
26.   Consequently, when the question of Uruguay's participation in the Brady Plan
program arose, the Bank had been intensively monitoring the country's performance and
carrying out a dialogue on important macroeconomic issues for some time. This facilitated
the preparation of the economic program underpinning the DDSR package, which resulted
from considerable discussions among the Uruguayan authorities, the Bank and the IMF. The
Fund took the lead role in defining the macroeconomic aspects of the economic program and
the related financing package, with the Bank concentrating on sectoral issues.
27.   The Bank focussed most of its attention in defining the conditionality of the DDSR
Loan on two targets. One was further liberalizing Uruguay's trade regime through the
reduction of import surcharges and the modification of reference and minimum export prices.
The second was rationalizing banking system reserve requirements by reducing the
distortions favoring BROU in order to level the conditions governing private and state
commercial banks, together with further strengthening Central Bank supervision. These
goals, which were met before Board Presentation of the Loan, signified a continuation of the
reforms fostered by SAL II. At the same time though, these were not very far reaching,
which circumscribed the Loan's contribution to advancement of Uruguay's reform agenda.
But this was not unique, as other Bank DDSR operations also had relatively limited
conditionality. Still, in the case of Uruguay, failure to advance on structural reforms in
public admistration and social security make sustainability of the achievements of this Loan
uncertain.
28.   Additional measures for tackling financial system problems were to be undertaken by
IDB. Its pending adjustment loan was designed to advance the sector improvements made
under the SALs, and to provide a vehicle for IDB's set asides for the Brady operation.
Similarly, the Loan envisaged the development of a subsequent IBRD activity for
implementation of the Government's proposals for private enterprise competition in
infrastructure and services ("Public Enterprise Reform Project"). These initiatives were later
to be derailed by the Congress and a referendum which halted privatization of the



- 7 -
telecommunications company. Similarly, there was then legislative opposition to cuts in the
social security system.
29.   The debt restructuring itself was negotiated by the authorities and the commercial
bank creditors, with sideline support from the Fund and minor Bank involvement. In the
design of the financing package for the debt restructuring, there was continuous collaboration
between the IMF and the Bank. There were initially some differences between the two over
the arrangements for the set-asides. Nonetheless, the respective set asides were processed in
tandem in order to seek to ensure their timely availability for financing the enhancements and
buyback.
F. DDSR Loan
30.   Uruguay's package was facilitated by the waiver of the Bank's negative pledge
provisions, consenting to the pledge of collateral required for the fixed rate notes. The
Bank's principal support though was the subject quick-disbursing loan of US$65 million
(Ln.3323-UY). The latter was an integral part of the support mobilized in concert with the
IDB and Fund for implementation of the debt restructuring agreement. The IBRD funds
were used in line with Bank guidelines, and were marked by the following:
(a)   Both the negative pledge waiver and the Loan were speedily processed,
paralleling the Government's pace in carrying out the operation. The Loan
was initially discussed with the Government in December 1990, appraised in
February 1991, negotiated in April, and approved on May 14, 1991. However
it took over a year to sign the Loan. The delay to June 1992 arose from the
Government's loss of eligibility for making an additional purchase under the
IMF standby arrangement (which provided for set-asides equivalent to 25
percent of each purchase). The Fund considered that Uruguay was ineligible
because of delays in "completing the midterm review" under the arrangement
then in force (ref. para. 46).
(b)   The Loan was of a "stand alone" character, divided equally between support
for principal reduction and interest collateral. It was the first Bank DDSR loan
so structured. The parallel IMF support contained no explicit interest support
(but contemplated adjustment of reserve target levels for this purpose). In
addition, the half of the Loan that helped finance the cash buyback was a set
aside against a planned adjustment loan, rather than one already approved, as
there was no adequate alternative fast-disbursing lending vehicle available.
(These types of difficulties contributed to the later liberalization of the DDSR
guidelines on lending instruments.)
(c)   Since the debt restructuring transaction and its financing were completed
before the Loan was made, it was designed to help reimburse the
Government's payments. Accordingly, it called for a one-tranche
disbursement, an exception to the phased expenditures norm.
31.   The President's Report concluded that the DDSR agreement reflected a
comprehensive restructuring operation which would yield substantial benefits. It underscored



- 8 -
the: (i) retirement of US$628 million of the debt; (ii) deferral until 1998 of principal
payments on US$447 million, and their subsequent 10-year amortization; and (iii) the
reduction by nearly half of interest payments on eligible debt in 1991-96. It calculated the
internal rate of return on the direct debt service savings at 28 percent, and their present value
at equivalent to 32 percent of the face value of MYRA debt. The Report also compared the
returns of the DDSR package with the situation under which Uruguay would have continued
fully honoring MYRA commitments. On this basis, there was projected a net reduction in
external payments equivalent to five percent of exports and 25 percent of public capital
spending. It further concluded that the smaller debt service would lead to a leaner fiscal
deficit and lower inflation, while also making possible higher private investment and
accelerated growth.
G. Program Results
32.   Debt Reduction. Uruguay obtained a debt reduction of 50 percent, a considerable
trimming of its debt overhang. The Government therefore achieved the main objective which
it had set for the DDSR operation. The 50 percent debt reduction equivalent ("DRE") cut
incidentally compared favorably with the average reductions achieved under the rest of the 14
officially supported Brady packages. The Bank's study of the latter ("Review of the IEBRD
Program to Support Debt and Debt Service Reduction", dated April 4, 1995) showed a 39
percent reduction average for these countries (ref. Table 3).'
33.   Similar results emerged from a parallel assessment of the "debt forgiveness" character
of the DDSR operations based on an alternative formula. This was designed to capture the
size of the windfall transfer from creditors to debtors compared to the original terms.2 The
"forgiveness" calculation hinged on the reduction in face value (mainly the cut on discount
bonds) plus the present value of interest service reductions less resources spent on buybacks.
This study calculated Uruguay's "forgiveness" benefit at 31.3 percent, substantially below the
"DRE" score but still a considerable gain.
34.   By comparison, Uruguay's "forgiveness" fraction was slightly below the gross
average---31.9 percent-- attained by 17 other countries for which Brady-type deals had been
completed or announced by mid-1994. (This larger sample included beneficiaries of IDA
1.     The "DRE" determination is defined as the reduction in the face value of debt plus
an adjustment term. The first term comprises the face value of debt retired in
buybacks and exchanged for discount bonds minus the present value of additional
new money provided by commercial banks. The adjustment term comprises the
present value of interest service reduction (net of increases due to recapture clauses)
and of country-provided collateral.
2.     The major difference between the "debt forgiveness" and "DRE" calculations
centered around the question of whether the latter rightly excluded new money. The
proponent of the "forgiveness" formula alternative contended that new money
conveyed an additional asset that offset the additional liability. He therefore
concluded that it was a wash with respect to debt burden (ref. "International Debt
Reexamined," W. Cline,1995).



- 9 -
Debt Reduction Facility operations and Eastern European states). The other Latin American
DDSR participants by and large won still smaller "forgiveness" percentages--Mexico (30),
Argentina (28.7), Brazil (28), Venezuela (19.8)--but Costa Rica netted 60.9 (ref. Table 4).
35.   The benefits of this debt reduction/forgiveness however were limited as the size of
Brady relief was relatively small. As the long-term bank claims on Uruguay included in the
DDSR program were only about half of total debt, the reduction/forgiveness of one-third
meant removal of only about one-sixth of the global debt burden. The corresponding
financial benefits amounted to a relatively small percent of GDP.
36.   "Savings".   The "Analytic Aspects of DDSR Operations" report examined the
balance of payments and fiscal impacts of the package. Using the counterfactual of
Uruguay's historic payment record, it estimated the attendant cash flow savings at 4.4
percent of exports and public revenues after the initial up-front payments (ref. para. 38).
They were larger than the cash flow savings in the previous Brady Plan cases (Costa Rica,
Mexico, the Philippines and Venezuela) but all were generally modest. Further, Uruguay's
savings were calculated to be equivalent to 34.5 percent of the consolidated public deficit
prior to the operation (ref. Table 5). In this connection, it is pertinent to take into account
the following:
(a)   Uruguay's DDSR package dealt only with debt principal, since as the country
had remained current on interest payments. The potential for financial benefits
was consequently smaller, especially compared to other beneficiaries who
obtained relief on interest arrears.
(b)   Since Uruguay's debt price in the secondary market was relatively high, the
Brady package cost more. It thus also netted smaller savings on this account.
However, the Government still felt the deal was a good one, apparently on the
grounds that it would lead to larger offsetting benefits.
(c)   A somewhat overlooked aspect of the transaction was that the amount of relief
on the interest burden was effectively understated. In order to service its
external debt, Uruguay had been selling dollar-denominated treasury bills
domestically. However, the sizeable sums involved were not fully counted in
the DDSR debt figures. One benefit of the Brady package was that this
borrowing could be better contained. In fact, short-term Government treasury
note emissions thereafter diminished. They were progressively replaced by
seven-year bill placements in international markets. Moreover, besides
mobilizing funds for longer periods after the DDSR operation, the Government
was able to obtain declining spreads (from 275 to 235 to 168 base points).
37.   Debt Indicators
(a)   The level of long-term debt has stabilized. It increased by 8 percent from
1990 through 1993, compared to 42 percent in the three previous years. In
addition, public and publicly guaranteed external debt increased by only two
percent from 1990 to 1993. This indicates that the Brady Plan reduction in
Uruguay's case effectively served to arrest the growth of debt. It did not, on



- 10-
the other hand, lower it substantially, partly because, as mentioned above, the
DDSR-eligible long-term debt was only about half of the entire amount.
(b)   Debt service on long-term obligations to private creditors has declined. It fell
in 1992-93 to two-thirds of its levels in the two previous years. Also, the ratio
of debt service to exports of goods and services was 31.4 percent in 1993,
nearly 40 percent smaller than in 1990. Further, the 1994-95 "World Debt
Tables" calculated Uruguay's average ratio of the present value of total debt
service to GNP (the broadest measure of the economy's income-generating
power) for 1991-93 at 56 percent. By the Bank's criteria, this would place
Uruguay well below the "severely indebted" level (for which an 80 percent or
higher value was required). These suggest that the country's capacity to
service its long-term debt has been strengthened--but this needs to be
interpreted cautiously.
The same Debt Tables showed that the ratio of debt service's present value to
exports for 1991-93 exceeded the ceiling for "moderately indebted" countries
in the Bank's criteria. On balance, therefore, Uruguay was judged to still be
"severely" indebted. Several 1993 statistics from the same source moreover
are pertinent to this point. Private creditors' share of Uruguay's total public
debt, while continuing to fall after the DDSR operation, was still a high 71
percent of total public and publicly guaranteed debt. This compared
unfavorably to 44 percent for the average of all developing countries and 57
percent for the LAC average. So too did the grant element of new
commitments to Uruguay, which averaged only 24 percent in contrast with the
region's mean of less than 15 percent.
(c)   By the fourth quarter of 1993, Uruguay's secondary market price had risen by
60 percent. By later that year, the prices were in the range of 80-82 cents on
the dollar. This was consistent with other experiences. A Bank study of
secondary market price trends after 1986 showed that "..for all (Brady Plan)
countries, (these) prices rose quickly after the conclusion of debt reduction
operations" (ref. "Analytic Aspects" report). Similarly, credit ratings by
private market participants (taken from the "Institutional Investor") rose
significantly after the Brady operations was concluded. However, the
secondary market improvements have been judged to be more attributable to
post-1990 intermational interest rate changes than to the DDSR operations (ref.
"Recent Private Capital Inflows" working paper, National Bureau of Economic
Research, July 1994).
38.   New Money. The new money was immediately beneficial in affording some timely
relief because of its substantial frontloading: the entire amount was disbursed in 1991. This
proved to be especially useful as a result of delays in the planned IFI reimbursements of the
Uruguayan Government's drawdown of foreign exchange reserves to carry out its buyback.
In fact, the new money disbursements served primarily to reduce the immediate liquidity
IlQs which Uruguay suffered in 1991 as the "cost" of the Brady deal, as other DDSR
beneficiaries also experienced.



- 11 -
39.      The new money's other benefits were limited, however. For all the Brady deals
in 1989-94, the amount of new money provided was minute: equivalent to about two percent
of the debtors' exposure. The US$90 million the Uruguayan Government obtained amounted
to just six percent of the external debt involved. Further, in numerous cases, the trend of the
1990s has been one of the commercial banks' turning away from their past practices of long
term lending to LDCs. At the same time however, the broadly cooperative, market-oriented
nature of the Brady Plan apparently contributed to an atmosphere of confidence for other
types of creditors, as discussed below.
40.   Improved investment attractiveness. An important measure of DDSR benefits is
the extent to which the attendant improved creditworthiness and more attractive investment
conditions increased the availability of external financial resources. On this, a 1994 Bank
study analyzed the recent increases in net portfolio inflows in 13 middle-income developing
countries, more than half of whom had Brady-type debt reduction operations.3 The study
assessed inflows after 1989, and sought to gauge the relative contributions in their increases
attributable to better domestic investment climates, rising creditworthiness and falling
international interest rates.
41.   The figures for Uruguay showed a 0.72 percent of GNP increase in portfolio inflows,
compared to the average of 0.69 percent for the entire sample (ref. Table 6). The analysis
also concluded that Uruguay's improved domestic investment climate had positive effects. It
was judged to have contributed more to Uruguay's expanded portfolio receipts than it did on
average among all the countries studied. However, the study's main conclusion was that the
capital inflow surges appeared to have been largely driven by low retums in the industrial
countries.
42.   Nonetheless, Uruguay's attractiveness to private investment increased absolutely, as
well as somewhat slightly more than peer countries, after the DDSR operation. Private
investment in 1992-93 averaged 53 percent greater than in the nine years from the 1982 crash
until the DDSR operation was agreed (calculated in 1983 Ur$). Following the Government's
encouragement under its DDSR program, debt conversions in 1991-93 produced US$800
million investments, contributing to the reduction of the debt total.
43.   Stabler Risk Management.  Another aspect of the DDSR operation's consequences
related to Uruguay's condition as a small economy whose exchange reserves are vulnerable
to sudden shifts from foreign depositors. It had no prior protection moreover against
fluctuating short-term intemational interest rates on its external debt obligations. These
caused considerable (and unforeseeable) problems in meeting service payments on a timely
basis. Correspondingly, the DDSR package reduced from 100 to 28 percent the share of the
US$1.6 billion half of extemal debt with these floating rates. This moved its bulk under fixed
nominal interest rates. Lessening the Govemment's exposure to interest rate risk thus eased
its financial risk management. So too did the aforementioned recapture clause of the
package, which helps matching debt service and payment capacity (ref. para. 19).
3.    Policy Research Working Paper No. 1312, June 1994



- 12 -
H. Bank and Borrower Performance
44.   The Bank demonstrated substantial flexibility in making the DDSR loan to Uruguay
under circumstances of sharp differences of opinion regarding the adequacy of the underlying
macro justification. There were also considerable uncertainties within the Bank then
regarding policies governing such operations. Questions had been raised about Uruguay's
need for Bank resources for financing the debt package, in the light of its then about US$1.3
billion foreign exchange reserves (ref. para. 12). Also, the 1990 balance of payments
performance was stronger than anticipated. In this connection, Bank support for DDSR
operations depended centrlly on the existence of a balance of payments need. Moreover, at
the time, the Bank's Directors had expressed concern about several aspects of DDSR
operations, including the need to demonstrate that a proposed loan would have a material
impact on the borrower's development prospects.
45.   Under these conditions, the already difficult task of estimating the isolated effects of
DDSR support and judging the likely results became even more complicated. In the face of
these problems, the Bank's case-by-case approach was commendable in the flexible manner
in which these tests were applied, as well as in the aforementioned frontloading and set aside
provisions.
46.   Notwithstanding the changes in political administrations in Uruguay during the
process, the Government maintained a highly competent team for negotiating and
implementing the operation. The Borrower and the Bank collaborated closely during the
processing of the Loan. There was also smooth cooperation in designing the Loan and
achieving the very brief interval between the conclusion of the Brady package and the Board
approval of the Bank Loan. Unfortunately however, the subsequent processing of the
envisaged single Loan disbursement was delayed until the Government regained access to
Fund resources.4 The Bank's insistence in this situation on "maintaining parallelism with
the Fund" caused some strain in relations.
47. The Government conscientiously fulfilled the policy undertakings which constituted the
conditionality of the Loan. Its constructive progress in further trade liberalization and
reducing distortions in the financial sector extended and deepened the reform program which
the Bank had been supporting, albeit to an only limited extent.
I. Conclusions
48.   The comprehensive debt restructuring which Uruguay obtained under the Brady Plan
was a costly operation and its financial benefits were moderate. However, it enabled the
country to largely resolve its external debt problem of the 1980s, graduating from periodic,
short-term reschedulings. More significantly, Uruguay regained access to private capital
4.    The December 1990 standby lapsed in 1991 after only the initial SDR 9 million
purchase had been made. It was replaced by the standby approved in July 1992, at
which time the Government purchased the equivalent of SDR 15.95 million. This
led to the declaration of effectiveness of the Bank Loan.



- 13 -
resources, which is pivotal for the economy. Moreover, while relatively small, the
Uruguayan DDSR operation contributed to concluding the systemic international debt crisis.
49.   The Loan was effective in helping the Government make these advances. In
particular:
(a)   The enhancements which the Bank loan helped finance--which would not have
been forthcoming without the Bank's participation--provided a total of US$130
million to collateralize the equivalent of US$1.1 billion in remaining debt
equivalent. The corresponding forgiveness purchased amount to about US$500
million. Thus the ratio of enhancement to conveyed forgiveness was 45
percent.
(b)   These enhancements were also equivalent to an investment with an immediate
return of 285 percent (US$370 million social profit to the debtor in exchange
for an outlay of US$130 million).
(c)   The official support to which the Bank loan contributed financed 38 percent of
the Government's upfront cash outlays, reducing its immediate negative
liquidity impact.
50.   Furthermore, the conclusion of the Brady Plan operation, combined with improved
policy implementation, was followed by encouraging economic and financial developments.
GDP growth in 1991-94, although still uneven, was substantially above that in the previous
decade. Gross domestic investment, which had long languished (averaging 8.2 percent in
1986-93), rebounded. It grew by 20 percent in 1993. Inflation has slowed, falling in 1994
to the lowest levels since the early 1980s. Meanwhile, the sensitive public sector deficit,
relieved of sizeable debt service obligations, declined; in fact, there were small surpluses in
1990-92. The external accounts also strengthened as net foreign debt increased only as fast
as output. It is questionable whether these improvements could have been accomplished
without the reduction of Uruguay's debt and debt service.
51.   At the same time, Uruguay has not achieved sustainable economic growth and several
of its core development constraints still remain formidable. As indicated above, despite
some notable advances, the conditionality of the Loan was not substantial enough to make it
truly significant in advancing pivotal long term adjustments. This was consistent with the
nature of DDSR operations' design. Moreover, the Government's firm 1990 adjustment
measures and their reaffirmation in 1991 indicated its commitment to invigorate private
sector-led growth. However, later developments demonstrated the minority government's
inability to carry out many of its policies, especially for unpopular changes. On balance
therefore, the DDSR Loan made a valuable contribution and led to significant
macroeconomic improvements. But its beneficial results could ultimately be dissipated
without more structural reforms in key areas.
J. Lessons
53.    Uruguay's experience was further testimony to the demonstration from previous
DDSR operations of the benefits of market-based resolution of the debt crisis, with particular



- 14 -
emphasis on the advantages of cooperative approaches. The ultimate developments in
Uruguay's case indicated that, when debt workouts were needed, it was important to adhere
to at least quasi-voluntary rather than mandatory solutions. The alternative confrontational
strategies (e.g., unilateral defaults, debtor cartels) appear in retrospect to have been
counterproductive. One indication of that is in the statistics on 1993 international lending
rates. These showed large differences in spreads between previous non-default debtors and
quasi-defaulters, e.g., Chile 70 basis points above US Treasury bond rates, Korea 150,
Philippines 600, Venezuela 700, Brazil 750.



- 15 -
PART II. PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
(To be Completed)



Tablc  .1  UtUGUAYY I)EII IAN!)I) 111ST11 SEIRVlClP RtlI)tJC l'ION A(Ci l Mi N'I
Agrced in Principle: Oclobcr 12, 1990                                                                                          Closing date: February 19, 1991
Debt retired    Shlare    Atalurity/graice       linterest rate             P rincipal                 Interest
hist,iiment                          (USS mntsJ    (percent)     (yearr) b             (percent)                 collateral                  escrowv
Principal subjecl to (he menu
approach *                              1,610       100.0%
A. Debt reduction
Buyback                               628         39%/.
Price: 56 cents
B. Debt service rcduclion
Par bonds with reduced rlxcd
interest rates                       535          33%          30-ycar               6.75%                   US T1rcasury                18-monlb
rullct                                    zero-coullon bunds         rollinig gunrmailcc
IForm  Rcgislered bumids 
Recapturc clause: See note
C. Conversion bonds combined with
new money
Conversion bonds                      447          28%          A: 1717           LI1OR + 7/8%                   None                      None
Forn: Rcgistered                                               U: 16/7
New moncy boimds                      (89)                        15/7             LIB3OR + 1%                   Nonc                       None
Ratio: 1:5
Form: Registered
Total Debt Restruclured           1,610 
4i/--5



Tabic   I.: URUGUAY DBT I AN) DDEBI'SEItVICE REDUCTI'ON AGIEEMENrT (continueed)
Agrccd in Principle: October 12, 1990                                                                                                         Closing datc: February 19, 1991
Debt retired     Shlare      Afafurity/grace          Inlerest rate          -        incijuI                      Interest
Itru01t17110                              (M.$ nPuns,)    (,1ueunt,.)     (ycars)                (l,ercein)                   collatcral                     escrow
SOURCIE: ltcpulbllica Oricnlal dcl lIJiligay, "1990 lFinanicing llan", Novcmher 5, 1990.
NOTES:
Recalipre clase: Ilhc fixed inicrcst rtc of 6.75% can bc raised in increiicinis to 7.50% in responsC lo increascs in a paital conmin y i Coiliis Ofrn(l ini(lex i CIIIoposcd ofpriccs
for wool, beet, rice and oil.
Iiuinancing requiiremenzts: $463 millioni, of wlich $352 millioni is for Ilic buyback and $ I l millioin for par boml collateral ($57 millioni for principal; $54 million for inierest).
Finiancing sources: Own rcsources, $340 million (includiiig $89 million of ncw mioncy); cxernal resoures, S123 million, comprising $65 million from tilic World llatik (S32
millioni sct-asidcs; $33 milliont additioiial finaicing) and $58 milliont froin elie IDB (set-asides). 'rIle IMF approved set-asidcs of S35 niillion, but thiis facility was not uscd.
Eligibilityfor (tebt cotiversioni: All new dcbt issued tlirougli tihc financing program (inclidinig tlic debt conversioni notes) was eligible lo parlicipale in Ilic debt conversioni program
(dcbt-cquity swaps), wilhout any sectoral restriction. Up to 30% of new nmoncy  iolcscani beconvct(cd at par ovcr a 3-ycnr pcriod if ilc lrocceds mc to Ic used for dcbl-cqtlityi
swvaps or for [lic privatizalion prograni.
Early parhicipation fees: ForI the cashi buyback and the fixed-rate note, 1/8% of debt tendered before December 7, 1990; for new money, 5/8% of tle amount tenidered.
Reallocatioi, provisions: None.
 Eligible debl comprised principal outstanding undcr thC Refinancinig Agreement of March 4, 1988 (the MYRA).
BDoth Ihc par fixed-rate bonds and ilte convcrsion bonids were issued in two scrics. Series A notes were tradeable immediately afler closing dale; series B notes closed 30-days
afler Series A nioles and became tradeable 30-days later (60-days afler closing).
'1igurcs includc dcbts to overseas branches of Uruguay finiancial iistilutions. Dcbt owcd lo non-Unigtinyan creditors was S 1,284 million, of wilicli $506i millioll *vas boughl-
back, $382 millioni was exchaniged for reduccd inierest bonds, and $396 million was excihanged for conversiont bonds.
N:%dau\klein%btady\agmn-uru.doc 3 Apr 95



-18-
Table 2 Debt Reduction Costs and Financing
'USS millions)
Direct                               Financing
Cost'                      Official Se-tAsides   Off icial Additional Lending
Own                      o/w                        o/w
Counry                            Resources      Tota     World Bank        Total     World Bank
Mexico                    6,031         1,503       1,400        750          3,128        1,260
Philippines b              940           346         192           0            402         200
Costa Rica                 226            43           0           0            133           0
Venezuela                 1.159         -306         828          163           637         150
Uruguay                    374           251          90          32             33          33
Nigeria                   1,681         1,681          0           0              0           0
Argentina                 3,759         1,230        777          175          1,752        450
Jordan                      147          147           0           0               0           0
Brazii                    3,447         3,447          0           0              0           0
Bulgaria                   715           408          75          75            232          125
Dominican Republic         201           201           0           0               0          0
Poland                    1,858         1,038        430         230            390          170
Ecuador                    666            97          71          50            498          80
Total                    21,204        10,086      3,863        1,475          7 '55       2,468
aL Net of new money
b. The Philippines operation was concluded in rwo phases.



-19-
Table 3 Debt Reduction Equivalent of Commercial Bank DDSR Operations
(fUSS m:i' on)
Face value changes                         AdUstments                 Debt Reduction
Vet/ace         Present        Pre-
Face                  value of        value of    payment          Nvt               Debt
value of                   debt         interest  equivalent      a-djust-         reduction
debt         NVew   reduction         service          of       ments           equivalent
reducironr      money           (3)     reduction"   collateral         (6)                 (7)
Countrv                  (1)              (2)      (1)42)             (4)          (5)     (4)+(5)             (3)-(6)
Mexico                    7,190        1,091       6,099           7,090        7,122      14,212              20.311
Philippines               2,600          850       1,750           1.107         464        1,571               3,321
Cosma Rica                 1,020           0       1,020             122          38          160               1.180
Venezuela                  1,954       1,212         742           2,494        1,736       4,230               4,972
Unguay                     623           89         539             158         111          269                 808
Nigeria                   3,310            0       3,310             612         357          969               4.279
Argenuina                 3,4l5            0       3.415           4,797        3,059       7,856              11,271
Jordan                      147            0         147             112         118          230                 377
Brazil                    4,718          353       4,365           3,204       3,800        7,004              11,369
Bulgaria                  3.130            0       3,130             302         394          696               3,826
Dominican Repubiic          712            0         712               0          56           56                 768
Poland                    6,490          138       6,352           1,425         624        2,049               8,401
Ecuador'                   1,39           0        1,839          1,031         591        1,622               3,461
Total                    37,153        3,733      33.420          22.4S4       18,470      40.924              74344
aL ncludes PD! wric dows dwough lower-dma-coractual interestcharges onatres and csh paynma  of PD  tcosing.
b. Relanive to  arkes rates prevailing at the :ime of the ageement. Market inuest rams used for discountng were appxnamtd
by the yield on ". S. Tresury secticis over ' 0 yes (or the relevaa pciod when applicabic) plus swap tUm to Libor plus the
standard spread of 13116%.
c. The Pilippaines operation was concluded in -wo phases
d. The face vaiue of debt reducton inciudes inrest equalzation paymenu for Ecuador.
Source: Worid 3ank esmates.



- 20 -
Table t-
DDSR Agreements (1989-94): 'Foraiveness Equivalent" and other Aspects
..7            0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Country        ELigible Debt    Depth of Cut (%)        "Forgiveness'          New
(US billions)                                                  MSoney
(USS
billions)
Ecuivalen| Fraction (%)
_(USSb)**
Mexico          47.17            35                1 .15       30.0           1.03
Philippines    6.60              na.                2.38        36.1           0.83
Costa Rica     1.61             nLa.               0.98         60.9           n.a.
Venezuela      19.01            30                 3.76         19.8           1.17
Uruguay        1.60              La.               0.50         31.3           0.09
Nigert**       0.11              La.               0.09         82.0            La.
Mozambique   0.19             |La.                 0.11         57.6            na.
Nigeria        5.34           |La.               | 2.60         48.7            La.
Guyana***      0.07             na.                0.06         86.0            n.a.
Argentina      29.34            35                 8.43         28.7            La.
Brazil         50.00            35                 14.00(est)   28.0           0. 50 (est)
Ugandax**    0.17                na.               0.13         78.3            na.
Domin-Rep.    0.80              35                 0.4.0        50.0            na.
3olivia        0.18              n.a.              0.14         79.0            na.
Jordan         0280             35                 0.26 (est)   35.0            La.
Bulgaria       6.80 (est)       50                 3.40         50.0           rLa.
Poland         14.0 (est)       45                 6.30 (est)   45.0           nLa.
Ecuador        7.60              45                3.4  (est)   4;.0            n a.
TOTAL            191.40          -               6L.12       31.9         3.62
' Discount bond basis
Y Sum of reduction in face value of original debt and reduction in present value of interest
reduc:ions, less amouto spent on buybacks
M IDA Debc Reduction Facility operations
Sources: IBRD debt reports 1990a. 1991a, 1992a. 1993a (all vol. 1); press reports



- 21 -
TableS: DDSR Operations - Liquidity Relief
(USS billions)
LiquidiEy Impact      Official          Estimated Subsequent Cashflow Savings
of Net            Additonal         (annual avemge)3/
Compensation         Support
to Banks
C3uncer-
Counter-       facuaal        Counter-
factual          2            factual
1            Full            3                       As   of      As % of
Scheduled       Interest      Eistorical    As % of     Public        Public
Payments b/     Payments      Payments c    Exports d/   Revenue e!   Deficit e/
Mexico                                (6.14)             3.73           3.09           1.10           0.35           0.9          0.6            3.2
Philippines                           0.20               0.11           0.31           0.05         (0.00)         (0.0)        (0.0)          (0.2)
Costa Rica                            (0.22)             0.18           0.21           0.09           0.01           0.4          0.5            2.5
VenezueLa                             (1.21)             0.69           1.67            0.31         0.43           2.8          3.3           75.3
U-rguay                               (0.37)             0.14           0.13           0.05           0.10           4.4          4.4           34.5
TOTAL                                 (7.93)             4.84           5.41           1.61           0.88           1.3          1.0            6.4
S Annual average over the four years subsequent to the year the operation was concluded. Interest due on commercial debt based on PAC
assumptions at the moment opentions were concluded; 8 percetu interest on official lending and interest collateral ftind.
b/ Scheduled principal repayrmens based on World Debt Tables data.
c/ Based on the averge long-term commerial net tansfer-debt ratio in the four years preceding the operation (WDT).
Al Cash flow savings as a proportion of exports in the year before the opertion.
e/ Cash flow savings u a proportion of public revenue and public deficit in the year befbre the operation was concluded. Fiscal
data refers to consolidated public sector (Du: and suff estimates).
Source: Memorandum to IBRD Board, Analytic Aspects of Debt and Debt Setvice Reduction Operations." March 9, 1992



- 22 -
Table 6.: Decomposition of Increase in PortfoUo Inflows after 1989
(percencage of GNP)
PROXNiATE
F.ACTORS
lncrease in  Improving Domestic    Rising Country    Falling Internauonal
Ins,ows   I Investment Climate    Creditworthiness     Returns
.lgna           -0.2 1           -0.77               0.13               0.43
Argentina        1.76            0.66               .0.67               0.43
Brazil           0.64            0.23               -0.02                0.43
Chile           -0. Is           -0.94               0.36               0.43
Malaysia         0.S;            0.11                0.00                0.43
Korea            1.16            0.73                0.00                0.43
Mexico           -.19            2.37                0.39                0.43
Panama           0.417            0.48               0.52                0.43
Philippines     -0.23            -0.75               0.10                0.43
Poland           0.00            0.07                -0.50               0.43
Thailand         0.47            0.05                0.00                0.43
Urguay           0.72            0.16                0.14                0.43
Venezuela        0.59            -0.33               0.49                0.43
Average          0.69            0.09   .            0.18                0.43
_.______I   100%o               12%                25%                62%
Nore :.Uay not Add up due to rounding errors
Source: 'lUtT tResearciT-Working Paper-4-342:  "The Ne. Wave of Privatt
Capital Inflows," IEC, June 1994



- 23 -
Page I of 2
STATISTICAL INFORMATION
Table 1. Summary of Asasmeats
A. Achievement of Obiectives              Subs1al                ra                  md.                 Not AN*lable
Macroeconomic Policies                       x
Sector Policies                              x
Institutional Development                                                                                   x
Physical Objectives                                                                                         x
Poverty Reduction                                                                                           x
Gender Concerns                                                                                             x
Other social objectives                                                                                     x
Environmental Objectives                                                                                    x
Public Sector Management                                                                                    x
Public Sector Development        _                                                                          x
B. Proiect Sustainabilitv                   Lik4elv                               U nc.ai         _
x
C. Bank Performance                    Hi=by Satisfactoy       SAM=y            1lfif     =            hM   UM hIKA I
Identification                                                   x
Preparation/Appraisal                                            x
D. Borrower Performance
Preparation/Appraisal                                            x
Implementation                                                   x
E. Covenant ComnLimance                                             x
F. Assessment of Outcome                                           x
Table 2. Related Bank Loans
Loan Title                      Purpose                      Year of        Status         Purpose        Approval
Approval                                    Status
Preceeding Operation
SAL I                           Structural Adjustment        1987           Disbursed
TAL I                           Implementation SAL I          1987          Disbsursed
SAL II                          Structural Adjustment        1989           Disbursed
TAL II                          Implementation SAL 11         1989          Closing
Following Operation
Public Enterprise Reform        Pub. Sec. Modernization   1992              Disbursing



- 24 -
Page 2 of 2
Table 3. Project Timetable
Event                           Date Planned            Actual Date
Identitication                  December 1990           December 1990
Preparation                     January 1991           January 1991
Appraisal                       February 1991           February 1991
Ne,gotiations                   March 1991              April 1991
Board Presentation              May 1991                May 1991
Loan Signing                    June 1991               June 1992
Effectiveness                   July 1991               July 1992
Tranche Release                 July 1991               July 1992
Table 4. Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Stage of Project Cycle                              Staff Weeks
Through Apprasial                                    34.8
Board Presentadon/Effecdiveness                     20.0
Supervision                                          1.6
Total                                            56.4
Table 5. Loan Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
(US$ millions)
FY92       FY93
Appraisal Estimate                                           65.0         0.0
Actual                                                        0.0        65.0
Actual as % of Estimate                                       0.0       100.0
Date of Final Disbursement: July 27, 1992












1 1J AT T 1N IJ
Report No:           147Th2
Type:  ICR



