Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 16844
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF BURUNDI
MUYINGA AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(CREDIT 1857-BU)
June 30, 1997
Technical Agriculture Cluster Il
Country Department 9
Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



IMLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF BURUNDI
MUYINGA AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Credit 1857-BU)
Currency Equivalents
Burundi Francs per US Dollar
1985  1 1986   1 1987   1 1988  1 1989  1 1990  1 1991  j 1992  1 1993    1994    1995  j 1996
119.97 1 113.80  123.47   140.09   158.67 1 171.26   181.51  208.30 1 242.78  252.66  249.76   302.75
Weights and Measures
Metric System
Abbreviations and Acronyms
COOPEC        Credit and Savings Cooperatives
ERR           Economic Rate of Return
FAO/CP        Food and Agriculture Organization/Collaborative Program
FBu           Burundian Franc
ICR           Implementation Completion Report
ISABU         Agricultural Research Institute of Burundi (Institut des Sciences Agronomiques du
Bunrdi)
ISTEEBU       Burundi Institute for Economic Studies (Institut des Etudes Economiques du Burundi)
M&E           Monitoring and Evaluation
MINATE        Ministry of Territorial Management and the Environment (Ministere d'Amenagment du
Territoir et de I 'Environnement)
MAOL          Ministry of Agriculture and Livestock
PASA          Agricultural Services Sector Project (Projet d'Appui aux Services Agricoles, Cr. 2024-
BU)
RDC           Rural Development Corporation
SAR           Staff Appraisal Report
Fiscal Year of Borrower
January 1 - December 31
Vice President    Callisto Madavo and
Jean-Louis Sarbib
Director     Nils 0. Tcheyan
Division Chief    Joseph Baah-Dwomoh
Staff Member      Dirk Nicolaas Prevoo



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
EMPLMENTATION COMPLETION REPOR
REPUBLIC OF BURUNDI
MUYINGzA AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENTC PROJECT
(Credit 1857-BU)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
PREFACE
EVALUATION SUMMARY .................... i
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A. INTRODUCTION.                                                                 I
B. STATEMENT OF PROJECT OBJECTIVES .1
C. ACHIEVEMENT OF PROJECT OBJECTIVES.                                            2
D.  IMPLEMENTATION EXPERIENCE AND MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE PROJECT.           4
E. PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY.                                                       6
F. IDA PERFORMANCE.6
G. BORROWER PERFORMANCE.                                                         7
H. ECONOMIC EVALUATION OF THE PROJECT.                                           7
1. ASSESSMENT OF PROJECT OUTCOME.                                                7
1.   FUTURE OPERATIONS.7
K. KEY LESSONS LEARNED.                                                          8
PART H: STATISTICAL TABLES
TABLE 1: SUMMARY OF ASSESSMENTS.                                                 9
TABLE 2: RELATED BANK CREDITS .10
TABLE 3: PROJECT TMETABLE .11
TABLE 4:   CREDIT DISBURSEMENTS: CUMULATIVE ESTIMATED AND ACTUAL .11
TABLE 5:  KEY INDICATORS FOR PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION .12
TABLE 6:  KEY INDIcAToRs FOR PROJECT OPERATION.                                 1 3
TABLE 7: STUDIES INCLUDED IN PROJECT .13
TABLE 8A: PROJECT COSTS .14
TABLE 8B: PROJECT FiNANciNG .14
TABLE 9: ECONOMIC COSTS AND BENEFITS.                                           I 
TABLE 10: STATUS OF LEGAL COVENANTS .15
TABLE 1 1: COMPLIANCE WITH OPERATIONAL MANUAL STATEMENTS.                       1 8
TABLE 12: BANK RESOURCES: STAFF INPUTS .18
TABLE 13: BANK RESOURCES: MSSIONS .19
ANNEXES
Annex 1: Summary of Borrower's Evaluation of the Project
MAPS
IBRD Map 20008: Natural Regions
IBRD Map 20006: Project Area
IBRD Map 20007: Agricultural Cooperatives and Seed Farm
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






IMPLEMENTATION COMEPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF BURUNDI
MUYINGA AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Credit 1857-BU)
PREFACE
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Muyinga Agricultural Development
project in Burundi, for which Credit 1857-BU in the amount of SDR 7.9 million (US$10 million
equivalent) was approved on December 10, 1987 and made effective on August 8, 1988.
The credit was closed on March 31, 1996, one year and nine months after the expected closing
date. The final disbursement took place on October 1, 1996, at which time a balance of SDR 3.3 million
(US$4.5 million equivalent) was canceled.
The ICR was prepared by Dirk Nicolaas Prevoo, Agricultural Technical Cluster III of the Africa
Region and reviewed by Joseph Baah-Dwomoh, Technical Manager, Agriculture Technical Cluster II
and Nils 0. Tcheyan, Director, Country Department 9.
Preparation of the ICR began after the Bank's final supervision mission in March 1996. No
project completion mission could be fielded because of the difficult country conditions. The ICR is
based on material in the project files. The Borrower contributed to the preparation of the ICR by
preparing its own evaluation of the project (Annex 1). The ICR was discussed with the Borrower on
June 16, 1997 and the Borrower's comments were subsequently incorporated into the report.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF BURUNDI
MUYINGA AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(CREDIT 1857-BU)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Introduction
1.    Agriculture is Burundi's most important economic activity. At the time of project appraisal in
1987, more than 84 percent of the economically active population depended on agriculture for their
livelihood and the sector contributed 60 percent to GDP and accounted for 88 percent of export earnings.
Major constraints to growth in the agricultural sector were: (a) high population growth that increased
pressure on scarce land, in the absence of off-farm employment opportunities, and which led to declining
soil fertility, deforestation, overgrazing, increased erosion, and farmers abandoning the practice of
fallow; and (b) weak agricultural support services and the absence of a sustainable strategy for the
production and distribution of agricultural inputs. Government's broad strategic objectives were to
increase agricultural production and improve rural living conditions. As part of this strategy, the
Government was in the process of withdrawing from revenue generating activities and refocussing its
efforts on service delivery through the technical ministries. The Muyinga Agricultural Development
Project was designed in support of this new philosophy.
Project Objectives
2.    The broad objectives of the project were to increase the quantity and improve the quality of food
crop, coffee and livestock production and to increase farm income. More specifically, in attempting to
achieve these objectives, the project sought to address the issues of the agricultural sector as they applied
to the Muyinga province, within the context of the Government's broader policies. The project was
intended to: (i) assist in the development of cooperatives; (ii) improve the Government's agricultural
services at the provincial level; (iii) support the development of agro-forestry; and (iv) help control soil
erosion. In support of these objectives, the project included the following components: (i) strengthening
of research and extension services in Muyinga, and improving coffee plant production; (ii) improvement
of marketing channels through strengthening of agricultural cooperatives in Muyinga to undertake
marketing of agricultural inputs and produce and to promote rural savings and credit; (iii) promotion of
agro-forestry and environmental protection through reforestation and erosion control; (iv) strengthening
of animal health services and promotion of the integration of agriculture and livestock activities; and (v)
greater utilization of swamp areas for food production through swamp infrastructure improvements. The
project was expected to be implemented over five years and cost US$14.6 million, of which IDA was to
finance US$10.0 million, Government US$2.7 million, cooperatives US$0.5 million and project
beneficiaries US$2.4 million.



Implementation Experience and Results
3.    Implementation Experience. Up to October 1993, project implementation went well, albeit
slightly slower than expected. The project was successful in achieving its agricultural production
objectives ahead of appraisal estimates and in strengthening the extension system with the introduction
of a participatory approach to extension that closely involved project beneficiaries. The agro-forestry
and erosion control components were able to proceed smoothly and exceed their targets. Project
implementation was partly delayed in other areas because of the following problems: (i) high staff
turnover; (ii) procurement delays, especially in the civil works program, which mostly affected the
swamp development and livestock components; (iii) inadequate attention to monitoring and evaluation;
(iv) poor performance of the cooperatives; and (v) inadequate counterpart funding. The project was able
to establish dynamic farners groups to substitute for the failing cooperatives. Also, two offices of the
Credit and Savings Cooperative (COOPEC) were established in the Muyinga province.
4.    After October 1993, the project was greatly affected by the deteriorating security situation
following an attempted army coup, which resulted in the assassination of the president, the president of
the National Assembly, and other elected officials. Although the coup faltered in the face of
international opprobrium, it destabilized Burundi's political situation and rekindled ethnic strife. An
agreement on power sharing was reached by the main political parties, however, hopes for political
stability have failed to materialize. Extremist groups on both sides have engaged in terrorist acts and
human rights violations that are exacting a heavy toll on the society and economy. Violence has
disrupted economic activities and has considerably weakened Burundi's capacities and institutions.
International mediation has so far failed to restore social peace, and a political settlement of the conflict
is not yet in sight. As a result of the 1993 crisis, about 40 percent of the livestock in the Muyinga
province was killed and about 10-25 percent of the areas replanted with trees were destroyed. The
Muyinga province itself was further destabilized by the civil war in Rwanda in 1994. Refugee camps
were established in northern Burundi to accommodate new Rwandan refugees, while "old case" refugees
from Rwanda that had settled in the Muyinga province in the '60s and '70s returned to Rwanda taking
their livestock with them. As a result project activities slowed down markedly, which resulted in the
need for a closing date extension to complete part of the civil works program. A second extension was
necessitated to finance the transfer of project activities to the Agricultural Services Support Project
(PASA, Cr. 2024-BUI).
5.    Results. Up to October 1993, project impact was positive. With the revision in the extension
methodology in 1992 from a top-down to a participative approach, project impact on the ground
improved remarkably. The project was highly successful in introducing improved seeds and agro-
forestry trees to farmers and in enlisting groups of farmers to produce these seeds and trees. Thanks to a
dynamic project manager, project activities in extension continued even after 1993, albeit over a limited
area. Groups of farmers were established and trained by the project to substitute for the extension
service in certain areas. No research results were recorded because research activities started belatedly
and were cut short by the October 1993 events. The Burundi Agricultural Research Institute (ISABU)
did contribute to the establishment of technical messages based on adaptive research experience in other
parts of the country.
6.    Cooperatives were unable to play an active role in inputs distribution and marketing of produce,
because of their weak managerial capacity and precarious financial state. As a result, these activities
were taken on by farmers groups, some of which proved to be very effective, and the private sector. The
establishment of the Savings and Credit Cooperative (COOPEC) was carried out slower than planned.
Management of the COOPEC preferred a gradual approach to the faster paced approach envisaged by the



iii
appraisal mission. Branches have now been established throughout the province and, apart from
repayment problems related to the October 1993 events, credit recovery has been satisfactory.
7.    The project exceeded its goals related to agro-forestry and erosion control, but most of these
activities were already completed prior to October 1993. The latter by working with farmers and
proposing solutions that were of interest to the farmers.
8.    Project impact on animal health was limited: (i) because of the delays in the civil works program
which delayed and eventually limited the construction of spray crushes; and (ii) because it was unable to
establish the planned revolving fund for veterinary supplies. The project was successful in training
groups of farmers to take on some of the project's activities related to distribution of veterinary supplies.
These groups are still fledging, however, and therefore require continuous support. The project was also
successful in assisting farmers to build stables and runs. The swamp improvement activities, that were to
be executed in collaboration with a United Nations Development Program funded project, were only
partially implemented as a result of the delays in the civil works program. Results were below
expectations because of the susceptibility of the recommended rice varieties to disease and the inability
of ISABU to identify disease resistant varieties.
9.    A satisfactory financial and administrative management system put in place after 1993. Local
staff were fully trained by the technical assistant and it was operating with only limited assistance prior
to credit closing. This system was installed in the PASA with financial support of the Muyinga project,
when the former was suspended due to poor financial management amongst other reasons.
10.   Without a doubt, the crisis of October 1993 and the ensuing difficult country conditions had a
very negative impact on the project. Due to the impact of the insecurity on marketing of produce,
compounded with the influx of refugees from Rwanda following the conclusion of its civil war in 1994,
farmers began to focus more on subsistence farming and became less market oriented. The project's
impact on incremental production in the province was thus effectively erased. Another example of a
reversal of project achievements occurred with respect to the reforestation and erosion control activities;
the project was successful in reforesting 3,000 ha actual versus 2,500 ha planned, but unfortunately,
about 10-25 percent of the reforested areas were destroyed after 1993.
11.   Actual project costs are only available through June 30, 1995, an are estimated st US$8.75
million, with IDA financing US$6.46 million, project beneficiaries US$0.05 million and the Government
contributing US$2.1 million (the latter number includes also financing of non-incremental costs). At
appraisal the economic rate of return (ERR) was estimated at 38.9 percent. No ex-post ERR was
calculated due to the paucity of post-1993 data.
Summary of Findings, Future Operations, and Key Lessons Learned
12.   The overall assessment of the project's outcome must be rated as   unsatisfactory,
notwithstanding the important achievements made prior to October 1993 and some even afterwards. The
crisis of October 1993 and the ensuing difficult country conditions had a very negative impact on the
project. In particular, the impact of the insecurity on marketing of produce, compounded with the influx
of refugees from Rwanda following the conclusion of its civil war in 1994 and its associated food aid,
meant that farmers began to focus more on subsistence farming and became less market oriented. The
project's impact on incremental production in the province was thus substantially reduced.
Sustainability of project investments is also uncertain given the problems between the different political
and ethnic factions to reach a settlement.



iv
13.   The Government had agreed with IDA to include the extension activities in the Muyinga
province in the work program of the PASA which had similar objectives to the Muyinga project but with
a country-wide scope. For the PASA, monitorable indicators had been established as part of its
restructuring and these indicators were to apply to the Muyinga project. The forestry program was to be
included in the work program of the Forestry Department of the Ministry of Territorial Management and
the Environment (MINATE). However, no post-project work program was established and MINATE
had already indicated to IDA that they lacked the funds to adequately support these activities. In order to
effect a smooth transfer, the credit supporting the Muyinga project was extended, because the PASA was
under suspension. The recent socio-economic events in Burundi, combined with the closing of the credit
supporting the PASA project, has made the execution of the post-project work program difficult. No
future operation is planned.
14.   There are three main lessons to be learned from this project:
(a) an in-depth institutional analysis of participating institutions has to be done as part of project
preparation and the implementation schedule needs to be established on the basis of this
assessment. In the case of the Muyinga project, the implementation schedule proved
optimistic in light of the ability of ISABU, ISTEEBU and the Government's procurement
services to support a project in a relatively remote region.
(b) the project has clearly underscored the importance and positive impact of involving
beneficiaries in the execution of the project, as was the case with the revised approach to
extension and the positive response to providing support to farmers voluntarily organized in
groups.
(c) the importance of selecting a technical assistant that is capable of transferring skill and
knowledge to local staff. In the case of the Muyinga project, the technical assistant that was
hired to put in place a strengthened financial management system was able to do so in a way
that allowed local staff to adopt the system as their own and continue satisfactorily after her
departure.



IMPLEMEhNTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF BURUNDI
MUYINGA AGRICUITURAL, DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Credit 1857-BU)
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A.    INTRODUCTION
1.    Agriculture is Burundi's most important economic activity. At the time of project appraisal in
1987, more than 84 percent of the economically active population depended on agriculture for their
livelihood and the sector contributed 60 percent to GDP and accounted for 88 percent of export eamings.
2.    Major constraints to growth in the agricultural sector were: (a) high population growth that
increased pressure on scarce land, in the absence of off-farm employment opportunities, which led to
declining soil fertility, deforestation, overgrazing, increased erosion, and farmers abandoning the practice
of fallow; and (b) weak agricultural support services and the absence of a sustainable strategy for the
production and distribution of agricultural inputs.
3.    Government's broad strategic objectives were to increase agricultural production and improve
rural living conditions. The corner stone of this strategy had been initially to promote rural development
through Rural Development Corporations (RDCs). These RDCs were to replace the existing Ministry of
Agriculture and Livestock (MAOL) provincial services and become the central point of rural
development by, among other things, attracting private capital and by operating on a commercial basis
through the development of financially sustainable activities. RDCs were successful at introducing
important innovations in rural areas, including paddy production and processing, tea production and
processing, and processing of fully washed coffee. However, RDCs continued to be owned and operated
as Government parastatals and were unable to become financially self-supporting and achieve their
development objectives. After a study on the impact and efficiency of RDCs and an intense dialogue
with IDA on the subject, Government agreed in the mid-eighties that RDC's commercial activities
should be privatized and be taken over by cooperatives and farmer's associations. Service activities
(extension and research) would be transferred back to MAOL. The Muyinga Agricultural Development
Project was based on this new philosophy.
BI    STATEMENT AND EVALUATION OF PROJECT OBJECTIVES
4.    Project Objectives. The broad objectives of the project were to increase the quantity and
improve the quality of food crop, coffee and livestock production and to increase farm income. More
specifically, in attempting to achieve these objectives, the project sought to address the issues of the
agricultural sector as they applied to Muyinga province, within the context of the Government's broader
policies. The project was therefore intended to: (i) assist in the development of cooperatives; (ii)
improve the Government's agricultural services at the provincial level; (iii) support the development of
agro-forestry; and (iv) help control soil erosion.



2
5.    In support of these objectives, the project included the following components:
(a) Strengthening of research and extension services in Muyinga, and improving coffee plant
production.
(b) Improvement of marketing channels through strengthening of agricultural cooperatives in
Muyinga to undertake marketing of agricultural inputs and produce and to promote rural
savings and credit.
(c) Promotion of agro-forestry and environmental protection through reforestation and erosion
control.
(d) Strengthening of animal health services and promotion of the integration of agriculture and
livestock activities.
(e) Greater utilization of swamp areas for food production through swamp infrastructure
improvements.
The project was expected to be implemented over five years and cost US$14.6 million, of which IDA
was to finance US$10.0 million, Government US$2.7 million, cooperatives US$0.5 million and project
beneficiaries US$2.4 million.
6.    Evaluation of Project Objectives. At the time of project preparation, the project was consistent
with the Government's strategy of transferring commercial activities to the private sector and focusing
on core service activities. Even though the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR) did not say so specifically, the
project was designed as a pilot operation and the experience gained in this project was to be incorporated
into the design of the Agricultural Services Sector Project (PASA, Cr. 2024-BU). The latter was under
preparation at the time this project was approved (1987). Muyinga's objectives were well defined,
although no indicators were established in the SAR to evaluate the effectiveness of the extension service
in particular, or the project as a whole. This was, however, in line with practice at the time of project
preparation. The project's main design weaknesses were its optimism for the development potential of
cooperatives in the Muyinga province and the inability of the project to deliver technical messages
adapted to local circumstances. The adoption of fertilizer by farmers was also grossly overestimated.
Furthermore, no in-depth institutional assessment was made of some participating institutions (the
Burundi Agricultural Research Institute, ISABU, and rural cooperatives in the Muyinga province). The
economic rate of return (39 percent) was overestimated as a result of these assumptions.
C.    ACHIEVEMENT OF PROJECT OBJECTIVES
7.    The project partially met its objectives. Between 1988 and the outbreak of civil unrest in
October 1993 (see para. 14), the project had made significant strides towards meeting its objectives of
increasing the quantity and improving the quality of food crops and increasing farm income. The project
had successfully pioneered a participatory approach to extension. The reforestation targets were met on
time and agro-forestry activities were launched and adopted by farmers. The main areas where the
project had failed to make progress were the strengthening of agricultural cooperatives, animal health
services, the promotion of the integration of agriculture and livestock activities, and greater utilization of
swamp areas for food production through swamp infrastructure improvements (the latter primarily
because of delays in executing the civil works program).



3
8.    The extension service in Muyinga successfully introduced improved seeds (beans, corn, rice and
potatoes) and created groups of farmers as a substitute for the failed cooperatives movement. Adoption
rates for the improved seeds were high (e.g. 70 percent for beans) and yield increases were substantial
(66 percent for beans and 177 percent for corn). Towards the end of the project, groups had been created
for improved seeds and agro-forestry trees production, distribution of inputs, bee-keeping, livestock, etc.
Groups of farmers had also planted 4,500 ha with coffee trees. Furthermore, the extension service had
started creating groups of local farmers who were trained in certain agricultural production aspects and
who in turn trained other farmers.
9.    The project exceeded its agro-forestry and enviromnental protection goals. A total of 3,058 ha
were replanted with trees, out of 2,500 planned. Unfortunately, delays in the civil works component
made it impossible to construct access roads to the reforested areas and, based on conflicting reports,
anywhere between 10 and 25 percent of the reforested areas have been destroyed since 1993. In
addition, about 3,000 ha were protected by the planting of contour bands. The project assisted farmers
on a voluntary basis rather than a mandatory one as had often been done in the past. Twenty-five groups
of farmers producing agro-forestry trees were created with technical assistance from the project and they
produced a total of 114,500 trees.
10.   However, before the upheaval of October 1993, some of the project's components had failed to
achieve their objectives. With the exception of the activities related to rural savings and credit, the
cooperatives component failed1. The sale of inputs by the project through cooperatives did not get off
the ground, because demand was relatively weak and cooperatives failed to reimburse the project for
sales. Helping cooperatives in setting up channels for selling agricultural produce also failed. The
project therefore decided in 1993 to stop the provision of support to cooperatives. The private sector was
more dynamic than expected in taking up the slack caused by the failure of the cooperatives. All
cooperatives-related activities were transferred to the PASA, which was assisting the Government in
defining a new cooperatives policy (this component was de facto canceled in 1995, when the Bank
denied funding for the cooperatives as part of PASA's annual work program and budget). The
development of rural savings and credit through the Savings and Credit Cooperative (COOPEC) was
slower than expected at appraisal. The COOPECs wanted to increase their presence in line with the
availability of qualified staff. Initially two branches were established (Muyinga and Makamba) and over
time representations were opened in each of the 12 communes of the province. Demand for the services
provided by the COOPECs was high. Although exact repayment data is not available, the COOPECs
have reported that apart from 1993/1994 there have been no repayment problems.
11.   The livestock and animal health component had initially some modest successes. Artificial
insemination was introduced and prior to 1993 about 114 improved calves and 81 goats were born as a
result. Feed supplements were distributed and farmers received project assistance for the construction of
stables and runs. The components suffered from three major problems: (i) the delays in implementing
the civil works program, which meant that the spray crushes were not completed until late and not all
were constructed (27 out of 34 planned); (ii) the inability of the project to establish a revolving fund for
veterinary medicines, because of the initial poor financial management system, which made it impossible
to distinguish the source of funds, prices that were not set high enough to assure full cost recovery, and
delays in obtaining payment for services; and (iii) the reduction of livestock following the October 1993
The Government stated in its comments on the ICR that it had never fully supported this component, but that
the Bank's preparation mission had insisted on including it. Bank staff involved at the time disagree on this
issue.



4
outbreak of civil unrest during which reportedly about 40 percent of cattle was killed and the conclusion
of the civil war in Rwanda in mid-1995, after which Rwandese refugees that had settled in the Muyinga
province in the '60s and '70s returned to Rwanda with their livestock. The project established five
groups of livestock owners to aid in commercializing the sale of veterinary products, but these groups
still require continuous support in order to be viable.
12.   The improvement of swamp areas to make them suitable for cultivation was only partially
implemented. The rationale behind the component was the high value added of cultivation on these
lands compared to traditional land use. This component was to be executed in collaboration with a
United Nations Development Program funded project. About 250 ha of swamp lands were thus made
suitable for rice cultivation. The rice varieties used were, however, susceptible to disease and farmers
have started using these lands for different types of cultivation.
13.   After October 1993, project activities retrenched, extension was only possible in part of the
project area and much of the livestock disappeared. The lack of security in the countryside forced
farmers to focus more and more on subsistence farming as marketing channels closed down. Moreover,
international food aid to refugees distorted local prices, as part of the food aid was resold on the local
markets. Despite the retrenchment of project activities, the project was successful in continuing to
support and constitute new farmers groups, which proved to be resilient and dynamic substitutes to the
failed cooperatives.  The financial and administrative management system, was substantially
strengthened in 1994 and 1995 and was gradually taken over by local staff, assisted by regular short-term
support mission by a consultant. These improvements were verified by two consecutive audits. The
financial and administrative management system was to have been implemented in the PASA with
financing from the Muyinga project (see also paras. 22-23).
D.    IMPLEMENTATION EXPERIENCE AND MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE PROJECT
Factors Outside of Government Control
14.   The most important factor affecting project implementation was the outbreak of civil unrest and
insecurity in the country following an attempted army coup in October 1993, which resulted in the
assassination of the president, the president of the National Assembly, and other elected officials.
Although the coup faltered in the face of international opprobrium, it destabilized Burundi's political
situation and rekindled ethnic strife. An attempt to restore political legitimacy with the election by the
National Assembly of a new president in February 1994 ended soon after, with his death in April 1994 in
the airplane crash that also took the life of his Rwandan counterpart. New power-sharing arrangements
in September 1994 curtailed the powers of the president and the National Assembly, and granted the
opposition, and the prime-minister representing it, additional powers and 45 percent of all important
public appointments. The agreement paved the way for the inauguration of a new president and the
appointment of a new government. However, hopes for political stability have failed to materialize.
Extremist groups on both sides have engaged in terrorist acts and human rights violations that are
exacting a heavy toll on the society and economy. Violence has disrupted economic activities and has
considerably weakened Burundi's capacities and institutions. International mediation has so far failed to
restore social peace, and a political settlement of the conflict is not yet in sight.
15.   The Muyinga province was destabilized further by the civil war in Rwanda in 1994. Refugee
camps were established in northern Burundi to accommodate new Rwandan refugees, while "old case"
refugees from Rwanda that had settled in Muyinga in the 1960s and 1970s returned to Rwanda, taking
their livestock with them (see also para. 11).



5
Factors Under Government Control
16.   Project implementation was slowed down, because of the following problems: (i) high staff
turnover; (ii) procurement delays; (iii) inadequacy of the technical messages that were extended to
farmers and a top-down approach that ignored constraints at the farm level; (iv) inadequate attention to
monitoring and evaluation; (v) poor performance of the cooperatives; and (vi) inadequate counterpart
funding.
17.   Staffing. The main problem encountered was the retention of qualified personnel. Government
salaries were too low to attract university graduates to resettle in Muyinga and the agreed salary scales
for contractual workers were too low relative to projects in other sectors. This was one of the main
reasons underlying the poor performance of the financial/administrative division. The Bank did not
finance certain allowances for staff, because this would go against the policy of not providing salary
supplements. In the end, the Government adjusted the salary scales for contractual workers to bring
these in line with projects in other sectors.
18.   Delays in Procurement. Procurement of all civil works was severely delayed and only part of the
program was carried out as a result. Delays were caused by a lack of experienced staff within
Government to handle this type of work and resistance to using private architectural firms, slow
processing of the bid documentation by both the Government and the Bank, and the inability of
Govermnent to regularly provide the 10 percent counterpart contribution. The deteriorating security
situation after October 1993 further contributed to the delays. The delays in the civil works program
were the main reason for the first extension of the credit's closing date.
19.   Organization of Extension and Links with Research. The extension service was originally
organized in a top-down approach. When it became clear that farmers' participation rates in training
sessions were dropping, the system was reviewed and a participatory system was introduced on a pilot
basis in 1992. The link with research (ISABU) never properly got off the ground because ISABU only
temporarily established a satellite research station in Muyinga. A review of on-farm constraints was
therefore not done until 1993 and not by ISABU, as planned, but by the International Center for
Agricultural Research. ISABU did provide support to the project in developing the technical messages
for the extension service based on research results elsewhere in Burundi.
20.   M&E. Project design accorded great importance to monitoring and evaluation in order to
measure the impact of the project at the farm level. Every other year, the Burundi Institute for Economic
Studies (ISTEEBU, Institut des Etudes Economiques du Burundi) was to do a survey, but this was never
done. In 1990 a unit was created within the project to start collecting this data and in 1993, this unit
became a separate division. In 1991, it was agreed to test a new approach, which would focus on the
identification of key indicators and collect the relevant information. Two surveys were carried out, one
in 1992 and one during the summer of 1993. Follow-up surveys were, however, not carried out. In
1995, the M&E division started with small surveys measuring the performance of the extension service,
livestock and bee keeping activities, and seeds multiplication. These surveys were never analyzed,
because of a lack of qualified staff and because of the poor security situation.
21.   Cooperatives.  The existing cooperatives in the Muyinga province lacked the capacity to
implement the planned activities in inputs distribution and commercialization of produce. The project
therefore relied increasingly on groups of farmers and the private sector to take on these activities.
22.   Counitpart Funding. Lack of counterpart funding was an important impediment to successful



6
project implementation, especially after the outbreak of civil unrest in 1993. This applied to the entire
portfolio of Bank supported operations in the country. The Muyinga project was especially sensitive to
this because operating costs were financed on a rapidly declining basis. In late 1994, the Bank took the
decision to provide 100 percent funding for most IDA supported projects for a period of one calendar
year given the country's poor fiscal condition. This was later extended by an additional year. The
impact on project implementation was noticeable, with almost half the disbursements under the credit
taking place after 1993, primarily for technical assistance, salaries for contractual staff, civil works and
expenditures related to the integration of the Muyinga project's activities under the PASA. During the
period of suspension of the credit supporting the PASA (from August 1995 till February 1996), the
Muyinga project also financed a minimal extension program in the PASA project area.
E.    PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY
23.   At the present time, project achievements are not sustainable. The deterioration of the security
situation in the country side, the disruption of markets and the inability of Government to provide
sufficient funding, has made it highly unlikely that project achievements in extension, forestation, and
financial management systems can be maintained. Efforts were made earlier on to ensure sustainability
by transferring project activities to the PASA and use the positive results achieved under the Muyinga
project with the participatory extension system and the financial and administrative management system
to strengthen the PASA. A second extension of the closing date of the credit was granted by the Bank in
order to complete these activities. These efforts were, however, overtaken by the socio-political events
in Burundi and the credit supporting the PASA was closed on December 31, 1996.
F.    IDA PERFORMANCE
24.   Identification through Appraisal. The project was identified by a local consulting company for
the Government and studies underlying the identification were fnalized in 1982 and submitted to IDA
for potential financing. Project preparation was put on hold pending the completion of an IDA financed
study on the effectiveness of RDCs in the Fall of 1985. Project preparation was carried out by IDA in
association with the Food and Agriculture Organization Cooperative Program (FAO/CP). The project
was appraised in May 1986. A post-appraisal mission visited the country in June 1987, to evaluate the
need to maintain two coffee components in the project (for the construction of washing stations and for
the improvement of export marketing). Given the need for conditionalities in the coffee sector, that
would have national implications, it was agreed at Government's request to drop this component. The
credit supporting the project, in the amount of US$10.0 million equivalent, was approved by the Board
on December 10, 1987, and made effective on August 8, 1988. Overall, IDA peRformance during these
stages was satisfactory. The main shortcomings that can be identified in hindsight are related to an
insufficient in-depth institutional review of the cooperatives and ISABU, and over-optimistic
assumptions on the use of modern inputs (in particular chemical fertilizers)
25.   Superyision. FAO/CP assumed regular supervision for the project during the first years of
project implementation. Prior to October 1993, supervision missions were regularly carried out (see also
Table 13, Part II). Supervision of the cooperatives component was carried out under the PASA project,
as it had a national cooperatives component. Starting in September 1994, supervision of the project was
carried out by Bank staff, as part of semi-annual agricultural portfolio review missions by a team of staff,
comprising an agricultural economist, a senior financial analyst and an operations analyst. Ad hoc
supervision assistance was provided by a rural credit specialist who was on the supervision team of the
PASA. The prevailing insecurity in the countryside made it difficult for supervision missions to effect



7
field visits. The closing date of the credit was extended twice because it was felt that there was sufficient
reason to be optimistic about a peaceful solution to the country's internal problems and the project was
able to continue limited activities in the field. Moreover, it was agreed within the Bank that it was in the
best interests of the Borrower and the Bank if some of the key accomplishments of the project
(participatory extension and a well performing financial management system) could be integrated into
the PASA. Disbursements for the PASA were suspended in August 1995, because of the misuse of funds
and the project's failure to produce audit reports. The Muyinga project was seen as the most appropriate
means for strengthening the PASA and its closing date was therefore extended again.
G.    BORROWER PERFORMANCE
26.   The Borrower's performance was satisfactory overall, given the prevailing country conditions
after 1993. The Borrower participated actively in project identification and preparation. Its main
weakness was its inability to effectuate the participation by ISTEEBU and ISABU in the project and its
insufficient counterpart contribution. The inadequate counterpart funding situation was not unexpected
given the deteriorating macro-economic conditions following October 1993. Project management was
highly satisfactory, with project staff continuing project activities under very adverse conditions and
sometimes at high personal risk.
H.    ECONOMIC EVALUATION OF THE PROJECT
27.   The ex-ante economic evaluation of the project indicated an Economic Rate of Return (ERR) of
38.9 percent. No ex-post economic evaluation could be carried out and no ICR mission could be fielded
because of the poor security situation in the country side. Based on extrapolation of data collected
through 1993, the ERR would have been about 13 percent had civil unrest not broken out in October
1993.
I.    ASSESSMENT OF PROJECT OUTCOME
28.   Up to October 1993, the project's impact was positive. The project was successful in
strengthening the extension service in Muyinga and, through the piloting of a participative approach, was
able to develop an agricultural extension model adapted to the particular circumstances in Burundi. This
model was introduced in the PASA on a pilot basis in late 1995 and early 1996 and was to have been
extended nationally, had the Bank not been forced to suspend its entire portfolio in the country in
October 1996. The project had also been able to contribute to the increased quality and production of
foodcrops and coffee in Muyinga.
29.   Overall Assessment.  The overall assessment of the project's outcome must be rated as
unsatisfactory, notwithstanding the important achievements made prior to October 1993. The crisis of
October 1993 and the ensuing difficult country conditions had a very negative impact on the project. In
particular, the impact of the insecurity on marketing of produce, compounded with the influx of refugees
from Rwanda following the conclusion of its civil war in 1994, meant that farmers began to focus more
on subsistence farming and became less market oriented. The project's impact on incremental
production in the province was thus substantially reduced.
J.    FUTURE OPERATIONS
30.   The Government had agreed with IDA to include the extension activities in the Muyinga



8
province in the work program of the PASA. For the latter project, monitorable indicators had been
established as part of its restructuring and these indicators were also to apply to the Muyinga project.
The forestry program was to be included in the work program of the Forestry Department of the Ministry
of Territorial Management and the Environment (MINATE), however, no post-project work program
was established and MINATE had already indicated to IDA that they lacked the funds to adequately
support these activities. The recent socio-economic events in Burundi, combined with the closing of the
credit supporting the PASA project, has made the execution of the post-project work program difficult.
No future project is planned.
K.    KEY LESSONS LEARNED
31.   There are three main lessons to be learned from this project:
(a) an in-depth institutional analysis of participating institutions has to be done as part of project
preparation and the implementation schedule needs to be established on the basis of this
assessment.  The institutions involved need also be closely associated with project
preparation. In the case of the Muyinga project, the implementation schedule proved
optimistic in light of the ability of ISABU, ISTEEBU and the Government's procurement
services to support a project in a relatively remote region.
(b) The project has clearly underscored the importance and positive impact of involving project
beneficiaries in the execution of the project, as was the case with the revised approach to
extension and the positive response to providing support to farmers voluntarily organized in
groups.
(c) The importance of selecting a technical assistant that is capable of transferring skills and
knowledge to local staff. In the case of the Muyinga project, the technical assistant that was
hired to put in place a strengthened financial management system was able to do so in a way
that allowed local staff to adopt the system as their own and continue satisfactorily after her
departure.



9
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF BURUNDI
MUYINGA AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(CREDIT 1857-BU)
PART II: STATISTICAL TABLES
TABLE 1: SUMMARY OF ASSESSMENTS
A. Achievement of objectives   Substantial  Partial      Negligible    Not Applicable
Macro policies              ____l_l                                          x
Sector policies                                                              x
Financial objectives                                                         x
Institutional development                      x
Physical objectives                            x
Poverty reduction                              x
Gender issues                                                x
Other social objectives                                                      x
Environmental objectives                       x
Public sector management    _                          _                     x
Private sector development                     x
Other (specify)                                                              x
_________________________  Likely   Unlikely     Uncertain    _
B. Project sustainability                      x r_X
C. Bank performance            Highly     Satisfactory    Deficient
satisfactory
Identification                                 x
Preparation Assistance                         x
Appraisal                                      x
Supervision                                    x
D. Borrower performance        Highly     Satisfactory    Deficient
satisfactory
Preparation                                    x
Implementation                                 x
Covenant compliance                            x
Highly     Satisfactory  Unsatisfactory    Highly
_  satisfactory  __unsatisfactory
E. Assessment of outcome    I                                x



10
TABLE 2: RELATED BANK CREDITS
Credit title           Purpose                        Year of  Status
approval
Preceding operations
1. Coffee improvement   Coffee quality improvement   1969      Closed in June
project (Cr. 147-BU)                                            1975
2. Second coffee       Increased coffee and food crops   1975  Closed in April
improvement project (Cr.  production                           1982
593-BU)
3. Fisheries development  Increase fish production   1976      Closed in June
project (Cr. 626-BU)   marketing, and develop a regional        1982
development plan
4. Forestry project (Cr.   Strengthen the Forestry   1979      Closed in March
918-BU)                Department and promote tree              1985
planting
5. Kirimoro project (Cr.  Increase food crops production;   1981  Closed in June
1165-BU)               improve rural living conditions;        1988
and improve coffee quality
6. Third Ngozi project   Increase food crops production;   1981  Closed in
(Cr. 1192-BU)          improve rural living conditions;        December 1989
and improve coffee quality
7. Second Forestry     Strengthen the Forestry       1985      Closed in March
Project (Cr. 1620-BU)    Department, promote tree               1993
planting, and establish plantations
Following operations
1. Agricultural services   Rationalize and strengthen the  1989  Closed
support project (Cr.   capacity of MOAL to deliver             December 31,
2024-BU)               services to fanners                      1996
2. Agri-business       Promote the development of    1992      Closed on June
promotion project (Cr.    private agro-industries and assist   12, 1997
2419-BU)               in privatization of agro-industries



11
TABLE 3: PROJECT TIMETABLE
Date
Steps on Project Cycle           Date Planned       actual/latest estimate
Identification                                             1982
Preparation                                                1984
Pre-appraisal                                              N.A.
Appraisal                                                  May-June 1986
Negotiations                                               October 1987
Board presentation                                         December 1987
Signing                                                    February 1988
Effectiveness                              May 1988        August 1988
Mid-term review                                            not done
Project completion                                         December 31, 1994
Credit closing                                             March 31, 1996
TABLE 4: CREDIT DISBURSEMENTS: CUMULATIVE ESTIMATED AND ACTUAL
Estimated
Cumulative     Actual Cumulative    Actual as a % of
Calendar Year       Disbursements      Disbursements          estimate
(US$ thousands)    (US$ thousands)
1988              1,900               489                  25
1989              4,500               990                  22
1990              6,600              1,738                26
1991              8,000              2,596                 32
1992              8,900              2,928                33
1993              9,700              3,441                 35
1994             10,000              4,346                 43
1995                                 5,619                 56
1996                                 6,459                 65
Cancellation     |                         4,500
Final Disbursement              .      October 1, 1996                       l



12
TABLE 5: KEY INDICATORS FOR PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
Key implementation indicators        Estimated                    Actual
in SAR
Yield increases:               Pre-project    Year 6            1992 (Year 4)
Beans                              650          900                1,080
Maize                              350          525                  970
Sweet potatoes                   7,000         8,750               9,000
Banana                           7,000         7,700            not available
Cassava                          6,000         6,600               7,000
Groundnut                          500          600             not available
Sorghum                            700         1,120                 950
Coffee                             475          619             not available
Technical Assistance and
Consultants
Financial expert (long-term)  70 man-months              45 man-months
Financial expert (short-term)  not identified            14 man-months
Information expert            not identified             1 man-month
Management specialist         not identified             1 man-month
Extension specialist          60 man-months              52 man-months
Extension specialist (short-term)
1 man-month
Cooperatives specialist       63 man-months              12 man-months
Civil engineer                not identified             17 man-months
Audits                        not identified             6 man-months
Credit                        Satellite of COOPEC by 2/89   2 satellites established
12 branches               branches in each commune
Forestry                      establishment of 2,500 ha of   3,058 ha established
soil protection plantations
Livestock                     34 spray crushes            7 by the project directly
20 by farmers
revolving fund for veterinary   not established
products
Swamp protection and          220 culverts               not done
development                   18 small bridges           18 small bridges
Training                      not identified             US$335,000, including 10
training session abroad



13
TABLE 6: KEY INDICATORS FOR PROJECT OPERATION
| Key operating indicators in SAR      I    Estimated     I       Actual
No indicators were identified
TABLE 7: STUDIES INCLUDED IN PROJECT
Study               Purpose as defined       Status       Impact of study
in SAR
No studies were
included in the project



14
TABLE 8A: PROJECT COSTS
Appraisal estimate'              Actuallatest
(US$ million)                   estimate
(US$ million)
Component                 Local costs   Foreign costs      Total          Total
Research and extension       2.7             1.7             4.5            1.1
Livestock development        0.3             0.5             0.8           0.5
Forestry                      1.2            0.8             2.0           0.7
Infrastructure and erosion   0.6             0.5             1.0           0.1
control
Cooperatives                  1.1            4.3             5.4           0.2
Implementation unit          0.6             1.3             2.0           2.7
Total (including taxes)      6.5             9.1            15.6
Taxes                        0.9             0.2             1.1     I
Total (excluding taxes)      5.7             8.9            14.6           5.3
TABLE 8B: PROJECT FINANCING
Appraisal estimate         Actualllatest estimate
(US$ million)               (US$ million)
Source                                 Total                        Total
IDA                                     10.0                        6.46
Cooperatives                             0.5                        0.00
Beneficiaries                            2.4                        0.05
Government                               2.7                        2.10W
Total                                   15.6                        8.75
2   Numbers may not add up due to rounding.
3 Cost data are based on accounting data available as at June 30, 1995. It was not possible to get more recent
data given the difficult security situation. ActuaVICR estimate exclude taxes.
4 Govermment's contribution to the project includes non-incremental operating expenditures, that were excluded
from the appraisal estimate.



15
TABLE 9: ECONOMIC COSTS AND BENEFITS
The ex-ante economic evaluation of the project indicated an Economic Rate of Return (ERR) of 38.9
percent. No ex-post economic evaluation could be carried out and no ICR mission could be fielded
because of the poor security situation in the country side. Based on extrapolation of data collected
through 1993, the ERR would have been about 13 percent had civil unrest not broken out in October
1993. Because of the adverse impact of the civil unrest on agricultural production in the project area, the
actual ERR is likely to be substantial lower.



16
TABLE 10: STATUS OF LEGAL COVENANTS
Agreement     Section     Covenant    Present    Original   Revised      Description of covenant               Comeents
type        status    fulfillment  fulfillment
date       date
C18570        3.03        2           CP                                 Payment of staff salaries from recurrent    Initially complied with but now
budget                               financed from investment budget
3.04 (b)    5           C                                  Employ/maintain experts in: (a) financial   None
management; (b) agriculture; (c)
cooperative management at central level;
and (d) cooperative management at
provincial level
3.05 (a)    13          CP                                 ISABU to provide its support to establish   Research workshop was
research workshop                    established, but activities were
stopped after 1993
3.05 (b)    13          C                                  Fruit and forest plants to be provided by    None
Forestry and Water Department
3.05 (c)    13          C                                  Coffee planting policy               None
3.06 (a)    5           C                                  Agreement between Ministry of        None
Agriculture and Ministry of Rural
Development regarding cooperatives
3.06 (b)    5           CD                                 COOPEC satellite to be installed in  None
Muyinga province
3.06 (c)-(g)  5         CP                                 Supply and placement of agricultural  Initially complied with, but
inputs through cooperatives          following poor performance of
cooperatives, supply and
placement was piloted through
farmers' groups
3.07        5           NC                                 Transfer of buildings and cooperatives to    Cooperatives were not
Muyinga cooperatives                 considered sufficiently viable to
justify the investments
3.08        2           NC         1/1/1993                Removal of Kinazi seed farm from     initially complied with but later
recurrent budget                     reintegrated
4.01 (a)    2           C                                  Maintenance of financial records     None
4.01 (b)    2           C                                  Audits of financial and special accounts    None
4.01 (c)    2           C                                  Maintenance and audit of statement of  None
-I-                        -           -        expenditures



17
Keys:
C = Complied with   CD = Complied, but with delays  CP = Complied with partially    NC = Not complied with
Covenant Types:
1 =  Accounts/audits             6 =  Environmental covenants           11=   Sectoral or cross-sectoral budgetary or
other resource allocation
2 =  Financial performance/revenue   7 =  Involuntary resettlement      12=   Sectoral or cross-sectoral
generation from beneficiaries                                            policy/regulatory/institutional action
3 =  Flow and utilization of project   8=  Indigenous people            13=  Other
funds
4 =  Counterpart funding          9 =  Monitoring, review and reporting
5 =  Management aspects of the    10=  Project implementation not covered
project or executing agency       by categories 1-9



18
TABLE 11: COMPLIANCE WITH OPERATIONAL MANUAL STATEMENTS
Statement number and title          Describe and comment on lack of compliance
Not applicable                                                            -
TABLE 12: BANK RESOURCES: STAFF INPUTS
Stage of project cycle                   Planned          Revised           Actual
Weeks  US$       Weeks  US$    Weeks  US$
Preparation to appraisal_                                                   80   69,130
Appraisal                                                                   84  141,167
Negotiations through Board approval                                          9 X  ___     _  18,132
Supervision                        T        I __                           92  190,570
Completion                         1      5    9,675        5   9,675        5   10,000
TOTAL                                                                           428,999
5 Data to be completed.



19
TABLE 13: BANK RESOURCES: MISSIONS
Performance Rating
Stage of     Month/   Number   Days        Specialized staff skills   Implementation   Development   Types of
project       year   of persons  in field      represented            Status        Objectives    problems
cycle
Appraisal    05/86    7         N.A.    Sr. Agriculturist,
Economist, Financial
Analyst, Agronomist,
Forester, Coffee Spec. and
Cooperatives Spec.
Post-       06/87    2          N.A.    Sr. Agriculturist, Financial
appraisal                                Analyst
Supervision
Mission 1    07/88    1         15       Agronomist               2               2
Mission 2    02/89    2          17      Financial Analyst,       2               1
Agronomist
Mission 3    04/90    1         6        Division Chief           2               2              P
Mission 4    05/90    1          13      Agronomist               2               2              P
Mission 5    10/90    2         2        Agronomist, Financial    2               2              P
Analyst
Mission 6    10/91    1          11      Agronomist               2               2              P
Mission 7    03/92    3         N.A.    Agronomist, Financial     2               2
Analyst, livestock spec.
Mission 8    12/92    3          12      Agronomist, livestock    2               2              P
spec., cooperatives spec.
Mission 9    08/93    3          11      Agronomist, cooperatives   2             2              P, FM
spec., fnancial analyst
Mission 10   12/94    3          156     Financial analyst,       U               U              P, C
management spec., project
officer
Mission 11   03/95    4          126     Economist, financial     NR              NR             NR
analyst, agricultural
economist, extension spec.
Mission 12   06/95    4         216      Division Chief, economist,  NR           NR             NR
agricultural economist,
operations analyst
Mission 13   11/95    3         76       Principal economist,     NR              NR             NR
agricultural economist,
operations analyst,
financial analyst, lawyer
Mission 14   03/96    1         77       Financial Analyst        U               U              C
Key to types of problems: C = Country related problems; FM = Financial Management; P = Procurement delays
6   The Muyinga and PASA projects were supervised at the same time. The number of days in the field is the total time the
supervision mission spent in the field. No information is available on how much time was spent on each project. No
separate supervision report was issued for the Muyinga project and no form 590 entered in the MIS.
7   The Muyinga and Coffee Sector Project were supervised at the same time. No information is available on how much time
was spent on each project.



20
Annex 1
Borrowers' Implementation Completion Report
Executive Summary
The Muyinga Agricultural Development Project was designed in the mid 1980s. Its
objective was to increase both the production and quality of food crops, coffee, and livestock,
and therefore rural incomes, in the project area. This area, located in the northeast region of the
country, was characterized by its poor soil fertility, plant and animal diseases, lack of wooded
areas, and lack of extension services.
The design of the project, entrusted mainly to the FAO Investment Centre, can be
regarded as satisfactory, although the chemical fertilizer component was over-scaled and
depended on a cooperative sector that proved unequal to the task. It is unfortunate the-baseline
situation was not formally assessed and performance indicators were not laid down for each and
every component from the outset. However, an agricultural statistical survey was conducted
throughout Muyinga Province in 1986-87. A rapid diagnostic study was also made by the
Burundi Agricultural Research Institute (ISABU) in 1988, although on only one of the seven
communes comprising the project area, and two years after project start-up.
Once a Burundian project director had been appointed, prefinancing mobilized, and a
technical assistance team rapidly assembled, the project was launched without delay. Although
its composition changed frequently, the technical assistance team was less extensive than
envisaged in the project preparatory documentation. It is regrettable the basic project documents
did not make specific provision for short-term consulting services, which were resorted to only
late in the day, despite difficulties in identifying local specialists experienced enough to meet
program requirements. Personnel training was an important consideration, but priority went to
costly traineeships abroad for management staff.
While procurement of goods and services was in accordance with the prescribed
guidelines, there were considerable delays in implementation of the project, mainly owing to the
lack of expert consulting advice. The monitoring and evaluation function was mishandled,
making it all the more difficult to ensure sound execution of project programs. The relationship
with the external donor, the World Bank, was excellent, with the Bank sending out supervision
missions approximately every six months in normal circumstances.
The following material deals with the separate components of the project:
With regard to the training and extension component, the responsible government
department made excellent methodological choices. After relying first on the training and visit
approach, the project then converted into a pilot scheme for participative extension, a change that
certainly appears to have given satisfactory results, especially in farm production figures and
erosion control. Despite a loss of confidence between project partners, worsened by the events of
October 1993, the Training and Extension Service cooperated closely with the project



21
management team to supervise extension personnel and guarantee at least minimum contact
throughout the crisis period. Performance levels might have been more satisfactory had
alternatives been developed for overcoming the effects of ISABU shortcomings in adaptive
research and for encouraging greater use of mineral fertilizers.
Although traditional cooperatives declined, the project promoted the formation of
producer associations, beginning with those grouping producers of seed, coffee plants and agro-
forestry planting materials. By the time the project closed, roughly 250 more or less stable small
associations were in operation.
With regard to the input component, performances were unequal, depending on whether
the particular inputs were non-manufactured, or manufactured and therefore generally imported.
In the case of non-manufactured inputs, the Crop Production Service obtained good
results by using farmers as seed multipliers (until 75% of the required volume of selected bean
seed was reached). To ensure wide use, however, the project had to purchase the food crop seed
produced in this way ands resell it at partially subsidized rates to other farners.  The
cooperatives that were to have taken charge of this did not act forcefully, unlike the associations
producing coffee and agro-forestry plants.
In the case of manufactured inputs (fertilizers, plant-health and veterinary products), the
project acted almost entirely alone, seeing to all stages of the process from import to distribution.
A change in approach was introduced in the last years of the project period, chiefly because of
the difficulty in getting the traditional organizational arrangements to work in rural areas in the
wake of the crisis. The volumes of fertilizer originally targeted for distribution were not
achieved, owing to lack of an ad hoc testing/demonstration program. At the end of the
implementation period, the project zone was consuming only about 20 metric tons of fertilizer
per year, as opposed to the 700 tons per year projected in the basic project documentation. The
cooperatives that were to have distributed these fertilizers were virtually no longer operating.
With regard to the livestock component, animal health results were satisfactory. The chief
activities here were construction of cattle crushes, vaccination, and distribution of veterinary
pharmaceuticals. The main shortcoming was a failure to promote veterinary pharmacies owned
either privately or by livestock breeders associations. Animal production programs (genetic
improvement, feed, housing) caused little impact; in particular, breeding animals placed with the
communes had minimal effect, while those subsequently placed directly with farmer-breeders
were lost in the events of October 1993.
As a result of the project, beekeeping developed significantly in Muyinga Province, the
number of keepers tripling from 1,459 to 4,780 from 1990 to 1992.
The forestry development component was particularly successful. The goal of 2,500 ha
of new forestry plantations was achieved two years ahead of schedule, while the agro-forestry
program also went ahead very well, with a high level of private participation in the production of
plant materials.



22
The civil engineering component was completed, despite numerous delays. Settlement of
a dispute over additional foundation works took much too long, leading in turn to delays of over
two years in the building of dwellings and office premises. In the case of the culvert and small
bridge building program, the number of structures had to be cut back because the construction
time remaining had become too short. The planned forestry plantation access roads were not laid
out either. These delays or cancellations can be put down to lack of local expertise, slow
assembly and follow-up of program proposals, difficulty in scheduling the various partners
involved (Government Contracts Service, Ministry of Public Works and Infiastructure, etc.),
some donor delays in responding to program proposals submitted, and two-year failure to
mobilize the then mandatory national counterpart financing of 10% of project cost.
Project achievements include successful introduction of the management system, which
was given final shape and greatly improved during the last three years of the project period. A
small Administration and Finance Service team currently runs the system. The individual team
members know the specific tasks they are responsible for, the quality standards that must be kept
up, and the prescribed intervals at which they must generate certain figures. These advances
were facilitated by the use of software adapted to project needs.
With regard to the financial side of the project, the following table shows both the cost
and the completion rate (compared to initial projections) for each of its major components:
Table 1:     Project Cost, by Component (FBu 103)
Project   Extension   Livestock  Forestry   Infra-   Coops. Total
Mngmnt.  & Training                     structure
Investment   338,632  120,775    12,430    3,139    2,330    18,904   496.210
Operations   239,699  110,650    88,085    106,654   27,707    30,440   603,235
Total      578,331    231,425    100,515   109,793    30,037    49,344  1,099,445
Completion   249%      44%       113%      46%      25%       10%     60%
Source: Administation and Finance Service
The project absorbed approximately US$6 million of a total original allocation of
US$11.8 million. The rate of absorption of Credit proceeds was weak initially, a factor that
justified the subsequent prolongation of project duration by two years. It must be noted,
however, that the anticipated volume of external financing increased significantly in terms of the
local currency following its devaluation during the implementation period. Parity has changed
from FBu 119 to the US dollar at the time of negotiations in 1986 to FBu 250 today.
The only project component that exceeded its anticipated cost figure was "Project
Management," owing to budget overruns in technical assistance, studies and training
(underestimated in the financing plan), and local personnel remuneration and allowances. It was
anticipated that project programs would be cofinanced as follows: IDA, 60%; Government of
Burundi, 16%; beneficiaries, 14%; and cooperatives, 10%. In the end, however, the cooperatives



23
did not participate, project beneficiaries participated only marginally (contributing 1% of total
actual cost instead of the originally projected 10%) owing to the very weak demand for
fertilizers, the Government contribution was 25% higher than projected, and the World Bank
disbursed only about 60% of its anticipated contribution (covering approximately 70% of actual
costs in the process).
The economic rate of return on the project, estimated for the period 1988-1995, was 13%.






7 29                               B U R U N D 1                              3D0
MUYINGA AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT                                                                                                      /
NATURAL REGIONS                                                                                                    }
RWANDA
MUYINGA PROJECT AREA
-  NATURAL REGION BOUNDARIES              ' .-                                N,
3  ARRONDISSEMEN1 CAPITALS         jG.er.y.
O  PROVINCF CAPITALS             r '
  NATIONAL CAPITAL             I
MMARRONUISSEMENT BOUNDARIES                 obe9                           J
PROVINCE BOUNDARIES         N.  Ig  KIRUNDO                             /
- COMMUNE ROUNDARIPSTA ZA I
)NrErNATIONAL 3OUNUARIES    ./
/~~ ~~~~x 6uotc    ~    ',\~                    <-                       ~\,>aiog 
%R--~~~~~  /                                  / ~~~MUYINGAK
*<C(W6GQBTOKE \       .-;s=-  \      , \ KAYANZA   '      NGOZI  /
_3o '1_Xn < S; *~~UIAZ A/ -                                                                f,  z t'  8/3
ZAIRE                                                                                                         CA   ;      \NKUZC)> 
2' 1rh.&   ,                                                 > S  L<WXv  
L/                                                             F >t'4 j GITEGA ', 
B I  vuhjUBAN'--                                           KARUZI N,A, ;v    tX   -  ''\x!r'; V   't.;.SS;1.,'RUYI
KIL    ATER
/'N~\    ANKUZ0       10          20
ZAIRE  2                                                                       2-c'                                OTAUJU X-BUBTS1RUT
"~~~~~R                    RURi
B UMBURA ~      ~        OIAAM
\I        - t               t          N     /9  T>  
\  s  "<    } @  \\   vuv27ZIR/          IOMTR
U   GAN~~~~~~~~~~~~~~S                               U          2
.  V                       / x 2 UtT-i   s.                RUT/NiB  /                                      MILLSt        KNY
Z"~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4
, 9v_e  S'                                                                             -t  -! 1,
..         . :te          AKAA                                                     ANG /V/RAD
ZAIRWAKENY
TANZANIA
iD 29'                                |             :






29                                         B                                                   3OUND   
MUYINGA AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PROJECT AREA
RWANDA   (
MUYINGA PROJECT AREA
~R.NGOOI III AND KIRIMIROf%-. * 
V  PROJECT AREAS                              Rugobee   . %*
1   ARRONDISSEMENT CAPITALS                                                             Gi    (
   PROVINCE CAPITALS                                                         Nec cgwe
M      AkRONDISSEMENT BOUNDARIES                            do
PROVINCE BOUNDARIES                   Ntego         KIRUND
it            >                        _COMMUNE BOUNDARIES                                        Gitobe                                  TANZANIA
INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES                                                  '
\\  /uin \                                                                                         0lBkba>           2v/         /
3~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~iIGA t ff 
(Rusombo                                                                                 jh               Ro+Jndo A   R   B < 
I  81<  Kanyoshv~~~-r~                           i    0ki  -            --  =/         poer
< M ugam ba   n R y~~~~0MAn                       =;
ZAIRE                                  R O.g                                                                                          CANKoZO
(K/Muembuol           M '  '1o                          )RMURAM/VY                   Nybkr                                                           20
4o~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~Mbt                                 or .tbo, .-.-to'--. _UUI /(<(toev.dres#                                                           fx   rtrfolllr
/ ~  ~ ~ \ J                                              Ryonnoro      Soroso    .- VGtaga  Bueb-                       SA6CO= I  W    
/              , I                                                  ckms            N/2
x;                 \                                                             N !         
'B.~ ~~M
I ~~~~~~.                   Moboinda~~~~~~~~~BI                             N,  Id
o:   ,            6                      J      r.                                                            ,/uv'         TANZAN~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~h..  IAES''DAI 
Npaomo-Loe  Kobago~    ~    ~     ~    ~ ~ ~~ZIR                     UANDAKEY
~~~~~oc ~~~~~~~~~C)
F 29                                         |                j                                  30                                                    _   ____      ____       _|_         o






3WT00                                                                      3015                                                                       30T30
B U R U N D I
MUYINGA AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
COFFEE WASHING STATIONS, AGRICULTURAL
COOPERATIVES AND SEED FARM                                                               .p
COFFEE WASHING STATIONS                                                              R_-_ _Z                      C .
: AGRICULTURAL COOPERATIVES                               Z----
A   SEED FARM                                              R.g.. .
~~~~~~~~SNoe                                    RRgePR J'  /s 
-     PRINICIPAL PAVED ROADS .V                                                      -_                       v
-     OTHER PRINCIPAL ROADS
SECONDART ROADS                                                                                                     IGtok I
OTHER ROADS                                             '(v,D                                                                /
-    RIVEPS                                                             _'
TOWNS
E   COMMUNE CAPITALS                                                                ' -                                /
PROVINCE CAPITAL                                      _                        ) (
/   NATIONAL CAPITAL                                                               j
-COMMUNE BOUNDARIES                                                                               ji
P3RVINCE BOUNDARIES .
- 2o30                     --INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES                                                                                                                  23 -' d  2Y
GITERANYI     _
I!1>          Ji.
o   5           10           ~    ~ ~~ ~ ~~~15  20       25                 DKrno> 
KILOMETERS/                                                                 >     
J~~~ ,/   <@ 'i
U2S                       LU515                       2T US                                                                 /
//   /~ /   'Il Aeln 
To~ ~ ~ ~~~~~5 XAd,d               / .CSS
ro~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~T K5,nd                                                            Ag,, BRAVE/ .       '   _'
MUYA~~~~
/    0  A            ,              C                  t       S/\,,,
ASH~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~LS
,...-.~  /  A''    G        ASOR WE
blS ~~~~~~'-A    ''.~'                                                A ''-,_I// '
/, ~*                                                                                -                /t  fj//}\  
MUYANGE       (7    6                            ' .-- A        f   _       KMYINGA
X    ~           ~~            ~          ~ ~~ ~ rt   BADSS   /                            COCIEuIbs(             
M  .t  i   S                   -'   ' ')   \               I  ~~~~~~~~~~~ -\            j    I               R-<3oKNAZISEE
A      RWANDA              5\J
ZAIRE                                                                                                 BHNUA
*                            J ~~~~~TANZANIA                     1 
TA V,.,,,           MWAKIRO
30~~~~~~~~~~15 ~ ~ ~ ~ ~









IMAGING
Report No.:          16844
Type:      ICR



