Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 6511-BU
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
BURUNDI
MUYINGA AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
November 9, 1987
Agricultural Division
South-Central and Indian Ocean Department
Africa Region
lhis doument has a resicted dt i  and may be used by riplenl  only in the perfomance of
ther offcial dtIest ls contns may not otherise be disclosed it Woldd Bank atorao



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Burundi Franc (FBu)
US $1.00       =  FBu 119
FBu 1.00       =  US $0.008
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric                         British/US Equivalents
1 meter (m)                -  3.28 feet (ft.)
1 cubic meter (m3)            35.3 cubic feet
1 hectare (ha) = 100 ares  -  2.47 acres
1 kilometer (km)           =  0.624 mile
1 square kilometer (km2)   =  0.386 square mile (sq. m.)
1 kilogram (kg)            = 2.20 pounds (lb.)
1 liter (1)                =  0.26 U.S. gallon (gal.)
0.22 Imperial gallon (imp. ga±)
1 metric ton (m t)         -  2,204 pounds (lb.)
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
C & S Coops  =  Credit and Savings Cooperatives
CCCE         =  Caisse Centrale de Cooperation Economique
PAO/CP       3  Food and Agriculture Organization,
Cooperative Program
IDA          =  International Development Association
ISABU        =  National Research Institutellnstitut des
Sciences Agronomiques du Burundi
MOAL         =  Ministry of Agriculture and Livestock
MRD          =  Ministry of Rural Development
OCIBU        =  Industrial Crops Office of Burundi
PIU          3  Project Implementation Unit
RDC          =  Regional Development Company
GOVERNMENT OF BURUNDI
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
- (M. -
BURUNDI
MUYINGA AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
Page No.
Credit and Project Summary               ................................  (iv) to (v)
I*  BACKGROUND ............................                                     1
A.  The Agricultural Sector    .........................                   1
B.  The Institutional Framework.....................                      2
C.  Government Policy, Sector Performance and Issues                      3
D.  IDA Involvement in the Agricultural Sector ......                     5
I1.   PROJECT AREA .....................              .............              7
A.  Geography and Demographics ......           ................           7
A.  Agriculture  .........            ... . .................             8
C.  Other Projects ............................                          11
III.  THE PROJECT .......................................                        11
A.  Introduction ..............................                          11
B.  Sector Strategy and Rationale for the Project ...                    12
C.  General Description              ........................ ..         12
D.  Description of Project Components ...............                    13
E.  Project Costs            ......................... ..  ...           17
F.  Financing . ......................................                   19
G.  Procurement .....................................                    20
H.  Disbursements ....................... ..............                 21
I.  Accounts and Audit ...........            ...................        22
J.  Etnvironmental Impact ............................                   23
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ( ii) -
Page No.
IV.  PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION .................   ........... ..      23
A. Organization and Management          ......................  23
B.  Annual Work Plans        ................................  24
C.  Staffing ...........*..,.........................          25
D.  Monitori'ig and Evaluation ......    ..................    25
V.  MARKETING ANDFINANCIAL ASPECTS .......... ............         26
A.  Marketing of Food Crops   ........................         26
B.  Input Supply ..........................                    26
C.  Prices and Cost Recovery         .........................  27
D.  Farm Production and Incomes         ......................  28
E.  Fiscal Implications ..    ........................ ..      29
VI. ECONOMIC JUSTIFICATION .o............. o ...........oo.o.       29
A.  Justification and Benefits .,.............--.              29
B.  Economic Analysis .....    .............. .........        30
C.  Risks .. .....................,................-           31
VII.  AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATIONS ........................        32
SUPPORTING TABLES, CHARTS AND MAPS
Tabless
Table  1  - Muyinga Provine:t Selected
Characteristics      ......................   34
Table  2  - Muyinga Province:  Land Use Pattern .....          35
Table  3  -  Projected Key Staffing for Project
Activities in Muyinga ..................        36
Table  4  -  Financing Table         .........................  37
Table  5  -  Estimated Annual Disbursements by Agency          38
Table  6  -  Estimated Schedule of IDA Disbursements .         39
Table  7  -  Proceeds of the IDA Credit ...............        40
Table  8  -  Procurement Procedures        ..................  41



- (iMi) -
Pane No.
Table 9  -  Civil Works and Vehicles by
Project Component .......... . ***. *.......  42
Table 10 - Adoption Rate of Project Technical
Messages by Farmers in Muyinga  .........    43
Table 11  - Incremental Revenue of Farm Production ..    44
Table 12 - Incremental Cost of Farm Production .....      45
Table 13  - Incremental Agricultural Production
and Value Due to Project ...............     46
Table 14 - Page 1 - Incremental Benefits and Costs .      47
- Page 2 - Economic and Sensitivity Analysis     48
Table 15  - Projected Government Cash Flow ..........     49
Table 16  - Selected Data and Documents Available in
the Project File         .....             50
Charts:
Chart 1 - Ministry of Agriculture and Livestock
(MOAL)  ........................... .....  51
Chart 2 - Project Organigramme ...... ...............     52
Maps:
IBRD Map 20008    - Natural Regions
IBRD Map 20006    - Project Area
IBRD Map 20007    - Agricultural Cooperatives and Seed Farm



%r
4k
IC.%A.
4,
1
q;Z,D



BURUNDI
MUYINGA AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
I. BACKGROUND
A. The Atricultural Sector
1.01     Overview. Agriculture is Burundi's most important economic
activity. More than 84Z of the population depend directly on
agriculture which also provides about 88X of export earnings. During
the last decade, agriculture has accounted for an average of 60% of GDP
but its share has fluctuated with the performance of food crops and
coffee production. Burundi is relatively well endowed for agriculture
but faces mounting pressure on its resources from a growing population;
population density is very high (180 per km2) and average farm size is
only about 1 ha. Altitude and rainfall vary broadly among the country's
natural regions (IBRD Map 20008) and many crops can be cultivated. The
hilly topography renders modern farming difficult and has contributed to
serious erosion problems, control of which is a priority Government
objective. About 40% of arable land is under crops, 31% is used for
grazing, 7% is forest and 20% is unclassified. Most farmers are
smallholders tending to about 700,000 farming units.
1.02     Average annual production of major food crops is estimated at
1,200,000 tons of bananas, 280,000 tons of beans, 470,000 tons of
cassava, 512,000 tons of sweet potatoes, 150,000 tons of maize and
53,000 tons of sorghum and millet. Rice was introduced relatively
recently but production has already reached a level of 20,000 tons of
paddy per year. So far, food production has kept up with population
growth, estimated at about 2.9% per year with occasional seasonal and
regional calorie intake deficiencies. The main cash crops are coffee,
tea, cotton, palm oil, tobacco and quinquina. Coffee is most important
for the national economy and although coffee trees cover only 5 to 10%
of individual holdings where coffee is grown, it is the principal source
of cash income for many farmers. Annual coffee production is subject to
variations usually due to a cyclical production pattern. For example,
it amounted to 43,824 tons of green coffee in 1981/82, 20,311 tons in
1982t83 and 32,171 tons in 1985186. Tea is also becoming important with
production rising to 4,145 tons in 1985 following improvements in
processing and quality, factors which have resulted in top prices being
fetched at international auctions. Cotton production amounts to about
2,500 tons per year. The animal population is estimated at about
600,000 Ankole cattle and 1,200,000 small ruminants.



- 2 -
1.03     Farming practices are traditional.  Small quantities of manure
and compost are applied and use of mineral fertilizer is limited,
although, in the Kirimiro project areas farmers' demand for chemical
fertilizer for use on food crops has recently been substantial.
Improved seeds have been introduced in some areas although not in a
systematic and well organized manner. Intercropping is frequEntly
utilized, particularly in high intensity farming areas. Farm labor is
provided by family members, mostly by women. All male adults are
required to work one day a week on projects of community and national
interest.
1.04     Marketing of food crops is limited to an estimated 10 to 152 of
total production and is constrained by the lack of well developed urban
infrastructure and market networks. Additional constraints incluile the
low degree of monetization of the rural population (representing over
902 of Burundi's total) and the absence of regional specialization in
food crop production imposing further limits on inter-regional trade.
All of these factors result in substantial regional and seasonal price
variations. So far, Government has refrained from direct intervention
in the pricing and marketing of food crops.
1.05     Future Potential.  Areas recently taken into cultivation are
marginal with respect to climate, soils or topography. The potential
for further expansion of arable land is extremely limited and production
increases to continue to feed the fast growing population will have to
come from further intensification of food crop production through
increased cropping intensity, improved crop husbandry ard the use of
fertilizers, pesticides and improved s3eds. Similarly for cash crops,
the potential for increased production can only be realized through:
(a) a modest increase in area under export crops (mainly coffee and
tea), as long as such increases do not jeopardize subsistence food crop
production; and (b) further intensification through the use of
fertilizers, pesticides and improved maintenance of existing production
potential. The project aims at pursuing these goals in the Muyinga
province.
B. The Institutional Framework
1.06     Ministry of AUriculture and Livestock.  The Ministry of
Agriculture and Livestock (MOAL) (Chart 1) is responsible for the
direction and coordination of all activities in the sector. The
Minister is assisted by three Directors General, one each for Planning,
Agriculture and Livestock. The Director General for Agricultural
Planning is responsible for sector policy planning, project
identification, preparation, coordination, monitoring and evaluation,
management support, and agricultural training. The Director General for
Agriculture is responsible for the departments of: (a) agronomy,
responsible for production and distribution of improved seeds,
extension, crop protection, soil fertility, and management and
supervision of various projects; (b) rural works, responsible for



- 3 -
irrigation, drainage, land reclamation, erosion control and rural roads;
(c) water and forestry, responsible for fisheries, reafforestation, soil
conservation and wildlifa management; and (d) land tenure and surveys.
The Director General for Livestock is responsible for animal production
and animal health. Agricultural services are regionalized, and eacbl
department is represented separately at the provincial level. The head
of the extension service in each province has the official title of
Provincial Coordinator for Agriculture and Livestock and he has overall
responsibility for the execution of MOAL's programs in the province.
The ministry is also the umbrella organization for several parastatal
agencies including: (i) the RDCs, of which four are currently
operational (Imbo, Buyenui, Kirimiro and Rumonge) with responsibility
for broad integrated rural development in their respective areas of
operation; (ii) the lnstitut des Sciences Agronomiques du Burundi
(ISABU) responsible for agricultural research; and (iii) the Office des
Cultures Industrielles du Burundi (OCIBU) which operates the country's
two coffee hulling plants at Bujumbura and Gitega.
1.07     The Ministry of Rural DeveloDment (MRD) was created in 1979
after its separation from the former Ministry of Agriculture, Livestock
and Rural Development. It has one director general who supervises three
departments: (a) the Cooperatives Department which provides central
(computerized) accounting services to cooperatives; (b) the Rural
Housing Department; and (c) the Department of Rural Water Supply and
Electrification. Since 1976, official support has been given to the
development of cooperatives through the National Development Plans;
assistance was also provided in 1978 through a UNDP financed project
implemented by the ILO; various bi-lateral agencies are also supporting
cooperatives. As a result the number of cooperatives in the country has
increased from 27 in 1978, to 206 at the end of 1985.
1.08     Local Administration.  Burundi is divided into fifteen
provinces (IPRD Map 20006), each of which is divided into "communes"
(79 in all) which are further subdivided into zones and "collines', the
smallest administrative units. The Ministry of the Interior has
principal responsibility for local administration. It coordinates the
work of the staff of the technical ministries appointed at the province
and acomuneM levels. The local administrative system depends on
limited central government budget support which supplements the communal
budget.
C. Government Policy, Sector Performance and Issues
1.09     Policy.  The fourth Five Year Development Plan (1983-87)
enumerated the following principal objectives of the Government's
agricultural policy: (a) adequate food production coupled with
improved calorie intake; (b) export crop diversification; (c) rural
welfare improvement; (d) local processing of food crops; and (e)
promotion of regional specialization in production and inter-regional
trade. These objectives are endorsed by the Association and serve as
the basis for IDA's strategy in the sector.



- 4 -
1.10     Sector Performance.  Overall performance of the agricultural
sector was good in the 1970., particularly towards the end of the decade
when, between 1978 and 1981, GDP grew at an average annual rate of 6.7%.
Subsequently, due to both external and internal factors, the economic
situation deteriorated significantly with GDP having a negative rate of
growth during 1982-84. Terms of trade deteriorated sharply between 1978
and 1981 due mainly to the decline of international coffee prices and
increased import prices, particularly oil. Corrective measures
including import restrictions affected imports of capital and
intermediary goods, including those for agriculture. In addition, the
effect on the budget from falling Government revenues (i.e. from lower
value coffee exports) restricted the Government's investment program and
increased the proportion financed through foreign borrowings. In 1984,
a serious drought led to a reduction of agricultural output by about
12X, but production estimates indicate a return to normal levels in 1985
and 1986.
1.11     The Government's policy over the past decade or so has been  to
promote rural development through the establishment of RDCs which, in
the areas where they have been established, have largely replaced the
existing provincial MOAL organization. The IDA study which recently
evaluated the RDC experience concluded that the RDCs have been
successful at introduicing important innovations in the rural areas, such
as paddy production and processing, tea production and processing, and
processing of fully washed coffee. They have not, however, as initially
intended, succeeded at promoting rural development by, among other
things, attracting private capital and by operating on a commercial
basis through the development of financially sustainable activities. As
a result RDCs continue to be owned and operated as Government
parastatals and constitute a heavy financial burden on the latter's
budget. This is particularly evident on completion of externally funded
RDC-implemented projects when donor financing is terminated. Such
activities which cannot possibly be sustained by the Government's budget
must then be drastically curtailed. Some of the recommendations of the
above-mentioned study have already been accepted by the Government,
including those whereby the RDCs should no longer be responsible for
activities (i.e. health services, education) that are not under the
responsibility of MOAL. RDCs should also gradually withdraw from the
execution of force account works. A further recommendation refers to
the separation of revenue earning activities (e.g. coffee washing,
production and sale of agricultural inputs) from service type activities
(e.g. agricultural research and extension). The latter should again
become the responsibility of MOAL. The Government basically endorses
those measures but has suggested that they be implemented gradually
within each RDC according to its level of development. The
restructuring of the RDCs will constitute an important component of the
proposed Agricultural Services Project. The design of the present
project reflects those recommendations.
1.12     Issues.  Burundi's recent agricultural development experience
indicates that some important problems must be addressed if the broad
strategic objectives of increasing production and improving rural living



concitions are to be achieved. These fall within four major categories:
food crop production, employment generation, institutional strengthening
and financial issues.
1.13     So far, food crop groduction has kept pace with population
growth. In the future, this will become increasingly difficult because
of declining soil fertility as a result of farmers abandoning the
practice of fallow, deforestation, overgrazing and increased erosion, a
situation which is not likely to be compensated by increased cultivation
of marginal lands. Solutions to these problems will have to be found on
the farmer's own fields through greater cropping intensity, improved
husbandry, and the ine.reased use of fertilizers, pesticides and improved
seeds. These practices will have to go hand in hand with conservation
measures geared towards on-farm soil erosion control, fertility
management and reafforestation (agro-forestry). The Government policies
required to achieve these goals will need to give far more attention to
defining and propagating the appropriate technical packages for this,
i.e. to research and extension, than has been the case so far.
1.14     The rapid population growth and the relative scarcity of land
make it imperative to create off farm employment opportunities. The
structure of the economy and the level of skills available dictate that
most employment in both rural and urban areas be directly or indirectly
related to agriculture through the development of farm input
manufacturing and agricultural produce processing and marketing. An
eftfort must be made to increase the value added c. agricultural products
for local and foreign consumption, and it must be examined whether
further relaxation of present restrictions on the movement of people and
goods within the country would not foster the creation of such
employment.
1.15     As stated earlier (para. 1.11), the responsibilities of
agricultural institutions need to be redefined. The policy of relying
largely on RDCs for rural development has been shown not to be fully
effective nor financially sustainable. The Government recently agreed
that the role of RDCs would be redefined and that certain RDC activities
(i.e. health services, education) would revert back to their technical
ministries and that the line responsibility for extension and research
would be transfered to MOAL. However, this proposal needs to be pursued
in a systematic manner and appropriate ministry services need to be
strengthened to carry out their responsibilities. To support these
developments, IDA is currently preparing an Agricultural Services
Project aiming at strengthening research and extension services of MOAL
and developing a sustainable strategy for the production and
distribution of agricultural inputs.
1.16     A number of issues are related to the financial resources
available for agriculture and their management. Agriculture's share of
budget resources is low and has declined. Over the past five years, the
Government has allocated only 10 to 25% of its investment budget and
about 5% of its recurrent budget to agriculture. These allocations are
insufficient to support both a growirg investment program and to
continue maintaining basic services. External financing is not reflected



- 6 -
in budget figures, but -van so, agriculture's share of estimated total
investment declined from 30% in the early 1970s to 152 today. Under the
on-going Structural Adjustment Credit (IDA 1705-BU), Government is
comnitted to undertake a number of reforms which should help correct
this situation. In particular, the Government has agreed to improve and
unify its current and forward budget preparation system and to establish
a core program of projects which will be giver, prlority of ressource
allocation. Agricultural credit is still embryonic and confined to
coffee marketing and processing operations. An encouraging possibility
in this regard is the development of Savings and Credit Cooperatives
(COOPEC) in Gitega province; this project and the proposed Agricultural
Services Project intend to provide support to the expansion of COOPEC
facilities where feasible. An additional issue concerns cost recovery
from agriculture, particularly for inputs for both crops and livestock.
In this regard, the Government is committed to encouraging the
development of cooperatives, farmers associations and private traders,
as intended under this project, to both procure and handle the
distribution of such inputs in order to remove this responsibility from
Government agencies such as the RDCs.
D. IDA Involvement in the AMricultural Sector
1.17     The Bank Group is one of the major sources of development
assistance in Burundi. To date, IDA has financed seven agricultural
projects, of which four have been completed and three are being
implemented. The Coffee Improvement Project (Credit 147 BU, US $1.8
million), the Second Coffee Improvement Project (Credit 593 BU, US $5.2
million), the Fisheries Development Project (Credit 626 BU, US $6.0
million) and the first Forestry Project (Credit 918 BU, US $4.3 million)
have been completed. The general conclusion of the Project Completion
Report, the Project Performance Audit Report (PPAR No. 1531) and the
Impact Evaluation Report No. 3314 on the first Coffee Project (Ngozi I)
was that it had achieved its objectives although the quantative results
were somewhat below appraisal estimates. The Second Coffee Project
(Ngozi II) was to continue activities started under the first project;
in addition, it included a food crop promotion component. The Project
Performance Audit Report (PPAR No. 4576) concluded that, overall, the
project was a qualified success. The coffee component achievements were
above appraisal estimates, while the food crop and livestock components
were below estimates. Project execution was hampered by lack of trained
and experienced staff, insufficient counterpart funds and heavy
dependence on foreign assistance. The PCR and PPAR for the Fiaheries
Project (Impact Evaluation Report No. 5683) concluded that weak project
management coupled with complex project design were the primary reasons
for very disappointing results. The first Forestry Project was recently
completed and a PCR is under preparation; the project has been
implemented very well. The Second Forestry Project (Credit 1620 BU, US
$12.8 million), which recently became effective, aims to further
develop basic forestry services, promote tree planting by farmers and
promote plantations supplying fuelwood, poles and timber. The Kirimiro
(Credit 1165 BU, US $19.3 million) and Ngozi III (Credit 1192 BU,



- 7 -
US $16.0 million) Integrated Regional Development Projects are currently
under implementation. Both projects aim at food crop intensification,
expansion of coffee production and coffee quality improvement (washing
stations) and are implemented by RDCs. Coffee production is at or above
appraisal estimates; however, the quality of fully washed coffee has
declined e.nd food crop production has not received the attention
intended at appraisal.  Management focus is on physical achievements
(force account works and coffee production) rather than research and
extension. Both projects are being reoriented in the context of the
proposed Agricultural Services Project (para. 1.15) and along the lines
of the Muyinga project.
II.  PROJECT AM
A. Geography and Demographics
2.01     Location, Climate and Natural Resources.  The project area,
1.825 km2, corresponds to the administrative boundaries of Muyinga
province in the northeastern part of the country (IBRD Map 20007). The
climate is tropical savanna with rainfall divided among two rainy
seasons. Average annual rainfall of 1,000 to 1,100 mm is characterized
by inter annual variations: 800 mm in 1984 and 1,600 mm in 1961.
Average temperature is 19.70 C with low and high averages of 140 and 250
C, respectively. The area consists of a series of hillh and plateaus
separated by swampy valleys. Average altitude in the east is 1,400 to
1,600 m and in the west, 1,600 to 1,800 m. Soils in the west are
considered moderately suitable for agriculture but are only marginal in
the east.
2.02     Rural Infrastructure.  An adequate and generally well
maintained road network covers the province. Main problems occur where
dirt roads traverse swamps. These cannot be maintained properly by the
local population due to lack of equipment and materials. The majority
of the population in the province, about 95%, gets its supply of water
from wells and about 75% of the households are situated less than 2
minutes walk from the closest well. However, water quality is often
substandard as many wells are not properly maintained.
2.03     Population and Land Use.  Population is estimated at about
300,000 persons with a density of about 163 persons/km2, slightly lower
than the national average. The province is subdivided into an eastern
and a western zone, with distinct climatic, production and settlement
patterns. The western zone is more fertile with higher population
density and smaller average farm size. The eastern zone receives less
rainfall, has larger farms and more livestock, particularly cattle.
Food crops cover about 302 of the total area in the province, bananas 7%
and coffee 2%. Communal property is used primarily for cattle grazing
(Tables 1 md 2). Soil erosion is a problem and slopes with 25% grade
or steeper should be protected. Erosion control is presently effected
as part of community work, usually through digging of contour ditches,



- 8 -
complemented occasionally by planting of fodder crops to form hedges.
However, these often have detrimental effects as ditches are not
properly constructed or maintained.
B. Agriculture
2.04     FarminR Systems and Practices.  The two rainy seasons would
theoretically permit double cropping. However, land availability and
the need for fallow result in a cultivation intensity of about 100l.
Predominant cropping patter-s for annual crops are shown below:
Hillsides                   Swamps
First season     Second season      Third season
Beans                                  Beans
-              Beans                 Sweet potatoes
Sorghum
Sweet potatoes
Groundnuts
On average, about 15% of each farm is planted with coffee and banana
trees. Most farm work is performed manually by women. Men and children
also contribute but hired labor is rare.
2.05     Improved seeds are rarely available, except for small
quantities produced at the Kinazi seed farm (para. 2.11). However, its
quality is such that only minimal incremental production is realized.
Chemical fertilizers are generally not available presumably because
farmers would not be interested due to cost considerations. However,
this belief was recently challenged in nearby Kirimiro where farmers'
demand for fertilizer for food crops exceeded that for coffee farming.
Use of manure and compost is irregular and fallow practice is usually
the only way to maintain organic material in the soil. In addition, the
cattle population has declined and those remaining are usually not kept
near cultivated areas. MOAL recently started a campaign for farmers to
produce compost but with negligible results due in part to the poor
quality of raw material and to the lack of appropriate equipment. Also,
farmers remain to be convinced of the utility of this practice.
2.06     Crop Yields and Production.  Food crop cultivation is very
important in Muyinga, particularly bananas, beans, sweet potatoes and
cassava. Bananas are paramount as they provide an important source of
daily nourishment, consumed as staple or processed into beer. They are
resistant to climatic adversity, require little labor, and help control
erosion. Finally, banana beer can be marketed for cash throughout the
year. However, yields are low at 7 tons/ha and, due to lack of relevant
research, little is known on how to improve cultivation practices. Bean
cultivation covers about 34,000 ha or 19% of the total area. They are
grown mostly on hillsides at the beginning of the long rainy season and
in the swamp areas during the dry season. Yielis are low at between 500
and 650 kglha. Sweet potatoes are important as they can be harvested



- 9 -
any time and provide a ready source of nutrition. Yields are about 6 to
7 tons/ha. Groundnuts cover around 1,900 ha and yields are onlv about
450 to 500 kg/ha (shelled). Sorghum is used primarily in beer production
and maize is grown occasionally in association with beans. Rice
production in the swamps has increased recently, aided by a UNDP|FAO
project but relevant statistics are not available. Estimates of average
annual crop production in the province are listed in Table 1.
2.07     CofWee is the predominant cash crop in Muyinga. Tree population
has been estimated at about 9 million coffee trees, of which 6.2
million are in full production, 1.9 million are young trees and 0.8
million old trees (1984). Although coffee plantations are relatively
better tended to than other crops, yields remain lows 1.1 kg of
cherries per tree in the east to 1.4 kg/tree in the west. Low yields
and inappropriate cultivation practices are largely due to a weak
extension service, lack of equipment and nearly total absence of
fertilizer. Also, until recently, MOAL required that coffee be planted
along the roads to facilitate insecticide applications even though
roadside soils are often less fertile. If proper cultivation techniques
(mulching, pruning and weeding) were followed, yields could
realistically increase by about 50%, even without fertilizers, as
confirmed in ISABU trials.
2.08     Livestock Production.  The livestock population is roughly
estimated at about 10,000 head of cattle and 80,000 small ruminants, of
which 3/4 are goats. Although information is sketchy, trends appear to
indicate a declining number of cattle but an increasing number of small
livestock, especially in western Muyinga.   There are about 94,000 ha in
the province available for grazing, made up of fallow fields, communal
grazing areas, forests and savanna. Overgrazing is not yet considered
to be a problem in Muyinga which may explain the lack of farmers'
motivation to cultivate fodder even though nurseries exist in each
commune .  Animal health is unsastifactory despite compulsory
vaccination and the existence of dips. However, these are not
effectively enforced or used, due primarily to insufficient veterinary
personnel, equipment and medicines. Small ruminants are relatively
healthier because of their generally greater resistance to disease.
Annual meat production is estimated at about 90 tons (liveweight) of
beef and at 600 tons (liveweight) of goat meat and mutton. Milk
production is negligible, amounting to about 200 litres per year per
cow.
2.09     Aaricultural Services.  The provincial extension service of
MOAL consists of 100 extension workers supervised by agricultural
technicians at the "commune" level who, in turn, are responsible to the
provincial agronomist. The other MOAL services should also be
represented at the "commune" level through a forestry technician, a
livestock technician and a rural works technician, each responsible to a
university level graduate at the provincial level, namely the provincial
forester, animal production specialist and rural engineer. However,
these services are understaffed at mid and higher level positions and
are inadequately represented in many "communes". All services are
hampered by a severe lack of transport and other equipment.



- 10 -
2.10     The most readily diffused existing extension themes are those
for coffee and include pruning, insecticide treatment, mulching and
plantation renewal. For bananas, grove clearing has proven successful
as it increases production and makes acreage available for intercropping
with beans. Maize, presently grown for home consumption, is mostly
intercropped with beans. An improved variety (Katumani) is available
for tl'ese altitudes. Although not yet extensively grown, two improved
varieties of soybeans are available for distribution (Palmetto and
Davis) and improvements could be made in planting density. For
livestock, themes which have proven successful include tick control,
stall feeding of cattle, increased use of goats and sheep, improvement
of ccmpost and farm yard manure, and contour line planting of fodder
crops and treeF.
2.11     Availability of farm inputs is generally limited to those for
coffee. Thtre were, in 1984, 41 coffee nurseries in the province which
produced about 700,000 plants. In accordance with its policy of export
crop intensification (para. 1.09), the Government has decided to
accelerate coffee plant production aiming at a target of about 5 million
plants in 1988 and 1989. This production should allow for the
replacement of older trees and for the rapid expansion of the planted
area up to the maximum potential of the province. In addition, in order
to ensure that farmers take delivery of the plants as they are produced,
the Government has temporarily adopted a policy of distributing tree
plants free of charge. Where fodder crops are concerned, there are
seven nurseries in the province but the demand is less than their
production. The veterinary service has 11 dips but most need repairs or
lack acaricides. There are two insemination centers although not well
organized and rarely used. Improved seeds are produced in the Kinazi
Seed Farm (IBRD Map 20007), where the main activity is to multiply four
varieties of beans, two of maize, two of sorghum and two of soybeans.
Seeds produced at Kinazi are sold in Muyinga and other regions. A
promising recent development is the production of improved bean seeds by
farmers with the cooperatives buying and selling the seeds and the
Kinazi seed farm providing cleaning and grading services. Since ISABU
has no facilities in Muyinga, a few research activities primarily for
testing different varieties are carried out in Kinazi. There are no
other farm inputs available except insecticides for coffee supplied by
OCIBU and distributed by the MOAL provincial service.
2.12     institutional agricultural credit is practically non-existent.
No credit institutions exist in the province and farmers pay cash for
the limited farm inputs that they use with income derived primarily from
the sale of coffee, bananas, beer and beans. Credit is often extended
by coffee merchants who usually recover their loans in the form of
coffee.
2.13     Marketed farm goods consist primarily of coffee, beans, sorghum
and bananas. It is estimated that about 2,100 tons of parchment coffee,
1,100 tons of beans and 40 tons of sorghum are marketed per year.
Farmers carry the products to local markets where they are sold to
merchants who resell them either locally or in Bujumbura. There are 15



- 11 -
cooperatives in Muyinga engaged mostly in marketing of consumer products
but recently of agricultural products as well. The cooperatives are
grouped into a provincial union which has been receiving loans from
OCIBU for its coffee marketing campaign.
C. Other Projects
2.14     The few projects active in the province consist of the Kinazi
Seed Farm (Belgian financing), a UNDP funded project to improve
management of cooperatives and a UNDP/FAO pilot project for swamp
protection and development. Also, an ongoing IDA funded project to
improve water supply for household use extends over a small part of
southwestern Muyinga.
III. THE PROJECT
A. Introduction
3.01     Project Identification.  In accordance with its regional
development policy, the Government of Burundi, in November 1979,
requested the assistance of the International Development Associatior.
(IDA) to prepare and finance a project to support the development of
Muyinga province. Feasibility studies were carried out by a local
consulting firm and finalized in late 1982. These studies proposed a
five year integrated project with 16 components at an estimated cost of
about US $26.4 million. In the course of the review of these studies,
several issues were raised regarding the underlying assumptions of the
proposed project. These issues included: (a) the existence of large
spontaneous migration into Muyinga, thus negating the need for promoting
migration through the project, as proposed in the studies; (b) the post-
project sustainability of regional development projects, particularly
those being implemented by Regional Development Companies (RDCs); and
(c) the absence of efficient agricultural services at the national
level. The review led to a decision by the Government and the Bank to:
(i) re-assess the experience with RDCs in Burundi prior to financing a
project in Muyinga which, as proposed in the studies, would also be
implemented by an RDC; and (ii) undertake the preparation of the Muyinga
project simultaneously with that of another project aiming at
strengthening agricultural services on a national basis.
3.02     Project preparation was carried out by the IDA in association
with the Food and Agriculture Organization Cooperative Program (FAOJCP)
whose report was issued in December 1984. Following the completion of
IDA's RDC evaluation study in the fall of 1985, IDA and the Government
continued to refine preparation of the Muyinga project and in May, 1986,
an IDA mission composed of Messrs. Weijenberg, Karmokolias, Barres,
Steengaard and Grut (IDA), and Van Hilten and Minod (Consultants)



- 12 -
visited Burundi to appraise the project. Preparation of an Agricultural
Services Project, to strengthen central services, was by then under way.
3.03     Initially, the appraisal mission had considered including in
the project two coffee quality improvement components, namely for the
construction of washing stations to produce fully washed coffee, and for
the improvement of export marketing. However, these components required
Credit conditionalities which had national implications and which the
Government considered would be difficult to implement under a regional
project.  Moreover, the Government considered that the measures and
investments required to improve the marketing of fully washed coffee
were, respectively, being catered for adequately under the Structural
Adjustment Credit (IDA 1705-BU) and by the French Caisse Centrale de
Cooperation Economique (CCCE). As a result, the coffee processing and
marketing components were removed from the project in the course of a
post-appraisal mission, composed of Messrs. Weijenberg and Bolduc, which
visited Burundi in June, 1987.
B. Sector Strategy and Rationale for the Project
3.04     The proposed project would be implemented through an
experimental approach eRiming at improving the cost effectiveness of
managing rural development in Burundi. Instead of implementing, as in
the past, the project through an RDC, service type activities (i.e.
extension, research, veterinary) would be implemented by the provincial
services of MOAL whereas the responsibility of supply type activities
(i.e. marketing, distribution and, eventually, credit) would gradually
be handed over to the private sector, especially the rural cooperatives.
Project cooperatives and local merchants would be called upon to take an
active role in farm input marketing and distribution, marketing of food
crops and the development of rural savings and credit. The involvement
of the private sector is expected to increase operating efficiency,
increase farmer motivation and reduce the financial burden on the public
sector. To ensure adequate coordination of these various activities and
agencies as well as to monitor project implementation, a Project
Implementation Unit would be established for the duration of the
project. The project would serve as an important pilot and lessons
learned from its experience would be incorporated in subsequent projects
funded by IDA or other lending institutions active in Burundi. These
lessons would be particularly useful in the design of follow-up projects
for the Kirimiro and Ngozi III projects currently being implemented by
traditional RDCs (para. 1.17).
C. General Description
3.05     The project would be implemented over a six year period in the
Muyinga province. The broad objective of the project would be to
increase the quantity and improve the quality of food crop, coffee and
livestock production and to increase farm income. More specifically, in



- 13 -
attempting to achieve this objective, the project would seek to address
the issues of the agricultural sector (pura 1.12) as they apply to
Muyinga province, within the context of the Government's broader
policies (para 1.09). The project would assist in the development of
cooperatives and of the Government's agricultural services at the
provincial level and would also support the development of agro-forestry
and help control soil erosion.
3.06     The project would consist of the following components:
(a) Strengthening of research and extension services in
Muyinga; coffee plant production.
(b) Improvement of marketing channels through strengthening of
agricultural cooperatives in Muyinga to undertake
marketing of agricultural inputs and produce and to
promote rural savings and credit.
(c) Promotion of agro-forestry and environmental protection
through reafforestation and erosion control.
(d) Strengthening of animal health services and promotion of
the integration of agriculture and livestock activities.
(e) Greater utilization of swamp areas for food production
through swamp infrastructure improvements.
3.07     Although not strictly a project "component", a Project
Implementation Unit (PIU) would be created, for the duration of the
project, to coordinate and monitor project implementation.
D. Description of Proiect Components
3.08     Strenzthening of Provincial Agricultural Extension and Research
Services. One of the major constraints to agricultural development in
Burundi is the scarcity of food crop technical messages for
dissemination at farm level. The objective of this component would be to
promote: (a) greater efficiency in the extension of the limited number
of proven extension packages; and (b) on-farm testing of identified
promising farming practices with a view to imuediate extension once
proven acceptable to farmers. Under this component, the project would
utilize the adaptive research approach and would, as a matter of
priority, seek to identify the most frequent farmer constraints. While
the investigation of certain of these constraints (such as the
development of improved varieties) is the responsibility of ISABU,
others, however, because of their site specificity (soil, climate,
farming system) can best be resolved through on-farm testing and follow-
up. These include the search for improved farming practices related to
crop husbandry, soil fertility management, crop rotation and on-farm
erosion control. Such investigation and testing would be carried out
under the project by the provincial agricultural services. The



- 14 -
implementation of this component would start with a survey of a
representative sample of farmers in two "communes' during the first and
second season of 1988. Testing of promising packages for these
"communes" would be expected to start with the first season of 1989.
Stiilar surveys would be carried out throughout the province during the
project period and would cover all seven "communesu by 1992/93. After
that, the cycle would restart to provide a continuum of constraint
identification (diagnosis) followed by on-farm testing (adaptive
experimentation), by evaluation, eventually by dissemination, and so on.
Where the production of coffee plants is concerned, aiming at supporting
the Government's effort to replace and expand its coffee area in the
province, the project would provide resources for the production of some
10 million plants split evenly over a two-year period. In accordance
with the Government's current policy and practice, these plants would be
grown in MOAL's nurseries and would be distributed free of charge to
farmers by MOAL's provincial services. At negotiations, an agreement
was reached whereby funding by the IDA Credit for the second year's
production would be subject to IDA receiving from the Government a
letter describing, to IDA's satisfaction, the Goverriment's action
program relative to coffee tree replacement and expansion of its coffee
areas as well as the financial means by which this program will be
implemented. Where chemical fertilizers are concerned, given that the
present usage of these inputs is minimal, extension efforts would
primarily emphasize the production and use of farm yard manure. However,
the use of fertilizers would be encouraged and, if found by farmers to
be economically feasible, could eventually become the single most
important factor in increasing crop production. In light of the
uncertainties related to these assumptions, expected yield increases
have been kept at a relatively modest level. They would be obtained
through gradual changes in the farming systems from multiple small
improvements of each of its components. A comparison of estimated
yields before and after the project is presented in the following table:
Yields (kg/ha)
West Zone                  East Zone
Crop           Actual  PY 6  % change      Actual  PY 6    Z change
Beans           650      900     38         500      675       35
Maize           350      525     50            -       -        -
Sw. Potatoes  7,000   8,750      25        6000    7500        25
Banana        7,000   7,700      10        6000    6600        10
Cassava       6,000   6,600      10        5000    5500        10
Groundnut       500      600     20         450      575       28
Sorghum         700   1,120      60         600      930       55
Coffee          475      619     30         379      524       38
Projected yields are comparable to those obtained in the neigboring
K'rimiro and ikgozi provinces.  Present yields of maize and sorghum are
extremely low because most cereals are intercropped with legumes. As
farmers would increasingly produce for the market, it is expected that a
larger proportion of cereals would be grown in pure stands.



- 15 -
3.09     The proposed extension system has drawn from the T&V system
concepts adapted to local conditions and social and institutional
structures. Extension agents would work to a pro-determined time
schedule which would include farm visits, training and reporting. Their
work program would cover all crop, livestock and agro-forestry and swamp
development activities. Present numbers of extension workers and sector
chiefs are sufficient to implement the T&V system but higher level staff
would have to be reinforced by seven technicians and university
graduates (para. 4.06 and Table 3).
3.10     Development of Cooperatives, Improved Marketing and Promotion
of Rural Savings and Credit. Project activities to promote cooperatives
and farmers' organizations would have three objectivest (a) to improve
the efficiency of their ongoing activities (supply of consumer goods,
marketing of food crops and management of cereal mills) and to stimulate
their increased involvement in input supply and food crop marketing and
processing; (b) to establish ad-hoc farmer groups based on productive
activities (tree seedling production, bean and groundnut improved seed
production, rice cultivation and animal health services); and (c) to
develop rural savings and credit through the establishement of Credit
and Savings Cooperatives (C & S Coops) drawing from the experience of a
successful pilot scheme implemented in the central area of the country.
To achieve the above, the project would: (i) strenghten the Muyinga
Cooperative Union and its member cooperatives by providing technical
assistance in cooperative management and education, training,
construction of offices and storage facilities and communleation
equipment to facilitate marketing activities; (ii) strengthen the
Cooperatives Department of MRD through technical assistance in
cooperative accounting, training, supply of equipment and funding for
the operating costs of its computerized central accounting unit; and
(iii) establish in Muyinga, before February 1, 1989 a satellite of the
Credit and Savings Cooperatives (C & S Coops - COOPEC) central Promotion
Office to create 12 C & S Coops in the Muyinga province and provide
vehicles, communication and office equipment and training, as well as
operating funds on a gradually decreasing scale for the years of the
project. Buildings and equipment for the Muyinga Cooperative Union and
its member cooperatives would be transferred under long-term lease
arrangements or leased with an option to buy. Prior IDA approval would
be required for all leasing arrangements. Assurances in this regard
were obtained at negotiations. In accordance with the explanations
given at negotiations, one of the requirements for IDA's approval would
be that interest rates included in the leasing arrangements would be
positive and equal to the IBRD lending rate plus 102 of that rate.
3.11     Forestry, Agro-forestry and Environmental Protection.  This
component would strengthen forestry services in the province. Eight
rural forestry nurseries have been established and are being managed
under the on-going Second Forestry Project (Credit 1620 BU) from where
tree seedlings are sold to farmers for on-farm planting, and to
communes" for the establishment of comunal tree lots. The present
project would aim at: (a) the promotion and extension of on-farm tree
planting; (b) in collaboration with the extension services, the



- 16 -
promotion of on-farm soil conservation, fodder tree production and soil
fertility management through the use of adapted tree species; and (c)
the establishment of approximately 2,500 ha of soil protection
plantations on degraded hill crests. The latter component would be
executed by the strengthened k.ovincial and communal forestry services
on force account. The project would provide fo- the construction of
temporary access tracks, labor for soil preparation and planting, the
purchase of tree seedlings, three years of plantation maintenance
(mainly weeding and beating up) and four years of guard services to
prevent destruction of plantations by stray cattle. An important first
activity of the project would consist of identifying, in collaboration
with the communal authorities, areas suitable for tree planting. In
addition, the production of forest and fruit plants to be distributed to
farmers would be the object of an annual agreement between the PIU and
the Department of Waters and Forest. Assurances in this regard were
obtained at negotiations.
3.12     Animal Health Services.  Project activities would strengthen
the provincial veterinary services aiming to raise the productivity of
Muyinga's livestock population of about 10,000 cattle and 80,000 small
ruminants. For each of the seven 'communes", the animal health services
would be provided with a refrigerator, a cool box, a veterinary set and
storage facilities with an initial stock of vaccines and medicines that
require the intervention of trained veterinary staff for sales to
livestock owners. Accounts for these stocks would be kept separately by
MOAL provincial services. The project would further provide for the
repair of two dipping tanks and for the construction by interested
livestock owner associations of 34 spray crushes whereby participants
would provide their labor and the project the layout and the materials
(mainly wooden logs). The associations would gradually assume full
responsibility for the management and operation of dipping and spraying
operations. The project would also provide for initial stocks of anti-
parasite drugs, mineral salts and other veterinary products that do not
require the intervention of trained veterinary staff. These stocks
would be managed by the existing cooperatives and sales revenues would
be used to replenish the stocks. As for other project provided
agricultural inputs (para. 5.02), cooperatives would keep separate
accounts for project supplied animal health products.
3.13     Rural Infrastructure, Swamp Protection and Development and
Erosion Control.  Rural roads that are not part of the national road
system maintained by the Ministry of Public Works are usually maintained
by the "communes' with the help of communal labor. Bottom lands, swampy
areas and grazing lands are part of the communal lands. To assist in
maintaining rural roads and communal lands, MOAL's Rural Works
Department (para. 1.06) has positioned in each of the seven "communes' a
rural engineering technician who is responsible in collaboration with
extension and forestry staff for soil conservation and swamp protection
and development. Swamp development for rice, beans and sweet potatoe
cultivation is further supported by the UNDP financedlFA0 executed
pilot project (para. 2.14) covering the three provinces of Muyinga,
Kirundo and Kayanza. The many swampy (peaty) valley bottoms in the
Muyinga province are part of a delicate ecological and hydrological



- 17 -
system, risking to be destroyed by unguided development by farmers and
local authorities. Inadequate road crossings of these bottom lands
which have been built in the past often lead to upstream water-logging
and excessive drainage and erosion downstream of the crossing as a
result of inadequate culverts and bridges. To correct this situation,
the project would, in addition to equipment provided under the UNDP/FAO
pilot project, provide rural engineering staff with adequate topographic
equipment needed for the design of erosion control measures. In
addition, funds would be provided for the construction by local
contractors of 220 culverts and 18 small bridges under the supervision
of rural engineering staff.  To ensure that the measures taken under the
project are adequate to restore or maintain the hydrological balance,
the project would work in close liaison with the UNDPIFAO pilot project.
3.14     Proiect Implementation Unit (PIU).  The unit would be created
for the duration of the project investment period and would be abolished
by December 31, 1993. An agreement in this regard was reached at
negotiations. The PIU would be housed in a building to be constructed
under the project and to be used by MOAL's provincial services after
project completion. The principal role of the unit would be to
coordinate, monitor and supervise the implementation of project
activities through the various entities (i.e MOAL, MRD, cooperatives,
etc.) responsible for their execution (para. 4.01). The PIU would also
be responsible for all procurement of civil works, goods and services
under the proposed IDA Credit for the Muyinga Cooperative Union and its
member cooperatives, the Cooperatives Department of NRD, the satellite
of the C & S Coops' Central Promotion Office, and MOAL services in the
Muyings province. For this purpose, the unit would recruit consulting
engineers with qualifications, terms and conditions acceptable to IDA to
design, prepare tender documents and supervise all construction work to
be undertaken in the Muyinga province including offices, storage,
training facilities and housing. Construction would be executed by
local contractors. The unit would also recruit prior to Credit
effectiveness a financial management expert with qualifications, terms
and conditions acceptable to IDA, who would be responsible for the
introduction of the recently established ptblic accounting system for
the agricultural sector for all MOAL services in the Muyinga province.
The system would include separate accounts for stocks of agricultural
inputs and veterinary products procured under the project, for the
Kinazi Seed Farm and for motorcycles and bicycles to be sold to MOAL
staff.
E. Project Costs
3.15     Total project costs have been estimated at about FBu 1,846.2
million (US $15.5 million) including FBu 132.3 million (US $1.1 million)
of physical contingencies and FBu 216.0 million (US $1.8 million) of
price contingencies. Taxes have been estimated at FBu 110.8 million.
About 57S (US $8.9 million) of the estimated total cost would be in
foreign exchange. A summary of project costs by component is presented
in the following table:



- 18 -
Project Coot Sumnar,
Millon fPu              Thousand US 8       Total 
For.                     For.            Bse"  Foreign
Componont               Loenl     xch   Total   LocaI    Exch.      tt-dI CLot  Exehnnse
Research and extenslon   264.8   186.3   441.0 2,188.6  1,589.64  ,7098.1   29      42
Livestock development    27.2    46.8    72.6   229.1    880.4   609.5    6         62
Forestry                191.0    78.9   179.9   846.7    668.6   1512.14  12        44
Intrastructure and
erosion control        44.9    45.2    80.1   877.7    879.5    767.1    6        so
Cooperatives /a         110.4   402.8   518.2   927.5  8,884.6  4,812.2   84        s9
Implementation unlt /b    64.9   1U.8   201.2   481.4  14229.4  1.690.8   18        78
Total base costo        592.7   05.2 1,497.9 4,980.9  7,807.1 12,658.0  100         of
Physical continencles    48.9    88.8   182.2   U69.0    742.4  1,111.4    9       87
Price contingoncies     148.4    87.6   216.0 1,246.8    6B8.1  1,814.9   14        81
Total                   785.0 1.061.2 1846.2 6.596.7  8,917.6 16.514.8  128         57
of which:
Taxes            Il.$      0.9   110.6   981.2       0.0    981.2
/o Includes Coops Muyinga, C A S Coop and Central Level.
Lb Includes technical assistance aounting to US 8 0.9m.
3.16      Project costs have been estimated on the basis of data
collected in May 1986 and updated in September 1986, following the July
1986 devaluation of the FBu relative to the SDR by 15%, and again In
June 1987 at the time of post appraisal. Physical contingencies varying
from 5% to 15% have been applied to selected categories to reflect
uncertainties regarding detailed quantities and possible design
modifications (see detailed Cost Tables, Implementation Volume). Price
contingencies have been calculated for local and foreign exchange costs
on the basis of projected inflation rates shown as follows:



- 19 -
Project year       1         2        3        4                  6
Calendar year    1988      I989     1990      1991     1992     1993
Local             8.0       6.0      4.0      3.0       3.0      3.0
Foreign           1.0       1.0      1.0      3.5       3.5      3.5
3.17     Equipment imported for the project and expenditures related to
technical assistance would be exempt from import duties and taxes.
However, taxes would be generated for work performed locally including
local salaries. These have been estimated at about FBu 110.8 million,
(US $0.9 million) corresponding to about 5.8Z of the total cost of the
project.
3.18     The construction and civil works program (US $0.9 million) is
contained in the detailed cost tables of the Implementation Volume and
consists of the rehabilitation of 232 m2 of existing office and
laboratory buildings for the animal health services, the construction of
950 m2 of additional office buildings (250 m2 for PIU and 100 mz at
seven locations for the extension service). Also, 1,197 mz of store and
storage space, mostly for cooperatives and the extension service, 7
houses of 121 m2 each and five temporary guard houses for forestry
plantation guards. PIU would recruit consulting engineers under terms
and conditions acceptable to IDA to design, prepare tender documents and
supervise the execution of all buildings in the Mluyinga province. The
design of housing and offices would follow standard Government
specifications.
3.19     The detailed cost tables in the Implementation Volume contain
vehicle and equipment lists (see also Table 9 of this report) for a
total of US $0.6 million, including 1 tractor, 3 trailers, 2 trucks, 2
minibuses, 15 pickup trucks, 10 passenger cars, 92 motorbikes and 152
bicycles. It is assumed that cars and trucks would be replaced every
fourth year and motorbikes every third year.
F. Financing
3.20     The financing plan for project costs (Table 4) is summarized
below:
Million FBu   Million US $   2 of Total
Government of Burundi       321.3          2.7             17
IDA                        1190.0         10.0             65
Cooperatives                 59.5          0.5              3
Project beneficiaries       275.4          2.4             15
Total                      1846.2         15.6            100



- 20 -
3.21     The Government would finance 172 of total project costs or 132
of project costs net of taxes. About 65% of the Government's
contribution would be applied against the cost of incremental salaries
and indemnities of Government staff in Muyinga province and at MRD
Central Level, and an increasing proportion of Government related
project operating costs. The cost of incremental salaries and
indemnities, amounting to PBu 209.2 million (US $1.8 million) for the
full project period would be in addition to the annual cost of about FBu
55.4 million to defray the salaries and emoluments of existing
Government staff in the project area. The growing share of the
Government's contribution toward project operating costs would increase
annually in the following proportions: PYls 10%; PY2t 152; PY3: 202;
PY4s 30%; PY5t 50%; and Pw6s 80%. The objectives behind this approach
ares (1) to utilize the external resources in the earlier years of the
project when expenditures are likely to be more considerable than
towards the end; and (2) to prepare the Government to assume a greater
share of the recurrent costs of project activities to ensure their
sustainability after project completion. An agreement was reached at
negotiations that Government's financing of the cost of salaries and
emoluments of existing staff and those of on-going operations in Muyinga
province would continue to be funded through the Government's recurrent
budget.
3.22     The IDA Credit would finance (net of taxes):  (a) all project
costs related to construction and swamp development infrastructuro; (b)
all vehicles (with the txception of those stipulated in para 3.23),
furniture and equipment, including agricultural and veterinary inputs
required for project operations; (c) incremental agricultural and
veterinary inputs for resale to project beneficiaries; (d) all technical
assistance, training and studies; and (e) a progressively decreasing
proportion of the project related incremental operating costs of the
Government and the C & S Coops.
3.23     The Muyinga Cooperative Union would finance the purchase of a
truck and its replacement. The cooperatives' markup on the sale of
project procured inputs would finance their operating costs. Through
their purchase of fertilizers and veterinary inputs, the beneficiaries
would finance the replenishment of stocks sold. Given that the C & S
Coops will be introduced in the Muyinga province in the course of the
project, their operating costs would be assumed by the IDA Credit in
annually decreasing proportions similar to those of the Government (para
3.21).
G. Procurement
3.24     A World Bank mission visited Burundi in March 1986 to assess
procurement procedures. The mission found that, on the whole, existing
rules and procedures in Burundi are acceptable from the point of view of
IDA policy.



- 21-
3.25     Civil works and construction of office buildings, housing and
other structures amounting to an estimated cost of US $0.99 million
would be procured through local competitive bidding (LCB). This
procedure would be appropriate as the isolated location of the country
and the nature of the construction, i.e. many separate ar,d relatively
small contracts make it unlikely that any firms not based in Burundi
would be interested to bid. There are several local costruction firms
with adequate expertise to undertake different parts of the construction
program. An IDA funded project (Credit 1230 BU) to assist local
construction firms in Burundi would render assistance with respect to
the application of Bank guidelines to firms interested in bidding. The
cost of furniture and equipment related to the construction program
would amount to about US $0.26 million and would be procured through
local competitive bidding procedures, if available locally, or, if not,
through international competitive bidding procedures. Vehicles (US
$0.75 million) would be procured through international competitive
bidding (ICB) limited to suppliers with adequate repair facilities in
Burundi. Imported agricultural inputs consisting primarily of
fertilizer, pesticides and veterinary medicine (US $3.9 million) would
also be procured through ICB grouped, whenever possible, with purchases
by other IDA financed projects. Technical assistance (US $2.1 million)
would be contracted following IDA guidelines. Infrastructure would
consist of rural road repairs and construction of side road ditches,
culverts and small bridges and the establishment of protection forest
plantations. The work would primarily be done with labor and hand
tools. The total cost is estimated at about US $1.6 million and would
be procured through LCB for the construction of culverts and bridges.
Force account, under the responsibility of MOAL's forestry department
officers, would be used for the establishment of protection forest
plantations. Force account, under the responsability of MOAL's agronomy
department officers, would also be used for the preparation of coffee
tree plants. Procurement methods by cost category are summarized in
Table 8. All civil works to be financed under the proposed Credit would
require prior IDA review of bidding documents, bid evaluation and draft
contracts. Because of their expectedly large number and relatively low
individual value, contracts for culverts and bridges in rural roads,
sub-contracts for reafforestation works and contracts for dipping tank
repairs and the construction of spray crushes would require a posteriori
review of documentation. Procurement of vehicles, equipment, furniture
and agricultural inputs estimated to cost more than US $20,000 would
require prior IDA review of bidding documents, bid evaluation and draft
contracts.
H. Disbursements
3.26     IDA disbursements by category are presented in Table 7.
Annual work programs would specify, among other items, the amounts to be
financed by the Credit during the following year and proposed
procurement procedures. Requests for disbursements would be fully
documented according to IDA procedures. Disbursements for costs up to



- 22 -
US $20,000 equivalent per item or contract would be against statements
of expenditures (SOEs). Documentation pertaining to $0O would be
retained in the offices of PIU. SOE related accounts end supporting
documents would be available for inspection in the course of IDA
supervision missions. Assurances that these procedures would be
followed were obtained at negotiations.
3.27     In order to facilitate the flow of funds and to ensure that
they are available when needed, a Special Account would be set up in
US $ in a Burundi bank. IDA would deposit an amount of US $400,000 in
the account which corresponds to an average of three months of
expenditures eligible for IDA financing. Checks written on this account
would be signed jointly by the Project Coordinator and the Financial
Advisor for all eligible expenditures. At negotiations it was agreed
that directives in this regard would be included in IDA's disbursement
letter to be sent after Credit signature. PIU would group claims for
reimbursement of not less than US $20,000 and IDA would replenish the
account accordingly. Transactions for local currency expenditures would
be effected at the exchange rate for that day.
3.28     The estimated schedule of IDA disbursements is shown in Table
6. It is estimated that the Credit would be fully disbursed within six
and a half years, which is about the same period as that indicated in
the disbursement profile of Burundi. Estimated cumulative IDA
disbursements under the proposed project would also parallel the
disbursement profile.
I. Accounts and Audits
3.29     Accounts for the project activities of MOAL's provincial
services would be kept by an accountant attached to the office of the
Provincial Coordinator. Accounts for cooperative activities would
continue to be kept as they are at present, i.e. by the central
accounting unit of MRD to which the project would provide technical
assistance and financial support. Accounts of cooperative societies
would be maintained by their respective managers.
3.30     The accounts of MOAL's  provincial services (including PIU) and
Muyinga Cooperatives Union, SOEs and the Special Account would be
audited by independent auditors acceptable to IDA. The auditors' terms
of reference would include a specific audit of SOEs. Audit reports
would be submitted to IDA within six months after the close of the
financial year and IDA would be alloved to review all project accounts
and records. Assurances that the accounts of MOAL's provincial services
(including PIU) would be audite! by independent auditors acceptable to
IDA as well as specific audits would be conducted of SOE's and the
Special Account were obtained at negotiations.



- 23 -
J. Environmental Impact
3.31     Several project activities would have a positive impact on the
environment. Specifically, the soil conservation, agro-forestry
promotion, swamp and forestry protection efforts would make an Important
contribution in address_ng threats to the environment which have direct
implications for the population's livelihood. In particular, the rural
infrastructure/swamp protection component of the project would seek to
redress the hydrological imbalances in the bottom lands which have
resulted from inadequate road crossings. The agro-forestry component
would also contribute to the supply of firewood and help arrest
deforestation.   Further, actions to integrate livestock, agricultural
activities, on-farm soil erosion control and agro-forestry would have a
positive impact on farm land and grazing area fertility management.
IV. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
A. Ornanization and Management
4.01     All project activities would be implemented by the existing
provincial institutions under the coordination and supervision of the
PIU (para. 3.14) which would be created for the duration of the project.
The institutions includes (a) MOAL's provincial services including
research and extension, animal health, forestry and rural engineering
under the Provincial Coordinator for Agriculture and Livestock (para.
1.06); and (b) the Muyinga Cooperatives Union (and its member
cooperatives) as an independent and private organization under Burundi
law (para. 3.10). One new institution would be created through the
establishment, in Muyinga, of a satellite unit of the existing C & S
Coops' central Promotion Office (based in Muyinga) responsible for the
promotion and establishment of rural C & S Coops (pars. 3.10). Each of
the three implementing institutions would keep their own accounts and
prepare annually separate work programs and budgets. PIU would have
responsibility for all procurement under external funding, assist and
oversee participating institutions in the setting up of appropriate
accounting systems and be responsible for the introduction of internal
reporting, monitoring and evaluation systems. Ministerial staff of both
MOAL and MRD would continue to supervise project activities in their
respective areas of competence and expertise. The '.urrent Provincial
Coordinator for Agriculture and Livestock would retain his
responsibilities for agricultural extension and on-farm research.
Support from ISABU for the on-farm testing programs would be secured
through annual agreements between ISABU and the PIU. Assurances to this
effect were obtained at negotiations and submission of the first annual
agreement, satisfactory to IDA, would be a condition of effectiveness.
To strengthen MOAL and MRD's function and to assure a smooth transition
upon completion of project investments, PIU would organize annual



- 24 -
workshops between ministerial, provincial and 'commune' staff to
critically review past year's results and to prepare next year's work
programs and budgets. PIU would consist of the Project Director; a
Deputy Project Director with specific responsibility for the
introduction of internal reporting, monitoring and evaluation systems; a
financial management expert with specific responsibility for the
introduction of appropriate accounting systems and to oversee their
implementation; an accountant; a treasurer; an administrative secretary;
and support staff. Creation of PIU and recruitment of the financial
management expert would be conditions of Credit effectiveness.
4.02     Overall project supervision and control of PIU would rest with
MOAL's Directorate for Agricultural Planning which would consult with
the Department of Cooperatives of MRD for project activities related to
cooperatives. A written agreement between MOAL and MRD would define the
role of the Department of Cooperatives, relevant objectives and the
means to attain them within the framework of the project. This
agreement would be approved by IDA and would be a condition for Credit
effectiveness. A project organigram is shown in Chart 2.
B. Annual Work Plans
4.03     Implementation of all project activities would be effected on
the basis of annual plans and budgets. The manager of each institution
responsible for the implementation of part of the project would prepare
a work plan and estimated budget which would be submitted to PIU. PIU
would be responsible for the aggregation of the above into a unified and
consistent work plan and budget for the project. MOAL would submit the
annual work plais for approval to IDA. Plans and budgets related to
cooperatives would also be discussed with and approved by the Director
of the Department of Cooperatives of MRD.
4.04     Annual work plans would specify project objectives for the
following year, detail activities to be carried out to achieve these
objectives, indicate the relevant time frame and the required financial
and human resources. In general, the work program would address the
following: (a) a brief evaluation of the performance of the preceding
fiscal year relative to objectives and a discussion of its relevance to
the new plan; (b) detailed objectives and targets for the following
year; (c) description of activities for each objective, expected output
and relevant time frame; (d) detailed investment and operating budgets;
(e) training plans; (f) finaucing plan; (g) staffing plan; and 'h)
procurement plan. Assurances for the above were obtained at
negotiations. Familiarization of PIU and other project staff with
preparation of work programs, budgets and IDA procurement and
disbursement procedures would be effected through a project start-up
seminar and subsequent programming workshops to be held annually (para.
4.01).
4.05     The annual work plans should be submitted to MOAL and IDA for
approval at least four months prior to the start of the fiscal year, or



- 25 -
at the latest by August 31 of each year. This should give adequate time
to process the budget request through the Budget and Finance Committee
of MOAL and include it in the ministry's draft budget submitted to the
Ministry of Finance, due by September of each year.
C. Staffina
4.06     Proposed Staffingt.  Project implementation would rely on
existing staff in Muyinga (164 MOAL personnel) reinforced by 55 persons
to be recruited during the project period by MOAL of which 4 at
agricultural engineer (AO) and 16 at agricultural technician (A2)
levels. Recruitment of low level Government staff is not expected to
present significant problems, especially in view of the phased
investment and pxoject implementation schedule. Recruitment of higher
level staff could present problems although these would be minimized
through: (a) the phased implementation schedule cited above; (b)
recruitment of forthcoming university graduates; (c) recruitment of
technical assistants to complement local personnel, particularly new
graduates (para. 4.07); (d) training; and (e) Government commitment to
adequately staff MOAL provincial services. Assurances that the
Government will provide adequate staff to implement project activities
were obtained at negotiations. A list of the numbers and levels of the
key staff is given in Table 3 and will be included in a side letter to
the Credit Agreement.
4.07     Technical Assistance.  PIU would be assisted by an expert on
financial management (3 man-years) responsible for setting up the
project's financial, accounting and internal control systems consistent
with the sectoral accounting plan designed by MOAL. The recruitment of
the financial management expert would be a condition of Credit
effectiveness. Expertise on applied research and extension would be
provided by a combination of a long term consultant specialized in
agricultural extension supplemented by short-term consultancies for the
development of technical packages through on-farm research (para. 3.08).
These combined consultancies would total about six man-years over the
project period. The Department of Cooperatives' provincial office would
be assisted by an expert for 3 years and short-term consultancies (one
month/year) for three years (para. 3.10). At the national level, the
central accounting unit of the Department of Cooperatives would be
assisted for three years by an expert in cooperative management. All
specialist staff would be recruited under terms and conditions
acceptable to IDA.
D. Monitoring and Evaluation
4.08     Each unit responsible for the implementation of project
components would have its own monitoring system which would be
consistent with the methodology developed by the Planning Department of
MOAL. Overall coordination between project components, MOAL, other



- 26 -
ministries and IDA would be under the responsibility of PIU with support
and supervision from the Planning Department of MOAL. Annual progress
reports would be required by August 31 each fiscal year. Evaluation of
project impact at farm level would be done through specific surveys
carried out every two years by the National Service of Statistics (SNES)
under terms of reference prepared by the Project Director and the
Planning Department of MOAL and reviewed by IDA. MOAL's Planning
Department would also have responsibility for preparation of a Project
Completion Report evaluating project performance. This report would be
completed six months after the Credit closing date.
V. MARKETING AND FINANCIAL ASPECTS
A. Marketing of Food Crows
5.01     With respect to food crop marketing and processing, the
project's main a&m is to assist existing cooperatives and private
traders expand their activities. It would include Improvement of
cooperative storage facilities, equipping the Muyinga Cooperative Union
and its members with a two-way radio comunication system, construction
of store facilities for selected cooperatives, technical assistance in
cooperative management and marketing and assistance in the procurement
of inputs (para. 5.02). Cooperatives would participate in these
activities provided that: (a) a management contract has been signed
between MRD and MOAL (para. 4.02); and (b) commercial activities
undertaken by the cooperatives are financially viable.
B. Input SUMI1
5.02     Food Crop Inputs.  Agreements were obtained during negotiations
that agricultural inputs for resale would be sold through cooperatives
and private traders. The notable exception would be for veterinary and
phytosanitary products requiring the intervention of trained veterinary
staff, for tree seedlings, for coffee plants, and for pesticides for the
treatment of coffee plantations (para 5.03). In order to promote the
use of agricultural inputs, mini-stocks of inputs for resale by
cooperatives and traders would be deposited with selected cooperatives
and private traders by the provincial extension services. Selling
prices would cover input costs and include the cooperatives$ overhead
but the marketing risk would be borne by the extension services. Once
the existence of a sufficient demand for a certain input would have
been ascertained, PIU would establish a 'buffer stock' from which
cooperatives and traders could buy at their own commercial risk, as they
normally would for any other goods. This buffer stock would be
especially important for imported inputs such as fertilizer for which
procurement procedures could extend over a year. Management of the



- 27 -
buffer stock would be transferred to the Muyinga Cooperative Union once
the latter gained experience in handling international procurement and
management of large stocks. Sales proceeds would constitute a revolving
fund initially managed by PIU for the purchase of additional supplies.
The revolving fund would also be transferred to the Muyinga Cooperative
Union under a signed agreement with MOAL's provincial services
acceptable to IDA.
5.03     Coffee Inputs.  There would be no fundamental departure from
the existing system where pesticides are supplied by OCIBU through
nation-wide semi-annual campaigns. The cost of pesticides would, as in
the past, be recovered through the Government's regulated coffee payment
mechanism (echelle mobile). In accordance with the Government's current
practice, coffee tree seedlings would continue, at least for the near
future, to be distributed free of charge to promote new coffee
plantations and to rehabilitate old plantations.
C. Prices and Cost Recovery
5.04     Prices of agricultural inputs vary between those determined by
the market and those set by the Government. Tools and equipment are sold
at market prices with the exception of sprayers for coffee plantations
which are supplied by OCIBU at no charge. seeds are theoretically sold
at cost but local distribution costs are often not included and seed
production is partly subsidized. The Government has agreed that the
selling price of fertilizers distributed through the project would cover
all costs and the profit of intermediaries. Seed production subsidies
for the Kinazi Seed Farm would be gradually eliminated and by January
31, 1993 the farm would be operated on a commercial basis and the
selling price of seeds would be established on the same basis as for
fertilizers. Assurances to that effect were obtained at negotiations.
Coffee pesticides and seedlings would continue to be distributed by the
extension services at no charge to the farmers. Where coffee pesticides
are concerned, the justification for this practice is that coffee
plantations are concentrated in a few of the country's regions and in
very close proximity to one another. Neglect by individual farmers to
apply pesticides could result in significant losses to their conforming
neighbors and in decreased external revenue from loss of quality. In
the case of coffee plants, the administrative cost of selling them,
often on credit, and the substantial cost of credit recovery, is greater
than the cost of production estimated at about FBu 12/seedling. Cost
recovery for coffee pesticides is ensured through the lechelle mobile".
5.05     The proceeds from the sale of fertilizer would be used for the
replenishment of stocks already sold. A similar mechanism would apply
for veterinary medicines which would be initially financed through the
Credit and sold at prices sufficient to cover replenishment cost.



- 28 -
D. Farm Production and Incomes.
5.06     The project would have a positive impact on farm production in
Muyinga. Estimated increases in farm production are based on an initial
technical package which includes improved crop husbandry and better soil
fertility management through the combined use of manure or compost and
fertilizers. It is assumed that by year 6 of the project, 15% of the
farmers in the eastern part of the province and 20% in the west would
have adopted all technical messages recommended through the project;
some 44% of the farmers in the east and 38% in the west would also have
adopted some of the recommendations; leaving some 41 to 42% who would
not (Table 10). These adoption rates are comparable to the ones
observed in the on-going IDA financed projects in Ngozi and Gitega
(Credits 1165 BU and 1192 BU). Under this scenario, by the sixth year
of the project, incremental production due to the project would
represent a 6.4% increase over farm production without the project.
This increase would rise gradually over the years to reach 112 and
eventually 13% by the tenth and fifteenth year respectively. For the
farmers who would fully adopt the project's recommendations, a
comparison of the expected impact of the project in year 6 to the
"without" project situation is summarized below (see also Tables 11 and
12):
Eastern Muyina            Western Muylnna
Without Project  With Project W1thot. Project  With ProJect
Farm are (ha)                 1.44        1.68        1.25          1.88
Value of production (FBu '$M)    75.7    97.8        95.7         124.2
Monetery revenues (FBu 'O0M   4.4        12.9         7.1          14.6
Production cost (FPu '*W)    23.1        82.8        22.8          80.4
Monetary Coats (FBu '00)      4.0       1.3          2.9          7.6
Labor/year (man-days)        270        1a8         289           321
Return to labor (FDu/day)   280.4       809.4       855.8         887.0
5.07     The average farm size is expected to vary only slightly (by
about 8%) in both parts of the province as sonie land previously used as
pasture or left idle would be brought under cultivation. The gross
value of production is expected to increase by 291 to 30 2 in both
regions over the project period while monetary revenues would increase
by 1931 in the east and 1052 in the west resulting from the increase in
marketable surpluses. To generate these increases, production costs,
including labor, would increase by 42% in the east and 38Z in the west.
The slightly more pronounced increase in the east would result from a
relatively greater need of fertilizers for food crops because of the



- 29 -
less fertile soils of the area. Although the data Is scanty to
substantiate the project assumption that farmers wzuld grsdually adopt
fertilizers, it is expected that Muyinga would be well suited to emulate
the recent experience in nearby Kirimiro where farmers, after showing
initial indifference, appear to have adopted them enthusiastically as
these inputs became available.   Labor requirements per year would
increase by about 171 in the east and about 192 in the west. Given the
distribution of labor requirements throughout the year and the
availability of family labor, peak labor shortages are not expected in
the province as a result of the project.
E. Fiscal Implications
5.08     Major outflows during the early years would consist of
Government financing for the project, which together with service
charges for the credit, would reach FBu 213.5 million (US $ 1.8 million)
in year 6 of the project period. In subsequent years, the Government
would be required to provide annually on average about FBu 95 million
(US $ 0.8 million) for recurrent expenditures to sustain project
activities and for replacement of equipment. An additional amount
averaging FBu 19.6 million (US$ 164,400) would be required to service
the Credit. The amounts required for recurrent expenditures correspond
to about 31 of the average annual budgetary allocation to MOAL and MRlD
during 1984-86.
5.09      About 2/3 of those additional recurrent expenditures would be
covered by additional Government revenues resulting from project related
operations. These revenues would consist ofs (a) taxes and duties on
imported inputs and equipment; and (b) levies from incremental coffee
exports as a result of the project. With these revenues, funding
requirements to sustain pott-project activities would not present a
burden to the Government. The foreign exchange earnings from project
coffee sales would be more than adequate to cover the foreign exchange
requirements to service the IDA Credit. The Government cash flow
related to the project is shown in Table 15.
VI. ECONOMIC JUSTIFICATION
A. Justification and Benefits
6.01     Project implementation would contribute to the Government and
the Bank's economic development strategy in Muyinga. Project activities
would initiate measure to stimulate the economic development of the
province and woul4 result in increased food and coffee production and
environmental improvements. By encouraging greater involvement of
cooperatives and traders in the buying and selling of agricultur.tl
inputs and produce, the project would have a positive impact on the



- 30 -
effort to reduc'j Government intervention In the economy and increase
private sector operations. In conjunction with the above, project
activities would contribute to improving the quality of Government
services (i.E. extension) at provincial level and, in some limited way,
at national level (i.e. cooperative support).
6.02     Quantifiable benefits of the project would include increases in
fooderop, coffee and livestock production resulting from the gradual
adoption of the project's technical packages and from improved
veterinary services. The additional revenues from this incremental
production would be expected to reach FBu 414 million (US $3.5 million)
by year 6 of the project (Table 13). Coffee production in the province
would increase by an estimated 1,460 tons six years after project start-
up, and by about 2,800 tons and 3,500 tons after years 10 and 15,
respectively. A greater proportion of the farmers' benefits would be in
the form of cash income. On a per farm basis, the latter would increase
from FBu 4,400 to FBu 12,900 in the eastern zone and from Flu 7,100 to
Flu 14,600 in the western zone over the project period (Table 11).
6.03     Non-quantifiable Benefits.  In addition to the benefits
described above, the project would have a positive impact on increased
production from small ruminants; erosion control; promotion of agro-
forestry; use of organic fertilizer from the integration of agriculture
and livestock; development of a marketing network which would open up
opportunities for trading agricultural and non-agricultural commodities;
development of Credit and Savings Cooperatives to serve the rural
population; and training of Government and non-government employees.
6.04     Beneficiaries.  It is estimated that about 35,000 farmers, 58S
of the total in Muyinga, would benefit directly from the project. Many
of these would be women who are usually responsible for working in the
fields and for marketing surplus production.   Many more of the rural
population would benefit indirectly through increased food consumption
and better nutrition. The project would also benefit those gaining
employment or training as a result of project activities.
B. Economic Analysis
6.05     For the purpose of the economic analysis, project costs include
production related investment and operating costs for years 1 to 6
(representing about 64Z of total project costs) and capital equipment
replacement costs and operating costs for years 7 to 15. Additional
costs include the purchase of fertilizer to replenish initial stocks
financed through the project and incremental farm labor costs. Labor
would be provided through family members whose estimated real market
wage amounts to 781 of the nominal wage 1!1
6.06     Prices for the various food crops and livestock (cattle)
represent an average of farm gate prices. Since none of these are
1/  Nominal wage -FBu 90/day; shadow wage - FBu 70/day.



- 31 -
imported, no import parity prices have been used, although these would
be generally of the same order of magnitude.
6.07     The incremental production of each crop represents a small
percentage of the regional production and is not expected to have a
significant impact on prices except for beans where incremental
production would reach 232 of total pre-project production. About 252
of that is expected to be marketed in the province and elsewhere. Also,
the gradual evolution of production increases along with the development
of storage facilities and a marketing network is expected to even out
seasonal and spatial price variations rather than lead to reduced
prices.
6.08     On the basis of the project's quantifiable benefits, the
economic rate of return (ERR) of the project was estimated at 39% (Table
14, page 2). The ERR was tested for its sensitivity to changes in cost
and benefit levels from 10 to 50X and in lagging from one to three
yearsl the ERR would drop below 102 if, simultaneously, costs were
increaseod by 502 and benefits reduced by 20%. An analysis of the
switching values, based on an opportunity cost of capital (OCC) of 101,
Indicates that benefits would have to be reduced by about 44% or costs
increased by more than 792 for the present value of net streams to equal
zero.
C. Risks
6.09     Project activities entail significant innovations in the role
of cooperatives. Although the scale of these innovations has beezo kept
to modest levels initially, the capabilities of the cooperatives are
still untested. Technical assistance would be provided through the
project to assist cooperatives.  Moreover, the design of this component
is sufficiently flexible so that only cooperatives with appropriate
commitment and capabilities will continue with project activities after
an initial experimental period.  Although formally committed to the
development of cooperatives, the Government's attitude, particularly
toward the expansion of the marketing role of both cooperatives and
private traders, remains untested and will need to be monitored closely
in the course of supervision.
6.10     Given the scarcity of research results available for Muyinga
province and the lack of previous project experience, many of the
agronomic assumptions utilized for this project were drawn from the
results obtained in neighboring provinces where considerable data has
been collected from on-going projects operating under generally similar
ecological conditions. However, to allow for the uncertainties related
to the specificity of the Muyinga region, yield improvement
expectations which have been utilized for production calculations have
been deliberately kept at a conservative level.



- 32 -
VII. AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATIONS
7.01     The following agreements and assurances were obtained during
negotiations:
(a) Agreement that, in order for the Credit to finance the
second year of coffee tree plant production, the
Government woud submit to IDA a letter describing, to
IDA's satisfaction, the Government action program relative
to coffee tree replacement and expansion of the coffee
growing area as well as the financial means by which this
program will be implemented (para 3.08).
(b) Assurances that the leasing contracts for buildings and
equipment for the Muyinga Cooperatives Union would be
acceptable to IDA (para. 3.10).
(c) Assurances that PIU and the Forestry Department would
agree annually on matters related to the sursery
production of forest and fruit plants to be supplied to
farrers and "comunes" (para. 3.11).
(d) Agreement that PIU would be abolished by December 31, 1993
(para. 3.14).
(e) Agreement that the Government's financing of the cost of
salaries and emoluments of existing staff and those of on-
going operations in Muyinga would continue to be funded
through the Government's recurrent budget (para. 3.21).
(f) Assurances that the accounts of MOAL's provincial services
(inclu-ding PIU) would be audited by independent auditors
acceptable to IDA. Specific audits would be conducted of
SOEs and the Special Account (para. 3.30).
(g) Assurances that the projeWt's on-farm testing programs
would be supported by ISABU and that this support would be
secured by annual agreements between ISABU and PIU (para
4.01).
(h) Agreement that annual work plans, to be submitted to IDA
by August 31 of each year, would includes an evaluation of
the performance of the preceeding fiscal year; detailed
objectives and targets for the following year; description
of project activities for each objective, expected output
and relevant time frame; detailed investment and operating
budgets; a staffing plan; a training program; a financing
plan; and a procurement program (para. 4.04 and 4.05).
(i) Assurances that the Government would provide adequate
staff to implement project activities in accordance with
the key requirements listed in Table 3 of this report
(para. 4.06).



- 33 -
(j) Agreement that the following expert staff and consultants
would be employed and maintained under terms and
conditions acceptable to IDA: a financial management
expert with PIU, an agricultural research and extension
expert with MOAL's provincial research and extension
services, a cooperative management expert with MRD's
provincial services in Muyinga, and a cooperative
management expert with MRDIs Department of Cooperatives at
central level (para. 4.07).
(k) Agreement that progress reports would be submitted by
August 31 of each year and that the Planning Department of
MOAL would prepare the Project Completion Report for
submission to IDA within six months of the Crsdit closing
date (para. 4.08).
(1) Agreements thats (i) agricultural inputs would be sold
through cooperatives or private traders, with the
exception of: veterinary products requiring the
intervention of trained veterinary staff, coffee and tree
seedlings, end pesticides for the treatment of coffee
plantations; (ii) "mini" promotion stocks would be placed
with cooperatives and private traders for resale; and
(iii) management of "buffer stocks" and revolving funds
created by their sales would be transferred before the end
of the project period to the Muyinga Cooperative Union
under an agreement acceptable to IDA (para. 5.02).
(m) Agreement that the budgetary support for staff and
operating costs for the Kinazi Seed Farm would be
eliminated by January 31, 1993 and that the farm would be
operated on a commercial basis (para. 5.04).
7.02     The following would be conditions of Credit effectiveness:
(a) The first annual agreement between ISABU and PIU (para.
4.01).
(b) Creation of PIU and recruitment of the financial
management expert under terms and conditions acceptable to
IDA (paras. 4.01 and 4.07).
(c) A detailed agreement to be finalized between MOAL and MRD
defining the responsibilities of the Department of
Cooperatives in executing the cooperatives component with
prior approval of IDA (para. 4.02).
7.03     Subject to the above agreements and conditions of
effectiveness, the proposed project would be suitable for an IDA credit
of US $ 10.0 million to the Government of Burundi.



- 34 -
Table 1
BURUNDI
MUYINGA AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Muvinga Provinces Selected Characteristics
East     West     Total
Area (km2)                                        805    1,020      1,825
Population ('000)                                  81      217       298
Population density                                101      212        163
Cultivated area ('000 ha)                          54       70        124
Average fanm area (ha)                              3.4      1.6        2.1
Estimated Annual Crop Production
Bananas                  89,250    tonnes
Sweet potatoes           82,030    tonnes
Cassava                  33,920    tonnes
Beans                    22,100    tonnes
Coffee (cherries)        12,390    tonnes
Sorghum                   3,380    tonnes
Groundnuts                  870    tonnes



- 35 -
Table 2
BURUNDI
MUYINGA AGRICULTRUAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Muyinga Province: Land Use Pattern
Area (ha)     % of Total
Hills:
Food crops                                      54t700            30
Bananas                                         13,400             7
Coffee                                           4,300             2
Fallow                                          46,700            26
Swamps:
Cultivated                                       4,300             2
Uncultivated                                     6,800             4
Communal property                                  47,100            26
Infrastructure                                      5,200             3
Total area                                        182,500           100



- 36 -
Table S
MUYINOA AORICULTRUAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Projected Key fitatfIng for ProJoct Activities In Mulinca
Staff
Existina     Incremental     Total
Extenslon
a      -                                 0              1             1
A2                                       B              S             8
AS                                      25              1            25
LIvestock
AO                            ~       ~      ~      ~     ~~~1  0  1
A2                                       8              4             7
As                                      21              0            21
Rural Works
AG                                       0            1/3 L         1/B La
A2                                       7              0
Forzetrl
A1                         0             ~      ~      ~~~~~~~~1  1
A2                                       2              6             7
As                                       2              O             2
Applled R aearch
A2                                       a              2             2
A$                                       0              4             4
Prolect Implemn!stion Unit
AO                                       0              2             2
Al                                       0              1             1
AS                                       0              a             3
A--a Within the framework of UNDP/FAO project for three provinces.



^37 -                matEl 
go iIau uwws Wm
V lKl8 tat (0,00)
niu. tOt tiat                    III f s is        INr FWNslt,m           t          w mF11              cm      t        wttw
tancum     Ls                                                 ctiaxintr     urn.. ,us,ek             atncas           wmuoca            "Otis            "Otis            #mosNo
U.  caatw            toAnw            1tpL CRT   tUica   (IM. wAumI W. AM TAM)                   La-    fo-       tg          o.    L a.i. ..    for.    Log.    for.    Lot.    for.     Lot.    lv
I            tCIVIL VW
Wo ile"s., $two$e ett           MO.   42.2             W41.             MI3
lest fuodilo                          42.2                                                                           4.
ll ( .q                                             111.M           033,3        3600.    013.3    40.1    71.4
toatrol                    110.1   101.3            LA.            12n.1
sevt ogmuet                          167.3                                                                          101.3
10 f(i,                                             140.)          12M.1         071.9   620.2    43.6      MI
2            WIIi1 S t.WI'l
Wh itt"i                         145.1    14.6            51.2            613.
ke t f3101.                                                                                                          66.1
In fmeq                                             40.1            ste S                 540.5            0t.1
ta   o b&$aa                 782                                                                                                        .     116.4
(b) hVorestor
N  eq"l                     2s    2.6                23.            21.
best  wdial                           21.4                                                                           26
US fob"                                              23.6           2*1.1         3,.    167.0      4.5    19.3
tc)  Arlc. iewts
me """Wt          U         194.0   53e.0           306.5          5151.S
4  For owrattins           261.1   244.0           J331.          2Ml.I
bS-t (adig                           24.                                                                            24.0
1to foadi l                                         331.5          M1.1          116.6  2214.1    16.6   314.9
fill For rl                3M32.    252             441.6          2s5
_isan'          938.4    91.2           124.6           m.6
- baS        2394.5
br't fdl                              9.2                                                                            91.2
to #"mdi                                            124.6          m1.6           36.1   6L.        6.2   111.4
beef lisa"e                2394.1                                                                                                                                         1312  2916.3
3            16991t 0I1., 13M13 A 811381
)lecitaa
aslau                      2101.1     0.6             0.0          2101.1
Bait fimdi
M  #vohdt                  2161.1                                                        2101.1
t0)  traual ad
todin                       30.4    11.0             19.1           304.1
6ee't #vsdog                          11.0
b;-t feadieg                         119.1                          364.  2                 3.7  4.6    14.2  2.9    ILl
omit" CD5t$
lawo", A aam1t,a.          1)11.9
ht l    *4r                1421.4 I625.
CM  loit                     AJJ IU5 
mop(ouag=10                  I1.$                                                                                                     61.1
tOPIC tdlaq                  71,0                                                                                                                      1.
Otmr  otpa l tnt IUet      1469.    122.            121.9          1424..0
laudl. baula, 14p1"'
ad wOid. op. &t
6eet f{inI                  S11                                                                                      1
1us ftin                                             31            174.2         4O   317.4    22.4    15.7
Cw ooppbsg  fool,0           o181.                                                                                                   116       1.
WEt tait                    Ill.$5It                                                                                                          1.
TOTAL fesia11.0                                                                                                                                        69.3    42.1
m41k                      15U12.0                                               1819.3  72m7.0    19. 9   619.1  21)7.1   1942    1.    141.    140.3    4.1 3U1.2 1169.
lot. fudig        "SU2.1



- 38 -
Table S
UWRUNDI
IIUYVINA AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPNENT PROJECT
STFF APPRAISAL REPORT
ESTIHATED  NNUAL DISIURSEHENS DY AGENCY
(US$ '000)
TOTAL
PRWECT YEAR          1       2        3       4        5        6   ALL YEARS
IDA               1,897.3 2,637.0 2,036.3  1,432.5  1,100.1   996.8 10,000.0
I of total    19.0    26.4    20.4    14.3    11.0        9.0   100.0
ovrnunt             386.0   461.7   429.0   429.5  '495.1   505.2 2,706.5
2 of total    14.3    17.1    15.9    15.9    18.3    18.7   100.0
Caoparativs
lINyinga & COOPEC)   74.9    55.0    65.8    759.   130.2   108.9   510.6
X of total    14.6    10.8    12.9    14.9    25.5    21.3   100.0
Ismficiaries         0.0      0.4   260.4   600.9   711.0   821.8 2,394.5
2 of total     0.0     0.0    10.9    25.1    29.7    34.3   100.0
Total annual      2,358.1  3,154.1  2,1791.5 21538.8 2,436.4 2,332.7 15,611.6
2 of total    I5l    20.2    17.9    16.3    15.6    14.9   100.0
I.-



- 39 -
NMI                                      Table 6
NIiltIfA AICU L    EVELET PRECT
STAFF APMISAL REPORT
Estiumted Schedl e of IDA Oibur Nts
Total
Year and           Quarturly      Cumulative    Cumulti        Country
IDA Quarter        Diburw mt   Dihburnm t  ProJct Costs Profile
s 1000          s  eo000    2     000       I x
19a8
NIrch 31   (Al        OO     7       700      7
June 30              300     3      1000    10      23SS    15      4
Spteber 30           400     4      1400    14
Dcember 31           500     5      1900    19
1989
Narch 31             500     5      2400    24
Jun  30              600     6      3000    30      5512    35    22
Septeber 30          700     7      3700    37
Decoemr 31           800     8      4500    45
190
breb 31              500     S      5000    50
June 30              600     6      5600    56      8304    53    45
Septemer 30          500     5      6100    61
Deber 31             500     5      6600    66
1991
March 31             400     4      7000    10
June 30              400     4      7400    74    10843    6?    69
Septemer 30          300     3      7700    17
Dcmber 31            300     3      8000    80
1992
Ibrtb 31             300     3      6300    83
Jus 30               200     2      800    85    13279    85    N
Sptember 30          200     2      8700    87
Deceber 31           200     2      8900    89
1993
Narch 31             200     2      9100    91
June 30              200     2      9300    93    15612   100    100
Septeber 30          200     2      9500    95
December 31 (bi      200     2      9700    97
194
Narch 31             200     2      9900    99
June 30     [c]      100           10000   100
Total    10000   100    10000   100    15612   100    100
tol Include  disbursmnt to Speial kcout and rei_s_bsm t of PPF.
lb) Esti"ted proDet tocpletion date.
tcl Estisated Creit closing date.



- 40 -
Table 7
ONMI
MUYING AORICULTRUAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Proceeds of the IDA Credit
Credit Amount        X of Expenditures
Catenor                                   US *  /a            to be Financed
1. CIVIL WORKS
(a) Building, stores, houe         s    800,000         100% of foreign
expenditure and
9S% of lo Cal
expenditures
(b) Infrastructure for erosion         1,300,000        100X of foreign
control                                             expenditure and
96% of local
expenditures
2. VEHICLES AND EQUIPUMNT
(a) Vehicles                            418,800         100X of foreign
expenditure and
90% of lOCal
expenditures
(b) Furniture and equipment              152,000        100X of foreign
expenditure and
WON of local
expenditures
S. INPUTS
(a) Agricultural, forestry,            2,000,000        10X of foreign
frult tree and                                      oxpenditure and
veterinary Inputs                                  9WX of local
lw                                                          expenditure.
(b) Coffee plants (Phas I)              500,00          100% of foreign
expenditure and
90% of local
expenditures
(c) Coffee plants (Phase II)             500,o0o        100% of foreign
expenditur. and
90% of local
expenditure.
4. RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT,                840,00         100X of forolgn
TRAINING AND STUDIES                                    expenditure and
95X of local
expenditures
S. OPERATING COSTS                          675,000        lb
6. TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE                   1,950,000        100%
7. REFUNDING OF PROJECT                     SoO,000
PREPARATION ADVANCE
8. UNALLOCATE Le                             7.000
Tote I                                19.000.000
ti Cost estimates for ategories 1 to 4 do not Include physical contingencies.
ID  m II eover 95 of expenditure. In yer 1, i61 In year 2, 80% In year $, X0%
on ear 4, No% In year 5, and 201 In year S.
/a ReDresnatn estimated total physicel contingencies for categories 1 to 4.



- 41 -
Table 8
BURUNDI
MUYINGA AGRICULTRUAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Procurement Procedures
T. A.
Disbursement Category   ICB    LCB   Other /a   NA lb   Guidelines   Total
Construction               -    0.99     -          -         -         0.99
(0.94)                                  (0.94)
Infrastructure             -    1.56     -         -          -         1.56
(1.45)                                  (1.45)
Furniture and equipment   -       -    0.26         -         -         0.26
(0.23)                           (0.23)
Vehicles                 0.75     -      -          -         -         0.75
(0.60)                                         (0.60)
Agricultural inputs      3.86     -      -        2.33        -         6.19
(1.32)                  (2.19)                 (3.51)
Technical assistance       -      -      -          -        2.10       2.10
(2.10)     (2.10)
Training Lc                -      -      -        0.34         -        0.34
(0.32)                (0.32)
Operating costs            -      -      -        3.43         -        3.43
(0.81)                (0.81)
Total                    4.61    2.55   0.26      6.10       2.10       15.62
(Total IDA)            (1.92)  (2.39) (0.23)   (3.32)       (2.10)     (9.96)
la Local or international procurement procedures
lb Direct contracts for labor, training or for the production of coffee,
forestry and fruit tree plants.
Le Includes all training (investment and recurrent costs).



- 42 -
Table 9
l_mm
SrAFP APPUL AL
eC v I Works snd Vhlel      P kg         ne
Coops    !lee.             Coo. De.v Rerh
"wL"hM   tbiza  _ LUnit  Forestr   (Ml E                   l            1
Office rehabilitation         2S2                     - _  _   _2    2
Storage                       6Sttl  2                                           1_4; _   1 2       1,107 adO 
Off es Cl   e"ti no room Una
tra;niro f eTlittl                              26o 02      _         -     7xlOO rJ2      _       SS   2
Ho    typo A  2                  1         -          4         -         -         2         -
Forestry  gurd hous 
'ewwrory)_                              _     
Pk-up (4  4)2   )                                            2                    4(2       2(1)      12
Pik-up  2  4                     -         -          -         -         -          1                  1
Car    000 CC2 () 
Caar-  1                                                        -         -         -         -        4
Trucs, (T t)                     -       2 (t)                  _         _--                          21
Minibu                                                                                      2 (1)      2
Tractor (SO HP)                  -         -          -         1         -         -         -
Trailerm                         -         -          -        8-                   -         -         S
Motorcycles                   14 (()     4  )         -       4 (7)              60  )      4 )      92
81 cycles4
micro-coeputer                   -         -           1       -          -         -         -         1
a  Includes number (in parenthese) to be renew,d before project copletion,



BURUNDI
MUYINGA ACRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Ad.opton Rate of Pro iect Tochnical Meeae  by Frmers in Muvina
_              8               5 4  s  6       74              *      if      3        It     is      14       U
,C1@ As  o 3 @m.v.wA..sblms
Al I psjet  bmommo  tl.e.     ex      ox    1ion     six    125      1s      176     15      11      40      443    413    445    Sm         5
SCOOM  01 3 of Parws A..upb1ug
prjet 3sZmmm1a.e          1 a    u1      Se      an3    435      446     473    410      ox      so      so              a       Sm      un
SWOMUI Cs3 .9o Fe-mm Ae.eplse
lb Pr*J.. N.mmeadabla.       673    Sox      7I      o65    47X      412X    an      35      15  6115         e3      a       I3
TSTAL               IS      IN      Sm      la      its    its      lo      Sm      la      no       U      51      lo      mm      to
UWST   As 6 ofrm. A.mplui
All PI  ect.       dlm        U       s      1g1     146     IN      S       1       so      so      41      44      47X    41       m       5
asUI 5:  o.f f.me. A.empol.
on Proje  bm.isl.tcf          a      six     1       2115    SO      m       41      mm      4#      m       m       -        w      m
I13'" Cs X6of Fbewur A.epla
lb Prsiest- S.dct"l.        6s       71      O       s       41      415       6     114     S       lo       45      as     Ss  
MAL                Sl       Sm       m      Sm      Sm      sm      la      Sm      Sm      Sm      Sm      Sm       1      s       US
, ,.,  ,,,  ,   ,,  ,,,,    ,   ,-             ,          ,                 _                  &~~~~~~~



(UIYINSA AORICtA.TURAL OEVELGNWET PROJECT
STAFF AP RAISAL. REPORT
Calculation of lncreuetal Deveute of Fare Production
PRODUCTION - vithout PROJECT                                                  PMODUTION - with PROJECT
*                       ~~~~~~~~~~unit   Value of       Nonet.  :                                     unit    Value of              Donet.
* area    Yields    Prod.   price   prod.            2       revenues :         area   Yields    Prod.    price    Prod.          2      revenus
* (ha)   (kglha)    (kg)    (Flu)   (Fl)    marketed   VWl)                      (ba)   (kg/ba)    (kg)       (Flu)   (Flu)   marketed  HFu)
Cofe    chrre)  "":.,... i.7i...... ..t..t.... 0    .fD.... ;...5,......101 ..4124  ........0.07 ....*. *4''......       . 2,,........001..*.. '87
Batnana            .     0.30    6,000    1,900         12   21,600          0         0      :0.30    6,600    1,980                   12   23,760         ox        0
Cassava            .     0.10    5,000       500        25   12,300          0         0               0.10    6,000        600        25   15,000          0x        0
Swet potatoe             0.13    6,000       780        25   19,500          0         0     I0.13    7,500                 975        25   24,375          0x        0
EAST REGION    Deans                .    0.68       500       340        40   13,600         0         0                0.78      700       546         40   21,840         23?   5,023
Sorghum            .     0.10       600       60        35    2,100          52       95     :0.10                930        93        35    3,255         1In      596
Groundauts         *     0.06       450        27       g0    2,160          32       65      10.08               575        46        90    3,680         392   1,435
TOTAL    .     1.44                                 75,705               4,405      11.56                                          97,784              12,918
Coffee (cherries) *      0.08    2,850       228      26.7    6,088        1ool   6,088                0.09    3,713        297      26.7    7,930        300?   7,930
Banana             *    0.20    7,000    1,400          12   16,800          0         0     10.20    7,700    1,540                    12   18,480         ox        0
Cassava            .     0.10    6,000       600        25   15,000          0         0     10.10    7,500                 750         25   18,750         ox        0
Sweet potatoe      .    0.23    7,000    1,610          25   40,250          0         0               0.23    8,750    2,013          25   50,313          0?        0
NEST RESION    leans                *    0.54       650       351        40   14,040         71      M8                0.64       900       576         40   23,040         272   6,221
Nifaze (with beans).    0.10        350        35       22       770         92       62     10.10                525        53         22    1,155        10t      116
Sorghum            .     0.08       700        56       35    1,960          0         0     10.OB    1,120                  90        35    3,136         I1%      345
Groundauts         *    0.02       500         10       80       800         0         0     10.03                600        le        80    1,440          0?        0
--    ---                                  - -               - -
TOTAL          1.25                                 95,708              7,132                1.36                                 124,243              14,611



NMI
I mItNA AICmLTURtAL DEVEa UT PROJCT
STAFF APPMAISAL REPORT
Calculation of Incresental Cost of Fare Production
NONETARY
AREA           SEEDS              FERTILIZERS           PESTICtOES             FANILt LABOR          TOOLS      TOTAL COSTS    COSTS
thal      (kglha)   tFBu)       (kg/ha)    IFBul      (kgthal   (F8u)    t(/as)    (FB)              (Flul        (FFul        t(FBI)
A - WITHOUT PROMECT
Coffee               0.07                                                               257 (al        26   1,920                       2,077            0
Banana               0.30                                                                              30   2,100                      2,100             0
Cassava (tubers)     0.10           50      125                                                        10     700                        825           125
Sweet potatoes       0.13           33      107                                                        39   2,730                       2,837         t17
EAST RESIO6    Beans                0.68           100   2,720                                                       132   9,240                      11,960         2,720
Sorghuas             0.10           20       70                                                        20   1,400                       1,470           70
Broundauts           0.06          160      768                                                        13     910                       1,678          768
otber                                                                                                                       174           174          174
TOTAL                1.44                 3,7M                                                        270  19,900           174        23,122        3,965
Coffee               0.08                                                               257 Wal        30   2,10                        2,351            0
Banana               0.20                                                                              20   1,400                       1,400            0
Cassava (tubers)     0.10                                                                              10     700                         700            0
Saeet potatoes       0.23           33      190                                                        69   4,830                       5,020          190
NEST RESION     Beans                0.54           100   2,160                                                       lO5   7,350                       9,510         2,160
Sorghus              0.08           20       56                                                        17   1,190                       1,246           56
Sro,Udnuts           0.02          160      256                                                         4     280                         536          256                          1
ftize (.itb beans)   0.10           30       66                                                        14     980                       1,046           66
Otber                                                                                                                       174           174          174                          t
---           ~~~~~- ------  - ---       ------I
TOTAL                1.25                 2,728                                                       269   18,930          174        21,999        2,902
B. IttH PROECT
Coffee               0.07                                SO      735                   257 ta)        27   1,890                       2,882          735
Banana               0.30                                                                              32   2,240                       2,240            0
Cassava (tubers)     0.10                    50 tbi                                                    10     700                         750           50
Saeet potatoes       0.13           33      107                                          15            45   3,150                       3,272          [22
EAST RESION     Beans                0.78            80   2,496            90    436                     107          162  11,340                      18,311         6,971
Sorgbu               0.10           15       53           100     700                    11            22   1,540                       2,304          764
Grounaduts           0.08          140      896           100     560                                  18   1,260                       2,890        1,456
Other                                                                                                                       174           174          174
TOTAL                1.56                 3,602                 6,363                   389           316  22,120           174        32,822       10,272
Coffee               0.08                                 150     940                   271 tal        31   2,170                       3,281          540
Banana               0.20                                                                              21   1,470                       1,470            0
Cassava (tubers)     0.10                    50 [b)                                                    10     700                         750           50
Saeit potatoes       0.23           33      190                                          26            80   5,600                       5,915          215
NEST REGION     Beansr               0.64            80   2,048            60    268                      a8          141   9,870                      14,694         4,524                        F3
Srrgbua              0.06           20       56           100     560                     9            17   1,l90                       1,815          625                        go
Groundnuts           0.03          140      336           100     210                                   6      420                        966          546
Naito (aith beans)   0.10           30       66           40      280                    tl            IS   1,050                       1,407          357                        (0
Other                                                                                                                       174           174          174
TOTAL                1.36                 2,746                 4,578                   404           321  22,470           174        30,372        7,631
tal provided by OCI181; aet icluded in untary costs.
tel 2500 plants/ha x 200 gr a 0.1 ha & 50 kg 9 6 Flulkg a 300 Flu for project Wriod; averqed at 300J6P Fbu 50 per year



BURUNDI
NUYINSA ASRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Estioated tecreeeotal Agricultural Production aud Value Due to Project
YEAR                    I            2           '           4           5            6           7           e           9           10          11          12           13          14          15
IICPE(EUIAL PRODUCTION (in tonnes'
boanas                 50          293         610         876         1243        1641        2001        2448        2923         3570        3927        4195        4374         4463        4453
laaava                 17           99         188         2S5          444         638         784         954         1131        1357        1492        1594         1662        1694        1696
Sweet potatoes        120          541        18o0        3986        5541         6797        7850        9033        9954        11142       21794       12175        12330       12293       12111
Reans                 106          426        1108        2292        3381         4268        5187        5937        6610         7384        7755        8098        8220         8157        816b
"atze                   9           40          93         169         242          320         398         458         514          562         596         622          639         648         648
Sorghue                12           43         108         248          415         574         695         814          932        1073         lb6O       1220         1260        1289        128S
Sroundnuts              5           20          34          t2          102         131         119         140          164         189         203         214         221          220         222
Coffee     ..          14          116         298         691         1010        1458        1638        2057        2354         2797        3036        3249        3410         3512        3545
VALUE OF INCREMENTAL PRODUCTION fin 000 F8U)
Pananas               599       3,513        7,326      10,516       14,910      19,695      24,015      29,371      35,071      42,843       47,127      50,340      52,452       53,553      53,433
Casava                424       2,480        4,688       7,367      11,099       15,959      19,599      23,838      28,277       33,91S      37,306      39,850      41,546       42,393      42,393
Sweet potatoes      3,008       13,531      45,010      99,650     138,517      169,933     196,238     225,832     248,944     218,538      294,854     304,379     308,238      307,326     302,764
Beans               4,222       17,057      44,311      91,667     135,251      170,731     207,468     237,466     264,394     295,341      310,202     323,924     328,785      327,499     32',4:4
Maize                 190         884        2,044       3,726       5,333       7,034        8,745      10,076      11,312       12,357      13,118      13,688      14,068       14,258      t4,258
Sorghus               431        1,497       3,781       8,689      14,539      20,080       24,337      28,487      32,630      37,552       40,593      42,706      44,114       45,098      45,098
5roundnuts            398        1,612       2,747       4,968       8,167       10,403       9,496      11,233      13,114       15,105      16,251      17,110      17,683       17,624      17,765
Cofi ep               365       3,109        7,944      18,447      26,966       38,931      43,737      54,910      62,940       74,667      81,060      86,750      91,035      93,782       94.658
Total       9,61.7     43,683     117,859      745,030     354,7M2     452,765     533,635      621,212     696,482     790,317     840,511      878,747     897,953     901,533     896,8W4
fItD



BUR'P I,DI I
:4UYTh!GA AGRICULTUPRAL lnr_E;ELnO.iNT PROJECT
IMIPEMENTAL ESPErITS V;D COSTS
            ~    ~    ~    ~    ~      ---  -- .     .~~~~~-- -- - -- -- - ---.-- -
4             7        It _.... ..... .. .. .. ._ _______..................... _________ _______ __ _ 
1       'o                        5        w        I?       a       9        C        1       '               14      15
IN£CREM'.TAL pE"'ITE
9272   .i. 574  10F974  "26563  7'"'S16  413.935  485898  5663e2  6373642  71565'  757451  7919' IM         ,1            2 4
QO FEE                                 7t65    31 S9   79-4   18447   25 6£   38931   43737   54910   62840   74667   8105C  S°6'5  91035   Or,   0465O
LIVEST^G'C;                              _ -      -             I53 . 11 i 2l?    5569    5555    7S63   103535   12461   12'61   12I61   1' A1   12 t"1   12
QUBT.nTAL I KREMENTt;L ?EE1T637   477533  112124'77  K56611   S" 5 33190)  628875  706S1,  802-7&  052Z2  a-"c ~1041! 3                                  Z05?9   9 0165
T~ICREXENTAL C02TS
DUPING F'ROJECT                     1217?5 167364  196531  210556 '1S a5  20211E-             -       -        -        -        -       -        -        -
AFT'E  PROJECT                           -        -        -        -       -        -  167743  169381  1?2629  17n5nf  1677t4   17C516  19°4417  1-718214  16343-7
INC.FEt.x!ENTAL Ff  LGAF R             37 3    y4l5   1 42 5      )03   5:961   N69cv7   79668   9173t)  102532  114A04  12 12 02  12;-K5I3  12STS3  120 623  12803tj        9
INCREMENTASL COST2                  12275  P2?69  21 9  26759  2226              2022 2'  7Z 74 1. 1  2601*11  2951 1 120940  22FQ-5  2 0               -32CS7  264 73
INCRE ENTAL N:ET BENEFIT
TOlAL ICR2E" NTAL LNET ITENEFITE  -1.137-  -13026E6  -     *5>t°   -686   ESi' ?£ Qi v  ^°l;i 1    8764  4 '11S6 5         5                         £1t51. .7 .j,
Au-lust 21Y87 1?V Mv
V-'



..   - 48 -
PPESENT VALIES OF NET STREAMS AT A DISCOUNT RATE OF 10%                      Table  14
p. 2
FTVT      UP iC'      UfP 20.'    UPF 5^X    DOUN 10'.  DOWN 20%    DOWN 50%  LAd 1 YEAR LAG 2 YEARS LAG 3 YEARS
CTOT         1439.604.9 1.766v28*.1 20920,9693, 3,073,0160* 1.112t?,2.7  786.240.4  -1934806.3 1f142,621,0   972,635.7  6270194.5
UP lO%       1.256.883.1 !58;3,5v5.4  ,9iO10247.6 2i890,294.3  930.200,9  603.Sl1.7  -376.528.0  9594899.3  689P914,0  444,472.8
UP 20%       1.074,161.4 1.00,343,6 10721,525.9 20.70772.5   7i47479.2  420.796.9  -%9.249.0   777,177.6  507,192.2   2610751.1
up 50%         52I5,96.-  65.676.4 1,17^.360.6 2,159,407.3   199.314#0  -Q27v368.3-I107i414.9   229012.3  -40,973.0  -286.414.2
DOWi 10'.   1'K22,326.1 1'?4 ,02.8 ",2'.6?1.1 3,255,737.8 1.295'644.4   969,962.2   -11084.5 1325342.8 1.055.357.5  SO9.916,3
tOuN 2c%      ya0t043,4 s01-31.?20,6 .444Zt4     :.4 455.5 1.41Si366.1 1.151.i863.?   179V. 1.5 .064,. 1t238t.09.2  9M2.638.0
DOWN scM     2w          :.6h13.4    30895.  !.OC7E   3i986rf24. 2M2*2521.4 ltS97r,45.1  ?l9,?r2,4 2.051i22?.?7 1786t244.4 1.54D.803 2
LAG 1 YEAR                         *3                                                                    1. - 17308,71  1.0380746.4   M#3.305.2
L{i 2 YEA;:$                                                                       -           -           - l1589.5.1   944.314.?
LA3 3 YEASS                                                -           -           --                      -           - 10el 59645
I-T,°.t'L RATES 0 RETJ;:N OP NET STREAMS
ETOnT    "IP I0'     l! ^OX       UP 50%    DOWN 10%    DOWN 20%   DOWN 50%  LA5 1 YEAR LAG 2 YEARS LAG 3 YEARS
CTOT              38.?:       i4.30'      49.520      64.620      33.305      27.346       4.232      26.6K5      20.259      16.269
UP 10%            33.028     38.5fl?      4Z,819      '7.831      28.463      22.691      -1186      23.338      17.729      14.232
UP 20%            29.381      *4.261      38.919      52.084      24.182      18.509      -64955      20.333      15.439      12.384
UP 50S            18.509      23.092      27.346      38.?19      13.441       7.605     -48.067      12.736       9,.07       7.674
DOWN 10%          44.8S?     Ss.663      36.308      72,827      38.919      32.663       9.663      30i474      23,092      18.53s
DOWN 20X          S2.0F4      58. 400     64.620      M3M031      45.618      38.919      15.412      34.848      26.314      214!06
DON 507          E.1 7        t0, 11 lO It          139,44       ?9*359      69.552      38,919      54.392      40.019      31.785
LAG 1 YEMA                                                                                     -      38.919      26.685      10.1259
lAG 2 YEA;3            -           -           -           -           -           -           -           -      38.919      26.685
LAO 3 YEP':8           -           -           -           -           -           -           -           -           -      38.919
SWITCHING VALUES AT 10l
APPAISAL    SVITCHIII   PERCENTAGE   ,G
IZIEI                  YbVALUE      VAE          CHARGE
1t              2,933,718.41 1,494W113.53       -49.07%
12                293,990.73  -1.14565406      -489.68%
93                 39,113.13  -1*4004E+06        9 0.62%
Cl                788,816.50 2,228I421J38       1825.50
C2                566#899,27 2,0065 04,s15      253.94%
C3                471,501.62 109114106.50       305.32%
TOTAL  UNEVITS  34266.822.27 14927,217.39       -44.07X
TOTAL COSTS    18274217.39 32466M822.27         78.79%
Not Preunt Value t.OcC 10% : 1#439.604*9
Intmal Rate of bturn   38,92
Ccuqcn Esuivalent Rate of Return L 24,7%
Intenal Rates of Return ot Not Streas
ND                      38.922



- 3
llIN6  311RIClM0ft  DEWLOPIT PUECT
STAFF  PIISI REPORT
Projected 61or t Cas Flow
(Fen 000'
I         PY2        n3         PY4                   P16       Pm7         Pe          9       P10        "it        P1m2       P113       P114      Pms
OUTFLOW
Project  elated Expe_te
ProjKt Period  172,4450  224,970.0  218,942.0  I19,9LO   212,929.0  199,085.0
After Project                                                                   67,091.0   67,729.0    8,14L80   69,34.0   67,091.0   69,864.0   99,936.0   71,212.0   67,785.0
PayOts to ID
Cmltat Char        5,0584    4,103.7    2,67.5       ,964.7    1,104.2      339.9       0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0
Sevic Crge         577.5    2,009.6    3,714.0    5,21B.1    6,508.9    7,655.3    8,165.2    9,165.2    8,165.2    8,165.2    8,083.5    7,921.8    7,763.4    7,609.1    7,456.0
paymeet of principal       0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        o.0        0.0        0.0       9.0   21,773.B   21,3383   20,911.5   20,493T3   20,06.
Total Ohtfloss  178,000.9  231,003.3  225,623.4  207,129.8  220,542.1  197,080.2   75,256.2   75,894.2   96,313.2   77,549.2   96,93   99,124.1  113,610.9   ",313.4   95,324.4
Ta a Duty Rceipts
an Gov-t related eped.    6,251.6   10,506.7   10,481.8    7,43.0    9,07.      6,038.6    6,03L86    6,038.6    6,03l.6    6,038.6    6,038.6    6,0586    6,0386    6,038.6    6,038.6
on cow  oprating xped.       153.5      270.2     313.9      342.7      370.1      383.2      383.2      383.2     3832       383.2      M3.2       383.2      383.2      38L2      33.2                4
on inputs                  0.5    3,09L7    7,150.7    9,460.9    ,M.4    9,779.4    9,779.4        ,.4    9,779.4    9,779.4    9,T9.4    9,779.4   9,.^4    9,.4
a coffee experts to)     160.0    1,350.0    3,480.0    8,060.0   I1,780.0   17,010.0   19,110.0   24,000.0   27,460.0   32,630.0   35,420.0   37,910.    39,780.0   40,97.0   4,360.0
IDA Dlbura ts              154,002.5  227,895.7  226,596.7  174,492.3  169,741.6  135,959.9
Total Inflon   160,567.6  240,023.0  243,976.1  197,4837  19,439.6  169,171.1   35,311.2   40,201.2   43,661.2   48,831.2   51,621.2   54,111.2   55,9R1.2   57,171.2   57,561.2
ET CMII FLU                (17,513.3)   8,939.7   18,352.7   (9,645.2)  421,102.51  (27,909.1)  139,9450)  (35,693.0)  (52,652.0) 429,718.0 l45,327.12  145,012.9  (62,629.7)  (42,142.2) (37,763.2
tal calculted on bass of   r avwra  for 1986 Ui.e FB 70,000/tanoe) for inrmental project podutioe
'-a
80c



- 50 -
Table 16
BURUNDI
MUYINGA AGRICUILTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Selected Data and Documents Available in the Prolect File
Document No.
A. Project related reports and studies:
Al  Burundi, Projet de Developpement Agricole de              C01291
Muyinga, Rapport de Preparation, Rapport du
Programme de Cooperation FAO/Banque Mondiale,
Centre d'Investissement, 150/84 CP-BDI 10,
28 decembre 1984.
B. Implementation:
Bi Implementation Volume (Table of Contents):
Annex 1  -  Le role du mouvement cooperatif dans
l'approvisionnement et la
commercialisation, Document de travail
Annex 2 - Livestock Component, Working Paper
Annex 3 - Forestry Component, Working Paper
Annex 4 - Detailed Cost Tables
C. Miscellaneous Papers (used as background for excluded components)
Cl  Vers une amelioration des conditions de                    C01292
comercialisation du cafe arabica burundais par
Jan Van Hilten et Jacques Guillaumaud, novembre 1985
C2  Etude sur la gestion des usines de lavage crees par le
projet de developpement rural de Muyinga.
Document de travail.



- 51 -
Chart 1
BURUNDI
MUYINGA AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Ministry of Agriculture and Livestock (MOAL)
I INISTER I
DIRECTORATE                            DIRECTORATE FOR                     DIRECTORATE FOR]
FOR AGRICULTURE                                                            AGRICULTURAL
PLANNING
Departments                           Departments
__ =                                              ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Services
IAGRONOMYI
IE    I                            4ANIMAL PRODUCTION                      STUDIBS AND
PROGRAMMING
RURAL WORKS
; _   ANIMAL HEALTH4MONITORING
WATER AND                                            .                    AND EVALUATION
FOREST
RESOURCES
AGRICULTURAL
EDUCATION
RURAL
IMPROVEMENTS
AND LAND                                                                  ASSISTANCE TO
REGISTRY                                                                  MANAGEMENT
AGRICULTURAL
STATISTICS
PARASTATALS                  REGIONAL DEVELOPMENT COMPANIES
.~~CI5~~TB   COG          VETERINARY                   SUPOEU   Uai OANE
[iENEE] A   [2E C]  [iER!iE3   |ETERINARY  | [;;7              E5i  
{AND PHlARMACYI     



- 52 -
Chart 2
BURUNDI
MUYINGA AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Prolect Organigramme
PCU        PTroject toordifatioT
. Financial 4anageftnt
. Accountiag
. Procureunt
. Work Programing
. M4otoring
IIOAL                                          D -  3EPT. OF -  1
PROVINCIAL                                 I    CooIRTlVES
. 'eterinary                                 ,             
Services                                  COOPERATIVE      CREDIT AND
* Forestry                                  UNION AN D       SAVINS
. Ercalon Cuntrol                           MERS,            COOPERATIe|
. Swamp Deve&opcmnt                         COOPERATIVES
. Applied Research
. Extrusi.on                              . Food Crop         Rural
. Seed production                           Mtrketi,g         Savings
Farn Input        and Credit
ttztr ibution
_~---- functional
_ hierarchical



0~a I
3b-
8 URU N DI
MUYINGA AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
NATURAL REGIONS                                                                                   RWANDA    ! 
51: MUYINGA PROJECT AREA                       j
NATURAL REGION BOUNDARIES                :0I 
*   ARRONDISSEMENT CAPIrALS             \8o' b                            *o
@   PROVINCE CAPITALS
6   NATIONAL CAPITAL                                          au
ARRONDISSEMENT BOUNDARIES                                              bar 
PROVINCE BOUNDARIES       ,       Nega,         KIRUNDO
COMMUNE BOUNDARIES                                                                          T    N     A I
0                                            INa --- INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES                                                            TANZANIA
30Rugombo)    9       4 <t,~s~*                  *~  ,    '_<~           SNyomurenzo                     p               . ss. s z j
inPa   ?   r
IR -  .-S><:-o                       



f%/Mutimbui   uim                                                                     wer
1,* 4V, -Bujvmb.o                                           <                                   j- lmu yo                              l
'B      UMBURA=                                                                                    __   _
Kony,osh   o  fano                       sdepo .  ITEGA            RYG               -s-
I    >         mutU                                               uton riZ
\ b~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~uondo/  __ 
o   20            40~~~~~~~~~~4
Ruto   ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~  ,,p1dT~W.0 .00               2~o 0~, ~
|RSrNnw Lac IIWA
Su~~N
I                                                                          'I
\               g~~Noz.-o         go*                                    BURWANOA>                       
|   4 r                                               j    ~~~~~~~ ~                  ~ ~~~~~~TANZANIA  C
2r ~           -IL.X                                



3~0°0o                                                                        30°15'                                                                         30°30
BU RUN DI
MUYINGA AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
COFFEE WASHING STATIONS, AGRICULTURAL
COOPERATIVES AND SEED FARM                                                                                                    . *
COFFEE WASHING STATIONS                                                                                      Ruzo      .0
*   AGRICULTURAL COOPERATIVES                         -
A   SEED FARM                                                                                                _ N   -.
I  Nzove                 Rugeroq
PRINCIPAL PAVEL) ROADS                                                                   *                               /
OTHER PRINCIPAL ROADS                                                                     \                                               N...
SECONDARY ROADS                                                                            ;                             Gatoke
OTHER ROADS                                                                                               Vumasi
RIVERS
o   TOWNS'                                                                                                                  f    J 
o   COMMUNE CAPITALS                                                                     .
PROVINCE CAPITAL                                                                                                /          /  /
@   NATIONAL CAPITAL                                                                                    ) |
-       COMMUNE BOUNDARIES                                                                                                      /
-.-"-PROVINCE BOUNDARIES                                                                              *            /\
230'                         * INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES                                                                         (
To Klnxtlo   X V      GITEIRANYI
if.Krroo                     i
0             5            10            15             20            25                                         ' K  d
It    II                   I              I             I             II
KILOMETERS
To KunCdo                       Kobe
*E n y To Ng= & PuIet1e



IBRD20j
4-                   '~I
AD
¼             4~~~~~~~5-   4
Z 0~ 
-  'hra*~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~a
-~~~~~~~~~~~c
U~~~~~~~~~~~1111t



2|-                                                                                30o                                                                          j
BURU N D I
MUYINGA AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PROJECT AREA                                                                               RWANDA
MUYINGA PROJECT AREA
NGOZI III AND KIRWMRO                                                4           4
5 ww. PROJECT AREAS                              \
*   ARRONDiSSEMENT CAPITALS             Bugobiro                                     (
o   PROVINCE CAPITALS                 *       /               n                    ;
*   NATIONAL CAPITAL              !        y   Kirundo     Busoni   A     '
Z-M:  ARRONDISSEMENT BOUNDARIES        t                                         \  \ /ba t
PROVINCE BOUNDARIES           * Ntego        KIRUNDO              *        I
N t   ~*                 COMMUNE BOUNDARIES                                   G \of    */ / '  /               TANZANIA
j - - INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES                                                        - Gtobe  TANZANIA
"IN                 Moboyi                                                  AVumiubo
Rugomb
*      B~~ugondo
OBUEANZAARZ
ZAIRE                                         B Gkeygo  /                                               ,..-         CANKUZO_ .



~~JI                                                             \                                     E/{Th  [t      L 
-   MUAMVYA                                     Nyat,kere                                               00
I       -  rN B 'ra >   lw l u    M .r ar n y r o  \    f <         p n o K r w         
\btn,               aa .x. J1 Li
J >K     B                 R ok     KvI        R..                                  '.J
4°Tencri iRutne)EUI    j( M<~ rurn_*t-br*tTttrrrtrrrr4_ssr
X ~  ~~~ ~ ,     ,a                                  w ^ '    ;;   e o   \ /                          |,          
T U n g (m y t\ Rysmmo-L4e            /       1   ; o o /)                                 m , A
\   t.    /4'-                                              t}RU^>DI                  >              _~~~~~~RYIG
clcsmbo ~ ~ ~   ~    ~    ukmb 
Nyonia-L~~~c    Suaz.c K/oETR
1, .- _ *   '~~~~~~ _,/ *t                            ; ~~~TANZANI.A 
_ _ _ _ _ i_______________________
290       ,         ,    , j            ,                           t                                  ,\s,, ,R URUR



