OFFICIAL
DOCUMENTS
CREDIT NUMBER 1857 BU
Development Credit Agreement
(Muyinga Agricultural Development Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF BURUNDI
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated                               , 1988


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 1857 BU
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated                             , 1988, between
REPUBLIC OF BURUNDI (the  orrower) an   INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT
ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2
to this Agreement, has requested the Association to assist in the
financing of the Project; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis inter alia
of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Develop-
ment Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1,
1985, with the last sentence of Section 3.02 deleted (the General
Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the
Preamble to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein
set forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
(a) "Annual Work Plans" means the activities to be carried
out each year by the Project Implementation Unit and the entities
and institutions under the Project;
(b) "Department of Cooperatives" means the Department of
MRD responsible for cooperatives promotion and monitoring in the
Borrower's territory;
(c) "Department of Waters and Forests" means the Department
of MOAL responsible for the development of water and forest
resources in the Borrower's territory;
(d) "FB" means Francs Burundais, the Borrower's currency;


﻿-2-
(e)  "Fiscal Year" means the Borrower's fiscal year which
runs from January 1 to December 31;
(f) "ISABU" means Institut des Sciences Agronomiques du
Burundi, the Borrower's National Research Institute responsible
for agricultural research in the Borrower's territory;
(g) "MOAL" means the Borrower's Ministry of Agriculture and
Livestock Development;
(h)  "MOAL Provincial Services" means the services of MOAL
in the Muyinga Province (as defined below);
(i) "MRD" means the Borrower's Ministry of Rural Deve-
lopment;
(j) "Muyinga Province" means the administrative boundaries
of the Muyinga Province in the north-eastern part of the Bor-
rower's territory;
(k) "PIU" means the Project Implementation Unit established
by the Borrower in accordance with Section 3.04 (a) of this
Agreement;
(1) "Project Preparation Advance" means the project pre-
paration advance granted by the Association to the Borrower
pursuant to an exchange of letters dated April 8, 1986, and
June 11, 1986, between the Borrower and the Association;
(m)  "Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement; and
(n)  "UPCM" means Union Provinciale des Coopratives de
Muyinga, the cooperatives' association in the Muyinga Province
established and operating under Law Decree No. 1/3, dated
February 4, 1981.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Bor-
rower, on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in
the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in various currencies


﻿-3-
equivalent to seven million nine hundred thousand Special Drawing
Rights (SDR 7,900,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the
Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the rea-
sonable cost of goods and services required for the Project
described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Credit.
(b)   The Borrcwer shall, for the purposes of the Project,
open and maintain in dollars a special account in its central
bank to be operated by PIU on terms and conditions satisfactory
to the Association. Deposits into, and payments out of, the
Special Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions
of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
(c) Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit
Account and pay to itself the amount required to repay the
principal amount of the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn
and outstanding as of such date and to pay all unpaid charges
thereon. The unwithdrawn balance of the authorized amount of the
Project Preparation Advance shall thereupon be cancelled.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1994,
or such later date as the Association shall establish. The
Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later
date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a commitment charge at the rate of one-half of one per cent (1/2
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit not with-
drawn from time to time. The commitment charge shall accrue from
a date sixty days after the date of the Development Credit Agree-
ment to the respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn
by the Borrower from the Credit Account or shall be cancelled.
(b) The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such
places as the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without
restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the
Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in


﻿such other eligible currency or currencies as may from time to
time be designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that
Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn
and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall
be payable semiannually on February 1 and August 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to the paragraphs (b) and (c) of
this Section, the Borrower shall repay the principal amount of
the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each February 1
and August 1 commencing February 1, 1998, and ending August 1,
2027. Each installment to and including the installment payable
on August 1, 2007 shall be one percent (1%) of such principal
amount, and each installment thereafter shall be two percent (2%)
of such principal amount.
(b) Whenever: (i) the Borrower's gross national product
per capita, as      determined by   the Association, shall have
exceeded $790 in constant 1985 dollars for five consecutive
years; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower credit-
worthy for Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the
review and approval thereof by the Executive Directors of the
Association and after due consideration by them of the develop-
ment of the Borrower's economy, modify the terms of repayment of
installments under paragraph (a) above by requiring the Borrower
to repay twice the amount of each such installment not yet due
until the principal amount of the Credit shall have been repaid.
If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise such
modification to include, in lieu of some or all of the increase
in the amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at
an annual rate agreed with the Association on the principal
amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time,
provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such revi-
sion shall not change the grant element obtained under the
above-mentioned repayment modification.
(c) If, any time after modification of terms pursuant to
paragraph (b) above, the Association determines that the Bor-
rower's economic condition has deteriorated significantly, the


﻿-5-
Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, further modify
the terms of repayment to conform to the Schedule of installments
as provided in paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America
is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the
General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to
the objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and, to this end, shall carry out the Project through
MOAL, MRD, the Muyinga Cooperatives Union and the primary
cooperatives of the Muyinga Province with due diligence and
efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative,
financial, management and agricultural practices, and shall
provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services,
staff and other resources required for the Project.
(b) Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a)
of this Section, and except as the Borrower and the Association
shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall carry out the Project
in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Sched-
ule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3
to this Agreement.
Section 3.03. The Borrower shall ensure that the salaries,
indemnities and operating costs of existing staff and on-going
operations in the Muyinga Province continue to be funded through
its recurrent budget.
Section 3.04. For purposes of coordinating the execution
of the Project, and without limitation upon the provisions of
Section 3.01 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall:
(a) establish and maintain for the duration of the Project
in MOAL a Project Implementation Unit with responsibilities


﻿- 6 -
satisfactory to the Association chaired by a qualified and
experienced project director; and
(b) employ and maintain the following experts in accordance
with Section II of Schedule 3 to this Agreement:
(i) an expert in financial management appointed by the
Director of PIU to assist in setting up a sectoral
accounting plan for all MOAL Provincial Services
and to strengthen the accounting capabilities of
the units charged with using such plan;
(ii) an agricultural research and extension expert with
MOAL Provincial Services;
(iii) a cooperative management expert at the central
administration   level  with  the   Department  of
Cooperatives; and
(iv) a cooperative management expert in Muyinga with
the Department of Cooperatives.
Section 3.05. For purposes of carrying out Part A of the
Project, and without limitation to the provisions of Section 3.01
of this Agreement, the Borrower shall:
(a) cause ISABU to provide its support to the on-farm
testing program described in Part A.1 of the Project, on terms
and conditions to be agreed upon each year between ISABU and PIU;
(b) cause the Department of Waters and Forests to supply
the forest and fruit plants necessary for the carrying out of the
Project, on terms and conditions to be agreed upon each year
between the Department of Waters and Forests and PIU; and
(c) submit to the Association not later than August 31,
1988, or the date that shall be agreed upon in writing by the
Association, a letter describing a program of actions designed to
expand and replace the Borrower's coffee tree growing areas and
the related financial means of such actions.


﻿-7-
Section 3.06. For purposes of carrying out Part B of the
Project, the Borrower shall:
(a) cause MOAL and MRD to enter into an agreement satis-
factory to the Association, defining the role, responsibilities,
objectives and means of the Department of Cooperatives in the
carrying out of such Part of the Project;
(b) establish not later than February 1, 1989, in the
Muyinga Province, a satellite of the Credit and Savings Coopera-
tives Central Office having the purpose, inter alia, of promoting
the creation of savings and credit cooperatives in the Muyinga
Province;
(c) not later than February 1, 1989, cause PIU to supply,
for the purpose of resale to agricultural cooperatives and pri-
vate traders, small stocks of agricultural inputs, excluding
veterinary products requiring the intervention of trained vete-
rinary staff, coffee plants and tree seedlings and pesticides for
the treatment of coffee plantations;
(d) upon the placement of the agricultural inputs referred
to in the preceding subsection (c), take all necessary measures
to ensure that: (i) such agricultural inputs be sold to the
farmers by the agricultural cooperatives and the private traders;
and (ii) the price margin for such agricultural inputs be suf-
ficient to cover the operational and maintenance costs of the
sellers;
(e) as might be necessary based on the existing demand for
such agricultural inputs in the Borrower's territory, cause PIU
to constitute "buffer stocks" of such agricultural inputs to
replenish the stocks of the agricultural cooperatives and of the
private traders;
(f) cause: Ci) the agricultural cooperatives and the pri-
vate traders to remit to PIU the proceeds of the sales from
the small stocks referred to in the preceding subsection (c);
(ii) PIU to deposit such proceeds into an account to be estab-
lished at a commercial bank satisfactory to the Association; and
(iii) PIU to use such proceeds to replenish the "buffer stocks";
and
(g)   not later than December 31, 1993, cause PIU        to
transfer to UPCM the management of such "buffer stocks" and


﻿- 8 -
revolving funds on the basis of an agreement satisfactory to the
Association.
Section 3.07. For purposes of carrying out Part B.1 of the
Project, the Borrower shall transfer to the Muyinga Cooperatives
Union and to the primary cooperatives of the Muyinga Province the
buildings and equipment which may be necessary to carry out such
Part of the Project, under terms and conditions satisfactory to
the Association.
Section 3.08. The Borrower shall take all necessary measures
satisfactory to the Association for the elimination, not later
than January 31, 1993 of budgetary support to its Kinazi seed
farm.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance
with sound accounting practices the operations, resources and
expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or
entities of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project
or any part thereof and of UPCM and the primary cooperatives of
the Muyinga Province.
(b) The Borrower shall:
(i) have the records and accounts referred to in para-
graph (a) of this Section, including those for the
Special Account, audited for each fiscal year, in
accordance with appropriate auditing principles
consistently applied, by independent auditors
acceptable to the Association;
(ii) furnish to the Association, as soon as available,
but in any case not later than six months after
the end of each such year, certified copies of the
reports of such audits by said auditors, of such
scope and in such detail as the Association shall
have reasonably requested; and
(iii) furnish to the Association such other information
concerning said records, accounts and the audits


﻿- 9 -
thereof as the Association shall front time to time
reasonably request.
(c) For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Credit Account or payments out of the Special Account
were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower
shall:
(i) maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance
with paragraph (a) of this Section, records and
accounts reflecting such expenditures;
(ii)  retain, until at least one year after the com-
pletion of the audit for the fiscal year in which
the last withdrawal from the Credit Account or
payment out of the Special Account was made, all
records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills,
receipts and other documents) evidencing such
expenditures;
(iii) enable    the   Association's  representatives   to
examine such records; and
(iv) ensure that such records and accounts be included
in the annual audits referred to in paragraph (b)
of this Section and that the report of such
audits contain a separate opinion by said auditors
as to whether the statements of expenditure sub-
mitted during such fiscal year, together with the
procedures and internal controls involved in their
preparation, can be relied upon to support the
related withdrawals.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The following events are specified as addi-
tional conditions to the effectiveness of the Development Credit
Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General
Conditions:
(a) that the Project Implementation Unit referred to in
Section 3.04 (a) of this Agreement has been established;


﻿10 -
(b) that the expert in financial management referred to in
Section 3.04 (b) of this Agreement has been employed;
(c) that MOAL and MRD have entered into the agreement
referred to in Section 3.06 (a) of this Agreement; and
(d) that ISABU and PIU have entered into the first of the
annual agreements referred to in Section 3.05 (a) of this
Agreement.
Section 5.02. The date one hundred twenty (120) days after
the date of this Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes
of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Minister of the Borrower responsible for
Agriculture and Livestock is designated as representative of the
Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General
Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministbre de l'Agriculture et de l'Elevage
B.P. 1850
Bujumbura
Rfpublique du Burundi
Cable address:                       Telex:
MINAGRI                           5147 MINAGRI BDI
Bujumbura
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America


﻿- 11 -
Cable address:                       Telex:
INDEVAS                            440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia,
United States of America, as of the day and year first above
written.
REPUBLIC OF BURUNDI
By
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By
Regional Vice President
Vice  ~Africa


﻿- 12 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated            % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category              SDR Equivalent)      to be Financed
(1)  Civil Works:
(a) buildings,             630,000         100% of foreign
stores,                               expenditures
houses                                and 95% of local
expenditures
(b) infra-               1,020,000         100% of foreign
structure                             expenditures
for erosion                           and 95% of local
control                               expenditures
(2) Vehicles and
equipment:
(a) vehicles               330,000         100% of foreign
expenditures
and 90% of local
expenditures
(b) furniture              120,000         100% of foreign
and equip-                            expenditures
ment                                  and 90% of local
expenditures
(3) Inputs:
(a) agricultural,         1,570,000        100% of foreign
forestry, fruit                       expenditures
tree and vete-                        and 90% of local
rinary inputs                         expenditures


﻿- 13 -
Amount of the
Credit Allocated            % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category              SDR Equivalent)      to be Financed
(b) coffee plants           395,000        100% of foreign
(phase I)                             expenditures and
90% of local
expenditures
(c) coffee plants           395,000        100% of foreign
(phase II)                            expenditures and
90% of local
expenditures
(4) Research and                 270,000        100% of foreign
development,                               expenditures
training and                               and 95% of local
studies                                    expenditures
(5) Operating Costs              450,000        90% of expendi-
tures billed
through Decem-
ber 31, 1988;
85% of expendi-
tures billed
from January 1
to December 31,
1989; 80% of
expenditures
billed from
January 1 to
December 31,
1990; 70% of
expenditures
billed from
January 1 to
December 31,
1991; 50% of
expenditures
billed from
January 1 to
December 31,
1992; and 20%


﻿- 14 -
Amount of the
Credit Allocated            % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category              SDR Equivalent)      to be Financed
of expenditures
billed from
January 1, 1993
to June 30, 1994
(6) Technical                 1,530,000         100%
Assistance
(7) Refunding of                400,000         Amount due pur-
Project Prepara-                           suant to Section
tion Advance                               2.02 (c) of this
Agreement
(8) Unallocated                 790,000
TOTAL               7,900,000
2.   If the amount allocated to Category (7) above is in excess
of the amount due, the excess will be reallocated to Cate-
gory (8).
3.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country
other than that of the Borrower; and
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from
the territory of the Borrower.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made: (a) in respect of payments made for
expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement; and (b) under
Category 3 (c) of paragraph 1 above, unless the Association shall


﻿- 15 -
be satisfied that the letter referred to in Section 3.05 (c) of
this Agreement has been submitted and is satisfactory to the
Association.
5.   For the purposes of Category 3 (a) of paragraph 1 above, the
forestry and fruit tree inputs furnished by the Department of
Waters and Forests shall be financed on the basis of invoices
indicating the cost established in the annual agreements referred
to in Section 3.05 (b) of this Agreement.


﻿- 16 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to assist the Borrower
in the Muyinga Province in: (i) increasing the production and
quality of food crops, coffee and livestock; (ii) promoting
the development of agroforestry, soil conservation and forest
protection; (iii) improving marketing procedures in the agricul-
tural sector; and (iv) strengthening financial and institutional
management in such agricultural sector.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Association may
agree upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:   Strengthening of MOAL services for Agricultural
Extension, Development of Input Production and
Utilization, Research, Animal Health, Forestry
and Rural Engineering in the Muyinga Province.
1.   Carrying out, by the Muyinga Provincial Services with the
support of ISABU, of a program of on-farm testing of new tech-
niques related to improved crops and animal husbandry, soil
fertility management and crop rotation.
2.   Introduction of a training and visit system of agricultural
extension adapted to local conditions.
3.   Strengthening of forestry services in the Muyinga Province
through:
(i) establishment of about 2,500 hectares of soil
protection forestry plantations; and
(ii) promotion of on-farm tree-planting.
4.   Carrying out of a soil conservation program at farm level
consisting of:
(i) introduction of adapted species of ground cover,
fodder crops and trees;
(ii) research and adaptation of technical packages for
on-farm erosion control;


﻿- 17 -
(iii) supply of topographic equipment to MOAL rural
engineering staff to assiFt in the improvement of
erosion control; and
(iv) construction of about 220 culverts and 18 small
bridges to prevent water logging or excessive
drainage of peaty bottom lands.
5.   Increasing livestock production, inter alia, through im-
proved animal health services by:
(i) execution of repairs and construction of veteri-
nary infrastructure, including the rehabilitation
of two cattle dips and the construction of 34
cattle crushes;
(ii) supply of antiparasite drugs, mineral salts and
other veterinary products and equipment; and
(iii) progressive take over by the livestock farmers
associations   from   the  provincial   veterinary
services of the responsibility for dipping and
spraying operations, and the sale of livestock
inputs.
6.   Development of production and distribution of inputs.
7.   Construction and rehabilitation of houses, offices, meeting
rooms, training facilities and storage rooms for MOAL's Provin-
cial Services and PIU.
Part B:   Development of Cooperatives, Improved Marketing
of Agricultural Inputs and Produce and Promotion
of Savings and Rural Credit in the Muyinga Province.
1.   Assistance  to  the  cooperative movement   in  the Muyinga
Province in particular through the strengthening of the Muyinga
Cooperatives Union and the primary cooperatives by:
(i) construction of offices and storage facilities
and supply of equipment to facilitate marketing
activities;


﻿- 18 -
(ii) training in cooperative management and cooperative
education;
(iii) establishment in the Muyinga Province of a satel-
lite of the Credit and Savings Cooperatives'
Central Promotion Office; and
(iv) supply of vehicles.
2.   Strengthening of the Central Cooperatives Services of MRD
by:
(i) strengthening of the cooperative accounting system
and setting up of consolidated statements;
(ii) training of its staff in cooperative accounting,
auditing, management and utilization of computer
systems; and
(iii) supply of a vehicle.
3.   Promotion and assistance to ad hoc farmers associations
based on productive activities such as improved seed multipli-
cation, tree seedling production, food crop processing, agri-
cultural produce marketing and animal health services.
4.   Promotion and assistance to credit and savings cooperatives
to promote savings and agricultural credit among the farmers.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31,
1993.


﻿- 19 -
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I. Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:   International Competitive Bidding
Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods and works shall
be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures
consistent with those set forth in Sections I and II of the
"Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
Part B:   Preference for Domestic Contractors
In the procurement of works in accordance with the proce-
dures described in Part A hereof, the Borrower may grant a margin
of preference to domestic contractors in accordance with, and
subject to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the
Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Civil works under Parts A.4 (iv), A.7 and B.1 (i) of the
Project and furniture and equipment estimated to cost more than
the equivalent of $20,000 per contract may be procured under
contracts awarded on the basis of competitive bidding, advertised
locally, in accordance with the applicable procedures of the
Borrower and paragraph 3.3 of the Guidelines.
2.   Afforestation works under Part A.3 of the Project may be
carried out by force account in accordance with the procedures
referred to in paragraph 3.6 of the Guidelines.
3.   Furniture and equipment estimated to cost less than the
equivalent of $20,000 per contract, up to an aggregate amount
not to exceed the equivalent of $600,000, may be procured under
contracts awarded on the basis of comparison of price quotations
solicited from a list of at least three suppliers eligible under
the Guidelines, in accordance with procedures acceptable to the
Association.
4.   Items estimated to cost less than the equivalent of $1,000
per contract may be procured directly with the suppliers.


﻿- 20 -
Part D:   Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.   (a) With respect to each contract for civil works except
those under Parts A.3, A.4 (iv) and A.5 (i) of the Project and
with respect to each contract for agricultural inputs, equipment,
vehicles and furniture estimated to cost the equivalent of
$20,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and
4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments
for such contract are to be made out of the Special Account,
such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two con-
formed copies of the contract required to be furnished to the
Association pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished
to the Association prior to the making of the first payment out
of the Special Account in respect of such contract.
(b) With respect to each contract not governed by the pre-
ceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4
of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for
such contract are to be made out of the Special Account, such
procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed
copies of the contract, together with the other information
required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said
paragraph 3, shall be furnished to the Association as part of the
evidence to be furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to
this Agreement.
(c) The provisions of the preceding subparagraphs (a) and
(b) shall not apply to contracts on account of which the Associa-
tion has authorized withdrawals from the Credit Account on the
basis of statements of expenditure. Such contracts shall be
retained in accordance with Section 4.01 (c) (ii) of this Agree-
ment.
2.   The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of para-
graph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II. Employment of Consultants and Experts
In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out the Project,
the Borrower shall employ consultants and experts whose quali-
fications, experience and terms and conditions of employment
shall be satisfactory to the Association. Such consultants and
experts shall be selected in accordance with principles and
procedures satisfactory to the Association on the basis of the


﻿- 21 -
"Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers
and by the World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank
in August 1981.


﻿- 22 -
SCHEDULE 4
Implementation Program
1.    The Borrower shall carry out implementation of the Project
through MOAL and MRD and coordination, administration and pro-
curement of the Project through PIU.
2.    Progress Reports, proposed Annual Work Plans and Budgets
shall be prepared by each entity responsible for each component
of the Project, and shall be furnished to PIU which shall be
responsible for aggregation into a comprehensive document and
submission to MAE for approval. MAE shall submit such document to
the Association not later than August 31 of each Fiscal Year.
3.     Progress Reports shall specify the Project activities
carried out in the preceding Fiscal Year.
4.    Annual Work Plans and Budgets shall detail the objectives
and targets of the component for the year in question, the
specific activities to be carried out and the required human
and financial resources. Annual Work Plans shall include the
following:
(a) a brief evaluation of the previous year's performance
as compared to the objectives and a comparison of results
obtained;
(b) detailed objectives and targets for the following year
with a description of activities for each objective, expected
output and relevant time frame;
(c) detailed investment and operating budgets for each
component;
(d) staffing and training plans with a statement of speci-
fic objectives;
(e) a financing plan; and
(f) a procurement plan.
5.     Plans and Budgets related to the Muyinga's cooperatives
shall also be discussed with and approved by the Director of the
Department of Cooperatives.


﻿- 23 -
6.    The Borrower shall ensure that the final version of Annual
Work Plans and Budgets embodies the modifications proposed on the
basis of the review made by the Association.


﻿- 24 -
SCHEDULE 5
Special Account
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1) to
(6) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement;
(b) the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in accor-
dance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c) the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount
equivalent to $400,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account
and deposited in the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a)
of this Schedule.
2.   Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, payments
out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3,   After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to
it that the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of
the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish
the Special Account may be made as follows:
(a) On the basis of a request or requests by the Borrower
for a deposit or deposits which add up to the Authorized Allo-
cation, the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, with-
draw from the Credit Account and deposit in the Special Account
such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
(b) The Borrower shall furnish to the Association requests
for replenishment of the Special Account at such intervals or in
such minimum amounts as the Association shall specify. On the
basis of such requests, the Association shall withdraw from the
Credit Account and deposit into the Special Account such amounts
as shall be required to replenish the Special Account with
amounts not exceeding the amount of payments made out of the
Special Account for eligible expenditures. All such deposits


﻿- 25 -
shall be withdrawn by the Association from the Credit Account
under the respective eligible Categories, and in the respective
equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by the evidence
furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule.
4.   For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account the Borrower shall furnish to the Association, prior to
or with any request for replenishment or upon request of the
Association, such documents and other evidence as the Association
shall reasonably request, showing that such payment was made for
eligible expenditures.
5.   (a) Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, no aorther deposit into the Special Account shall be
made by the Association when either of the following situations
first arises:
(i) the Association shall have determined that all
further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower
directly from the Credit Account in accordance
with the provisions of Article V of the General
Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of
this Agreement; or
(ii) the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allo-
cated to the eligible Categories, minus the amount
of any outstanding special commitment entered into
by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the
General Conditions with respect to the Project,
shall be equal to the equivalent of twice the
amount of the Authorized Allocation.
(b)    Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of
the remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to
the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the
Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further
withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the
Association shall have been satisfied that all such amounts
remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of
such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible
expenditures.
6.    (a)   If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for any
expenditure or in any amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2


﻿- 26 -
of this Schedule, or (ii) was not justified by the evidence fur-
nished pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, deposit into
the Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request,
refund to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such
payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. No
further deposit by the Association into the Special Account shall
be made until the Borrower has made such deposit or refund.
(b)   If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be
required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, refund
to the Association such outstanding amount for crediting to the
Credit Account.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true copy
of the original in the archives of the International
Development Association.
FOR SECRETARY


