X,\,/    7/   TAI
Document of
The World Bank
Report No. 12959-1T
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
TURKEMSTAN
INSTITUTION BUILDING/TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
AUGUST 25, 1994
MICROGRAPHICS
Report No:        12959 TM
Type: SAR



TURKMENISTAN
INSTITUTION BUILDING/TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
Currency equivalents
Currency unit = manat
US$1- 10 manats
Exchange Rates
November 1993                          2 manats
August 1994                           10 manats"
Weights and Measures
Metric System
Govenmment Fiscal Year
1' In May 1994, a new comrnercial rate of 60 manats to the U.S. dollar was introduced, which was changed to 75 manats to
the U.S. dollar on August 15, 1994.
iii



January I - Decenber 31
TURKMEMSTAN
INSTITUTION BUILDING/TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
Abbreviations and Acronyms
BSD                 Bank Supervision Deparment in CBT
CC                  Cleing Center
CIS                 Commonwealth of Independent States
CIT                 Corporate Income Tax
CBT                 Central Bank of Turkmenistan
EBBRD               European Bank for Reconstruction and Development
EU                  European Union
FSU                 Former Soviet Union
IBRD                Intemational Bank for Reconstruction and Development
iBTA                Institution Buildng/Tecinical Assistance Project
ICB                 International Competitive Bidding
IFC                 Itenational Finance Corporation
IMF                 International Monetary Fund
JV                  Joint Venture
lVCU                Joint Venture Coordination Unit
LRU                 Legal Reform Unit
MIGA                Multilateral Ivestment Guantee Agency
MOI                 Ministry of Infrasucture
MOA                 Ministry of Agriculture
MOEF                Ministry of Economy and Finance
MOo                 Ministry of Oil and Gas
MOH-                Ministry of Health
MOSW                Ministry of Social Welfare
MOT                 Ministry of Transport
NBF                 Non-Bank Funding
OECD                Organizaion for Economic Cooperation and Development
PIU                 Project Implementation Unit
PL                  Petroleum Law
SOE                 State Owned Enterprises
VAT                 Value Added Tax
GOP                 Gross Domestic Product
BOP                 Balance of Payments
iv



TUR[MENISTAN
INSTITUTION BUULDING/TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
Table of Contents
Loan and Project Summary                             .                              vi
1.    Introduction                               1. 
IH. Recent Developments .p 
m. Lessons of Experience                               .                             2
IV. The Project. 3
A.  Project Rationale and O bjectiv es.   3
B. Project Description .4
C.  Project Costs and Finaning .15
D.    Institutional Arrangements for Project Coordination and Implementation  ... 17
B. Procrement.19
F. Disbursement .21
G.    Project Accouting, Fnucial Peporting, and Auditing .22
H. Environmental Aspects .22
I. Benefits and Risks.                                                       23
IV. Ageements and Recommendations .........             ................  23
Amexes
This report is based on the findings of the World Bank missions which visited Turkmenistan in
November 1993 and March 1994 for the preparation and appraisal. Mission members included:
Messrs./Mmes. Rashid (Task Manager); Matherova, Peloschek (Counsel); Honda, Mathov
(Financial Sector); Sengupta (Privatization); Denizer, Runner (Social Sectors); Ansari, Hamso
(Energy); and, Denizer, Tirmazi (Procument and Project Implementation).
Mr. Kadir T. Yfrflkoglu and Mr. Russell J. Cheetbam are the managing Division Chief and
Depatment Director, respectively, for the operation.
v



TURtMNITAN
INSTITTO.NAL BUILDINGfI'ECHNCAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
Table of Annexes
Anmex I      Privatietion and Private Sector Developmet  ............    ........... 24
Annmex I     Financial Sector .............................. 39
Anrex M    Isttutonal Support a Development...  78
AnnexlV Social SeCtDr .95
AmnexV       Energy Sector ........................................    102
Amnex VI  Loan Management and Pcurement .                                            110
Annex VI    Cost Estimates by Major Contact and Schedule of Critical Prouement Steps . 118
Amex Vm  Detailed Project Costs .121
Annex IX  Detailed Financing Costs .122
Annex X  IBRD Disbursemens .123
Annex X    Summary of Technical Assistan Pogram .124
Anmex XII   Implementation Plan                                                      128
Annex XIII Supervision Plan .129
vi



TURKMENISTAN
INSIITUTIONAL BUILDING/TECHNIGAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
TurBmwenisn
The Government of Turkmenistan
US$25 million equivalent
Tamns:             20 years, including 5 years of grace period, at the Bank's standard variable
interest rate.
9becdfives:        The objectives of the Loan are to: (i) provide assistance in the design and
development of the Government's reform policies and programs; and (ii) help
build the institutonal capacity and skldls base to carry out these reforms.
The proposed Loan would finance the following components:
A. Prvatzaon and Private Sector Development. Technical assistance under
this component would: (i) contne development of the Governmet's
privatzation program and assist in its implemention; and (ii) encourage
compein, and assist in restructuring and improving govemnance of major
public eneprises.
D. Fancal Sector Modenioadon. This component would: (i) modenize
the coutry's payments system; (ii) conmie developmnt of banking and
reated legislation; (iii) modernize bank accounting and auditing; (iv) develop
prna  regulations; and (v) develop a program for traig for commercial
and other banking staff on eentil financial skills.
C. Sodal Sector. This component would: (i) finance a living standards
measurement survey as a first step to developing social protection policies
targeted to the most vulneable groups of society; and (ii) develop new
policies for the design of a basic pension system to cover private sector
employees and to improve management of the existng pension aministration
system.
D. EnerV Sector This component would: (i) strengthen joint-venture
adminstraton and regulatory fimction in the Ministry of Oil and Gas; and
(ii) provide training for the oil and gas sub-sector in technical and manageril
vii



E. Instiional Sqpport and Development. This component would:
Ci) support the itroducion of broadly based legal and regulatory reforms;
(ii) develop the capacity for the economic and financial evaluation of public
invesuen projects; and (iii) finance the feasibility studies for priority projects
in infrstructre, inusy and agriculture.
In addition, this loan would finance the establishment of a Project
Implementation Unit (PIU) to support the Implementation of this Loan.
Benefits           *The Government currently has limited institutional capacity and the needed
human resources skills to design and implement reforms, and formulate sector
strategies in the energy sector. The proposed Loan would help aleviate the
constrain  arising from the lack of specific skills, as well as ensure the
development of the required domestic capacity. It would also strengthen the
isitutional framework for mobilizing and coordating techical assistance
for implemening reforms.
The main risks relate to: (i) changes in resolve and commitnent by the
Govermment to the reform effort; (ii) limited aministaive capacity and lac
of familiarity with Bank procement nd disbursement procedue, which
could lead to delays; and, (iii) the Government's inexperience with manai
technical assistance. The technical assistance components provided to critical
inistries and agencies are aimed at assistng in the preparation of their
respective reform programs, and reflect the Government's priorities. Close
supervision dur  impletation would assure that inefficiencies are
addressed as needed. Procemet and disburement risks would be reduced
through close attention to procurent and other implementation constraints
during project supervision.
QguofnanDg:         Cofinancing is not envisaged. Extensive discussions have been held with
other donors to ascertain their proposed and current technical assistance
program for Turkmenistan to avoid possible overlap with the technical
assistance proposed by the Bank.
viii



Project Costs:                  Loa         Foreign       Total    EForign as
9% of Totad
-(US$ million equivalent)
Privatization and
Private Sector Development    0.30         1.80         2.10        86
Fanciial Sector                   0.75        8.08         8.83        92
Institutional Support and Development  0.62   5.18         5.80        89
Social Safety Net                 0.11        0.85         0.96        89
Energy Sector (Oil & Gas)         0.46        3.32         3.78        88
Project Imple on                  0.15        0.80         0.95        84
Base Cost                         2.39        19.63       22.02        89
Price and Physical Contingencies  0.18        3.40         3.58        95
Total Cost                 2.57                                  90_43  9Q0
Foreign as
E&m cingPlan          Lol                  Foreign          tal    % of Toal
IBRD                              1.6        23.4         25.0         94
Govermment                                    -                         -1.
2.         24           26.0         f
Estimated IBRD Disbusements:    FY95        FY96         PY97       FY98
-(US$ million equivalent)-
Annual                             5            7            7          6
Cumulive                           5           12           19         25
Econmc Lte of Return: Not applicable.
PovernJ Category:     Not applicable.
ME:                    IBRD No. 25096R1
ix



TUPRKENISTAN
INSTITUTION BUILDING/TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.    Turkmenistan is well-endowed with energy resources, primarily natual gas and oil, an is
rich in other mineral resources. It is the fourth largest gas producer in the world. The economy,
however, is sfill predominantly agricultural, and agriculture provides nearly half of the production,
with industry providing only a fifth of the gross domestic product (GDP). Turkmeistau had a trade
surplus in both hard currency and interrepublican trade. Exports are dominated by gas, oil and
cotton. However, despite its national wealth, Turkmenistan is one of the least-developed republics
with the highest infant mortality and lowest life expectancy. The decline in real GDP was about 5
percent in 1992, and 9 percent in 1993 . Natural gas production also fell about 30 percent in 1992,
because of disruption of exports to Ukraine. The budget situation is likely to deteriorate in view of
the hih subsidies and transfers to loss making enterprises and lower revenues from taxes on gas
exports. The balance of payments (BOP) was in surplus in 1993, however, the outlook for 1994 is
unclear and the BOP may go into deficit on a cash basis in view of the external risks such as paywment
anrears for gas exports, investments to maintin production levels, and access to foreig markets.
The Goverment is initiating economic reforms to develop Turkmnistan's potenal and stregthen
the sustinability of the supply response in the economy. It has sought the Bank and IMP's support
as it realizes that the country is unlikely to otherwise mobilize the foreign investment needed.
I. RECET DEVELOPMENTS
2.    The Government of Turkmenisn is in the process of developing a reform program to move
to a market based economy. A number of important poLicy actions ara being tak. It has initiated
price liberalizaton and plans to further reduce the number of goods subject to price conrol and to
adjust substantially adinistered prices. The Govemment itoduced on November 1, 1993 its own
currency - the manat - with an initial peg to the U.S. dollar of 2 manat to 1 dollar. On March 16,
1994, the exchange rate was revised to 10 manats to 1 U.S. dollar and in May 1994, the Central
Bank inroduced a new commercal rate of 60 manats to the U.S. dollar, which was changed to 75
manats to the U.S. dollar on August 15, 1994. The issues of exchange rate mnagement and
maures to foster monetay and fiscal discipline to stabilize the economy are beng disussed wit the
IMP. The Government has also iniiated strucual reforms following the introduction of the new
cuency. It has adopted a privatizon program and has introduced the enabling legislation to assist
pri"atizadon. It also plans to improve corporate governance of public enerpise to be retained in the
public sector by tightning fiancial control and suporting enterprise restmrturing.
3.    Steps are also being taken for the reform of the financial system with the drafting of a new
banking legislation, the emergence of new commercial banks, and strengthening the role of the cenral
bank and the development of the pentia regulations for the supevision of the Banks. The reform
of the legal framework is also being initiated to support private sector development.



-2-
4. The mediumn term economic prospects for Turknenistan depend to a significant degree on
exports of oil and gas and the efficient performane of the agencies involved in their development and
manageme. The Government is keen that these areas be also supported through this operation.
5.    Turkmemstan has strong economic potential. It has plentiful energy and mineral resources,
and scope for increing the productivity of agriculturl land. However, to develop this potential,
carefid econic manageme  and comprehensive reforms are essential. Efficient investment of
financial resources obtained from the energy exports is central to its future development prospects.
The progress on structual and systenuc reforms would provide the enterprises and individuals with
appropriate institutiloal and market incentive structures to grow and invest, and strengthen the
sustainability of the suply response in the economy. Additionally, decisive implemention of the
reforms could further improve the prospects and pace of recovery, and reduce the vulnerability to
potenti external risks.
6.    Turkmenistan also faces major consaints m the development and implementation of the
reform program in these areas. While the Government agencies and state enterprises have well
trained staff, they are not fully familiar with the concepts and practices in a market economy. In
view of these limitations on domestic capacity, the Government has indicated its interest in borrowing
from the Bank to acquire essential expertise in the design of reforms. The Government regards
technical assistance as the key istument to remove short term constraints (i.e., lack of specific skills
ad expertise to manage the reforms and strngthen the local capabilities and institutions). Future
Bank support would be provided in the form of investment loans in selected sectors. The
Government's reform program and the Bank's activities in Turknenistan are discussed in the
acompaning Memorandum and Recmmendation of the President.
mL. LESSONS OF EXPERIENCE
7.    Wile the Bank does not yet have project experence in Turkmenistan, it has had sustia
exmerience with institution building operations in other countries, including counties of Cental Asia.
8.     With proper planning and attention to other experiences, this type of loan has the potental to
be fully successful. Reviews of past mutisectoral technical assistance loans with a focus on
institution building suggest that such projects are most successful if they are developed in the context
of the Government's own institutional development objectives, and with Government commitment and
involvement in the specification of the program and project administration. The success of the project
also depends on cal project preparation, including: (i) development of detailed terms of reference
for expert assistance and training; (ii) provision of training prior to the initiation of the program;
(iii) coordination with other donors/lenders; and, (iv) consideration of the absorptive capacity of the
Government. Finally, successful technical assistance projects require intensive supervision of the
operation by the Bank once implemetation has begun.
9.    The design of the proposed operaton reflects the concern for learing from past experience.
The proposed project has been developeC through cose colaboration with the Turkmenistan
authorities, at the level of the Deputy Chairman of the Cabinet of Ministers (Deputy Head of
Goverment), the Ministry of Economy and Finance, and concemed sectoral ministries and other
agenies which will be involved in the implementation of the program. To support the project, a



-3-
Project Implementation Unit (PMU) will be established with responsibilities for projet management, as
well as providing support to project implementation, particularly with regard to procuremen,
disbursement, and project accounting (see Amex Vll for additionwl information). In terms of project
pration, detailed tetms of reference for proposed expert assistance have alreay been drafted and
are anmexed to the draft Staff Appraisal Report. Furthermore, significant amounts of Bank resoutces
will be devoted to project supervision.
10.   This project is designed to improve the absorptive capacity of the Govermment, inter aia,
through skills transfer: a significant anount of the resources will be devoted to training, not only
through formal training programs and study tours, but also through on-thejob training provided by
resident specialist who will closely work with their counterparts.
11.   The proposed project is complex, covers several sectors, and will therefore involve a number
of implemendng agencies. Project arrangements have been carefully designed so that the PIU
opeate as a general coordinator and faciitator of project in'plementation, while the sectoral
ministries and agencies are responsible for executing the components concernng their respective
sectors.
IV. THE PROJECT
A. Project Raionale and Objectives
12.   The Bank's overall strategy is to assist the Govermment in its trasition toward a market-based
economy. A Country Economic Memorandum (CEM) dated May 31, 1994 has been issued. An
energy sector review has also been prepared which sets out the sector's performance prospects and
constaints, and its key conclusions were discussed with the Government in November 1993. The
review specfies that while the short tem outlook for the sector is bright, the medium and long term
potental is affected by a number of uncertaines conceming markets for natural gas, decline in
energy production and the Govemment's budget constrains for investments to maintain production
capacity. It identifies the weakness in capacity as a key factor to formulate appropriate strategies to
address these constraints.
13.   To help the Govemment attain its objectives, concrete assistnce of both a short and longer
term nature is required, particularly in the high priority areas identified by the Govemen that will
lead to overall reforms. The proposed loan would be the Bank's first to Turlstan. It is
consistent with the Bank's proposed lending activities to assist the country, and by supportng a
limited number of high priority areas it will help the Government ructu  the economy. It will
also ensure that the appropriate reform policies and the needed institutional franework for their
effective implementation are developed soon.
14.   The main objectives of the proposed loan, therefore, are to: (i) provide support to the
Govemment in the policy fonulafion process by helping to overcome the critical human resource gap
that is slowing the preparation of a reform program and to develop policy options for implementing
and managing reforms including strategies for removing energy sector constraints; and (ii) provide
support for instiution building and strengthen domestic capacity to ensure that Turkmenistan has the
capability to implement and sustain reforms over the medium term.



B. ProJet Descripon
13.   The proposed loan would finance technical assistance in key sectors of the economy where
such support s urgendy required. A summary of the technical assistance progm  is given in
Table 1.
1. Privatlzaton and Private Sector Development (US$2,100,000)
16.   Curently, little of Turkmenistan's economy is in private hands. Most private activity is in
the service, agricultural and tading sectors. The regulatory environent needs to be liberalized and
bariers to entry identified and removed to encourage investments by foreign or domestic investors.
Further, performance of public enterprises will remain poor without reforms (privatization,
restructuring and governance) in the enterprise sector.
a. Privatlon and Prvate Sedor Development (US$1,150,000)
17.   Privatization lies at the heart of economic transformation, a fact well recognized by the
Govermnent of Turkmenistan. The Goverment is committed to a reform program of privatizatdon,
enterpnse rstrring and private sector development. The Minsty of Economy and Finance
(MOEF) is responsible for preparng and implementng a prvatization program which is to be phased
over a period of time.



. o* 0
@  @  0  Ut  @  0  b ( @0  W         0 tJ  @  0
             *         *          *   
o                     ijI II j
ii                             Ce                 11
I4,0*@             -
2'              C*  ii1

*                                  *       i1i
III                                               ml          -
                     .            U
a         I:§I       i.*
a,
2                                         -  0
_           I
* 
111                 1. 2'
IW  -                          
*                             w
a    *                                      *       I;
iiI                      4'                    *11
o          *m
I                            i.il
III
I               .
1fjItii:i.          8                                   '
'                               I!
ii
I.      1E



19.   The Govermnent is still preparing its full privatizaion strategy. The institutional
responsibility and the instructions to implement such a program stiUl need to be developed. The
privatization component of the lntitution Building/Technical Assistance (IBTA) Loan will include:
(i) a review of the present privatizaton program and provide input to an overall privatization policy,
strategy and implementation plan to accelerate the privatization process and provide the appropriate
institutional arrangements; (ii) a review of the relationship between government agencies and
privatized entities and recommend ways in which the emerging pnvate sector might be mnurued;
(iii) assistance to the municipalities in implementing privatization of units under their responsibility;
(iv) assistance in the privatization of medium enterprises where required and demonstrative pilot
privatizations; (v) assistance in developing fair and effective valuation processes; (vi) partner search
assistance in supplementing the lack of domestic capital and attracting qualified shareholde- to small
medium and large enterprises. In addition there would be provisions for specific additional expertise
to support privatization needs in areas such as vouchers, specific sectors, pilot cases. This short
term assistance would also involve setting up study tours, information campaigns, enterprise
dabas, seminars etc. It would firther determine the constraints to private sector development,
identify barriers to competition and other constraints such as preferential access to credit, and local
and imported inputs, and proposing measures for eliminatng those constraints. The above program
would be coordinated with the privadzaton support provided by the European Union in the area of
privatization strategy and small/medi  enterprises to avoid overlap. Additional information on this
component is given in Annex I-A to I-C.
b. EnteIrise Reform and Tranlng (US$950,000)
20.   Wh;le it is important to start privatization of public enterprises, it is also important to improve
the performance and management of enterprises that will not be privadzed inidally and which might
be economically viable. During the transition to a market economy, factors such as disruption in
supply, loss of former markets, rapid changes in prices, delays in accounts receivable would place a
severe strain on the financial status and liquidity of enterprises, even those which are economically
viable. The transformation to a market economy would entail a substantial amount of enterprise
restucturing. Non-viable enterprises may need to be liquidated.
21.          Additionally, governance of public enterprises that will not be initialy privatized
would need to be strngthened through actions such as corporatization, development of a future
strategy of public enterprise governance, and design and implemenation of a financial performance
monitoring system. Seminar on performance contracts, and taining in the intpretation of financial
statements and audits would further reinforce the structure of the enteprises. The IBTA loan
component as agreed upon with the MOEF will provide assistance in formulating a corporatization
program for the enterprises awaiting privatization including provisions to ensure governance through
Boards of directors and performance through performance contracts. This sub-component wil include
seminr and training as well as assistance in instituting accountig systems which more accuraely
reflect enterprise financial condition and performance and better assure the safeguarding of assets.
The component will also provide assistance to a sample of 5 medium and large enterprises on
strategic, financial and operational issues to help them to survive and preserve value. It will also
identify the capital needs of these enterprises and likely sources of investment and investment
partners. This sub-component will also prepare and package the enterprises, to the etent possible, to
help attract the neceary investment and investment partners. Additional information on this
component is given in Annex I-D.



-7-
2. EYadal Sector Reform (US$8,830,000)
22.   The finmcial system in Turknenistan consists of a central bank (the CBT), two speciaid
state banks, and 20 commercial banks. There is also a state owned insurance company. Major
commercial bans are the tree stat-owned banks and a newly established commercial bank. The
ministries and the public enterpnses are major shareholders in most commercial ban. These bans
have, thereore, continued to support public enterprises.
23.   Financial system play an extremely important role in a market economy in terms of
mobilizng resources and allocatig credit for productive economic activity. To achieve the objeci
of the financial reform, changes are needed in policies and institutions that affect the i ion  of
financial flows. Changes are likewise needed in the incentive structre that businesses and individuals
encounter in their financial decision making process.
24. A sound policy framework is essential for the effective financial sector reform. The most
important policy initiatives are interest rate liberalization that yields positive interest rates and the
liberaliation of credit policies such as elimination of the directed credit and credit ceilings.
25.   Further, as policy reforms are designed and implemented, there is a concomitant need for the
reform of the banks. Those reforms need to focus on the issues of ownership, control, and
competiton. Widenmg the ownersp patterns of financial instutions is a first essential step towards
a more competitive system. A strong Goverment presence in the ownership of the bans (including
indirect ownship through state-owned enterprises) and control results in the Government using the
banking system for its financial and credit needs at the expense of the private sector. State ownersip
of banks is inconsistent with the State's ability to regulate effectively baning activities. The issues of
ownerip and control are, therefore, important underlying considerations because they shape the
institutions and activities that constitute the financial sector. Also, to encourage competition, one
approach is a staged increase in the number of banking institutions and the scope of activites based
on demonstated performance. This may be the most appropriate approach to nurte competitive
forces. An influx of small and undercapitalized institutions could result in a weak financial sector in
Turkmenistan.
26. To encourage competition requires that, in addition to interest rate deregulation and removal
of credit ceilings, impediments to competition such as differental tax and reguatory treatment of
different types of institutions be also avoided. Pmting competition would fwer require that
information on the financial performance of banks be available to potential clients.
27.   The experience of other countries suggests that the inWal phase of reforms should focus on
establishWng the basic financial infatructure, such as: (i) strengthene capacity to supervse banks
and, in particular, to deal with problem banks; (ii) accoun  for financial institutions; (iii) payment
and clearing systems; and, (iv) laws and regulations concening financial activities, and developing a
medium term sector stae  to restrucure the banking sector in line with the needs of a market
economy. The componen  proposed to be included in the loan, in consultation with the IMP, are
described below.



-8-
a. Bank Supervison and Prudenial Regulations (US$420,000)
28. The officials in the CBT are aware of the necessity to strengthen the function of the bank
supervision and the prudential regulations to build a sound and efficient banking system. However,
since the concept of nurket-oriented banking did not exist earlier, the fumction of prudental
supervision of the banking system, which had to be established from scratch, is in its formative
stages.
29.   The Department responsible for the Bank Supervision (BSD) was set up in the CBT in August
5, 1993. The BSD analyzes quarterly the financial condition and the compliance with the prudential
regulations of each bank based on the reports submitted monthly. It inspects each commercial bank
on-site at least once a year. However, the BSD, which covers 22 batks with more than 700 branches
(all the Sberbank agencies included), suffers from under-staffing (currently only 7 employees) and
lack of experience and appropriate training. To strengthen the function, the supervision staff would
be increasedto 14 professionals by February 28, 1995.
30.   Prudential regulations need also to be strengthened. The CBT currfeny requires conmmrcial
banlks to conform to several prudential rules that cover the main dimensions of risds such as the
minimum amount of the authorized capital, the minimum capital ratio, the minimm liquit
requirement, and the limitations on large exposures. However, these prudential rules need
improvement compared with norms established in developed market economies. This componme
would provide techical assistance to strengthen bank supervision and prudential regulations. Further
details are given in Annex U-A and lI-B.
b. Bank Accounting and Auditing Reform (US$260,000)
31.   The current accounting system does not provide a transparent financial assessment of bans
and their standing as autonomous financial intermediaries. In pardcular, their solvency, liquidity,
profitability, and the need to provision for doubtful and bad loans, are inadequly assessed. These
drawbacks need to be remedied to assure a sound banldng structure. An appropriate accoundng
system is also indispensable for the pntial regulations to work efectively. In addition, there is no
auditing agency for either the enterprises or banks. The Government and the CBT are aware of these
weaknesses and of the need to raise accounting and auditing standards.
32.   The CBT is prepaing a new accounting system for the ban  based on the new chart of
accounts that has been designed for CIS countries in order to bring it in line witi internatioal
practices regarding basic accounting principles and presentation. Under tiis component, the Bank
would finance an internationally experienced consultant to assist the CBT in the preparation and
implementation of the new bank accounting and auditing system and training. The terms of reference
and additional information are given in Annex H-C.
c. Training of Commercial Bank Personnel (US$1,350,000)
33. The core employees of commercial banks are skilled in the banking operations in a closed and
directed environment. Having had no exposure to international competitve banking, banking sector
employees lack knowledge and skills in modern banking practices and products. Therefore, the



-9-
intensive training program for key professional groups of commercial banks would contribute
considerably to the institutional development of the banks to adopt international standards of
operations. The priority areas for the training would include: (i) evaluation of lending proposals;
(ii) bank management in a compyetitive environment; (iii) risk analysis and management;
(iv) accounting in compliance with international standards; (v) intenational trade finance and foreign
exchange; (vi) money and capital market practices and inestment management; and (vii) assisting in
the establishment of a banking school for the traming of commercial bank staff.
34.   The Bank would support this training program which will be coordinated with the CBT. An
internationally experienced training consultant would be designated to help plan the training programs
and to co-ordinate and help implement them. The training consultant is to develop and arrange local
delivery of several series of comprehensive training seminars in the above areas and prepare the
groundwork for future programs. Additional information on this component is given in Annex II-D.
d. Payments System (US$6,800,000)
35.   An effective Payment System allows for the safe, efficient and timely execution of payment
ransactions between the government, private enterprises, consumers, etc., and is vital to foster a
market economy. The Govermnent of Turkmenistan is fully aware of this fact and has already
defined a strategy to improve the national Payment System.
36.   The Payment System is the responsibility of the CBT. In addition to the CBT and the
Sberbank, the banking system includes about 21 commercial banks which have a total of 142 branches
(expected to increase to 200) throughout the country. The CBT has established five Clearing Centers
(CCs) -the main one located in Ashgabat which handle an average of 1,500 inter-bank total
transacuons per day. Intra-bank transactions are the responsibility of each bank and are not processed
by the CBT.
37. The delay in completiDng each payment transaction runs from a one-day minimum up to a
five-day maximum. However, if a bank fails to fulfill its reserve requiements its payments are
suspended until its reserve position improves, thus leading to longer delays. An air couner service
already provides same-day communications between the CCs and Ashgabat. To speed up the
Payment System, transmission time of payment transactions between banks' branches and the CCs
would need to diminish.
38.   In order to improve the Payment System the CBT is planning to introduce the following
changes:
(a) Instead of sending the paper payment instruments from the originatmg bank to the
destnation bank as is currently the practice, all payment transactions should be transmitted
electronically (i.e., paperless). Bankdng regulations will be modified to allow for electronic
payments.
(b) A global banking comnicas network will intercomect bank branches with the CCs,
thus allowing for the electronic transmission of payment transactions instad of the current
paper-based method.



-10-
(c) A new computer-based system, already ordered by the CBT from a software house in
Belarus, will keep track of the inter-bank clearing and settlement positions.
39.   A telecmmnications feasibility study would be the first activity to be carried out under this
component of the loan, and the implementation of the global network will then follow. The CBT will
pay with its own funds for the software package it has already ordered and other local costs, but the
loan would finance the hardware required to run it and the overall implementation project. The CBT
would continue to be responsible for the operation of the Payment System and the computer and
telecom equipment to be financed under the loan will be purchased and owned by the CBT. The
telecom equipment needed by commercial banks for interconnection to the network would be rented to
them by the CBT, on a basis allowing for full cost recovery. Should commercial banks also need
computer equipment, the CBT would lease such equipment to them. The CBT would recover the
network's operating costs by charging a fee to commnercial banks per each transaction transmitted
through the network. Additional information on this component as well as the terns of reference for
related consulting services are given in Annex II-E.
3. Institutional Support and Development (US$5,800,000)
a. Public Investment Project Analysis (US$2,440,000)
40.   The Government currendy allocates resources for the development and implementation of
projects in different sectors of the economy such as transport, power, oil and gas, and industry.
Resource allocation decisions by the Government would benefit from an economic and financial
evaluation of projects to identify high priority and high return investments for inclusion in the
development program, which are consistent with the national and sectoral priorities and take into
account issues of risk and cost of capital. These investments also need to be reviewed and approved
by the Cabinet of Ministers. Therefore, the capacity to carry out an analysis of projects, needs to be
developed at the levels of Ministry of Economy and Finance, as well as the sector ministries. To
achieve this objective it would be necessary to select appropriately qualified personnel and impart
training to them in the fields of fmancial and economic analysis, and sector strategies.
41.   This component would support the Government's development activities through the
establishment of a capacity for evaluating and selecting high return investments, and the preparation
of a public investment program. This component would also include provision of equipment.
Although a few computers exist in the MOEF, the transition of Turkmenistan to a market economy
has created the need for a much more sophisticated set-up. Initial urgent applications include:
(a) budget preparation and control; (b) analysis and evaluation of investment projects; and
(c) infonnation for tax collection purposes. What the MOEF envisages is establishing microcomputer
LANS at the district (rayon) level, in 64 different locations; consolidating the district information at
the regional (oblast) level in 6 cities (where larger microcomputer configurations would be needed),
with a final consolidation at the MOEF in Ashgabat, probably using a microcomputer Extensive data
transmission would be done between the districts and the regions and between the regions and
Ashgabat. The TORs and additional information are given Annex m-Al.



-11-
b. Lgal Reform Component for Private Sector Development (US$960,000)
42.   The transition process to a market based economy requires substantial changes in the legal and
istitutonal fmework governing economic activities in Turkmenistan. The Government has
recognized this and has recently enacted a large number of laws designed to support the transition
process and subsequent growth of economic activity. Major gaps and inconsistencies in the legal
framework, however, still remain.
43.   To encourage a sound environment for conunercial activities and the development of a private
sector, it is crucial that the legal framework provides clear, transparent, predictable, and enforceable
rles concening: (i) property rights; (ii) contractual rights and obligations; (iii) commercial laws,
including company, banking, and securities laws; (iv) market entry and exit; (v) prohibition of
monopolistic practices and unfair competition; (vi) environmental liability; and, (vii) settlement of
commercial disputes.
44.   While Turkmnenistan has been very active in the generation of new conmmercial legislation,
among others, the crucial areas that still remain to be covered are: (i) adequate regulation of limited
Liability companies; (ii) antimonopoly legislation; (iii) laws on securities and capital markets; and,
(iv) alternative dispute resolution, including arbitration. While these gaps are significant, the more
pressing problem of the legal reform lies in Turlanenistan's lack of implementation and institutional
capacities that would make the new legislative enactments mnngful and operative.
45.   At present, the Ministry of Economy and Finance is responsible for the formulation and
draftng of most of the legislative proposals in the economic area, including proposals regarding
privatization and private sector development. The Ministiy does not employ any lawyers for the
drafting of economic legislation. Following clearance by the Cabinet of Miistes, drafts are
submitted for consideration to the Committee of Economic Reform of the Mejlis (parliament). The
Committee then presents the draft to a full session of the Mejlis. It appears that the legislative
process is unduly burdensome and lacks both proper coordination among the various governmental
bodies and active participation of legal experts.
46.   In order to provide consistency and flexibility in the new legislative framework in
Turlmenistan and in order to maintain the legal reform momentum, the Government should establish
a Legal Reform Unit ("the LRU") to be attached to the Cabinet of Ministers. The LRU should
closely collaborate with the Government's key economic reformers and report directly to the Deputy
Chairmm of the Cabinet of Ministers responsible for economic reform.
47.   The mandate of the LRU would be the economic legal reform, including: (i) provision of
stategic legal advice to the Govermment on legal reform including prioriiaon of reform measures;
(ii) organization of a comprehensive review of the currently valid economic laws and regulations in
order to identify all legal provisions inconsistent with the economic reform program; (iii) drafting or,
at minimm, review of new economic laws and regulations; (iv) design of implementation and
enforcement mechanisms for new economic legislation; (v) advice and assistance to the Govermment
in developing and increasing the capacity of agencies necessary to effectively implement the reform
progm; (vi) assist in establishing a coordination mechanism of the law reform process among sector
ministies, the Cabinet of Ministers and the relkant commitees of the Mejlis; and (vii) coordination
of legal technical assistance from external donors in order to use donors resources more efficiently.



-12-
48.   The LRU would be assisted by a Legal Advisor recruited internationally who would provide
advice and assistance to the Governmuent and the LRU, including the areas outlined in the preceding
paragraph. As needed, the Legal Advisor would hire short-term consultants for specific tasks as
identified by the LRU and agreed upon by the Government. Such assistance may include a limited
amount of transactional support. The LRU will also include qualified local lawyers to assist in
carrying out the LRU's mandate. The establishment of the LRU would be a condition of
disbursement for the legal subcomponent.
49.   Finally, a series of training programs would be implemented under the direction of the LRU.
These training programs, including seminars, lectures, and workshops, would focus on problems that
legal professiortals will encounter in the transition to a market economy. They would be addressed to
an audience of judges, law professors and other lawyers within and outside the Govermnent, and
deputies of the Mejlis involved in the legal aspects of the economic reform program. A part of the
fnds will be dedicated for internships and conferences abroad for selected legal professionals.
50.   In order to more efficiently implement the work set out above a limited amount of equipment
and supplies would be provided, including: (i) computers and computer software for a legal database
for the LRU; and (ii) law library for legal professionals at large. This library would include legal
text books on commercial, comparative and international law subjects; collections of international
treaies; and sample contracts, charters and by-laws. Additional information on this component are
given in Annex M-B.
c. Sector Strategies and Feasibility Studies (US$2,400,000)
51.   The Govemment of Turmaenistan is planning to initiate feasibility studies of investment
projects in those sectors that may attract financing from investors abroad and cofinancing from
donors. Whfle the details of specific projects have not yet been determined, the Government has
informed the Bank that such studies will be undertaken in the areas of energy, infrtucture and
agriculture. This component would therefore, assist the relevant govermnent agencies to carry out
comprehensive feasibility studies covering policy, technical, economic, financial and environmental
aspects with the help of experienced intational consultants. The GOT and the Bank will jointly
identify specific projects in line with broad economic and sectoral priorities. Additional information
is given in Annex HI-C.
4. Social Safety Protection (US$960,000)
52. The Government of Turkmenistan has embarked on a program of privatization and public
enterprise restructuring. The growth of a private sector may initially lead to a widening distribution of
income, and to the likelihood that some groups will not be able to transition to the market economy
with the same ease as others. Whereas income growth is a positive development in the long run, the
immediate concern would be the growing number of poor and of vulnerable groups in the country,
and the need to protect them from faUing further into poverty. An essential part of this strategy is to
identify the poor and to implement policies to protect this portion of the population by establishing a
comprehensive and realistic poverty line, as well as designing a monitoring system, including a
reliable family budget survey.



-13^
a. Living Standad Measurment (US$390,000)
53.   The following activities are proposed for financing and agreement has been reached with the
State Committee for Statistics (Goskomstat): (i) provision of technical and financial assistance for
the design and implementation of a Monitoring Survey which would study the social and economic
needs of the population, and measure the social impact of the economic crisis during the transition
period; (ii) analysis of the nature of mechanisms used by some of the vulnerable groups (particularly
pensioners, unemployed, some emerging rural private sector persons) to cope with poverty and other
social and economic strains. The study would collect quantitative and qualitative data on these groups
such as their source of income and expenditures; the level of community solidarity, and in particular,
the existence of income transfers from households; (lii) assistance in setting up a Poverty Monitoring
capability, within the Ministries of Economy and Finance and Social Services; (iv) development of a
definition of a mininum consumption basket for those completely dependent on the State for their
incomes. The establishment of a poverty line will include looking at the consumption and production
patterns; (v) assistance in constructing a Consumer Price Index based on a basket of essential food
and non-food items consumed by the poor, and use this index to deflate wage incomes of the poor.
The total cost of this component and terms of reference for the consultants are given in Annex IV-A.
b. Pension Admiistrton (US$570,000)
54.   The Ministry of Social Welfare has indicated a need to reform the management of the existing
pension admintation system for handling pensic.s payments to the 430,000 pensioners in the
country. Mation is eroding the value of income and pensions and reducing the living standard of the
population. Enteprises in many sectors have difficulties paying their pension find contribution.
Efforts need to be made, therefore, to streamline the pension and improve targeting. The Ministry has
also proposed the design of a voluntary pension fimd to encourage private sector employees to
contibute to their future pension. This could transfer the burden from the State to the individual over
the medium and longer terms. The Ministry, however, lacks international expertise of pension
schemes, policies and amini aion, and is not currently equipped to analyze carefully the various
alternatives of these pension schemes before introduction. The Ministry, therefore, needs assistance to
consider the options for a future pension system, train staff, and strengthen institutional capacity for
better pension administion.
55.   Technical assistance would be provided in two main areas. The first area concerns policy
issues which will include the review and design of the pension system to cover private sector
employees and to reduce the financial burden on the state and a review of the existing pension fund.
This would cover issues such as contribution responsibilites of the employers and employees,
minimum pension, effect of income on pension, etc. The second area of assistance will focus on the
strengtheni1 of the pension administration to improve the organization and speed of pension delivery
through Initial computerization of dte pension system which manages pension accoumnts for the about
430,000 people throughout Turkmenistan. For this purpose, and as a first step for the development of
a country wide system, this component will finance a feasibility study and equipment for a pilot
scheme In Ashgabat area. In adtion, for the production of printed regulations, rules, workers'
instructions, training materials, etc., the MOW requires desktop publishing capabilities and copier
machines which will also be provided under this component. The total cost of this component is
esdmated to be US$ 570,000 and terms of reference for the consultants are given in Annex IV-B and
IV-C.



-14-
S. Enegg Sector (Off & Gas) (US$3,780,000)
a.   su onal treg i  of Joint Venture Coordination Unit (US$1,880,000)
56.   In addition to three domestic enterpries involved in oil and gas operation, curreny four joint
venture companies are operating in Turlanenistan. The MOO needs to closely monitor, and regue
the operations of the oil and gas industry in the country and ensure the interest of the state. This
reqires all petroleum operations, both foreign and domestic, to be conducted according to the
specific agreements and commonly accepted iustry practices. Provisions of the existing JV
agreements require the MOO to discharge certain obligations immediately. Failure to repond to a
mmiber of these obligations will cause losses of revenue. For instance, it is necessary to give the
Government's formal zgreement for major decisions involving annual work program, budget and
implementation of policies. Recognizing this need, the ministry hasi established a Joint Venture
Coordination Unit (NVCU) to monitor and regulate the performance df the newly established IV
companies. However, the unit is understaffed and lacks qualified experts.
57.   The JVCU Unit therefore needs to be supported by a team of expistrate Advisors until
qualified Turkmen counterparts are trained. The expatriate staff will estahb. a system to fulfill the
obligations of the Government according to the provisions of the respective agVeements, coordinate
and assist in implementation of all decisions and policies that have been ornmufated by the
Government. The JVCU will also be responsible for relations with fordip oil companies and for
monitoring the compliance of companies holding rghts in Turkmentatan with their contractual
obligations. The terms of reference for this component are given m Annex V-A. The MOO bas also
areed to the following:
(a) Appoinang ahigh level official as head of unit able to interact with countrparts on the
Board of JVs and other government agencies;
(b) Strengthening the unit with expatriate staff specialized in accounting, legal, financial and
technical aspects of the petroleum industry; and
(c) Implementing a comprehensive training program for the local staff of the unit.
b. Trahnng (US$1,900,000)
58.   Turkmenistan's oil and gas industry needs a coherent training program that would provide
broad training for both the managers and the technical staff. The program should increase the
understand   of the oil and gas industry's managerial methods, finumcial and economic analysis of
projects, riassessment, and scientific techniques through an in-depth exposure to modern
tecbnology applied in the oil and gas industry. It should focus on developing a well-defined and
organzed long-term training program to satisfy the fture needs of Turkmenistan. The objectives
would be to: (i) assure implementation of the most effective exploration, production and transport
programs, and (ii) facilitate prudent decisions regarding whether to enlist investments frm
international oil companies for high-risk and capital-itensive projects or to seek oter financing
arrangements. Because courses and training programs offered by a number of organiations vary
greatly in quality and content, it was agreed that consuants assist with formul   and coordinating



.45-
an overall training effort designed to meet the objectives stated above. The two categor.es of training
reommended are:
(a) Eecutive Managers. One subcomponent would focus on officials responsible for
deciding whete to undertake exploration and development projects for oil and gas and
the financing alternatives and terms, e.g., intermal sources or foreign participation. The
program would cover the finanm   concepts and anaytical techniques used interationally.
It would provide in-depth exposure to the financial, and economic aspects of global oil
and gas tranactions. The program would include oil and gas management issues, finance
and planning. The trainees would leam about other companies' corporate plans and
analysis of issues related to organizational and management changes.
(b) Tbchnical Personmel. The support data needed by executive managers for decision
analysis should be provided by skilled specialists who are knowledgeable about the most
modern geological, geophysical and engineering techniques. This can be facilitated by
interaction with internationally recognized expets having broad experience. Visits to
research and support facilites of international petroleum and service companies would
provide insight regarding the technology currently applied for the development of the oil
and gas industry. Additonally, technical courses on related topics would be arranged.
To ensure that the training will be useful and effective, two indicative oil and gas fields
wil be selected for case studies, to be audited joindy by the trainees and the consultan,
the results of which would be used as part of the MOG decision-making process. For
intrducing "basin modeling" as the tool for assessment of hydrocarbon potential, one of
the country's petroleum provinces, such as Morghab and/or the South Caspian, will be
reviewed by the Turkmenistan trainees and the consultant staff as a case study.
Additional details are given in Anmex V-B.
C. Project Costs and F_acng
The total project cost is estimated at US$26.0 million equivalent. A summary of the Project
COs, which would be agreed at Negotiations, is given in Table 2; and detailed in Annex VIII.



-16.
Table 2
esthnated Project Costs
(thousands of U.S. doDars)
Cost Componenls                             Local      Foreign     Total     Forei    Component
Costs      Cosws
asa %of   asa % of
Total Costs  Total Costs
1. Pr}vatzatlon and Private Sector Development    300  1,8Q0      2,100         85.7      8.08
2. FInncia Sector                            750       8.080      8.830         91.5      34.0
3.  1atitutnal Support and Development       620       5,180      5,800         89.3      22.3
4. Socl Safety Net                            110        850        960         88.5       3.7
S. Energy Sector (0i & Gas)                  460       3,320      3,780         87.8      14.5
6. Prect Implentn                             150        800        950         84.2       3.7
7. Prke and Physkal Contingencies             180      3,400      3,580         13.08     13.8
TOTAL PROWECr FINANCING                     2,570     23,430     26,000         90.1   100.00
59.    A summary of the Project Financing Plan, which will also be agreed at Negotiatons, is given
in Table 3 and detailed in Amex IX. The foreign exchge cost  qirements are estimated at
US$23.4 million, and local curency requirements are estimated at US$2.6 million equivalent. The
Bank would finance 100 percen of the foreign exchange costs, and 61 percent of the local currency
costs. The latter would be used for the financing of local consultants and other local costs.



-17-
Tabb 3
(thousands of U.S. doRs)
Finig Componen                               -  Local -  oreign     Total     Total  IBRD
GOT  IIRD   IBRD    GOT  IBRD  Project Finaneing
Cost  as % of
Proect
Cost
1. Privatizatlon alnd Prae Sector Development    100    200  1,800    100  2,000  2,100   95.2
3. Fnacal Sector                           280    470  8,080    280  8,550  8,830   96.8
3. Instonbal Support and Developmt         280    340  5,180    280  5,520  5,800   93.5
4. Socil Safety Net                         30     80    850    30    930    960   96.9
S. Energ&Sector (Oil & Gas)                180    280  3,320    180  3,600  3,780   93.5
6. Prtject sIplementdatn                    S0    100    800      S0    900    930   94.7
7. Price and Physial Cotciendes             80    100  3,400      80  3,500  3,580   97.8
TOTAL PROIECT FINANCING                   1,000  1,570 23,430  1,000 25,000 26,000   96.2
&l PPF refinancing is incluWd in the in    components. It covers the privatiation and eteprise reform, paymets
sstem, eny sector and project impleme _
D. Institutional AIgents for Project CoordinatWon and Impl taion1
60.   Preparation of this operation has recognized the question of the Government's capacity to
absorb the proposed assisne. The administrative burden placed on Govemment staff has been
mindiil to the exent possible by packag    the operation into as few conts as possible. The
Secretariat of the Cabinet of Ministers would serve as the Lead Authority for the management of the
pr          Loan and the coordination of its mplementation. This Lead Authority would represent the
Borrower and would be the focal point for relations between the Govemnment and the Bank. A
Project mplementation Unit (PIU), under the authority of the Cabimet of Miisters and repordng to
the Deputy Chairman of the Cabinet of Ministers, has been established with responsibility for the
overall implementation of the Technical Assistance Loan and the related eportdng and accounting
activities. This unit would be assisted by a specialized fim of consutants with capability in
management of projects, financial control and international procrement. Given the wide scope and
importance of its assigned functions, the PIU would also have the authority and stature to deal
directly and effectively with the World Bank, Government Ministries and offlces, as well as the
Central and commercial bans and other project beneficiaries. The PIU has a full time Manager and
would have overall responsibility for the project. It would be assisted by a Financial Manager with
responsibility for project finance and accountg, and a Procurement Manager who would advise and
assist on all procrement procedures and monitor their implementaton. The determination of the
tems of reference, identification of the Short Lists of consutants, the technical evaluation of bids for
consutant selection, and the technical oversight of studies and training etc. would remain the



-18-
responsibility of the sector ministries. Sector ministries will also appoint appropriate counteparts for
handling implementation of technical assistance components for their ministries. These acdvities
would need to be coordinated with the PIU, which would be assisted by conswltants with experience
in international procurenent in accordance with Bank's guidelines. Furtier details are given in
Annex VI,
61.   Project Implementation: The responsibilities of the PIU include monitoring the progress
under the proposed loan, overall Project Implementton, and co-ordination among varous
participating ministries, banks, other project beneficiaries and procrement agencies to ensure a
consistent approach in the implementation of the project. The PIU would also be responsible for the
monitoring and control of the proposed use of Bank fimds, the administration of a proposed special
account, overall accounting and auditing of project accounts, and preparation of consolidated progress
reports and Project Completion Report. Additional details and terms of reference are given in
Annex VI.
62. The coordination of technical assistance among: (i) technical staff in the line ministries;
(ii) banks; (iii) consultants providing the technical assistce; and, (iv) the policymaers would
require management and orgation skills not readily available in Turkmenistan. Therefore, a fim
of consultants would be recuited internationally for a period of about two years and attached to the
PIU to assist the Govermment in managing and coordinating the technical assistance progm  These
consultants, designated as Progm  Coordinators, would focus on the procurement, administraon and
rganization of technical assistance as well as related financial maters, and ensure that the scheduling
of technical assistance allows timely availability of results that can be used in the developmen and
implementation of the reform program. The appointment of this firm is a condition of effeciveness.
63.   The consultants will work with counterpar agencies, co-ordinate with other tecnical
assistance consultants, monitor the progress of the technical assistance programs, and ene the
communcation of results to the Cabinet of Ministers and the Bank. They would work in close
cooperation with the PIU and provide on-the-job training to its staff.
64.   As this is a first loan to Turkmenistan, the Bank would provide assistnce to the Government
to enable eady project start off and effective implementation. After loan approval the Bank wil send
a team, including a task manager and procrement, disbursement and some of the component
specialists, who wiUl hold a project launch workshop to ensure that all counteparts fully undstand
proper procedures for implementati. This will include Bank approval of the terms of reference of
studies and programs financed under the project, the criteria for selection of trainees, and the short
list of consultants. The Bank would subsequenly conduct a midterm review of all components, as
well as other interim reviews as needed. The Borrower and the Bank would jointly review the
findings of the studies and the results of traing programs. Since it is not possible to identify all
essential assistance requiements of the country at this point, and it is likely that new needs would
arise during the implemention period of this operation and to provide flexibility, less than 10
percent of the loan remains unallocated and will be used as the need arises.
65.   Loan prepartion costs, including startup costs for the PIU, being financed under the Project
Preparation Facility (PPF), are aimed at, inter alia, contibuting to the establishment of the PIU,
initiating advice on privadzation and the financial sector reform, developing the payments system,
regulatory framework, and studies for oil and gas sectors. The PIU subcomponent would be
implemented at an early date and the terms of reference for the consutants bave been prepared.



-19-
66.   Loan Admiinistraton and Procurement: A large part of the list of goods and services under
the proposed loan would deal with prouement of consulting assigments, and a limited amount of
goods and services, including hardware and software would, primarily, be for the payment systems of
the bans. The counterpart ministries, banks and other beneficiaries would be responsible for the
development of the terms of reference, short lists, bidding process and negotiating, signing and
executing contracts. However, the PIU would assist in and oversee the work of the counterpart
agencies in these areas, endorse the contracts, and approve disbursements.
67.   Under the project, the PIU would be assisted by an experienced procurement specialist for a
period of about 2 years. The specialist would assist the Goverment with public sector procurement
under the proposed loan, advise on the preparation of public procurement regulations consistent with
international procument pracdces, and train local staff to become proficient in public procurement.
E. Procurement
68.   The procurement under the Technical Assistance Loan would be in accordance with Bank
Guidelines for Procement. Under this loan, procurement would cover consultants, and goods and
services, including hardware and software, largely for the payments system. The project elements,
estimated costs, and the procurement arrangements are given in Table 4; and details of the
procuement packages are presented in Annex VII.
69.   All equipment and materials to be financed from the Bank loan would be procured in
acordance with the Bank Guidelines for Prouement and will consist of computer systems and
peripherals, software systems, telecommunications, office equipment, and supplies. Contracts
estimated to cost above US$300,000 equivalent will be awarded through International Competitive
Bidding (ICB), using the World Bank's standard bidding documents modified to suit the requiements
of this package. Three major conrcts of an aggregate value of US$8.2 million will be awarded
trough ICB. Contmacts esfimated to cost less than US$300,000 equivalent will be prowred through
Intenational Shopping, based on at least thre quotations from three different countries, with total
shopping not to exceed the ceiling of about US$3.2 million. Contracts estimated to cost less than
US$50,000 up to an aggregate of US$500,000 may be procured through local shopping based on
comison of price quotations fhom at least three eligible local suppliers.



-20-
Summary of Proposed Procurement Arrangements
(US$ 000)
Procurement Method
Project Element               ICB          Other         NBFJ          Total
Goods                                      8.2          37            -            11.9
Computers and related                 (8.2)         (3.7)          -           (11.9)
equipment
Consultancies and Other Technical
Assistance                                -            10.2-'         -             10.2
Expert Assistance                      -           (10.2)          -           (10.2)
Training                               -             2.9!y         -             2.9
(2.9)                       (2.9)
Transport, Software and Other             -             -              1.0           1.0
Support
Total                                      8.2         16.8            1.0         26.0
(8.2)       (16.8)                      (25.0)
Note: Numbers in parentheses are amounts to be financed by IBRD.
a/ Non-Bank Funded (Government contribution).
b/ International and Local Shopping.
cl Consultant Services, according to the World Bank Consultant Guidelines (1981).
d/ Training figures include costs of training subcomponents.
70.    The selection of firms and individuals for consultant assignments shall be in accordance with
the Bank's Guidelines for Use of Consultants (August 1981), consulting assignments based on
shortlisted firms shall be selected for a total amount of US$12.3 million; whereas individual
consultants (aggregate value of US$0.8 million) shall be appointed for short-term assignments. Terms
of reference of all consultant assigments would be subject to the Bank's prior review.
71.   Bank Review: Because of the centralization of procurement in the former Soviet Union,
knowledge of project implernentation agencies in international commercial practices and the Bank's
procurement procedures is limited. Therefore, all procurement activities under the project will be
coordinated by the PIU, which will be assisted by procurement consultants. Although standard
bidding documents will be used under the project, in order to ensure compliance with the Bank's
Guidelines for Procurement, all contracts awarded through ICB, as well as the first two contracts
under nternational Shopping will be subject to prior Bank review. The consulting assignments shall
be coordinated by the PIU, which will be assisted by procurement consultants. Documentation and
contracts for consultant assignments with consultant firms valued at or above US$100,000 and with



-21-
consulting individuals valued at or above US$50,000 would be subject to the Bank's prior review and
approval including, however, all contracts for single-source selection of consulting firms and
assignments of a critical nature as determined by the Bank. All other contracts will be subject to
selective subsequent review by the Bank.
72.   Procurement Administration: Since this is the first Bank project in the country, PIU staff
members would be given training in procurement through courses conducted by Bank staff in
headquarters. Consultants would be retained by the Borrower to provide assistance in preparing and
evaluating bids. The PIU would be staffed with persons competent to assist with routine procurement
administration activities. For bid preparation and evaluation, the governmet will retain the services
of a consulting firm. World Bank missions would review procurement documentation as part of
regular supervision activities.
73.   Procurement Monitoring: Procurement data would be collected and recorded for: (i) prompt
reporting of conract award information by the Borrower; (ii) comprehensive quarterly reports to the
Bank by the Borrower; and (iii) revised timing of procurement actions, including advertising, bidding,
contract award, and completion time for individual contracts.
F. Disbursement
74.   The Loan would finance: (i) 100 percent of the foreign expenditures of imported goods, up
to 100 percent of the local expenditures (ex-factory costs), and up to 75 percent of the expenditures
for other items procured locally; (ii) 100 percent of expenditures! of consultants' services, and
training; and (iii) the refinancing of the PPF. It is projected that US$5 million would be disbursed in
FY95, US$7 million in FY96, US$7 million in FY97, and US$6 million in FY98. Disbursement
schedules are found in Annex X and an Implementation Plan is detailed in Annex XII. The project is
eApected to be completed by December 31, 1997, and the Loan closing date would be June 30, 1998.
Wixitrawal applications will be fully doumented, except for expenditures agaist contracts valued at
less than US$50,000 equivalent, which will be made on the basis of certified statements of
exenditures detailing the individual transactions. The documentaton to support these expendiures
would be retained by the P1U for at least one year after receipt by the Bank of the audit report for the
year in which the last disbursement is made. This domentation would be made available for review
by the auditors (see sections below on Financial Reporting and Auditing) and the Bank upon request.
75.   To facilitate the disbursement of funds, a Special Account would be established in a
commercial bank acceptable to the Bank. The authorized allocation to the Special Account would be
US$0.5 million, representing about four months of average expenditures under the Loan. The
account would be opened in the name of the Borrower and would be administered by the authorized
representatives of the PIU on behalf of the Borrower. The PIU would send on a monthly basis or
more frequently, if necessary, to the Bank requests for replenshment of the Special Account for the
amounts ransferred. In addition, monthly bank statements of the Special Account which have been
reconciled by the Borrower should accompany all replenishment requests. The Loan provides for
retroactive financing up to 10 percent of the loan amount in respect of expenditure incurred since
11    All expenditkues to be financed are net of taxes.



-22-
January 1, 1994 for goods and services procured in accordance with the Bank's procurement
practices. Retroactive fimancing is needed for early project startup and efficient implementation.
G. Project Accountig, Finncial Reporting, and Auditing
76.   Accountinf: The Borrower would have the responsibility for the appropriate accounting of
the fumds provided by the Bank under the Loan, for reporting on the use of these funds, and for
ensuring that audits of the financial statements or reports are submitted to the Bank.
77.   The PIU (on behalf of the Borrower) would establish an appropriate accounting system to
enable information on the proper receipt and use of funds provided in accordance with the Loan
Agreement. The system should ensure timely and accurate accounting of all transactions under the
Loan and clear presentation of the financial information. The staffing of the PIU with a financial
adviser will enable the PIU to maintain all project accounts in accordance with internationally
accepted accounting procedures.
78. Financial Reporting. Financial reporting for the Loan would closely reflect the specific
requirements of the Loan. It would comprise a statement of receipts and payments for the reporting
period since the beginning of the program. The reporting would be in accordance with the
disbursements classified and reported by the expenditure categories agreed with the Borrower and
spelled out in the legal documents. Quarterly progress reports would be submitted by the PIU,
including a separate report in respect of the Special Account. A Project Completion Report would be
submitted to the Bank by the PIU promptly after the completion of the program, and in any event not
later than six months after the Loan closing date.
79.   Auditing. A condition of the Loan would be that the financial statements and reports on the
Loan (including the Special Account) should be audited in accordance with generally accepted
uditing standards by independent auditors (preferably an international accounting/auditing firm)
acceptable to the Bank.
80.   The criteria for selecting auditors would be as follows: (i) impartial and independent from the
entity to be audited; (ii) well established and reputable; (iii) experienced in the type of assignment to
be undeken; and (iv) able to fulfill the terms of reference required within the specified dmetable.
EL Environmental Aspects
81.   This project is not expected to have any significant negative environmental impact and has
been rated "C" in accordance with Operational Directive 4.01 on Environmental Assessmn. Also,
large public enterprise privatiation is not expected to take place in the immediate future and would
not be assisted under the project. Therefore, in view of the "C" rating, no enviromental assessment
is necessary.



-23-
I. Benefits and Risks
82.   Benefits: The Government of Turkmenistmn currently has limited institutional capacity and
the needed human resource skills to design and implement refonms, and formlate strategies in the
energy sector. The proposed loan would help alleviate the constraints arising from the lack of
specific skills, as well as strengthen the Government's capacity to formulate and implement refonrs
which are essential for the development and operation of a market economy. It would also strengthen
the institutional framework for mobilizing and coordinating technical assistance for implementing
reforms.
83.   Bisks: The main risks relate to: (i) changes in resolve and commitment to the reform effort;
(ii) limited administradve capacity and lack of familiarity with Bank procurement and disbursement
procedures, which could lead to implementation delays; and, (iii) the Government's inexperience with
managing technical assistance. There is evidence of commitment by the counterparts who have
expressed the need for such assistance at both the cabinet and agency levels. Additionally, the
technical assistance components provided to the critical ministries and agencies are aimed at assisting
in the preparation of their respective reform programs, and would reflect the Government's priorities.
Close supervision during implementation would assure that inefficiencies are addressed as needed.
Procurement and disbursement risks would be reduced through close attention to procrement and
other implementation consraints during project supervision.
IV. AGREEMETS AND RECOMMENDATIONS
84.   Agreements. The agreements reached at Negotiations are on: (i) the scope of technical
assistance to be financed under the Loan; (ii) the project costs and the financing plan; (iii) the project
arrangements, in particular as regards the establishment and maintenance of the PIU and the LRU,
including the appointment of critical staff and the introducton of accounting and reporting systems,
and procrement arrangements; (iv) the arrangements for the appointment of auditors for the Loan;
(v) arrangements with the Government to previde the Bank with a statement showing all its foreign
debt obligations and maintaing a system of debt reporting; (vi) increasing the staff of the supervision
function in the CBT to 14 professionals by February 28, 1995; (vii) a project implementation plan;
and (viii) that prior agreement will be sought with the Bank on: (a) the content of training programs
and criteria for the selection of trainees; (b) short lists for consultants; and (c) the terms of reference
of studies. The findings of these studies would be discussed with the Bank. The Government has
appointed the head and other key staff of the PIU, fulfilling the condition of Board presentation. The
appointment of a firm to assist the Government/PIU to implement the project would be a condition of
effectiveness. The establishment of the LRU would be a condition of disbursements for the legal
subcomponent.
85.   Recomneudatlons. Having reached satisfactory agreement on the above, the project is
considered suitable for a Bank loan of US$25 million equivalent, for a period of 20 years, including a
5 year grace period, at the Bank's standard variable interest rate.



-24-                                Annex I-A
INSTTUTION BUILDING/TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
Prvatizatlon and Private Sector Development
Badromd
1.    The Government of Turkmenistan is committed to a reform program of extensive
privatization, enterprise restrudcung and private sector developmen. The Ministry of Economy and
Finance (MOEF) is responsible for preparing and implementing a privatization program which is to
be phased over a period of time.
2.    The Government's privatization program currently comprises privatization of small scale
service units. This phase of privatization began on December 1, 1993 on the basis of a Presidential
Decree of November 23, 1993. It is being carried out by local and regional authorities and
municipalities (Hekimliks). The privatization of the small scale service units is expected to be
followed by the privatization of retail units (shops) and to be followed by small industrial enterprises.
The next phase of the Govement's privatization program is expected to cover medium and finally
larger enterprises.
3.    The Government is still preparing the full privatization strategy which is to be implemented in
stages. The institutional responsibility and the instuctions to implement such a program still need to
be developed. This component would, therefore, provide assistance to the Govermnent to develop a
comprehensive privatizadon program for different sectors.
4.    The Govermment decided to undertake the privatization of small scale units as a first step, on
the grounds that SSP is expected to be simpler and easier, promote competition, and improve the
quality and types of goods and services available to the public. In addition, it is believed that success
here can generate popular support for other reform measures, especially those envisioned through the
privatization of other small and medium scale enterprises.
5.    policy Development. The Government lacks relevant national experience for assessing the
difficulties and benefits of alternative privatization policies, and formulating consistent and efficient
privatizaion programs and regulatons. The current Law and regulatons give priority to transferring
the enterprises to their current staff, who enjoy various discounts. Initial privatization has involved
only the staff as new owners or lease-holders of the enterprises, without any competitive sale.
However, heavy reliance on transfers to staff would lImit the economic benefits of privatization as it
proceeds, since the current staff can seldom meet alone the enterprises's needs for investment and
opang improvements in a market economy.
6.    Current policies have also emphasized the use of the retention of state shareholdings, or the
placing of various obligations on the privatzed enterprises. Those practices also cuttail privatization
benefits, because they limit the long-term motivation and commitment of the private operators.
7.    These initial policies now have to be revised to allow for competitive sales of enterprises in
order to reap the full benefits of privatization. Standard privatization modes further need to be
refined according to enterprise size, profitability or sector constrain  (e.g. competitive bidding for



-25-                                Annex }-A
lge profitable enterprises, possible transfers to staff for small profitable enterprises, and auctions for
other enterprises).
S.    Operating EffcidM. A State Committee for Privatization was set up in the Ministry of
Econony and Finance reporting to the Cabinet of Ministers. Together with the sectoral agencies and
muncipalities, it has initiated programs for privatization in the trade and services, as well as for land.
Such privatzation requires removing the market controls and other factors constraining private sector
development.
9.    The Committee has limited staff and lacks adequate experence with respect to privatizaton
and private enterprises. Therefore, it needs to quicldy build-up fumctional capabilities and proceres
regardng the selection of prvatiation modes, search for partners, enterprise valuation and relevant
legal proceedings (e.g. bidding). At present, the Privatization Law entitles provincial authorities to
decide on and control the privatization of enterprises placed under them which might cause excessive
dispersion of scarce know-how.
10.   Furthermore, the accmulation of private capital in the country is clearly limited. This
shortage of capital will eventually make the sales of enterprises more difficult, or less taparent for
lack of competiton. Seious consideration should thus be given to developing over time schemes
suitable for Turkmenistan's conditions.
RIcomm_nded Technial Assstance
11.   The rcommended tecbnical assistance will aim at promoting privatization policies that
enhance enterprise efficienqy and economic privatization benefits, and strengthen the Government's
ability to process efficiendy large privatization flows. The technical assistance will be coordinated
with assistance being provided for privatization by other donor groups so as to avoid overlap. This
techical assistance is therefore divided into two integrated components, related to policies and
opeations, and expected to be carried out by two consulting firms, as detailed in Appendices I-A and
I-B.



-26-                                Annex I-A
12.   The technical assistance inputs and cost estimates are summarized below:
Privatiation Policies                     GOT             IBRD             Total
Local    Foreign
(US$ '000)
Economic Privatization and Private Sector                 15         100         115
Development Advisor (part-time, 1 year)
One Privatization Advisor (8 months)                      20         130         150
Short-term consulting services and expenses               20         130         150
(e.g. vouchers, Study Tour for MOEF staff,
Round Table in Ashgabat, and information campaign).
SUBTOTAL                                                  55         360         415
GOT (contribution for local expenses)           25          -          -          25
TOTAL                                           25        55         360         440
Privatization Implementtion
- Partner Search" Advisors (6 months)                  10         140         150
- "Enterprise Evaluation" Advisors (part-time, 8 months)  15      110         125
- Short-term consulting services for foreign
partner search, pilot cases, and sectoral expertise  10          70         80
- Local consultants                                    S0                     50
Training                                                  10          70          80
Computer system for enterprise database                     -        200         200
SUBTOTAL                                                  95         590         685
GOT (contribution for local expenses)           25         -           -          25
SUBTOTAL                                        25        95         590         710
TOTAL                                           50       150         950       1,150
Contingency                                                 -        200         200
GRAND TOTAL                                     50       150       1,150       1,350



-27-                                Annex I-B
INSTITUTION BUIWDINGnTECHNCAL ASSITANCE PROJECT
Prdvatzaon Porles
Terms of Reference
Bacdwud
1.    In November 1993, the Goverment of Turkmenistan enacted a basic Law on
Denationalization and Privatization, which permits hte alia the sale of State eneprises to private
persons. The State Committee in the Ministry of Economy and Finance is responsible for
privatizaton and has prepared broad programs for privatization in the trade, services and industry
sectors.
2.    The Govermnent's approach to privatiation curently consists of trasfers of enterprise to
their staff, leases, and retention of large State shares. In order to reap the fill benefits of
privatization, these initil policies now need to be reviewed and revsed with externa know-how and
support. Serious consideration should be given to favoring competitive sales, diversifyring
privataton modes per types of enerprises, and preparing a scheme for supplementng the lack of
private capital. The Commitee's cetrl privadzation role will need to be more clearly defined with
respect to provincial and sectoral agencies.
Objectives
3.    The technical assistance for this component aims at developing and promoting privatuzation
policies and orgaonal angemens that generally enhce the efficiency of the privadtition
process for the country, while being easy to implement. It should in particular enlighten policy-
makers on the choice between basic forms of privatization (e.g. competitive sales, transfers to staff,
leases, etc.), and their advantages and diadvantage on account of international experience. This
technical assisnce should be closely coordinted with parallel assistance for privatization operations.
4.    In this process the consultat will be expected to include, as a part of its work team, local
cnsultans recuited by the govermment under this technical assisance program. The objective will be
to exend the depth and breadt of the work through the use of local comultants while at the same
time imparting the expertise to these local consultants so that they may acquire the capabilities to
provide indigenous support to the government in the future.
5.    All components of this technical assistance will be preferably supplied by a single consulting
firm with possible subcoars. The firm should have led similar assignments, involvng inepth
privazation policy advice and long-term staff secndmnts, in several counries including socialist
economies in transiion and developing counries. It is expected to provide to the Committee for
Privation the inputs listd in the following paraghaps.



-28-                                  Annex I-B
6.    An Economic Privatization and Private Sector Development Policy Advisor to MOEE for 8
months residence, in charge of economic/financial aspects of privatization policies and forms of
privatization, an MS-level economist with privatizatlon planning experience in low/middle-income
countries.
7.    A Privatization Advisor for medium scale enterprises to the MOEF for 15 months, in charge
of the proposed scheme, a financial markets specialist with experience in economies in transition.
8.    Complementary short-term interational epert advice, as needed, on the voucher sche
design and other specialized policy issues.
9.    Organization of a Study Tour of some five top officials from MOEF and other agencies to 2-3
relevant countries (e.g. Czech Republic).
10.   Preparation of a broad information campaign for provincial/sectoral agencies and enerprises,
on privatization policies and relevant national/international experience.
11.   Overall, the privatization of the public enterprise sector will require: (i) the development of a
privatization program for the public enterprise sector; (ii) revision of relationships between the
Govermment agencies and privatized entities; and (iii) development of instiutions that support the
development of a vibrant and competitive private sector. More specifically, consultants will perform
the main tasks and outputs summaied in the following paragraphs.
12.   Provide policy-makers with broad intenational privatizaon experience (e.g., Study Tour for
MOEF staff, Round-Table, briefings).
13.   Review current privatization and private sector development policies, regulions and
insttutional roles, based on detailed evaluation of early/likely results, institutional implementation
capacity, legal framework (e.g., enterprise law, arbitration, etc.) and macroeconomic constrdats
(e.g., enterprise management, private capital, foreign investment).
14.   Justf and elaborate new policies and revisions for the development of the privadzation
programs, following detailed review of any restrictions on the extent of transfers/ ownership (e.g.
leases) and the identity of transferees/buyers (e.g., enterprise staff) liable to curtil enterprise
efficiency and economic privatization benefits.
15.   Desig and justify aU insdtutional arrangements for effective privatization (e.g., role of
MOEF versus provincial authorites or sectoral agencies, transitional enterprise control, etc.) taking
into account respective institonal capabilities and the need for a rapid build-up of experience and
know-how.
16.   Elaborate comprehensive privadzation strategies and modes, according to enterprise size,
profitability and sector constraints.



-29-                                 Annex I-B
17.   Design and assist in launching a scheme for supplementing the lack of domestic capital,
attracting qualified shareholders in medium/large enterprises, the likely impact of such a scheme on
inflation, and the intermediation of qualified fwds for purchasing shares on behalf of recipients.
18.   Further develop and dbseminate through guidelines and regular training programs, a
comprehensive set of pratization policies according to needs, including policies on enterprise staff
compensation, non-natural monopoly enterprises, and enterprises with high technology or with
nationat networks.
19.   Assist in surveying and classifying the State portfolio of sectors and enterprises according to
the urgency of privatization, and the different standard privatization strategies to be applied.
20.   Assist in preparing enterprise privatization program, updating them half-yearly, and
monitoring their results.
21.   Advise MOEF on its organization, muangement systems, reporting and public relations; and
provide counterpart staff with cowmprehensive on-the-job and forma training m policy analysis.
22.   Liaise closely with the other team of advisors and coordinate with advisors from other sector
groups on pvatization operations, and report bimonthly to the Government and the IBRD on each of
the above tasks.



-30-                                Aumex I-C
IlSIlTUlION BUILDING ECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
Technical Asiosae In Privatizaton Implemetaon
Terms of Reference
Badgound
1.    The Government enacted a Law on Denationalization and Privatization in November 1993. A
Committee for Privatization was set up in the Ministry of Economy and Finance wder the Cabinet of
Ministers. Together with the sectoral agencies, the Committee has initiated programs for privatzing
small scale enterprises in the trade and services, as well as for privatizing land.
2.    The Committee now needs extrnal support for suppordng the privatization of enterpris, and
applying,appropriate privatization techniques. It has limited staff and has to quickly build-up
functional capabilities and operating procedures, primarily regarding the preparation of privaization
strategies and the search for private partners, and also regarding the valuation of enerprises and
relevant legal proceedings (e.g. bidding).
Objetives
3.    This technical assistance aims at enhancing the Government's ability to carry out numerous
and important or difficult privatization cases. It should in particular develop the know-how in specific
privadzation functions such as partner search, and demonswtrte new privatization strategies in line
with the expected policy shift from partial privatization to cmpetive sales. This teca   assis
should be closely coordinated with parallel assistance for privatization policies and organizaton.
4.    In this process the consultant will be expected to include, as a part of its work team, local
consultants recrited by the governmet under this teecnical assistance program. The objective will be
to extend the depth and breadth of the work through the use of local consultants while at the same
time imparting the expertise to these local consultants so that they may acquire the capabilities to
provide indigenous support to the govemment in the future.
inputs
5.    All components of this technical assistance will be preferably supplied by a single consult
firm with possible subcontors. The firm should have led sinilar assignments, involving full
privatization transactions, know-how transfer and long-term staff secondments, in several countries
including socialist economies in transition and developing counties. It is expected to provide to the
Govermment the inputs listed in the following paragraphs.
6.    One "Partner Search" Advisor for about 6 months residence, in charge of all privatization
aspects relating to private parties and particularly the evaluation. search and attraction of qualified
buyers/operators (including finalizing placing memorandums) to present MS-level qualifications in



-31-                                   Annex I-C
business or econonmics, and experience in low/middle income countries and venture capital, merchant
banking or similar activities involving the search for buyers of enterprises in different sectors.
7.     One "Enterpiise Evaluation" Advisor in MOEF for about 6 months pat-time residence, in
charge of all privatization aspects relating to the enterprises and their prices, including their individual
privatization strategies/modes, and their needs for inputs from private partners, or for possible prior
restrucuring to present MS-level qualifications in finance/accounting and engineering, and experience
in low/middle-income countries, auditing or similar activities involving valuation of enterprises for
sales, and computerized data-base.
8.     Related short-term consulting services, for provision from abroad of information on foreign
partners (e.g., short-lists of qualified partners, and financial/technical references), and field missions
of sector specialists for assisting in demonstrative or difficult privatation cases.
9.     Local consultants to liaise with and assist designated advisor in all aspects of privatization
implementation activides.
10.    Procurement and implementation of computer systems for a full data base of enteiprises to be
privatized, and for management purposes.
outputs
11.    These consultants wili perform the main tasks and outputs summaized in the following
paragraphs.
12.   Review the Committee's and relevant agencies' staff capabilities, operating procedures,
information systems, and staff know-how shortcomings and other constraints in processing
privatizaion flows (e.g. enterprises prior needs for independent accounting, banking and legal
persomnality).
13.    Provide on-going advice on general operating procedures for privatizing small enterprises,
with emphasis to enterprises in Aspgabat and surrounding areas.
14.    Select about 5 pilot c*3es of medium/large enterprises to be privatized, in those sectors less
constrained by State control over markets (e.g. construction, food, some textiles, etc., preferably with
export potential), and liable to illustrae new privatization strategies (e.g. full, competitive sales) and
the handling of difficult privatization functions (e.g. prior break up of monopolies, foreign partner
search, etc.).
15.   In mixed teams with on-the-job training and demonstations, lead the full privatization process
of the above pilot cases.
16.    Elaborate, test and disseminate through training programs and staff guidelines, compreheisive
operating procedures for each fumction/stage of the privadzation process (e.g., selecting/designing a
privatization strategy, evaluating the enterprise, mobilizing/evaluating private partners, organizing
bidding/auctions, formulatig/negotiating agreements/transactions), and for the different basic type of



-32-                                 Annex I-C
enterprises requiring different privatation strategies (e.g., snall vs. large, profitable vs. uvprofitable
enterprises).
17.   Design and assist in setting-up, the above enterprise date base, and other operatng
infornation systems needed (e.g. register of national/foreign investors, relations wun
pevinctsecoral agencies, etc.).
18.   Assist in identifyinglevaluating foreign fnd managers for other financing schemes.
19.   Advise MOEF (privatization unit) on its staffing and operating procedures, and provide
counrpart staff with comprehensive onthe-job and formal training in privatization functions,
includig at least quarterly 1-week seminars for operating staff from MOEF (privatization uimt) and
sectoraUprovincial agencies for ISO staff.
20.   Liaise closely with the other team of advisors and coordinate with advisors from other donor
groups on privaization policies, and report bi-monthly to the Govemment and IBRD on each of the
above tasks.



-33-                                 Amnex I-D
INSTITUTION BUIDING/TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
Effective Goverance and Restruct g of State Enterpries
Terms of Reference
1.    Privatization is the Govenmment's main policy mechanism for strengthening corporate
governance. It aims, over the next few years, to give private core owners control over the large
majority of enterprises. However, even the rapid privatization will leave an interim period during
which the State will remain the sole or majority owner of a number of enterprises. Moreover, large
enterprises and a small number of enterprises in special categories will be excluded from privatization
for the time being. Effective governance of state enterprises therefore remains a critical issue.
2.    At present, state enterprise governance is subject to weakmesses summarized below:
(a) The objectives that the State appears to inpose on its own enterprises are principally: (i)
achievement of production volumes; (ii) preservation of employment; (iii) provision of
social services; and, (iv) the fulfillment of trade agreements. Enterprise managers are not
required - and therefore feel little obligation - to generate profits and to maximize the
potenial value of their firms.
(b) Whilst there is some financial reporting system in place, enterprise managers are, in
reality, not held accountable for the fmancial performance of their enterprises. This
problem arises first from the inadequate auing policies, systems and financial
reporting formats. Reported financial results do not therefore reflect the real finanial
perf .-ance. Indirect subsidies and price controls further blur the resuts of eneprises.
Further, the concept of a rate of return on the capital invested is not widely undertood.
(c) Managers do not have sufficient operational autonomy and the lines of authority need to
be clearer. The managers are subjected to interference from their sector ministry and
other authorities. In retum, manages turn to those authorities for assistance in resolving
financial and other operational problems, many of which they should solve on their own.
3.    A program to improve corporate governance of state enteprises will need to include the
following elements:
(a)  r           of state enterprises as State-owned j int stock companies. Corporatization
will clarify the property rights, legal status and authority of the enterprise and will
introduce the concept of supervisory councils or the Board of Directors to represent the
interests of the owners or the State.
(b) Performance monitoring with emphasis on financial results. This will involve
improvement in management information, accounting policies and practices; appropriate
financial reporting formats; external audits; collection of key management information by
the State's ownership agency; assessment of operational and financial perfomance on the
basis of that data; and guidelines on incentives to be provided to managers to enhance



-34-                                Annex I-D
financial performance. This system will help the members of the enterprise boards to
perform their function and allow the Ministry of Finance, and holding companies to
decide on dividends and capital injections.
(c) System for financial planning and capital budgeting whereby decisions on the reallocation
of capital between firms with different prospects, levels of uncertainty, and capital needs
will have to be taken at the holding company level and, more importantly, at a higher
level. Such decisions will also have to be taken within the context of the Govermnent's
overall public investment progran and budget. This will require commercial business
planning concepts to be introduced with emphasis on realistic assessments of cash flows,
risk, cost of capital, the adequacy of returns on investments and selection of priorities
when there are competing demands for limited capital resources.
(d) Contractual oblipatons between State and enterprises. State demands for production of
unprofitable items, sale of production at below market price and/or provision of non-
commercial services as well as requirements to comply with special regulatory legislation
should be explicitly formulated; agreed with the management of the enterprise, possibly
on a contractual basis; assessed as to the financial impact of such demands on the firm;
and compensated by the Government through explicit payments (subsidies) on a
predetermined basis. For the most important state enterprises (such as the utilitdes,
communications and railroad companies) this might take the form of so-called
"performance contracts" on an annmal or multi-year basis.
4.    In this process the consultant will be expected to include, as a part of its work team, local
consultants recruited by the govenmient under this technical assistance program. The objective will be
to extend the depth and breadth of the work through the use of local consultants while at the same
ime imparting the expertise to these local consultants so that they may acquire the capabilities to
provide indigenous support to the government in the future.
ConSutant Tasks
S.    The Consultants shall perform the following tasks, to be completed within six months from
the date of starting the assigments:
A. Governance
(i) Strateuy of state enterprise governance in Turlamenistan. This study shall address all the
issues raised above with particular emphasis on institutional issues (especially the
functions of, and likely risks associated with, holding companies, and similar structures).
The study shall include preparation of a comprehensive program including detailed
recommendations and a proposed action plan with implementation targets. It should also
address the issue of an incentive program for the managers and directors which is ded to
enterprise performance. The specific context of Turkmenisun shall be carefully taken
into account; but so shall potentially useful strategy elements that are already being
developed in other CIS countries and which could be usefully adapted to local
circumstances. This task shall start as soon as possible and be carried out by a team of



-35-                                Amnex I-D
experts, with an inception report to be submitted within 3 weeks. The Consultants shall
then help review and refine the program in discussion with the countepart agencies and
the World Bank and prepare a fiscal report. This will require approximately 3 person-
months by foreign experts.
(ii) Design and implementation of a financial performance monitoring system. This task shall
involve the design of institutional arrangements in Government and state-owned holding
companies and concerns; infonmation flows; specific reportig fonnats; data recording and
storage; a performance assessment indicator system; and the structure of a communation
of results to. The Consultant shall also oudine the software and hardware requirements.
The Consultants shall also provide initial formal traing through seminars and on-the-job
training. This will require approximately 3 person-months by foreign experts.
(iii) Seminar on the nature and application of perfonmance contracts. The Consultants shall
provide a standard model - adapted to local circmances - of performance conacts
for use during the seminars. In developing the standard model the Consultants shall take
account of existing arrangements for the provision of social services by major
commeril enterprises. The Consultants should ensure that the emphasis of the seminars
is on the instiuonal framework required for performance contracts to be effective. The
otputs of the seminars should be clear  mmions on: who the parties to such
contracts should be; the preparation and negotiation processes; monitoring and
evaluation; arbitration; incentive arrangements; and contract compliance and reporting.
One half-day presentation would target high-level policy-makers deciding on questions of
state enterprise governance and economic regulations, and a one day seminar would
adress agency/ministry staff at mainly the vice minist and department director level.
A workshop of 3-5 days would be organized for state agency and some enterprise staff
who are directly involved in state-enterprise relations in those sectors where performance
contracts might be most useful. This will require approximately 2 person-months by
foreign experts.
(iv) Capability develoament for effective govenance. The Consultants shall develop a set of
detailed training mateial and user manuals for the staff of MOEF (privatization unit),
state-owned holding companies and their supervisory councils, and state enterprise
supervisory councils regarding their role in exercising corporate governance and the use
of the above financial monitoring system, performance contracts and external audits. All
the materials will require substantial field analysis and agreement on the content with the
relevant autnorities. This will reqire approximately 3 person-months by foreign
experts.
(v) Introduction to intredn  financial stments and iendent external audits. The
Consultants shall prepare and conduct a series of four training courses to introduce
MOEF staff and persons who will become members of supervisory councils and state
property organs) to: anual financial statements and how to interpret results and
financdal positions; different types of audits (fmancial and operational audits); different
audit approaches and techniques; understaing the nature and contents of different types
of audit reports; responsibilities of the auditors; and the selection and appointment of
auditors. This will require apximly 2 person-months by foreign experts.



-36-                                Anmex I-D
B. R    Ptutrn
(i) Financial restructuring. The restructuring operation will be carried out for the 5 largest
enterprises and will include all actions intended to restore the sustainable technical,
economic and financial viability of a company. The objective of restucuring the public
enprises (PEs) is to improve their efficiency and restore their medum and long term
viability. The nature and degree of restrumcring depends on the nature of problems
facing the company. A company can be sound from technical, strategic and operational
points of view, but may be in financial trouble due to certain economic distortions. If
the distortions are removed, the company needs only to undergo a financial and other
limited restrucuring operations. If the company's problems are profound and changes in
strategy, technology, organization, management and/or manpower are required to restore
competitiveness, then the company needs to undergo comprehensive  rucurig. The
Consultant will initia}ly review the company's past performance. More specifically, he
will need to address the issues of financial performance, marketig strategies and
performance, operational and technical aspects, including productivity and product
quality, managerial and labor redundancy issues, and legal aspects. The Consultant will
also identify problem areas and establish an unstadin of its competitive position
with respect to both the domestic and international markets. In addidon, the consultant
will also need to make an assessment of the capital needs of the company and idenfy
likely sources of investnt and investment partners. This will require about 6 person-
months and a foreign expert.
6.    The Consutant should present a report indicating whether the company is economically viable
or can be made viable.
3 Should the report conclude that sustainable competitiveness or economic and financial
viability cannot be restored, recommendations to liquidate the company or to change its
activities should be made.
* Should the review indicate that profitability and competitiveness can be restored at a
reasonable cost, the Consultant should prepare a restrucuring strategy, plan and
timetable to restore technical, economic and financial viability. The Consltant should
then address in detail the financial, technical, operational, marketing, managerial,
inchlding redu'dancy, and legal aspects of the company.
* Incorporate the above information into an enterprise fact sheet, which while not an
offering document, will nevertheless enable prospective investors and corporate
investment partners to make an adequate assessment of the prospects and potential of the
company from the point of view of possible investnent in it. This will require about 6
person-months by a foreign expert.
ReporDtg
7.    The Consultants will submit an Inception Report within six weeks after commencing their
assimt. This Report wil in particular present the overall work program in more detail, propose
potential changes to the work program in view of early findings in the field, and report on problems



-37-                                Annex I-D
encountred and remedies taken or proposed. Thereafter, the Consultants will submit periodic
Progress Repors  which will descrbe brefly the inputs, activities and outputs of the last period; the
problems encountered, remedies sought, and further remedies proposed; the detailed plans for the
coming period; and miscellaneous further issues.
8.    All reports shall be submitted to the Ministry of Economy and Finance, and other state
agencies as requested by the Government, and to the World Bank.
Coutepat and Impementation Arangents
9.    The coordinating agency is the Ministry of Economy and Finance. The Project
Implementation Unit (PIU) for the Technical Assistance Loamn, which is also located in this agency,
will be responsible for contacua and logistical arrangements. In the execution of their assignment
they will also work with relevant sectoral ministries and other entities.
10.   On activities of legal nature the Consultants working under these terms of reference will
closely coordbite with the resident advisor under the legal reform component of the World Bank's
Technical Assistance Loan.
Consulant Qualfication
11.   The assistance shall be provided by a firm (Consultant), potentially with the use of
subcontractors. The expert team will be assigned to the Project for much of their time during the
Contrct period in Turkmenistan.
12. The Consultants must have first-hand familiarity with the institutional, finamncial/accounting,
legal, regulatory and miformaon-systems aspects of the subject matter, and significant experience in
economy in transition from command to market systems. Experience in enterprise reform or
economic regulation in the CIS would be very beneficial. A strong experience in trainig would also
be required.
Budget
13.   The consulant contract will include inputs and costs such as fees, travel, accommodaions,
and overheads; and assistance will be provided by the Government in arrangements for visa, travel,
hotel, office space and telephone and training facilities. It shall amount to US$900,000. Also funded
by the Technical Assistance Loan, will be contingency of about US$100,000 that could be used
flexibly by the Government with prior agreement with the World Bank.



-38-                               Annex I-D
GOT      _        RD            Total
Local    Foreign
(US$ '000)
Govemment Policy Implementation
and Mamnus (10 months)                               20         360         380
Training (3 montfs)                                      10        110         120
Eneprise Restuuring (12 months)                          20        280         300
Equipment                                                 -        100         100
SUBTOTAL                                                 50        850         900
GOT (contribution for local expenses)        50           -           -         50
TOTAL                                        50          50        850         950
Contingencies                                             -        100         100
GRAND TOTAL                                  50          50        950       1,050



-39-                               Annex Il-A
INSTITUTION BUILDINGTECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
IOstitutional Development of Bank Supervion
Terms of Reference
Backgd
1.    The transition process to a market economy in Turlnenistan requires the development of
capacity for prudential supervision over the banking system by the Central Bank of Turkmenistan
(CBT). Since the system of prudential supervision in the country is in its formative stages, it is
necessarily beset by a nmber of problems. These include: inadequate staffing (for a system that
encompasses 22 banks and more than 700 branches and agencies); the limited powers to effectively
deal with the large specialized banks; supervisory procedures that had been designed to ensure
compliance with economic regulations which are now outdated; and a financial system that is still
distorted by substantial subsidies, refinance credit at negative real interest rates, and lending to loss-
making state enterprises.
2.    The Instituton-Building/Technical Assistance Loan (hereafter referred to as 'the Loan')
outlined below seeks to overcome these obstacles by strengthening the CBT's ability to perform
quality bank supervision, the organizational structure of the CBT's Banking Supervision Department
(BSD), and regulatory framework such as prudential regulations and bank licensing requirements.
The technical assistance for the development of the prudenal regulation and the structure of the BSD
is set out in Amnex fl-B.
3.    However, Government/CBT policy-makers will need to make important and bold decisions
regarding the appropriate role of subsidies, refinance credit, and the treatment to be accorded to loss-
making enterprises for prudential supervision to be truly effective. Additionally, the CBT should
make efforts to provide adequate salary and career development schemes for those individuals
participating in the strengthening program to prevent them from leaving the institution in favor of the
commercial banking sector.
4.    Because of the small staff, there is a limit to the absorptive capacity of the BSD to provide
counterparts and to undergo training. Therefore, under the program, technical assistance activities
will proceed in a manner that coincides with the staffing of the BSD. The CBT is committed to
staffing for the BSD and envisages recruitment of eligible new employees from among recent
university graduates. It is estimated that not less than 30 persons are necessary for professional
positions, of which nearly 3/4 should be involved in the on-site bank examination. For those
recrited, intensive instruction in languages, preferably English, will commence at the onset.
Emphasis in training should be placed on young trainees since the goal is to train people who will
assimilate a new approach to banking supervision.



40-                                Annex Il-A
Objectives
5.    The main objective of this component is to initiate an effective program of the off-site and on-
site examination within the CBT. Specifically, the goals are to assist the CBT to:
O create a strong, technically skilled BSD to enable it to assess effectively the conditions of
banks in the transforming environment of the economy in Turkmenistan;
* train BSD staff in basic on-site and off-site bank sWervision skills, and developing overall
enhanced analytical capabilides in the BSD;
*  develop bank on-site and off-site supervision guidelines and manuals to promote the
further strgteing of the BSD;
* provide policy advice to the BSD and CBT officials on issues related to banking
supervision; and
* upgrade the office equipment available to BSD staff to facilitate on-site and off-site
supervision.
6.    The work wil be carried out in a manner contributing to the overall general objectives of
strengthening the authority of the CBT in the area of banking supervision in order to develop a sound
and effic it financial sector.
As.stanc Statg
7.    The envisaged technical assistance of this component of the Loan consists of three sub-
components: on-site bank examination; off-site bank monitoring; and study tours. The assistance will
be carried out by one resident internationally experienced bank supervision expert (hereafter referred
to as the "Consultant") for 12 months. The assistance of this component is expected to commence in
October,1994, but not before the CBT has completed the hiring of the first group of at least five new
recruits into its BSD.
(i) On-site Bank Examinaion: This subcmponen wiU mainly concetate on-the-job
training. The BSD staff who are assiped to have the on-site examination training will
organize teams, each of which wiU consist of 8-10 trainees. The training will be divided
in two stages, each of which wiU last about six monts. Stage one will provide mainly
general on-site supervision skiUs, focsed on liqupidity and risk management and intermal
controls, through conduct of partial on-site bank examinat. Stage two wil concentrate
more on problem banks and involve full on-site examinations. It is expected that the
Consultant can deal with six examinations in 12 months. The Consultant wiU also provide
classroom traiing to supplement on-the-job training.
(ii) Off-site Bank Monitorng: This sub-compone  will also focus on-the-job training,
supplementd by classroom training. The Consultant wiU provide skills to analyze
financial reports to aU staff of the BSD. The Consultant should pay attention to the



-41-                               Annex II-A
reports submitted by the consultant who has engaged in the regulatory framework of bank
supervision based on the other component of the Loan,
(iii) Study Tours: The project will fund study tours to developed countries for five senior
super isors of the CBT. The study tours will enable bank supervisors in the country to
gain exposure to foreign countries, to understand the fimctioning of banks and bank
supervision practices in more developed economies, and to establish links with foreign
supervisors in order to provide more effective supervision of risks that go beyond the
country's own borders. The participants will be selected by the CBT under the
consultation with the Consultant.
8.    The Consultants will be expected to liaise with other consultants in related areas. For
example, the Loan will fimd also assistance to reform of bank accounting and auditing payment
system reform, and other areas.
9.    Another responsibility of the Consultant will be the participation in higher-level discussions on
the results of the on-site and off-site supervision, the progress of training and performance of staff,
and the preparation of policy guidelines for their improvement.
10.   A further requirement for stengthening the supervisory capabilities of the CBT is the
acquisition of computers and other equipment for the BSD. It is expected that up to US$40,000 of
the Loan will be spent for equipment and software to be used in strengthening the supervision
fumction. The Consultant will therefore have the responsibility to assess the computer requiments of
the BSD including portable computers for on-site examinations.
Comtutart and Inplentation Arra
11.   The coordinating agency for this Project, as part of the Loan, is the Secretariat of the Cabinet
of Ministers. The Project Implementation Unit (PIU) for the Loan, wbich is also located in this
agency, will be responsible for contractual and logistical arrangemen. The technical main
cutrpar agency for this component will be the CBT and, therein, the BSD.
12.   The assistance will be carried out over a period of up to 12 months, stardng in October,
1994.
Acdles and Outputs
13.   On-site Bank Examination: To prepare for the examinations, the head of the BSD with the
Consultant will prepare a list of six banks to be examined during 12 months by the Consultant and
staff of the BSD. The CBT plans to make relevant material related to these banks available to the
Consultant, in order for them to prepare the examinations. Meedngs between the BSD and the six
banks will be arranged by the BSD to present the Consultant to the six banks in order to coordinate
the examination work. These meetings will take place at least two weeks prior to every examinion.
The Consltant will:



-42-                                Annex i-A
(i) propose the selection criteria for the seven banks to be examined, and the topics to be
covered during these examinations;
(ii) prepare all materials necessary to conduct the examinations, including what may be
available in the banks, and conduct strategy sessions with the respective training team of
the BSD;
(iii) conduct preparatory sessions on the specific tasks to be carried out by each team during
the examinations;
(iv) assist the conduct of the examinations; it is expected that each examination will last for
two months;
(v) take the lead and give guidance for the preparaion of the examination report and review
inputs from BSD staff participating in the examinations;
(vi) prepare and monitor a follow-up scheme aimed at periodically reviewing the
implementation of the examiner's recommendaton, and help the BSD prepare a
conclusion for those banks where the process of examination, implementation, and
review has been completed.
14.   Off-site Bank Monitoring: The Consultant will participate with the BSD in the following
activities:
(i) developing off-site reportng and surveillance systems for the commercial and state
banks, including improvement of standard forms of the reports from the banik;
(.i) developing financial data analysis methods for balance sheet, asset quality, liquidity,
dependencies on major sources of funding; and
(iu) developing analysis methods for the sectoral concentration of loans, performance
indicators and trends, portfolios, equity investments, and capital adeqacies.
15.   Classrom Taining for On-Site and Off-Site Supervision: The Consultant will provide
classroom training to the BSD. The Consultant wi1l undertake the following activities, among others:
(i) initiate and design the training program by interviewing the initial participant in order to
determine the overall technical level of the BSD;
(ii) prepare the training materials for the classroom training, which should include case
studies;
(iii) conduct the classroom training sessions for the BSI, potentially concenated on
inception courses for new hirees and on specific supervision techniques;
(iv) collaborate with the World Bank fnded advisors in providing short workshops for the
management of the CBT and commercial banks; and



-43-                               Annex II-A
(v) respond to other training requests from the CBT management on issues related to bank
supervision.
16. Seudv tour: The Consultant will assist the CBT to select the participants and the countries
visited for the study tours. The participants shall be selected among senior bank supervisors who take
the training of the program.
17.   Eolicy Advice and Guidelines for On-site and Off-Site Supervision: Formal meeting will be
held at least weekly between the head of the BSD and the Consultant to discuss the development of
the progrm. The Consultant will:
(i) provide advice to the BSD and other CBT officials as appropriate on issues that they
identify during the supervision process, and on other issues related to bank supervision as
requested by the CBT; and
(ii) prepare on-site and off-site bank supervision manuals and guidelines for use by the BSD.
They will not be intended to be used as a unique source of kmowledge in the subject,
since the overall goal is to develop intuitive analysis in the examners. The manuals
shall be targeted to deal with the specific conditions of the banks in Turkmenian, and
aim at understanding the introduction of internationally accepted baning practices.
18.   Advice on the Comnuiaton of the BSD: The Consultant will help the BSD identify its
computeriztion needs. The BSD is expected to also provide training in standard spreadsheet and
word processing packages to the staff in the department. The Consultant will prepare a written
diis of the compueizaion needs of the BSD, and help the BSD clarif the specifications of
such eipment.
19.   This project will be carried out exclusively for the purpose of developing a basis for
str     g the bw*k supervision capabilities of the CBT and of initiating on-site and off-site bank
supervision practices. Accordingly, the Consultant will neither discuss with, nor distribute to, parties
outside the CBT, the World Bank, and the management of the relevant banks, without their explicit
authorization, any aspects or details relating to their findings about the baniks.
20.   The Consultant will submit, after the first four weeks of his or her assignment, an Incepion
Report that oudines his or her work program in more detail, and proposed changes that may be
appropriate. After receiving comments from the CBT, the Secretriat of the Cabinet of Ministers,
and the World Bank, the detailed work program should be finalized before end of week 8.
Subsequenty, the Consultant will submit quarterly Progress Reports on the implementation of the
project, with the first such report submitted at the end of month S. These reports shall be brief and
in infomal style. These quarterly reports will emmierate the inputs, actviies and outputs of the last
period; the contribution to the project objectives; the problems encountered, and the remedies taken or



44-                                Annex Il-A
proposed; the detailed work plans for the coming period, and suggested changes to the plans for
subsequent periods; and miscellaneous further issues. At the end of the period of the assigmnent, the
Consultant will submit a Final Report, su_mmizing the entire assignment's inputs, activities, outputs,
contributions to objectives, main problems encountered and remedies taken, and recommendations on
the further development of prudential regulations and on-site and off-site supervision in Turkmnenistan.
21.   The reports wil annex all distnbuted training materials (which need not be translated into
English) and contributions to supervision manuals and guidelines. All the reports shall be submitted
to the CBT (3 Russian language copies, and 1 copy in English), the Secretariat of the Cabinet of
Ministers (1 Russian, 1 English), and to the World Bank (2 English, 1 Russian).
22.   The on-site examination reports shall be provided to the CBT and the examined banks in two
copies in Russian for each. The World Bank will be provided access to these examination reports by
the CBT upon request.
Advisors Quaifications
23.   The Consultant must be a bank supervision expert with extensive experience in the preparation
of examination reports and in policy advice. Familiarity with transition economies and/or high
imflation economies will be highly valued. The Consultant should not be replaced during the course
of the program, but it could be done with the prior agreement of the CBT and the World Bank.
Knowledge of the Russian langge would be appreciated but is not required.
24.   The Consultant will be selected primarily according to his or her personal qualifications.
Inputs
25.   The consutant contract will cover: fees including overhead; travel, accommodation, and
living expenses; project-related communication, report distribution, and office supplies; and
translation, nterpretation, and English-language secretarial support.
26.   The CBT will make available to the Consultant: assistance in the arrangement of housing,
hotel rooms, visas, and travel; Russian-language secretarial support; data and legal texts as requested
by the advisors and required for carrying out their assignment; a furnished office with telephone
facility; a classroom facility; and, priority use of part of the office equipment (computers, printers,
facsimile macines, copiers, etc) purchased by the CBT/Government under the Loan but outside the
consultant contract.



-45-                              Ae Il-A
Budget and Fuding
27.   The total fumding of the consultant contract must not exceed US$250,000 for the Bank
Supervision subcomponent. Contingencies amount to US$50,000 to be used flexibly but only with
prior approval of the CBT, PIU, and the Bank. The project wMli also fund, in addition to the
consultant contract, office equipment such as computers of about US$40,000 and study tours for five
CBT senior staff of about US$50,000.
GOT             IBRD            Total
Local    Foreign
(US$ 'o0-3)
On- and Off-site Supervision (12 months)                30        220         250
Training (5 CBT staff                                   10         40          50
Equipment                                                          40          40
Prudential Regulations                                  10         50          60
(see Annex -; 3 months)
SUBTOTAL                                                50        350         400
GOT (contribution for local expenses)        20          -           -         20
TOTAL                                        20         50        350         420
Contingencies                                                      50          S0
GRAND TOTAL                                  20         S0        400         470



46.                                Amnex Il-B
INSTITUTION BUIIDING/TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
Prudetil Regulations of Baoks
Terms of Reference
Badwouid
1.    One of the most important aspects for the transition to a market economy in Turkmwhstan is
the development of capacity for effective prudential supervision over the banidng system by the
Central Bank of Turkmenistan (CBT). However, since the system of prudential supervision in the
country is in its formative stages, it is necessarily beset by a number of p-roblems. The Government
and the CBT are aware of the need to strengthen the function of bank supervision of the CBT and
prudenial reguations to build a sound and efficient banking system.
2.    The CBT created the Bank Supevision Department (BSD) August 5, 1993. However, the
BSD, which encompasses 22 banks with more than 700 brnhes (all the Sberbank agencies included),
suffes from under-staffing (currenty only 7 employees) and limited authority to efectively deal with
commercial banks, especially the large specialized banks.
3.    The pmdential regulations need also to be strenhened. The CBT currently requires
commercial banks to conform to several prudential rules that cover the main dimesions of risks such
as the minimum amount of the authorized capital, the minimum capital ratio, the minimum liquidity
requiement, and the limiations on large exposures. However, these prudentia rules need
improvement compared with norms established in developed market economies. The CBT has
lready started to work on the revision of current prudential regulations.
4.    This compoe  of the proposed Institution-Building/Technical Assistance Loan   eafter
refered to as the 'Loan") will provide technical assistance to stegthen the bank supervision finction
of the CBT in the regulatory aspects such as prudential regulations, bak licensing ruiements, and
the structure of the BSD. This will represent the basis of effective on-site and off-site bank
supervision, the assistance of which will be also funded in another component of the Loan.
Objectves
5.    The main objective of this component is to iniiate appropriate regulatory framework to
strengthen the bank supervision, within the CBT. Specifically, the goals are to assist the CBT to:
*  improve and stengthen the current prudential regulations and bank licensing
requiemet such that they are suitable for sound banking in a competitive envirnment;
and
*   strghen the bank supervision fumction of the CBT through staffing the BSD and
restructg, if necessary, the BSD and other departments related to the bank
supervision.



-47-                                Anmex Il-B
6.    Since regulatory refoms of bank supervision such as strengthening prudental regulations,
bank licensing requirements, and the struture of the BSD are prerequisites for efficient bank
supervision, the envisaged technical assistance of this component will begin in October 1994. This
componen will be carred out by an itenaonally experienced bank supervision expert (hereafter
referred to as the 'Consultant') for three months.
7.    The Consultant will be expected to liaise with other consultants in related areas such as bank
acounting and bank staff training.
8.    In order to meet the initial needs for upgrading the supervisory capabilities of the CBT and
data processing for regulatory reforms, it is expected that up to US$10,000 of the Loan will be spent
for computer equipment and software. The Consultant will assess the initial computer requirements.
Countrpart and Implementaton A       m
9.    The coordinatng agency for this Project, as part of the IAn, is the Secriea of the Cabinet
of Ministers. The Project Implementation Unit (PIU) for the Loan, which is also located in this
agecmy, will be responsible for conual and logistical arrangements. The technical main
ountrpart agency for this component will be the CBT and, therein, the BSD.
Aetvides ad Outxits
10.   To review the current regulatory system in Turknenistan, the head of the BSD will prepare
reference materials conening the orgational strre of the BSD, current prudential regulations,
bank licensing requiement, and the CBT's plan to reform these issues with background documents.
The Consultant will:
(i) review the weaknesses of the BSD in terms of staffing, the role of each staff in the BSD,
the power of the head of the BSD in the CBT, and relations with other departme
related to bank supervision such as the Accounting Department;
(ii) propose a plan to strengthen the institutional functions of bank supervision in the CBT so
that the CBT can carry out on-site and off-site bank supervision efficiently and take an
appropriate action timely based upon the results of the supervision;
(iii) review the appropriateness of the curre  bank licensing requiements and propose a plan
to improve them with a view to ensuring sound bank management and financial viability.
Tbis may include criteria such as the financial capacity of the intended owners,
qualifications of proposed management, and relationships with industrial firms that may
result in connected lending, and standard application forms of bank licensing which
include these criteria;
(lv) review the appropriae     of the current prudential regulaions and propose a plan to
upgrde them with a view to preventing banks from assumng excessive risk that would



48-                                 Annex Il-B
jeopardize their financial solvency. This may include criteria such as capital adequacy
ratios, asset diversification, single customer credit limits, liquidity ratios, loans to
management and shareholders, and asset classification and provisioning, and standard
forms of required repots from the banks. On the other band, the current monopolistic
industrial structure as a transitional economy should be taken into consideration to
prevent credit cnmch from taking place in this country.
(v) assess the initial computer requirements to reform the regulatory framework and to begin
bank supervision.
Reporting
11.   The Consultant will submit, after the first four weeks of the assignment, an Inception Report
that outlines the current regulatory framework concerning bank supervision in the county and
proposed changes that may be appropriate, as well as his or her work program in more detail. This
report shall be brief and in informal style. At the end of the period of the assignment, the Consultant
will submit a Final Report, summarizing the entire assignment's inputs, activities, outputs, main
problems encountered and recommendations on the further development of prudential regulations and
bank supervision in Turkmenistan.
12.   All the reports shall be submited to the CBT (3 Russian language copies, and 1 copy in
English), the Secretariat of the Cabinet of Ministers (1 in Russian, 1 in English), and to the World
Bank (2 in English, 1 in Russian).
Consuant 
13.   The Consultant must be a bank supervision expert with extensive experience in drafting
prudential regulations and policy advice. Familiarity with transition economies and/or high inflation
economies wil be highly valued. Knowledge of the Russian lanage would be appreciated but is not
required.
14.   The Consultant will be selected according to his or her personal qualifications.
Inputs
15.   The consultant contract wiU cover: fees including overhead; travel, a on, and
living expwenses; project-relatd co ication, report distbution, and office supplies; and,
translation, int ation, and English-languae secretarial support.
16.   The CBT wiUl make available to the Consultant: assistance in the arngement of housing,
hotel rooms, visas, and travel; Russian-language secretarial support; data and legal texts as requested
by the Consultant and required for carrying out his or her assignment; a furnished office with
telephone facility; and, priority use of part of the office eqipme  (computers, printers, facsimile
machines, copiers, etc) purchased by the CBT/Govemment under the Loan but outside the consultant
contract.



-49-                              Annex il-B
Budge and F=dbg
17.   The total fnding of the consultant contract must not exceed US$60,000.



-50-                                Annex i-C
INSTITTIVON BUILDINGITECENICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
Support of Bank Accounting and Auditng Reform
Terms of Rderence
Background
1.    The current accountig systems used in Turkmenistan rflect the rationale of the previous
command economy. As such, they aimed mainly at ensuring that the state had full central control
over the enterprises' and banks' use of resources. These systems are clearly not adapted for a
modern, market-oriented economy. As far as the banks are concerned, the min weaknesses of their
present accounting framework relate to the fact that financial staemets do not give an accurate
picture of the bans' situations and performances. In particular, their solvency, liquidity,
profitability, and the need to provision for doubtful and bad loans are inadequately assessed. The
accounting of foreign exchange transactions is also under-developed and the impact of inflation is not
satisfactorily taken into account. These inadequacies constitute significant dangers for the safety of
the banking sector as a whole.
2.    in addition, there is no independent auditing agency for either enterprises or banks' accounts.
The auditing profession does not exist substantially in Turkmenistan.
3.    The Goverment and the Central Bank of Turkmenistan (CBT) are fully aware of these
weaknesses and of the need to rapidly raise accounting and auditing standards. They recognize that
such a reform is particularly important for the banking sector as it is an indispensable prerequisite for
developing appropriate reporting and supervisory procedures, and for presenting to shareholders,
depositors and third parties a fair appreciation of the soundness of banks.
4.    A new accounting chart for enterprises has been discussed at the Ministy of Economy and
Finance with the assistance of international advisors, under a regional project sponsored by the
European Community and covering Turkmenisan, Uzbekis  and Kazakhstan. Financial institutons
require, however, acuntig principles and systems which must be in line with the main orientations
of the general acnting chart but also have to take into consideration the peculiarities of financil
activities.
5.    The CBT is preparing a new accounting system for the baiks based on the new chart of
accounts that has been designed for CIS countries in order to bring it in line with international
practices regarding basic accountig prnciples and presentation. This new chart is referred to as
Broadly Adopted Financial Sttements ("BAFS").
Objectives
6.    The main objective of this component of the World Bank-fumded Institution-
Building/Technical Assistance Loan (hereafter referred to as the 'Loan") is to assist the CBT in the
preparaion and the gradual implementation of banking sector acontig and auding reform.



-51-                               AnAex Il-C
7.    As far as the accounting reform is concermed, the goal will be for the consultig fim
(hereafter referred to as "the Consultant") to play a key supporting role for the CBT in such areas as:
*   legal matters in bank accouing;
*   elaboration of a consistent accounting system for finacial instiattions in harmony with
inteanal standards;
*   dssemination of information on the reform;
* development of basic and advanced training and education programs on the new
standards; and
*   assistance for setting up certification requiments for professionals.
Similar supportg roles will be undertaken by the Consultant under an auditing reform to modernize
standards for auditing of financial entities and arrange education in this country.
8.    Paralel studies are needed to provide enterprises and banks with computerization of
accountng as soon as the new system begins to be implemented. These reforms require that the
Consultant will work closely with the CBT and the working group designated in this institution on the
actvities mentioned afterwards.
9.    This conmponent will be carried out by an experienced consultng firm that has high credentals
and much experience in bank accounting and auditg issues at an international level, as well as a
good knowledge of bank practices and of the legal, accunting and audiing framework in CIS
countries and other transitonal economies.
10.   I is reconmmeded that the selected fim will provide one expert to be resident in Ashgabat all
or a large part of their tinm, and adequate back-up from headquarters, as well as didactic materials.
11.   Since the CBT is already preparing a new accounting system and reform of the accuti
system, as well as auditing, represents a basis for reforms in other components of the Loan such as
strengtheing pmdential bank supervision, diagnostic studies of the banks and medium-term stategy
planning, this component should begin as soon as possible.
Countrpars and Implentation Arane
12.   The coordintng agency for this Project component, as part of the L4an, is the Secriat of
the Cabinet of Ministers. The Project Implementation Urnt (PIU) for the Loan, which is also located
in this agency, will be responsible for contractual and logistical arrangements.



-52-                               Annex 1-C
13.  T.he CBT is the entity in charge of the implementation of the financial sector components of
the Lon. The Accounting Departm  of the CBT will be directly responsible for the implementation
of this componenL
14.   The Consultant will coordinate the work with the department of the Ministry of Economy and
Finance in charge of accounting reform. It will also liaise closely with the audit and the supervision
dVwWma of the CBT, and with the entities in charge of the implemention of the training
prg         for banks' accounta.
15.   This assigment is expected to begin in October 1994 and to be implemented over a period of
approxinately fifteen months.
AcW"  nd Outputs
16.   The component of this project will involve the following activities:
(i) Planing of work related to the bank accountin and auditint reform: The resident
expert will review the present status of the preparatory work related to bank accounting
and auditing reform. On this basis, he or she will propose amendments or new
programs, if required, to the working program of the CBT accounting and reporting
department related to this reform and agree with the chief of this deparqment on his or
her own program, including priorities and timetable. This program will be updated
every quarter and will cover the activities of the department that are related to the reform
for the next 12 months, with an outlook for the subsequet months of the contract
period.
Iii? Imvlementation of the BAPS: The resident expert will review in detail the accuracy of
the implementation of the BAFS by the designated pilot banks, and discuss the results
with the chief aountas of these banks. Based on these findings, he or she will
propose any amendment to the BAPS and to the accompanying instructions that could be
required to faciLitate the generaization of the first stage of the reform. The resident
expert will support the development of computer software for banks to use for producing
the BAFS. The resident expert will also prepare the draft of a didactic presentation of
the BAFS that will be widely circulated to all circles hiterested in this reform, in
particular, training facilities, by the CBT after its clearance. The resident expert will
then assist the CBT in its monitoring of the implemeion of the BAFS by all banks,
and propose further initiative that could facilitate this process.
(iii) DMftn   and inmlementation of the new chart of account and of the insuction manpal:
The resident expert will play a leading role in the drafting of the new chart of account
replang the BAPS and of the related instruction mamnal. The resident expert will play
an active role in the working group that will be set up for the endorsement of these
doumnts. He or she will then assist both the CBT and each of the banks that will test,
on a pilot basis, the new chart and the implementation of this reform, with a pragmatic
and success-oriented approach. Based on this experience, he or she will produce didactic
documenttion directed to banks' chief acotants and will organize and actively
partcipate in their periodic meetings.



-53-                               Annex lI-C
(iv) Development and implementation of bank audtin standards: The resident expert will
play a leading role in the drafting of legal framework on bank auditing, keeping in close
contact with the Ministry of Economy and Finance that is in charge of the auditing
system of enterprises. The resident expert will participate in the discussion of
certification criteria that will have to be defined for audit firms to meet the CBT
requirements and in the definition of bank auditing standards. The resident expert will
also imtiate and actively support various initiatives that will be useful for fostering the
development of the bank auditing profession.
(v) Preparation of new regulatory accounting and statistical reportino : The introduction of
the BAFS and thereafter the new chart of accounts replacing BAFS will have to be
rapidly followed by the design of new forms which the banks will have to routinely send
to the CBT for regulatory and statistial purposes. The resident expert will actively
participate in this endeavor, joindy with the staff of the CBT departments that are
concerned.
(vi) Organizing the training of the new accouninf system: The resident expert will assist the
CBT to provide the on-the-job and classroom training on the new accounting system of
banks to its staff. The resident expert will also deliver lectures on the new accounting
system at the seminars that are designated for the commercial banks' personnel under the
other component of the Loan.
Repordtg
17.   The Consultant will submit an Inception Report within six weeks after commencing its
assignment, mainly with the view of outlining the planned work program in more detail, and
recommending changes (for approval by the CBT and the World Bank) as appropriate in view of the
nitial findings and discussions. This first report will also include the suggested work program for the
CBT's activities related to the banks' accounting ant auditing reform. Thereafter, the Consultant will
submit quarterly a Progress Report, in a brief and informal style, on past and planned activities and
inputs; contnbutions to the project objectives; and problems encountered and remedies proposed or
introducoed. These progress reports will also contain the quarterly updates of the CBT's accounting
and auditing reform work program. The progress reports will annex all formal written materials
provided by the Consultant, including didactic materials. At the end of the assignment the Consultant
wi1l produce a Final Report on all inputs, activities, and outputs of the assignment; the contribution to
project objectives; the main problems encountered and remedies taken; and an outlook on
recommended tasks for the next year as well as the next five years.
18.   All reports shall be submitted in four copies to the CBT (3 in Russian, I in English), two
copies to the Secrariat of the Cabinet of Ministers (1 in Russian, 1 in English) and three copies to
the World Bank (1 in Russian, 2 in English). On the Consultant's suggestion and with the formal
approval of the CBT, furither copies of these reports will be provided to other entities as appropriate.



-54-                               Ane i-C
Consultn  uliiain
19.   The Consultant will be a firm with extensive internmational experience in baking accounting
and auditing, and well aware of similar reforms introduced in other CIS countries, in parcular
Russia, and transition economies. The resident expert shall be personally famdliar with these topics
and have a strong background and experience in inemational rules and practices. He or she should
have proven didactic skldls, a good sense of initiative, and a pragmatic approach. It would be higbly
appreciated if he or she had at least basic Russian language skills; fluent Russian would, of course, be
valued even more.
20.   ITe Consultant will be selected on the basis of thei proposed approach, methodology and
timetable (25%), the qualifications of the firm and experts providing support to the resident expert
(25%), and the profile of the resident expert (50%), respectively. The individual experts cannot be
replaced except with the written prior consent of the CBT, the Secretariat of the Cabinet of Ministers
and the World Bank.
Inputs
21. The Consultant contract will cover: fees including overhead; travel, accommodation and
living expenses; project-related communication, report distnbution and office supplies; English-
langue secretaril support and translation; and, office equpment up to US$8,000 (1 personal
computer with auxiliary equipment, 1 printer and 1 facsimile machine) for the direct project-related
use by the Consltant, to be turned over to the CBT upon project completion.
22. The CBT will make available to the Consultant: assistance in the arrangement of housing,
hotel rooms, visas and travel; Russian-language secretar  support; information required by the
Coua  for carrying out the assignment; and, adequately furshed office space with telephone
ficilities.



-55-                              Annex 1-C
Budget and Funding
23.   The contract witi the Consultant will amount to no more than US$250,000. There is an
additional amount of contingency of US$40,000 to be used flexibly with prior approval by the CBT,
PIU, ad the World Bank.
GOT            IBRD             Total
Local    Foreign
(US$ '000)
Accounting and Auditing (12 man-months)                20         230        250
GOT (contribution for local expenses)        10          -          -         10
TOTAL                                       TO                    230        260
Contingencies                                            -         40         40
GRAND TOTAL                                  10        20         270        300



-56-                               Annex Il-D
INSTrTUTION BUILDING/TECENCAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
Training of Commerdial Bank Personnel
Terms of Reference
Backgro_nd
1.    The Goverment of Turkmenistan is committed to a reform program to transform its centrally
planned economy to a market economy. As part of this transition process, the Goverment wants to
ensure that Turkmenistan has a solid and efficient financial system that wdll support the contuiing
transformation.
2. Based on the new Banking Law introdWuced in June 1992, a two-tier competitive banking
system under the supervision of the Central Bank of Turkmenistan (CBT) has been implemented. In
addition to the CBT, the banking system in Turkmenistan consists of two specialized state banks, two
large commercial banks transformed from the sector-specific banks in the pre-1992 state banking
system, and eighteen new and relatively small banks.
3.    Core employees of the banks are usually university or commercial school graduates. They
are skilled in banking operations in a closed and directed environment. Having had no exposure to
iemational competitive banking in the past, the banking sector employees lack knowledge and sklls
in the modern banking practices and products. Very few staff are fluent in languages other than
Russian or Turkmen. Managements are fully aware of the need to train their staff. A traiing
istiution for bank staff is being established in the country.
4.    Bank managements are also aware of the necessity to learn the dynamics of managing a bank
in a compedtive environment with a prospective freely convertible foreign exchange system. The
implementation of the new national currency, further liberalization of prices, elimination or reduction
of the subsidies to state-owned enterprises (SOEs), privatization of the SOEs, a more liberalized trade
policy emphasizing the need to increase trade with non-CIS countries, and reduction of the subsidized
financial resources provided by the CBT to banks wil have a great impact upon the macreconomic
environment for banks. Bank management strategies and planning for the future under a dynamically
changing macreconomic environent are dhallenges facing the top management of all banks in
Turkmenistan.
Objecdives
5.    The main objective of this component of the World Bank-funded Institution-
Buildingf/echnical Assistance Loan (the "Loan") is to initiate an intensive trainin progm  for a key
professional group of commercial banks and to assist with the implementtion of the planned
program tbrough assisting the CBT to establish and strengthen a trainng institution for the
commercial bank staff. The program should aim at the institutional development of banks in adoptng
international standards of operations.



-57-                               Annex II-D
6.    The priority areas for the program nclude:
* bank management in a competitive environment;
* financial management of banks including asset-liability and cash flow management;
*   accountg in compliance with inteaonal standards;
*  evaluation of lending proposals;
* risk analysis and management;
* international trade finance and foreign exchange; and
* money and capital market practices (including international markets);
*  human resources management.
Aubt~steshateg
7.    This component will be carried out during the course of six monts  by an internationally
experienced consultig firm (the -Consultant") with coordination from the CBT. The Consultant will
be designated as the coordinator and the implementor of the planned training program. The
Consultant wil develop and arrange local delivery of several series of comprehensive training
semimars in the above areas and prepare the groundwork for future programs.
8.    The Consutant should set up a training program including 8 taining courses, in each of
which around 40 core bank staff and managements are expected to participate. To be most effective,
the training provided for this component needs to be practical, applied and concise. The case studies
and smiars ought to emphasize skill building in the local and practical enviome, rather than
being of an academic nature.
9.    This component also includes study tours to developed countries for 10 core personnel from
coImmcal banks to experience the bankig practice in developed market econonies. Each tour will
be for approximately one month.
Contepats and Iml       ton Angem s
10.   The coordinating agency for this Project component, as part of the Loan, is the Secrtriat of
the Cabinet of Ministers. The Project Implementation Unit (PIU) for the Lon, which is also located
in this agency, will be responsible for contract  and logistical arrangements.
11.   The CBT is in charge of implemening the financial sector components of the Loan. The
CBT will provide the Consultant with amenities mentioned afterwards. The CBT wfll also provide
the local premises and inSfaructure support for the training seminars. The traing for this
component will be carried out by four resident experts provided by the Consultant.



-58-                                Annex l-D
Activities and Outu
12.   The Consltant will coordinate and implement the following activities with support from the
CBT:
* To design and manage the training program for six months;
*   To organize the delivery of seminars, including coordination of the selection of
participants in the seminars;
*   To train local training administrators and trainers;
*   To assist the local trainers in the preparation of the seminar contents suitable to the local
envirownent;
*   To assist the CBT in establishing and strengthening a training institution in Ashgabat;
and
* To assist the CBT in selecting ten core personnel from commercial banks and various
countries for the study tours;
13.   The seminars will be performed as follows:
(i) The seminars need to be delivered in Russian or Turkmen. If trainers speaking these
languages are not available, simultaneous translation needs to be provided.
(ii) The seminars should give concise background on theory and concentrate on providing
information with case studies applicable to Turkmenistan. Additional reading materials
expanding on the topics are to be provided to all participants, and these material need to
be in Russian or Turkmen.
(iii) Exercises and practical applications should be emphasized. Participants should be given
homework to practice use of formulas, cases, problems, make calculations, etc. The
exercises and homework need to be in Russian o. Turkmen.
(iv) Participants will have their own calculators. Traning mateials such as overhead
projectors, flipeharts, and some stationary and supplies wiUl be provided by the CBT.
The trainers are expected to provide the master files for their seminars, including the
case studies. A copy of the master training file of each traimng program, including the
case studies and additional reading materials, will remain in the reference center that will
be established in the CBT.
(v) The seminars need to be in progression, from a beginning level to intemediate and
advanced. The participants will be selected according to their areas of function such as
credit, treasury, and accounting. Each seminar should given back-to-back, with the first
one provided to the supervisors and the second to their subordinates, or vice versa.



-59w                                Annex 11-D
(vi) At the end of each seminar, the trainers and participants will need to be evaluated.
Appraisal reports of the participants will be given to the Hwman Resources Depatents
of their respective banks. An appraisal of the seminar and the trainer by the participants
will be kept at the CBT with a copy submitted as part of quarterly reports.
14.   Participants of the study tours should be selected from the participants of the training progrm
by the CBT with assistance from the Consultant, taking their performance into consideration.
RepordtngReqeme
15.   Upon commencement of the contract, the Consultant and the CBT will prepare a joint work
plan with necessary target timing for the conpletion of the parts of the Project. This work plan will
be submitted to the World Bank in three copies (1 in Russian, 2 in English).
16.   After the four months traning period, the Consultant is expected to submit a completion
report to the CBT in four copies (3 in Russian, 1 in English), to the Secretariat of the Cabinet
Ministers in two copies (1 in Russian, 1 in English), and to the World Bank in three copies (1 in
Russian, 2 in English). This report should integrate the asesment for future training needs and
plans.
Qalifications of the Consultant
17.   The Consultant should provide a curriculum vitae of proposed four experts with proper
references which include detailed prior experience in the activities outlined above and a current client
list. The Consultant should be a firm with extensive international experience in the training of the
baning sector. Experience in developing countries is important. In addition, it is highly desirable
for the canddates to be fluent in written and spoken Russian or Turkmen languages.
18.   The Consultant will be selected on the basis of the proposed approach, methodology, and
tmetable (25%), the qualification of the firm (25%), and the profile of the proposed four experts
(50%), respectively. The experts who actually engage in the training cannot be replaced except with
prior written consent of the CBT, the Secretariat of the Cabinet of Ministers, and the World Bank.
19. The Consultant contract will cover: fees including overhead; travel, accommodation, and
living expenses; references; project-related comuication, report distribution, and office supplies;
English-langae secretarial support, interpretation, and translation; personal computers.
20. The CBT wiUl make available to the Consultant: assistiance in the anrangement of hotel
rooms, visas and travel; Russian-language secretarial support; information required by the Consultant
for carrying out the assignment; and, adequately furnished office space with telephone facilities.



.6-                               Annexn Il-D
Budget and Fuding
21.   The conta with the Consultant will amount to no more than US$700,000. The study tours
will amoumt to US$150,000 for ten senior staff from the bans. Computers and otier office
equipment for the training ceater will amount to US$450,000. Contingencies are estimated at
US$40,000, to be used flexibly with prior approval by the CBT, the PIU, and the World Bank.
GOT            IBRD             Total
Local    Foreign
(US$ '000)
Training (including on-the-job training)                50        650         700
(4 consultants for 4 man-months ea. 16 man-months)
Office Equipment/Computers                              40        410         450
Study Tours (S-6 staff)                                 10         140        150
Local Consultants (10 persons for 1 month each)
SUBTOTAL                                               100       1,200      1,300
GOT (contibution for local expeses)           50         -         50          50
TOTAL                                         S0       100       1,250      1,350
Congencies                                               -                     50
GRAND TOTAL                                   50       100       1,300      1,450



-61-                                Annex II-E
INSTITUTION BUILDING/TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
Paymens System
Background
1.    An effective Payment System allows for the safe, efficient and timely execution of payment
trazisactions between different parties (the govermment, enterprises, consumers, etc.) and is vital to
foster a market economy. Although the Payment System in Turkmenistan was adequate for a
centrally plamed economy, the Governent realizes that changes are needed and has already defined
a strategy to modernize the Payment System in order to; (a) improve credit availability, both to
producers and consumers; (b) create an environment that facilitates foreign investment, and
(c) reguate the financial sector to avoid risks and to protect the rights of both intermediaries and
customers.
2.    The Payment System is under the responsibility of the State (Central) Bank of Turkmenistan
(CBT). A unit has been established in the accounting department of the CBT to handle payment
system transactions and inter-bnk clearing and settlement, and is supported by data processing staff.
In addition to the CBT and the Savings Bank, the banking system inludes about 22 commercial bans
having a total of 142 branches throughout the country. The CBT has established five Clearing
Centers (CCs) -the main one located in Ashgabat (the capital city)- which handle an average of
1,500 inter-bank total transactions/day.
3.    For this pmpose, the paper documents corresponding to each inter-bank transaction (including
the payment in nts themselves) are sent from the originating bank branch to the closest CC and
from there, through the main CC in Ashgabat, to the desdnation bank branch. An air courier service
provides same-day communications between the CCs and Ashgabat. According to the CBT, the delay
(or float) in completing each payment transaction runs from a one-day minimum up to a five-day
maximuml.
4.    Intra-bank transactions are the responsibility of each bank and are not processed by the CBT.
Diferent levels of computerization exist in all commercial banks allowing them to at least obtain their
customer accounts and balance sheets daily. Banks reserve requirements are kept by the CBT at the
bank level (as opposed to being per branch). If a bank fails to ful  its reserve requirments its
payments are suspended until its reserve position improves, thus originating longer delays than those
stated above.
5.    With assistance from the IMD, the CBT is modifying the Payment System regulatory and legal
frameworks, including: designing a new Plan of Accounts to be used by commercial banks;
establishing banking standards (such as number of digits to be used to identify banks, branches, client
accounts; payment transaction codes and formats, etc.), and adopting sound risk and monetary
management policies.



-62-                               Annex Il-E
Objectives
6.    In order to improve the operation of the Payment System, it is necssary to diminish the
five-day delay (i.e. float) currenly required to finalize inter-bank payment tractions. As a result
of decreasing the float, the banking system liquidity will improve, the population's confidence in the
Payment System will be enhanced and the use of payment instuments (other than cash) will increase.
Currenty, the only way to significantly speed up the payment process is to shorten the time required
to transfer payments between the commercial banks branches and the CCs. Consequently, this project
component will provide funding to allow for the electronic (paperless) transmission of payment
transactions between the branches of the commercial banks and the CCs, and between the CCs
themselves. To that effect, a global banking network will be established.
Activities and Outputs
7.    A global network, interconnecting all banks' branches with the CCs and the CCs with each
other, needs to be established to allow for the inseous electronic transmission of payment
transactions (as opposed to the current remittance of paper documents that generates delays of up to
five working days). Since the Turkmenistan territory is fairly large (some bank branches are located
X a distance of up to 300 Km from the nearest CC) and the telephone system does not provide total
coverage, a telecom solution - and adequate telecom equipment - will need to be identified and
procred. For this purpose, the loan will provide funding for:
* A "Telecom feasibility study" to be conducted by a consultant (see Annex II-B-1 for
TOR) in the second half of 1994 (approx. cost $50,000), to identify the most
cost-effective solution for each region of the country; and,
*  A "Telecom project" (approx. cost $5,530,000) -including the procrement and
installation of the required telecom equipment, both at the CCs and at the commercial
banks branches- managed by a local staff with the assistance of a consultant (see Anmex
II-B-2 for TOR) to implement, between Jan'95 and Jun'97, the solution identified in the
"Telecom feasibility study".
The equipment required by the commercial banks for interwnnection to the network will be rented to
them by the CBT, thus allowing for cost recovery. The network operadng costs will be recovered by
chargimg the commercial banks a fee per each transaction transmitted through the network.
8.    A software package to keep track of the inter-bank clearing and to obtain each bank's
settlement position has been ordered by the CBT to Mebius, a software house in Minsk (Belarus) and
its cost will be funded by the CBT. With loan funding, a "Computerization project" (approx. cost
$1,020,000) will procure and install adequate computer equipment to run this package in the CCs.
Since this hardware/software will need to be interconnected to the telecom equipment, the
"Computizaton project" (Jan'95 to Jun'97) will be complex and will require the participation of a
consultant to manage it (see Annex II-B-3 for TOR). This consultant will also overview the Telecom
Project. Should computer equipment be needed by the commercial banks, the CBT will lease it to
them.



-63-                               Annex II-B
9.    Other related activities are:
* Since instead of sending the paper payment instruments as is done today, all payment
transactions will be conducted electronically (i.e. paperless), the banking regulations need
to be changed to allow for electronic payments.
* Both CBT staff and staff of the commercial banks need to be trained on modem banking
techniques in particular, these staff must be made aware of the new capabilities and
regulations of the fiture Payment System.
Fding R
10.   Table 1 smmarizes the estimated funding required te modernize the Payment System as well
as the Government of Turkmenistan (GOT) and IBRD's contributions. As indicated in Table 1, the
IBRD project will provide $6.6 million to assist Turlkmenistan to undertake the activities described in
paras 7 and 8. In addition, contingencies amount to US$350,000. The other components of the
project, related to the Financial Sector Reform (Bank Supervision and Prudential Regulations; Bank
Accounting, and Auditing Refonn; Training), will provide funding for the activities in parm 9.



etta4         0   0pi                        Wt 0                8~-
liii .t                                           i     i
Jr~



-65-                             Annex Il-E-I
INSTITUION BUILDING/TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
Feasibilit Study for the Imlementation
of a Bankdng Communications Network
Terms of Reference
Bakgrund and Objectives
1.    With funds provided by a World Bank loan, the Central Bank of Turkmenistan (CBT) will
contract a consultant to undertake a Feasibility Study on the implementation of a country-wide
baking data network. The network will be used for the electronic transmission of all the inter-bank
payment transactions of the national Payment System. In addition, the network will also be used to
twnmit banking-related electronic messages.
2.    Current Situation: The Payment System is under the responsibility of the Central Bank of
Turbmistan (CBT). Its current status can be summaized as follows:
* In addition to the CBT and the Savings Bank (which does not handle legal entities'
accounts) the banking system comprises about 22 commercial banks which, throughout all
of Turkmenistan, have a total of 142 branches (expected to increase to 200). The largest
banks were formerly state banks and their major shareholders are ministries and
state-owned corporations. When such corporations are privatized, many of these banks
will become private too. As in other FSU republics, the major banks are oriented towards
specific fields of economic activit (agriculture, oil and gas, industry, etc.) while the
Savings Bank is used only by the general population (although persons can open accounts
in any bank).
* The CBT has established five Clearing Centers (one in Ashgabat, the capital city, and
four inside the country) to handle an average of 1,500 total inter-bank payment
transactions per day, with a peak of up to 4,350/day. Intra-bank transactions (i.e. those
between clients of the same bank) are not processed by the CBT and the volume of these
transactions is estimated at 14,410/day (maximum). Payment instruments include:
Payment Orders (which represent 60% to 70% of the total volume); Payment Requests
(20%); Checks (which were recently introduced and are not very popular yet, 5% to
10%), and others (such as Letters of Credit).
*  Currently, the paper documents of each inter-bank transaction must be sent by the
originating bank to the closest CBT Clearing Center (CC). A correspondent account for
each bank is kept at each CC. Paper payment instuments having a destination bank within
the same CC are sent to it after being posted in the correspondent accounts of both the
originating and destination banks. When the destination bank belongs to a different CC,
the paper payment instrument is sent to the main CC in Ashgabat and, the same day, from
Ashgabat to the CC of the destination bank (if it is located outside Ashgabat). For this
purpose, a special daily air courier servce exists between Ashgabat and each CC thus
allowing for same-day transportation of the paper payment instrumens.



-6                                Annex i-B-1
*  According to the CBT, the float (i.e. the delay between the moment when a payment
instrument is issued until it is posted in the account of the destination beneficiary) varies
between a one-day mnimum and a five-day maxi .
* Settlement is done daily by the CBT in Ashgabat for each bank as a whole, adding up the
bank's correspondent account in each CC, which is transmitted by the CC to Ashgabat via
teletype. The reserve requirements of each bank are for the bank as a whole and not for
each branch of the bank. Since overdrafts are not pennitted, when a bank position falls
below the reserve requirement, payments against this bank, in all its branches, are
suspended until such time when the ban's position is normalized. This might result in
longer delays for the affected payments.
* At the request of the originating client, a payment instrument can be anticipated to the
destination bank by telephone or telegraph, in which case the float is eliminated.
* Different levels of computerization exist in all banks. The most advanced seems to be the
Commercial Bank of Turkmenistan (AKb) which has established direct electronic data
trangsmission between its Head Office and all its 40 branches. At a minimum, all banks are
able to process daily their customer accounts and balance sheets. Most banks seem to be
using a software package originated in Kiev and a 9-digit account number for corporate
clients. However, for personal accounts (which all banks have) a 6-digit account number
is used and each bank has developed its own system, generating a lack of sandardizon.
The CBT is studying the definition of new standards to be used by all banks, including
new client account numbers, a new Plan of Accounts to be used by all banks, etc.
*  The CBT is also using PCs. However, most of them are 286 machines, some built in
Russia a long time ago. Many commercial banks are in the same situation. In terms of
sophistication, Novel LANs are being used in some cases, while there does not seem to be
m the banking system any Apple machine or computers more powerfil than PCs.
Regarding staff, although system designers and analysts are difficult to find, programmers
and operators are available.
3.    Fture Evolution: The CBT is aware of the importance of the Payment System in a market
economy and has already defined a strategy to improve it. In order to diminish the float, all
transactions will be conducted electronically (as opposed to using the paper documents as is done
today). A PC-based system to handle the inter-bank clearing and settlement processes has been
ordered by the CBT to Mebius, a software house in Minsk (Belarus). The system is being developed
using C for MS-DOS machines (UNIX was not considered due to the lack of local expertise on this
operating system). From a hardware point of view, about 150 PCs will be required by the CBT at the
five CCs to implement the system, some of which will function as servers in Novel LANs (thus
requirmg larger configurations). The system supposedly will be flexible enough to accommodate
different Payment System alternatives. Total development time was estimated at 12 months.
4.    Since the Turkmenistan territory is fairly large and the telephone system does not provide
total coverage, a telecom solution needs to be found to allow for the electronic transfer of payment
transactions (some bank branches are located at a distance of up to 300 Km from the nearest CC).
Satelle-based transmission is a possibility that should be considered, although the AKb has been able



-67-                             Annex lI-E-l
to trasmit data between all its 40 branches and their Head Office using normal dial-  telephone
lines and a data-only network called ISKRA-2. Though a "basic" (backbone) CBT network would
interconnect the five CCs, since same-day payment transactions between the CCs is already provided
by the present air courier service, the only way to speed up the payment process is to diminish the
time required to transfer payments between bank branches and the CCs.
5.    Consequently, the World Bank loan includes funding for the equipment needed by each
commercial bank branch for interconnection to the CBT basic network, tbus cratig a "global"
network. This approach also insures full compatibility, lower unit costs (due to the larger volume of
bardware/software to be procured) and timely implementation of a global network including not only
the CBT's CCs (backbone) but also all branches and head offices of all commercial banks. Since the
volume of payment transactions to be transmitted is relatively low, banks will also be allowed to
utilize the network to exchange data between branches and the head office of the same bank as well as
between different banks. To use this facility, banks will pay the CBT a reasonable fee per transaction.
6.    Objectives of the Study: The feasibility study will identify the most cost-effective ways of
transmitting data electronically between each of the commercial banks' branches/head office and the
CCs and between the CCs and Ashgabat. Many bank branches will be able to utilize their own PCs
and regular dial-up telephone lines to communicate with the CCs, while others may require new PCs
and microwave equipment or even satellite links depending on the topology at their location.
7.    For this purpose, an in order to detrmine present telecom capabilities in Turkmenistan as
well as future plans, the consultant will meet with authorities in the Ministry of Comnmnications, the
National Telephone company, the banks and other telecom-related vendors and users as appropriate.
As a result, the consultant will come up with feasible telecom solutions (normal dial-up telephone
lines, dedicated telephone lines, radio-based solutions, microwave links, using data-only networks,
satellite-based communicatons, etc.) and all its associated costs. It is envisaged that the consultant
wil typify each region of the country where there are curent and/or planned branches of commercial
banks (number and geographical dispersion of the bank branches, types and average and peak volume
of tansactions/messages within a 5-year dtmefrare, etc.) and that the most cost-effective telecom
solution (or whether transactions will need to be forwarded on magnetic media such as diskettes) for
each region will be identified.
8.    The consultant will propose specific hardware/software solutions for: (a) the "basic" backbone
network (i.e. the five CCs), including network management methodology and procedures, and
(b) different situations (in terms of volume of transactions and optimal telecom solution available in
each geographical region) for typical commercial bank branches. These solutions will describe in
detil both the computer and telecom eqipment reqired (including recommended redundancies), data
trasmission software (including data security, encryption, recovery mechanisms, jourmalizing
methodology, etc.) and the coresponding expected costs of prourement, installation, staff training
and operation, as well as possible hardware mainenance arrangements. In describing these solutions
the consultant will not mention specific hardware/software manuflactumrs or brands but rather generic
features that the CBT will use for the preparation of competitive bidding documents.
9.    In addition, the consultant will propose an Implementation Plan with critical milestones/major
events; staffing reqwirements and training needs both at the CBT and commercial banks, and



-68-                             Amex l-E-I
recommendation as to whether an initial third party network implementation, management and/or
operation would be necessary/advisable and, if so, for how long.
Consuant's Q     ios
10. The person conducting the Study will have at least 10-year experience in the telecom sector,
with emphasis on data transmission. This person must have undertaken at least one similar
countrywide telecom study. It would be highly desirable some experience on telecom issues in other
PSU republics and some knowledge of the Russian language. The consultant's proposal must include
the Resume of the person that will conduct the study; the CBT reserves the right to verify the
performance and experience claims. The staff proposed for this study must be made available at the
time the project begins and can not be replaced during the execution of the project without prior
agreement in writing of the CBT. In evaluating all proposals received, the CBT will give greatest
weight to the qualifications of the individual responsible for conducting the study.
Work A    mns and Deliverables
11.   In order to perform the job, it is estimated that one person will need to work in Turkmenit
during 30 days. The CBT will provide office space, secretarial and translation services
(English/lussian), local transportion, visas and hotel reservations.
12.   The consultant is expected to bring its own computer equipment for performing the
assignment. The consultant's proposal should be done on an all-costs-included basis, covering its fee
and overheads, round-trip transportation between its place of residence and Ashgabat, living expenses
while in Turkmenisan and all other costs.
13. The CBT will appoint a Project Manager who will be the consultant's main interlocutor. The
Project Manager wil assist the consultant in identifying the appropriate institutions/persons to meet
and setting up appointments with them. The consultant will meet once per week with the Project
Manager to inform on the status of the project, including activities undertaken during the period,
accomplishments and problems encountered if any, and to discuss the program of activities for the
following period. At each of these meetings, the consultant wiUl deliver a Project Status Report to the
Project Manager. At the end of the project the consultant will issue a Final Report containing all the
findings and rcommendations. The Final Report can be prepared by the consultant in Turkmenistan
or at its place of residence, but it must be delivered to the CBT not later than 2 weeks after
completing the research work in Turkmenistan. The consultant shall deliver the Final Report to the
CBT both in Russian and English and the consultant wiUl also send a copy of the English version to
the World Bank. Total elapsed time between the moment when the consultant is eWged by the CBT
and the reception of the Final Report at the CBT should not exceed 60 days.
Budget
14. The total cost of the contract is expected to be no more than US$50,000 (US$40,000 in
foreign currency and US$10,000 equivalent in local currency).



-69-                              Annex U-E-2
INSTiTUTON BUILDING/TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
Project Maagement - Jm      ton
of the Baldng CM Ia  is Network
Terns of Referee
Background and Objectives
}.    With funds provided by a World Bank loan, the Central Bank of Turkmenistan (CBI) will
contract a consutant to assist managing the implementation of a country-wide banking data network.
The network will be used for the electroric transmission of all the inter-bank payment tsactions of
the national Payment System. In addition, the network will also be used to transmit banking-related
electronic messages.
2.    Current situation: The Payment System is under the responsibility of the Cental Bank of
Turkmebstan (CBT). Its curent status can be summarzed as follows:
* In addition to the CBT and the Savings Bank (which does not handle legad entities'
accounts) the banking system comprises about 22 commercial banks which, throughout all
of Turkmenistan, have a total of 142 branches (expected to increase to 200). The largest
bans were formerly state banks and their major shareholders are ministries and
state-owned corporations. When such corporations are privatzed, many of these banks
will become private too. As in other FSU republics, the major banks are oriented
towards specific fields of economic activity (agriculture, oil and gas, industry, etc.) wbile
the Savings Bank is used only by the general population (although persons can open
accounts in any bank).
The CBT has established five Clearing Centers (one in Ashgabat, the capital city, and
four inside the country) to handle the inter-bank payment transactions, which amount to
an average of 1,500 per day, with a peak of up to 4,350/day. Intra-bank transactions (i.e.
those between clients of the same bank) are not processed by the CBT.
*  CArently, the paper documents of each inter-bank transaction are sent by the origiatng
bank to the closest CBT Clearing Center (CC). A correspondent account for each bank is
kept at each CC. Paper payment inments having a destination bank withn the same
CC are sent to it after being posted in the co nt accounts of both the originating
and destinaon banks. When the desinaton bank belongs to a different CC, the paper
payment insument is sent to the main CC in Ashgabat and, the same day, from Ashgabat
to the CC of the destination bank (if it is located outside Ashgabat). For this purpose, a
special daily air courier service exdsts between Ashgabat and each CC thus allowing for
same-day transporion of the paper payment nsrments.
* Different levels of comuterization exist in all banks. The most advanced seems to be the
Commerial Bank of Turk    sn (AKb) which has established direct electronic data
tasmission between its Head Office and all its 40 branches. At a minimum, all bans
are able to process daily their customer accounts and balance sheets.



-70-                              Annex Il-E-2
* In terms of sophistication, Novell LANs are being used in some cases, while here does
not seem to be in the banking system any Apple machine or computers more powerful
than PCs. Regarding staff, although system designers and analysts are difficult to find,
programmers and operators are available.                                1
3.    Future evolution: The CBT is aware of the importance of the Payment System in a market
economy and has already defined a strategy to improve it. In order to diminish the float, all
transactions will be conducted electronically (as opposed to using the paper documents as is done
today). A PC-based system to handle the inter-bank clearing and setdement processes has been
ordered by the CBT to Mebius, a software house in Minsk (Belarus). The system is being developed
using C for MS-DOS machines (UNIX was not considered due to the lack of local expertise on this
operating system). From a hardware point of view, about 150 PCs will be required by the CBT at
the five CCs to implement the system, some of which will function as servers in Novell LANs (thus
requiring larger configurations). The system supposedly will be flexible enough to accommodate
different Payment System alternatives. Total development time was estimated at 12 months.
4.    Since the Turlkenistan terrtory is fairly large and the telephone system does not provide
total coverage, a telecom feasibility study has been conducted by a consultant in order to find the
most cost-effective solutions to allow for the electronic transfer of payment instruments (some bank
branches are located at a distance of up to 300 Km from the nearest CC). Though a "basic"
(backbone) CBT network will interconnect the five CCs, since same-day payment transactions
between the CCs is already provided by the present air courier service, the only way to speed up the
payment process is to diminish the time required to transfer payments between the branches of
commercial banks and the CCs. Consequently, the World Bank loan includes funding for the
equipment needed in each branch of commercial banks to be interconnected with the CBT backbone
network, thus creating a "global' network. This approach also insures full compatibility, lower unit
costs (due to the larger volume of hardware/software to be procured) and timely implementation of a
global network including not only the CBT's CCs (backbone) but also all branches and head offices of
all commeial banks. Since the volume of payment transactions to be transmitted is relatively low,
bank will also be allowed to utilize the network to exchange data between branches and the head
office of the same bank as well as between different banks. To use this facility, banks will pay the
CBT a reasonable fee per each transaction/message transmitted through the network.
5.    Objectives of the EnFagU : The telecom feasibility study has identified the most
cost-effective ways of transmitting data electronically between each of the commercial banks'
branches/head office and the CCs and between the CCs and Ashgabat. Many bank branches will be
able to utilize their own PCs and regular dial-up telephone lines to communicate with the CCs, while
others will require new PCs and microwave equipment or even satellite links depending on the
topology at their location. The feasibility study has typified each region of the country where there
are current and/or planned branches of commercial banks, esablishing number and geographical
dispersion of the bank branches, types and average and peak volume of transactions/messages within a
5-year timeframe, etc. The most cost-effective telecom solution and all its associated costs (or
whether transactions will need to be forwarded on magnetic media such as diskettes) for each region
has been identified. Now these telecom solutions must be implemented.



-71-                              Annex l-E-2
6.    For this purpose, and under the general supervision of the Project Manager responsible for
the inmplementation of the computer-based national Payment System mentioned in point 3 above, the
consultant will assist a local Network Project Manager in the following areas:
6.1   Preparation of a detailed Implementation Plan covering all the activities required to
implement the global network. For each activity, its duration and estimated start and end dates will
be established. The Plan will be prepared using the Microsoft's "Project' software package and will
be submitted to the World Bank for no objection. Throughout the Project's execution, the Plan will
be kept updated using Microsoft's Project and progress reports indicating the actual duration of
activities already completed, new estimates of activities not yet completed, etc., will be submitted
monthly to the World Bank.
6.2   Etablishment of a unit inside the CBT that will be responsible for conducting the
global network implementation as well as the network's operation (provision of technical support to
end-users, maintenance service, etc.). The consultant will assist in defining the type and number of
specialists/technicians required, preparing the corresponding job descriptions. The unit's
organizational structure and its location within the CBT will be defined. The consultant will assist in
the search and hiring of the required staff and will define appropriate training plans. Monthly
progress reports on these staffing activities will be sent to the World Bank.
6.3   Preparation of a detailed List of telecom and computer hardware and software
(including equipment/software for encryption/data security, data protection and recovery, etc.)
required to set up the global network (i.e. at each CBT CC location as well as at each branch of each
commercial bank). This List will include the estimated procurement and instllation dates of each
item and the estimated costs. The original List will be submitted to the World Bank. The List will
be updated and reissued monthly and a copy will be sent to the World Bank.
6.4 Preparation of the bidding documents for the procurement of the hardware and
software of point 6.3 and solicitation of proposals following the World Bank procurement guidelines.
6.5   Selection of the most beneficial proposal(s) received as a result of the bidding process
described in point 6.4 and, upon obtaining the World Bank's no objection, preparation of the
corresponding purchase orders/contracts with the vendors.
6.6   Preparation of instllation plans for the hardware/software to be delivered, including
tests to be conducted to insure correct operation as well as performance (in terms of speed,
throughput, etc.) according to specifications. Upon satisfactory conclusion of hardware/software
insallation, appropriate documentation will be issued and sent to the World Bank. In case an
instaflation could not be completed satisfactorily, remedial actions will be established in agreement
with the corresponding vendor(s) and reported to the World Bank. Such remedial actions may include
the replacement of a certain item or even the cancellation of a purchase and the need to conduct a
new procurment process.
6.7   Preparation of appropriate maintenance and technical support activities to insure the
correct operation of the hardware/software installed at all locations.



-72-                             Annex H-E-2
6.8   The telecom equipment to be installed at the commerci bank branches will be the
property of the CBT The CBT will rent this equipment to the commercial banks. The consultant
will assist in deminng appropriate rental fees for the equipment, taking into consideration the
equipment depreciation and operating costs (such as maintenance and support as described in point
6.7). These rental fees will be submitted to the World Bank for no objection.
6.9   The consultant will also assist in establishing the fee that commercial banks will pay
for the transmission of transactions/messages across the global network. This fee will allow the CBT
to recover its investnents in the global network as well as the corresponding operating costs and will
be submitted to the World Bank for no objection.
Work Angen
7.    In order to perform the job, it is estimated that one person will need to work in Turkmenisan
during 90 to 120 days, throughout a 2-year period. The CBT will provide office space, secretarial
and translation services (English/Runssian), local transportation, visas and hotel reservations. The
consultant is expected to bring its own computer equipmt for performing the assignment. The
consultant's proposal should be done on an all-costs-included basis, covering its fee and overheads,
round-trip transportation between its place of residence and Ashgabat, living expenses while in
Turkmenistan and all other costs. In addition, the proposal should include a fee for follow-up
activities to be performed by the consutant from its place of residence.
Consultas Qualiiications
8.    The consultant wiU have at least 10-year experience in the telecom sector, with emphasis on
the implementation of data transmission networks. This person must have managed at least one
similar country-wide network implemaion. It would be highly desirable some experience on
telecom issues in other FSU republics and some knowledge of the Russian language. The consultant's
proposal must include the resume of the person that wiU perform the job; the CBT reserves the right
to verify the performance and experience claims. The staff proposed for this study must be made'
available at the time the project begins and can not be replaced during the execution of the project
without prior agreement in writing of the CBT. In evaluating all proposals received, the CBT will
give greatest weight to the qualifications of the individual that will perform the job.
Budget
9.    The total cost of the contract is exected to be no more than US$130,000 (US$100,000 in
foreign currency and US$30,000 equivalent in local currency) for the equivalent of 5 man-months of
work.



-73-                             Annex Il-E-3
INSTIrUTION BUILDING/TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
Project Magement - Implemeon
of the Computerized National Paymnent System
Tenus of Referdee
Bwcrund and Objectives
1.    With funds provided by a World Bank loan, the Cental Bank of Turkmenistan (CBT) will
contr  a consultant to manage the implementation of a computer-based national Payment System.
The system will be used to process all the inter-bank payment transactions of the national Payment
System, calculating inter-bank clearing amounts and obtaining daily the settlement position of each
bank (Inter-bank Indebtedness Matrix).
2.    Current situation: The Payment System is under the responsibility of the Central Bank of
Turkmenistan (CBT). Its current status can be summarized as follows:
: In addition to the CBT and the Savings Bank (which does not handle legal entities'
accounts) the banking system comprises about 22 commercial banks which, throughout all
of Turkmenistan, have a total of 142 branches (expected to increase to 200). The largest
banks were formerly state banks and their major shareholders are ministres and
state-owned corporations. When such corporations are privatized, many of these banks
will become private too. As in other FSU republics, the major banks are oriented
towards specific fields of economic activity (agriculture, oil and gas, industry, etc.) while
the Savings Bank is used only by the general population (although persons can open
accounts in any bank).
* The CBT has established five Clearing Centers (one in Ashgabat, the capital city, and
four inside the country) to handle the inter-bank payment transactions, which amount to
an average of 1,500 per day, with a peak of up to 4,350/day. Intra-bank transactions (i.e.
those between clients of the same bank) are not proessed by the CBT and the volume of
these transactions is estimated at 14,410/day (maximum). Payment instruments include:
Payment Orders (which represent 60% to 70% of the total volume); Payment Requests
(20%); Checks (which were recenty introduced and are not very popular yet, 5% to
10%), and others (such as Letters of Credit).
*  Currenty, the paper documents of each inter-bank transacton must be sent by the
originating bank to the closest CBT Cleaing Center (CC). A correspondent account for
each bank is kept at each CC. Pape payment insuments having a destination bank
within the same CC are sent to it after being posted in the correspondent accounts of both
the originating and destination bans. When the desination bank belongs to a different
CC, the paper payment instrument is sent to the main CC in Ashgabat and, the same day,
from Ashgabat to the CC of the desdnation bank (if it is located outside Ashgabat). For
this purpose, a special daily air courier service exists between Ashgabat and each CC thus
allowing for same-day transportation of the paper payment nsumens.



-74-                              Annex II-E-3
* According to the CBT, the float (i.e. the delay between the moment when a payment
instrument is issued until it is posted in the account of the destination beneficiary) vares
between a one-day minimum and a five-day maximum. Settlement is done daily by the
CBT in Ashgabat for each bank as a whole, adding up the bank's correspondent account
in each CC, which is transmitted by the CC to Ashgabat via teletype. The reserve
requirements of each bank are for the bank as a whole and not for each branch of the
bank. Since overdrafts are not permitted, when a bank position falls belowv the reserve
requirement, payments against this bank, in all its branches, are suspended until such time
when the bank's position is normalized. This might result in longer delays for the
affected payments.
* At the request of the originating client, a payment instrument can be anticipated to the
destinatiou bank by telephone or telegraph, in which case the float is eliminated.
* Different levels of computerization exist in all banks. The most advanced seems to be the
Commercial Bank of Turkinenistan (AKb) which has established direct electronic data
transmission between its Head Office and all its 40 branches. At a minimum, all banks
are able to process daily their customer accounts and balance sheets. Most banks seem to
be using a software package originated in Kiev and a 9-digit account number for corporate
clients. However, for personal accounts (which all banks have) a 6-digit account number
is used and each bank has developed its own system, generating a lack of standardization.
The CBT is studying the definition of new standards to be used by all banks, including
new client account numbers, a new Plan of Accounts to be used by all banks, etc.
* The CBT is also using PCs. However, most of them are 286 machines, some built in
Russia a long time ago. Many commercial banks are in the same situation. In terms of
sophistication, Novell LANs are being used in some cases, while there does not seem to
be in the banking system any Apple machine or computers more powerful than PCs.
Regarding staff, although system designers and analysts are difficult to find, programmers
an opemtors are available.
3.    Future    uin: T'he CBT is aware of the importance of the Payment System in a market
economy and has already defined a strategy to improve it. In order to diminish the float, all
transactions will be conducted electronically (as opposed to using the paper documents as is done
today). A PC-based system to handle the inter-bank clearing and setdement processes has been
ordered by the CBT to Mebius, a software house in Minsk (Belarus). The system is being developed
using C for MS-DOS machines (UNIX was not considered due to the lack of local expertise on this
operaing system). From a hardware point of view, about 150 PCs will be required by the CBT at
the five CCs to implement the system, some of which will function as servers in Novell LANs (thus
requiring larger configurations). The system supposedly will be flexible enough to accommodate
different Payment System alternatives. Total development time was estimated at 12 months.
4.    Since the Turkmenistan territory is fairly large and the telephone system does not provide
total coverage, a telecom feasibility study has been conducted by a consultant in order to find the
most cost-effective solutions to allow for the electronic transfer of payment instruments (some bank
branches are located at a distance of up to 300 Km from the nearest CC). Thr lgh a 'basic"
(backbone) CBT network will interconnect the five CCs, since same-day payment transactions



-75-                              Annex Il-E-3
between the CCs is already provided by the present air courier service, the only way to speed up the
payment process is to diminish the time required to transfer payments between bank branches and the
CCs. Consequendy, the World Bank loan includes funding for the equipment needed by each
commercial bank branch to be interconnected with the CBT backbone network, thus creating a
"global" network. This approach also insures full compatibility, lower unit costs (due to the larger
volume of hardware/software to be procured) and timely implementation of a global network
including not only the CBT's CMs (backbone) but also all branches and head offices of all connercial
baks. Since he volume of payment transactions to be transmitted is relatively low, banks will also
be allowed to utilize the network to exchange data between branches and the head office of the same
bank as well as between different banks. To use this facility, banks wIll pay the CBT a reasonable
fee per each transaction/message transmitted through the network.
5.    Objectives of the Enaggement: The consultant will be the Project Manager responsible for the
implementation of the computer-based national Payment System. A local Deputy Project Manager
will be appointed by the CBT to work joindy with the consultant. It is estimated that the consultant's
engagement will last 12 consecutive months and that at the end of this period the Deputy Project
Manager will be able to take over the project's conducdon.
6.    As indicated above in point 3., a software package has already been ordered by the CBT.
The Project Manager will be responsible for the installation at the CBT's CCs of this package as well
as the associated hardware. At the same time, another sub-project aims at establishing the global
network intercontig the CBT's CCs with al branches and head offices of all commercial banks as
described in point 4. above. The Project Manager will also be responsible for overseeing the global
networking sub-project (another consultant will be hired to assist in the implementation of the global
network and the corresponding Terms of Reference are atached). The consultant's major duties will
be as follows:
6.1   Preparation of a detailed Implementation Plan covering all the activities required to
implement the computer-based national Payment Systen. For each activity, its duration and estimated
start and end dates will be established. The Plan will be prepared using the Microsoft's "Project"
software package and will be submitted to the World Bank for no objection. Throughout the Project's
execution, the Plan will be kept updated using Microsoft's Project and progress reports indicating the
acual duration of activities already completed, new estimates of activities not yet completed, etc., will
be submitted monthly to the World Bank.
6.2    Data Processing and Payment System units already exist in the CBT. The consultant
will determine if additional staff is required to implement, operate and maintain the new
computerbased Payment System, in which case he/she will prepare the corresponding job
descriptions. If necessary, the units' organizadonal structure and their location within CBT will be
redefined. The consultant will assist in the search and hiring of the required staff and will define
appropriate training plans both for the existent and the newly recruited staff. Monthly progress
reports on these staffing activities will be sent to the World Bank.
6.3   Preparation of a detailed List of computer hardware and software required to
implement the computer-based national Payment System at each CBT CC location. This List will
include the estimated procuremem and installation dates of each item and the estimated costs. The



-76-                             Annex I-E-3
original List will be submitted to the World Bank. The List will be updated and reissued monthly and
a copy will be sent to the World Bank.
6.4   Preparation of the bidding docmments for the procurment of the hardware and
software of point 6.3 and solicitation of proposals following the World Bank procurement guidelines.
6.5   Selection of the most beneficial proposal(s) received as a result of the bidding process
described in point 6.4 and, upon obtaing the World Bank's no objection, preparation of the
corresponding purchase orders/contracs for the vendors.
6.6 Preparation of installation plans for the hardware/software to be delivered, including
tests to be conducted to insure correct operation as well as performunce (in terms of speed,
throughput, etc.) according to specifications. Upon satisfactory conclusion of hardware/software
installbf r.Pn, appropria documentation will be issued and sent to the World Bank. In case an
instailatim could not be completed satisfactorily, remedial actions will be established in agteement
with the corresponding vendor(s) and reported to the World Bank. Such remedial actions may include
the replacement of a certain item or even the cancellation of a purchase and the need to conduct a
new procurement process.
6.7   Preparation of appropriate maitnce and technical support activities to insure the
correct operation of the hardware/software installed at all locadons.
6.8   Supervision of the Global Network implementation sub-project.
6.9   Training of the Deputy Project Manager so that he/she can take over the project's
conduction at the end of the 12-month period.
Work Ar
7.    In order to perform the job, it is esmated that the consultant will need to work in
Turkmenistan during a 1-month period. The CBT wil provide office space, secretarial and
translation services (English/Russian), local transportation, visas and hotel reservations. The
consultant is expected to bring its own computer equipment for performing the assignment. The
consultant's proposal should be done on an all-costs-included basis, covering its fee and overheads,
round-trip transportation between its place of residence and Ashgabat, living expenses while in
Turkmenistan and all other costs. In addition, the proposal should include a fee for follow-up
activities to be performed by the consultant from its place of residence, if needed, at the end of the
12-month period.
Contant's  fi        S
8.    The consultant will have at least 10-year experience in the implementation of complex
microcomputer-based systems, with emphasis in the bkng sector. Knowledge of computerized
Payment Systems is highly desirable. It would also be highly desirable some experience on banking
issues in other FSU republics and some knowledge of the Russian language. The consultant's



-77-                             Annex 11--3
proposal must include the Resumne of the person that will perform the job; the CBT reserves the right
to verify the performance and experience claims. The staff proposed for this study must be made
availUable at the time the project begins and can not be replaced during the execution of the project
without prior agreement in writing of the CBT. In evaluating all proposals received, the CBT will
give greatest weight to the qualifications of the individual that will perform the job.
Bude
9.    The total cost of the contract is expected to be no more than US$130,000 (uS$100,000 in
foreign currency and US$30,000 equivalent in local currency) for the equivalent of 5 man-months of
work.



-78-                              Anx M-A
INSTUTION BUILDINGITECHNICAL ASST ANCE PROJECT
Plic Investment Projects Analysis
Terms of Reference
Backgouond
1.    Turkmenistan is well endowed with energy and other mineral resources but despite its national
wealth the country is one of the least developed of the fonner Soviet Union republics. Thus the
surpluses gerated from exports need to be reinvested in high priority and bigh return projects to
generate long term economic growth. The Government is currtly planning several projects but
many of these projects have had no cost benefit analysis done.
2.    Curnly, the preparation of the public investment program is the responsibility of the
Ministry of Economy and Finance (MOEF). MOEF is in charge of national and regional
development planming, and project prearation and monitoring. MOEF evaluates each investment
proposal submitted by the sector ministries. The projects are then presented to the Cabinet of
Minsters, an inteinal group, for review which gives the final approval.
3.    However, the sector ministries as well as MOBF lack the technical capability to select,
prepare and appraise investment projects in terms of their economic/fncial viability, social effects
and importance to the overall country development strategy. Invesuent planning does not tae into
account adequately the implications of m oeconomic policy.
Objectives
4.    The key objective of this cmponent is to srgdt   the capacity of the Goverment, to
manage the surpluses generated from exports carefully and to the extent the resource flow back
through the Goverment's budget, to ensure that these resources are invested in high return and
priority projects which take into account project risk and cost of capital and are conistent with
national and sectoral priorities.
S.    In this process the consultant will be expected to include, as a part of its work team, local
consultants recrited by the government under this technical assistance program. The objective will be
to extend the depth and breadth of the work through the use of local consultants while at the same
time imparting the expertis to these local consultants so that they may acquire the capabiities to
provide indigenous support to the govemment in the futumre.
Countwpart Agec
6.    The proposed project would be coordnated and administred by MOEF.



-79-                              Annex m-A
Acivitie and Outputs
7.    The following activities are proposed for financing:
* Assess the Govermnent's capacity to prepare projects, determine project priorities, links
to macro and sectoral strategies, and to the budget and project unplementation.
* Propose appropriate organization structure and make recommendations to improve
project selection and preparation in the conlext of macroeconomic planning, sectoral
policy fonnulation, evaluation (including economic, financial, social and environmental
aspects of project design) of projects and budget. In particular this should address the
approach and analysis for both large and small projects.
*   Prepare proposals to strenghen the sector ministries capacity to develop an investment
program, and project identification and preparation based on economic, financial and
social cost benefit and environmental analysis.
*  Assess the capability for project imple ion. The slow pace of project preparation
and implementation represents a high cost to the economy in terms of cost over runs and
delayed project benefits.
* Provide training through seminars and overseas study tours for selected staff of MOEF
and sector ministies in economic, financial and social analysis of projects including the
concepts of project risk and cost of capital.
* Provide computers and other equipment, and appropriate software (and training) to
facilitate project and budget management and monitoring (Annex M-Al).
Reporog       R   --I
8.    The consultant and the MOEF will prepare a joint work plan with appropriate targets for
completing specific components. This work plan will be submitted to the MOEF and the World Bank
within six weeks. Thereafter, the consultant will submit quarterly progress reports, and draft and
final reports on the rommendaons on the organization, trining, and the methodology of project
analysis an management.
Consulta Qualicons
9.    The consultant should be a firm with extensive intemational experience in the areas of project
anadysis and management, and economic mnagement. Experience in developing countries is
iportant.



-80-                              Annex m-A
Budget
10.   The consultants will prepare their proposal on an all-costs included basis, including Russian
language secretarial support, office space and transportation.
11.   The total cost of this component is estimated at including office equipment such as computers
and study tours.
GOT             IBRD            Total
Local    Foreign
(US$ '000)
Consultant Fees (26 months including feasibility)         -        680        680
Local Staff (22 months)                                 70           -         70
Training (5 MOEF staf)                                    -         50         50
Equipment                                              100       1,400      1,500
SUBTOTAL                                               170       2,130      2,300
GOT (contribution for local expenses)        140         -           -        140
TOTAL                                        140       170       2,130      2,440
Co.tingencies                                  -         -         200        200
GRAND TOTAL                                  40        170       2,330      2,640



-81-                            Annex m-A-1
INSTIT ION BUILDING/TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
Feasibility Study for the Implementtion of a
Computerized System In the Minity of Economy and Fimnoe
Terms of Reference
Backgrod and Objecdves
1.    With funds provided by a World Bank loan, the Ministry of Economy and Finance (MEOF)
of Turkmenistan will conh act a consultant to undertake a Feasibility Study on the implementation of
a country-wide comptnzed system.
2.    Current Situation: Although a few microcumputers exist in the MOEF (most of them are 286
machines, some built in Russia a long time ago), the transition of Turkmenistan to a market economy
has created the need for a much more sophisticated set-up. Initial urgent applications include:
(a) budget preparation and control; (b) calculation and analysis of economic activity indicators;
(c) analysis and evaluation of investment projects; (d) information gathering for tax collection
purposes; and (e) facilitation of the privatizadon process of state-owned enterprises. In terms of
general market situation in Turkmenistan, MS-DOS machines and Novell LANs are being used, while
Apple machines do not seem to be available. Regarding staff, although system designers and analysts
are difficult to find, programmers and operators are generally available in the country.
3.    Future Evolution What the MOEF envisages is establishing m icrocmputer LANs at the
district level, in 64 different locations; consolidafting the district information at the regional (oblast)
level in 6 cities (where larger microcomputer configurations would be needed), with a final
consolidation at the MOEF in Ashgabat (the capital city), probably using a microcomputer or a RISC-
based machine. Extensive data transmission would be done between the districts and the regions and
between the regions and Ashgabat. At this tme it is not clear the volume of data involved or what
would be the most cost-effective hardware/software solution.
4.    Objective of the Study: The feasibility study will recommend an adequate general systems
sohltion o(the"vision") for the MOEF and a strategy oriented toward achieving this goal. More
specifically, the consultant will suggest: (a) the application software packages to be utilized, giving
preference to already existent packages, maybe is in use in other FSU republics (as opposed to
prescribing the development of custom made software); (b) the hardware/software combinations more
appropriate for each of the three different types of locations mentioned in Point 3 above (in describing
these solutions the consultant will not name specific hardware/software manufacturer or brands, but
rather generic features that the MOEF will be able to use for the preparation of competitive bidding
docments); (c) the generic databases to be mainained at each location and their estimated volumes;
(d) the realistic data transmission arrangements to be used, compatible with the local
telecommunication constraints; (e) the staffing and organizational structure required to attain the
"vision," including training requirments; (f) the associated costs estmates for aU of the above
mentioned items plus physical arrangements (office space, furnture, etc.); and (g) a reasonable
implementation plan with critical milestones/major events.



-82-                            Annex E-A-1
5.    For this purpose, the consultant will meet with authorities and staff in the MOEF, other
governmental institutions that might provide and/or retrieve MOEF information, the National
Telephone company, and other related vendors and users as appropriate. In particular, the consdtant
will discuss with the Ministry of Welfare (MOW) the possibility of sharing the future MOEF's data
transmission facilities (the MOW is also considering establihing a 3-layered structure
[district/oblast/Ashgabatl for the generation of pension payment slips.)
II - Work              and Deliverables
6.    In order to perform the job, it is estimated that one person will need to work in Turkmenistan
during 30 days. The MOEF will provide office space, secrearial and translation services
(English/Russian), local tranwsportation, visas and hotel reservations. The consultant is expected to
bring its own computer equipment for performing the assigmnent. The consultant's proposal should
be done on an all-costs-included basis, covering its fee and overheads, roundtrip transportation and all
other costs.
7.    The MOEF will appoint a Project Manager who will be the consultant's main interlocutor.
The Project Manager will assist the consultant in identifying the appropriate institutions/persons to
meet and setting up appointments with them. The consultant will meet once per week with the
Project Manager to inform on the status of the project, including activities undertakn during the
period, accomplishments and problems encounred, if any, and to discuss the program of activities
for the following period. At each of these meedngs, the consultant will deliver a Project Status
Report to the Project Manager. At the end of the project the consultant will issue a Final Report
containing all the findigs and recommendatons. The Final Report can be prepared by the consultant
in Turkmenistan or at its place of residence, but it must be delivered to the MOEF not later than 2
weeks after completing the research work in Turkmenistan. The consultant shall deliver the Final
Report to the MOEF both in Russian and English and the consultant will also send a copy of the
English version to the World Bank. Total elapsed time between the moment when the consultant is
engaged by the MOEF and the receipt of the Final report at the MOEF should not exceed 60 days.
III - Constats Q fiatio
8.    The person conducting the study will be a seasoned information systems expert, with
experience on economic data analysis for the public sector, and good knowledge of micomputers
and data transmission. This person must have undertake at least one similar study for the ministry
of Economy of a developing country. It would be highly desirable to have some experience on
similar systems in 3ther FSU republics and some knowledge of the Russian language. The
consultant's proposal must include the resume of the person who will conduct the study; the MOEF
reserves the right to verify the performance and experience claims. The staff proposed for this study
must be made available at the time the project begins and can not be replaced during the execution of
the project without prior aeement in writing of the MOEF. In evaluating all proposals received, the
MOEF wil give greatest weight to the qualifications of the individual responsible for conducting the
study.



43-                             Annex M-A-1
9.    lhe tota cost of the contract is expected to be no more than US$120,000 (US$100,000 in
foipgn curency and U$20,000 in local currency) for the equivalent of 4-5 months of work).



44-                                Anex M-B
INSTTUTON BUILDING/TECHICAL ASSIST ANCE PROJECT
Legal Tecical Assstane Componet
Tenns of Refeore
Badgound
1.    The Governmet of Turkmenistan (the "Government") has applied for a loan from the World
Bank to finance legal technical assistace activities in support of the Government's economic reform
program. The services described in these Terms of Reference ("TOR") are to be fimnad under the
legal assistance component of this proposed technical assistance project. Services reired for other
components of this project will be finwaced under other contracts and are not part of these TOR.
Objecdives
2.    The objectives of the project are to assist the Govermment in the development and
imlementation of a legal framework that would facilitate and promote private sector activities. The
emphasis of these TOR is on the provision of a program of legal assistance to support such
framework. Flexibility and adaptability in the implementation of the TOR will be critical for the
success of the project.
Scope of Assstae
3.    The areas of law to be covered by the project are potentially very broad, including
business/commerciall law in general and legilation in the fields listed below, as they relate to, or
have an effect on, business activity. This list is intended as an indication of the type of areas in
which the Consultants will provide legal experise (asssmemn and diagnosis, drfting, review of
drafts, implementation, monitoring and enforcement assistance, traiing, institutional development,
etc.). It in no way implies that existing or draft legislation in these areas is inadequate or should be
overhauled, nor that specific laws should be enacted for each of these topics, some of which overlap
with others or reflect concepts borrowed from different legal systems. Also, the preliminary legal
assistance in some of these areas may be provided by other sources. In such cases, the Consultants
may be asked to review legislation drafted by others in order to check its consistency with the overall
legal framework and reform program. A non-austive list of topics follows:
* company law
* bankrutcY law
* conract law
* property law
* real estate law (including tiding, registration, etc.)
The terms busis' and commercial' e used becabWl in _th  TOR.



-85-                               Annex f-B
* protection of intellecal property sureties law (secured transactions, including mortgages,
liens, etc.)
* leasing
* securities law
* law of negotiable instrments (checks, notes, etc.)
* banking law
* private accounting and auditing
* financial disclosure requirements and investor protection
* iurance
* competition law
* de-regulation of specific sectors of economic activity, including removal of barriers to
entry (legal or de facto, such as privileges to state-owned enterprises)
* international business law intrnational public law (relevant treaties, conventions, etc.)
* customs law
* tax law
* labor law
* privatization law and regulations
i foreign investment regime
 commercial dispute settlement mechanisms and procedures
e administrative law, including recourse mechanisms against administrve decisions
* state enterprise law, in particular with a view to create a level playing field between private
and public enterprises
- public procwement regulations, especially in view of the importance of public sector
contacts for the development of the prvate sector
* civil and crimia penalties for violations of business laws
* product liability
e environmental law
* other tort or liablity law
* economic aspects of constitutional law
- ornzation of legal professions (lawyers, notaries, registrars, bailiffs, etc.)
e international trade law, including anti-dunping and countervailing duties provisions
* alternative dispute resolution, including arbitration and mediation
Not all of these areas of law are equally important but all of the above or otber areas of law could at
one point be critical for the development of the enterprise sector, in particular of the private sector.
In detemining priorities in the scope of assistance and implementation the Consultants should
endeavor to involve the private sector in order to learn where the perceived major problems are.
4.     The assistance wiUl focus not only on the draft legislation and regulations, but also on their
proper implemenaion and enforcement. This will, inter alia, require a timely publication of new
lgilation and administrative instructions or decisions of interest to businesses, the development of
information and documentaton sources on legal reform in the business law area, the training of staff
of the concerned agencies, and assistance in developing the needed administive and insdtutional
mechanisms and procedures for the application of the new legal framework.
5.    The mechanisms to enforce laws and regulations will be addressed and reforms proposed as
appropriate. For example, in the area of bankruptcy, a full range of assistance will be needed to help



-86-                               Anmex m-B
the concerned authorities in establishing procedures for the timely and efficient liquidation of bankirupt
companies; the Consultants will be expected to help the Government to streamline the company
registration procedures.
6.    A law library and a legal documentation center will be set up. The latter will assemble
relevant legal domentation, including legislation and draft legislation and available translations
thereof, and other comparative legal material. For the law library, funds are included to finance the
acquisition of law books, treatises, dictionaries and other legal publications and reference works. A
basic lexicon of legal terms will be prepared with the assistance of the Consultants with translations in
English, Russian and Turlmeni languages to contribute to the standardization of translations and legal
terminology. The Consultants will also assist in the development and/or maintenance of a legal
database covering inter alia legislation.
7.    The Consultants' specific work program will be further defined in an inception report to be
drafted by the Consultants and approved by the Government. It will depend on the priorities at the
time and on assistance received or promised from other sources (i.e. lawyers fianced by other donors
or by the Government). In general, the Consultants will:
* Analyze the current situation, including through contacts with businesses and legal
practitioners; assess major shortcomings, present successful approaches adopted by other
countries, and propose options for the development of the concerned legislation.
* Help draft and implement missing key economic, financial and business legislation
according to the priorities established. The laws will be prepared with the utmost concern
for coherence, consistency, practicability, and appropriate integration with legal and
cutural traditions. If the drafting of laws has already been done the Consultants' activities
wil focus primatily on comments on such drafts.
* Advise on institutions, including agencies, regulatory bodies, and courts needed to
implement the new laws and regulations.
* Monitor implementation and enforcement of concerned texts to identify problems or
botdenecks in the execution. Design remedies to correct the implementation or
enforcement problems.
* Train officials (civil servants, judges, clerks and others (such as private lawyers and
arbitrators) involved in the implementation and enforcement of economic legislation.
* Set up a system to disseminate legal texts soon after their adoption by the relevant bodies,
including publication and, where appropriate, translation into English or Russian or
Turkmeni.
* Create an inventory of treaties, laws and regulations effect, and of translations available,
including computerized index.
* Create a permanent inventory of all draft legislation of relevance to economic activity
under preparation in the various ministries and Government bodies, including laws being



-87-                                 Annex l-B
prepared with the assistance of outside donors and reports prepared as background for the
draft legislation.
* Prepare a detailed proposal for the establislunent of an official gazette.
* Establish a basic library and information center on economic, financial and business laws.
* Prepare proposals for the publication of compena  of business laws.
* Advise on measures to increase public awareness and utilization of new economic laws.
The following areas have been identified as deserving urgent attention, namely adequate regulation of
companies with limited liability, satisfactory regulatory and institutional framework for the liquidation
of companies, preparation of privatization regulations and implementation program, and preparation
of a code of arbitration.
8.    As the project is an institution-building exercise, a basic training program for lawyers,
focusing in particular on the training needs of lawyers working for key economic ministries and
agencies, as well as court officials, will be designed. Training will be organized: (i) on the job;
(ii) through focused workshops, seminars and courses; (iii) through participation of selected lawyers
in seminars held abroad; (iv) through participation of selected candidates in fellowships at foreign law
schools; and (v) through internships at the Consultants' offices.
9.     Priority will be given to the traiing of a core cadre of lawyers in business/commercial law.
The target group wiDl include lawyers from the hMinistry of Justice, the Mejlis, the Economic Courts,
the Cental Bank, etc., and specialized agencies, such as the privatization commission. The specific
subject matters of the formal training will be decided on the basis of an assessment (to be undertaken
by the Consultants) of training needs, including consulting the emerging private sector about what it
perceives as problems with the legal and regulatory framework and law practice in the county.
10.   The training activities to be carried out with the assistance of the Consultants will be tailored
to the needs of the target group and adapted to the specific circumstances. In some cases the activity
would be organized by a Government ministry or agency, in others by a training institute, the bar
association or other private non-profit associations. They could include:
* identification of the training needs of the concerned ministries, agencies and other bodies
(including the judiciary) in the area of business law;
* when requested - assistance in the selection and recruitment of lawyers for the above
bodies;
* for Government lawyers or advisors who are concerned with economic, financial and
business law, periodic seminars and talks about specific issues or developmen  in these
areas (in addition to on-the-job training);



-88-                               Annex M-B
* for a broader group of officials who must implement economic, financial and business
laws, one or two courses to introduce them to the new laws, basic concepts underlying the
laws and relevant legal issues and techniques; one of the objectives of this type of traning
activity would be to ensure uniform interpretation of laws before their implementation;
O for lawyers and non-lawyers in the private sector, conferences or talks to introduce the
new laws, as well as to exchange ideas and infomation;
* collection and distribution of supporting teaching material, such as examples of foreign
legislation, procedures manals, standard forms for contracts, model forms for company
by-laws, etc.;
* occasional teaching at law school or other training institutes; and
* other ad hoc seminars or training activities as appropriate to achieve the objectives set forth
in the TOR.
Lga As_sitce for Traactions
11. The focus of this assignment is not on transactional work. Under this assignment the
Consultants will, however, be expected to provide limited assistance in the transactional area,
primarily by:
* suggesdng where appropriate, sources for financing such assistance;
3 identifying sources of traimng in drafting and negotating contracts and monitoring of
contract compliance;
3 providing on request information on contracul matters, such as standard forms for
different types of contacts, manuals, reference books, etc.
Instutional      mn
12.   The Government will establish an interagency legal assistance group, the Legal Reform Unit
(LRU) in the Economic Department reporting to the Deputy Chairman of the Cabinet of Minisers
responsible for economic reforms. The LRU will coordinate the development of the enabling
environment for private sector activities, to avoid inconsistencies between different pieces of
legislation or draft legislation and to ensure that the legal system fully supports the economic reform
program. This group will be the counterpart and beneficiary of the legal assistance set forth in these
TOR, and will work with the Consultants, inter alia review all relevant draft laws and regulations,
liaise with relevant Goverment bodies and agencies and coordiate with the legislature.



-89-                               Annex M-B
The Lql Assistaee Team2
13.   The legal assistance team finced by the project includes a (resident legal advisor for 12-18
months and short-term lega experts. The total budget for the contract is set forth in para. 30 . The
Consulants wil work closely with other advisors, including legal and oher advisor recrited under
other contats and the Government's own advisors.
14.   The RLA will be assigned and report to the head of LRU. The RLA will be the Consultants'
main staff for this assim nt and i expected to be Involved In all the tasks covered by these TOR.
In patdcular, the RLA will develop an overall viaw of the legislation and of the new texs prepared
by the various ministries or parlamentaty committees. In some instces, the RLA may be the
primary drafter of the legislation, in others will only provide guidance and comments to the drafters.
The RLA may in all cases be involved in the preparation of new legislation relevant to economic
development in general and business activity in particular. This should enable the RLA to help avoid
the drafting of overlpping or contradictory pieces of legislation and of other projects in prepation.
In many instances, the primary drafter will be a Govemment lawyer, and in others a legal expert
fianced under anotier project or by anodher donor. One of the RLA's min tasks will be to assist
the contep    in ensuring (a) cohesion in the legal framework for business activity and
(b) prioritization of tasks to futher develop said framework.
15.   Another important funcdon of the RLA will be to function as a link between Turkmenistan
and the outside legl world, providing infonnation and advice on business law matters on the basis of
international contacts and experience acquired in other countries.
16.   At the request of specific ministries or agencies, and to tl exent the work prom allows
the RLA will provide assistance to such ministries or agencies in . e organiation or their legal work,
by analyzing their needs, ientfying priorities, designing assistance packges, helping in identifing
dors intrested in providing such assistance, selecting local lawyers and designing training
programs, helping in the establishment of legal services, etc. To this effect, the RLA will develop
and maintain a roster of local lawyers available for assignments and a list of lawyers who have helped
the Ministries and other agencies in draftng legal texts or prepaig legal studies.
17.   The RLA is not expected to have the qualifications or time to provide assitnce in all areas.
The RLA wil have to rely heavily on the counterparts, short term experts and other advisors, as
memioned above, and on the local lawyers working for other agencies.
2.    The mm lcga asan  em' and Consutafts a used Iechw%eaW in ths TOR.



-90-                               Annex m-B
Sbortem Msdons
18.   In addition to the RLA's services, the project will finance short-term experts to cay out
specaized legal tasks, for which the RLA is either not qualified or not available due to other work
constrins. The range of disciplines for which such short-term expertise may be sought i broad and
includes tho areas listed in paragraph 3, with a particular emphasis, however, on the topics listed as
priorities in paragraph 7. These short-term missions are part of the conta. Their precise timing,
subject matter, and scope will normally by agreed upon in the context of the preparation and approval
of the Consultants' inception report and quarterly reports. Some missions will require one or more
trips to Ashabad while others could be limited to desk work outside Ashabad. Eperts going to on
such rissions will, in addition to the tasks specified in their terms of reference, be expected to
conrioute to the training program described in paragraph 10.
19. Once a specific short-term mission has been agreed upon by the Consultants and the
Govnment, detailed terms of reference and cost analysis wiU be required, together with the curricula
vitae of the experts proposed for the mission, all of which will be submitted by the Consultants for
prior approval of the Government [and the World Bank]. Prior approval is not required for
assignments costing less than $5,000 equivalent. In case the Consultants' submission for a short-term
mission is not satisfactory to the Government [or the World Bank], the Goverment may solicit other
proposals from legal experts not associated with the Consultants (such experts would be retained
under separate contracts  epend   of and not funded by this Contract). The Consultants will be
Wected to provide the necessary support to such legal experts (as weU as to other experts retained by
the Government).
Loca Lawyers Prgram
20. The project also eoncourges the development of the private legal profession, mainly through
traing and a Local Lawyers Program, financing contracts for project related assignments. A budget
is included in the conact for this purpose, which would be used for recruitment on a competitive
basis by the Consultants of local lawyers for short term assignments. Such lawyers would be selected
after the start of the assignment and will have to be acceptable to the Goverment [and the World
Bank]. A ceiling of 15 percent of the local lawyers program's budget is set on payments for the
services of any one loc  lawyer.
Report
21.   The Consultants shall submit a draft inception report to the Govement not later than one
month after initiation of the assignment , and soon after a final version of such report reflecting the
Govemen's observations. The revised report will be sent to the World Bank for approval. The
inception report will descnbe the work program of the RLA and the Consultants in general, as agreed
with the Government for the duration of the assignment, with a particular emphasis on the first six
months. This report would normally be an ipdate of the Consultants' technical proposal, reflecting
the priorities expressed by the Government at the start of the assignment. It would also discuss,
where relevant, legal assistance provided by other sources in the are covered by these TOR and



-91-                               Anmex m-B
proposals for coordination. This report would include suggestions for a pnority list of titles of
publications and specifications of equipment to be acquired through the Consultants.
22.   The Consultamts shall prepare at least once every three monts a report on the execution of
the legal assistamce project and of these TOR in particular, and an annotated work program for the
following six monfts. This report will review the activities carried out by the Consultants and its
staff during the period, focussing on the key legal issues that were addressed and on the issues that
remain outstanding. Problems and, when possible, solutions to such problems will also be desclibed
in this report which will be submitted to the World Bank for approval.
23.   A mission report wiU also be prepared and submitted within one month of the return of each
short-term mission.
24. The Consultants shall prepare a terminal report drawing lessons from the execution of the
project; a draft of such report will be submitted to the Goverment and the World Bank for their
review not later than two months prior to the end of the assignment.
25. Finally, the Consultants shlaU prepare, time permitting (or contribute to) such other reports or
notes as the Government shall request. At the Govemment's request, the Consultants shall send
dafts of maijor pieces of legislation in a timely manner to the World Bank and to other institutions for
comments.
26.   Inerim, quarterly and terminal reports will be in English. Other reports will be drafted in
English, Russian or Turkmeni languages, as requested. The number of copies of the revised reports
to be submitted by the Consultants is expected to average between 5 and 10.
Exclusioss - Conflict of Interest
27. The assignment does not cover matters related to criminal law, unless these are directly linked
to business matters, e.g. prosecution of fradulent use of checks.
28.   The Consultants will not represent any party in Turmenistan other than the Government (or,
with the written agreement of the Government, other public entities) for the duration of the
assignment, nor will they represent during said period any party involved in litigation against the
Goverment or any of its enterprises, agencies or bodies; nor should they be involved in such
litgation involving matters widi which they were directly concerned for [a reasonable period] after
the completion of the assignmeat.
Thue Table
29. The assignment will start on January 1995 and will last for twenty-one months.



-92-                             Annex M-B
Bu
30.   The total cost of the component is estimated at about US$1 million. The cost of specific
subconipnents is given in the table below.
GOT            IBD              Total
Local    Foreign
(US$ '000)
Legal Advisor (20 months)                              60         360        420
Short Term Consultants (8 months)                                 200        200
Traning (8-10 staft)                                    10         90        100
Equipm                                                   -        200        200
SUBTOTAL                                               70         850        920
GOT (contribution for local eese)            40          -          -         40
TOTAL                                        40         70        850        960
Congencies                                    -          -         70         70
GRAND TOTAL                                  40         70        920       1,030



-93-                               Annex m-C
INSTTUTION BUILDINGITECHNICAL ASSISrANCE PROJECT
Investment Feasibility Studes Component
Background
1.    The Goveanment of Turknenistan is planning to develop investnent projects in those sectors
that mnay attract fnancing from investors abroad and cofinancing from other donors. While the detls
of specific projects have not yet been deternined, the Government has informed the Bank that these
projects will be in the areas of energy, industry, and infrastructure. As a first step, however, there is
a need for feasibility studies in order to demonstrate the viability of these investments. Therefore, the
proposed loan would assist the relevant government agencies to carry out comprehensive feasibility
studies covering policy, technical, economic, financial and environmental aspects of investment
projects with the help of experienced international consultants. The investment projects will be jointly
identified by the GOT and the Bank in line with the broad economic and sectoral priorities. The cost
of this component will be approximately US$2,400,000.
Invesent Areas
2.    Oil and Gas: Central to Turknenistan's future development prospects is the efficient
exploitation of energy (oil and gas) sector which offers good prospects for generating external
creditworthiness and financial surpluses needed to reform the economy and ease the hardship of
adjustment. Prospects for the natual gas sector are clouded, however, by the relatively low
remaining proven reserves in the developed fields, the limited capacity of the domestic industry to
identify and develop new reserves and the uncertainties surrounding export markets in the medium
term. While proven oil reserves are not low, the development of oil reserves may also be negatively
impacted by lack of capacity of the domestic industry. The scale of development required to sustan
gas and oil production at recent levels now exceeds Turkmenistan's financial resources indicating that
there is a need to attract foreign investment for further development of the sector. Additionaly, the
Government is preparing a plan for the export of power to other neighboring countries, which
program needs to be carefully assessed. In view of the large investment program under consideration
at present, this component would assist the GOT in rationalizing the sector's investment program and
identify and analyze the viability of the projects selected for development.
3.    Agribs     : There are only a limited mber of agro-processing plants, and except for
cotton ginning, the processing technology is relatively unsophisticated. Only a limited mimber of
processed food products of modest quality are produced, and losses of fresh fruits and vegetables are
high because of poor handling and lack of cold-storage facilities. Quality is also a problem. Hence,
a substantial potential ensts for developing the agro-processing industry in Turkmenistan because of
the variety of agricutural crops that could be grown which could also help private sector growth. A
number of investments are being considered by the Government in this area, for example sugar beet
and tanning factories which should be subjected to a full feasibility analysis based on market prices.
This component would, therefore, make funds available to the GOT for this purpose.



-94                                An    mC
4.                  (fraspozt): The availity of transpo    n is critical for the development
and  mettivenes of agriculture and the idu l sector. It is also important for the developmet
of the domestic markt. While the transport system (rwys. ports and roas) inherited from the
fmer Union is  sonably well developed, it is oriented tward the FSU countries and to
l_kta's other traditional tading partners in the south and west and, therefore, needs
substantial restucting  d new Inestmen. Additiondal transport links with other Cetal Asian
republics are also needed. Ihe GOT has a large suface tansport vestment plan which needs
ratioition, identification, and    _     of the feasibility of projects. This component would,
therefore, assist te GOT in this area by finacing selected feasibility studies.



-95-                              Anex N-A
INSTITUTION BUILDING/TECMNCAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
Sodal Safety Net: Living Standard Measurement and Targeting of Income Support Program
Terms of Reference
Bagound
1.    The Governmet of Turkmenistan has embarked on a program of privatiation and public
enterprise restructuring. The growth of a private sector may initially lead to a widening distribution
of income, and thus, to the possibility that some groups will not be able to transition to the market
economy with the same ease as others. Whereas incme growth is a positive development in the long
run, the immediate conern would be the growing number of poor and of vulnerable groups in the
country, and the need to protect them from falling further into poverty. An esse   part of this
strategy is to identify the poor and to implement policies to protect this portion of the population by
establising a comprehensive and realistic poverty line, as well as designig a monitoring system,
inluding a reliable family budget survey.
2.    Technical assistance is proposed under the project to strengthen the capacity of the
Goverment to monitor living standards, develop poverty line, and implement a living stdards
measurent survey. The proposed assistance will be implemented by the Goskomstat.
Adivities and Outputs
3.    The following activities are proposed for financing:
(i) Provision of technical and financial assistance to Gosloomstat for the design. and
implementation of a Monitoring Survey which would study the social and economic
needs of the population, and measure the social impact of the economic crisis during the
taansition period.
(ii) Analyze the nature of mechanisms used by some of the vulnerable groups (particularly
pensiones, unemployed, some emerging rural private sector persons) to coe with
poverty and other social and economic strains. The study would collect quantitative and
qualitative data on these groups such as their source of income and expenditures; the
level of community solidarity, and in particular, the existence of income transfers from
households.
(iii) Assistance in seting up a Poverty Monitoring capability with the Goskoomstat.
(iv) Development of a definition of a minimum consumption basket for those completely
dependent on the State for their incomes. The establishment of a poverty line will
include looking at the consumption and production patterns.



-96-                              Annex IV-A
(v) Assistmce in constructg a Consmer Price Index based on a basket of essential food
and non-food items consumed by the poor, and use this index to defe wage incomes of
the poor.
Imp_eI  Agey
4.    (oskomstat.
Implementaion Schedule        Duration:                  12 man months
Estimated Start:           Noveniber 1994
Estimated Completion:      August 1995
Budget Re nls
GOT             IBRD             Total
Local    Foreign
(US$ '000)
Expatiate Staff (8 man-montfs)                            -         150        1S0
Local Staff (8 man-months)                               30           -         30
Equipm                                                    -        200         200
SUBTOTAL                                                 30        350         380
GOT (contribution for local expenses)         10          -           -         10
TOTAL                                         10         25        350         390
Contingendes                                              -        225         225
GRAND TOTAL                                   10         25        575         615



-97-                              Annex IV-A
Pov    Specalt
Terms of Refnce
Rapon_ illtles and Outputs
1.    The responsibilities of the Specialists will include:
*  Assist in the setting up of a Poverty Monitorng CeU witiin the State Committee for
Statistics, the Goskomstat;
*  Assist in the design and implementation of a Monitorng Survey which would include the
current social and economic consumption data of households for assessing the impact of
the economic crisis on the poor;
* Develop a poverty line, based on an acceptable definition of minimum consumption
basket, and measre the incidence of poverty;
*  Assist in the constuction of a Consmer Price Index suitable for a transitionig
economy; and,
*  Analyze the nature of the mechanisms used by some of the vulnerable groups to cope
with adjustment-induced short-mn stresses.
Short-term specialists will be recruited for carying out the above. The Specliss are expected to be
knowledgeable and experienced in instituting household-level surveys, and in the analysis of the
generated data for monitoring poverty.



-98-                              Annex IV-B
INSTITUTION BUIDING/TECINICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
Sodal Safety Net: Soial Protection (Pensions)
Terms of Reference
Bacgound
1.    The Government of Turkmenistan has embarked on a program of privadzation and enterprise
restrcturing. This may initially lead to a widening distribution of income. At the same time,
hyperiflation has driven many households down   the standard of living. Generous pension
schemes and child and family allowances are not sustainable in a period of fiscal contraction. Tie
efforts to streamine the benefits and introduce targedn are imperatve. The Ministry of Social
Welfare has indicated the need for the design of a basic pension system and social security for the
private sector employees and on the possibility of establishing a voluntary pension fund.
AdditionaUy, the Ministry has also indicated the need to improve the management of the existing
pension adminison system in handling pension payments to 430,000 pensioners in the country.
The Ministry is not curntly equipped to perform these tasks and to carefully analyze the various
aspects of the scheme before it is introduced. The Ministry also needs to be equipped with personal
computers to monitor the progress of the vulnerable households, and training.
Ojbjectives
2.    Advise the Ministry of Social Welfare on the design of the pension schemes, improve
adminstrton of the existing system and rationalization and targeting of social protection benefits
with a view to minimizing the fiscal burden without hurting the criticaly poor households.
Aciies and Outputs
3.    The proposed Technical Assistmce would finance the following activities to be carried out by
the consltants:
(i) Review the existing pension scheme and child and family allowances; and design a new
pension system and social security scheme to cover the private sector employees in
addition to the exising public sector employees. Also outline the appropriateness of
establishing a voluntary pension fund.
(ii) Review the existing financing approaches, and recommend financing of the socia
security schemes through contributions by employers and employees through payroll
taxes etc. to minimize the burden on the government budget.
(iii) Review the policies, management, and organization of the existing pension administaton
system and reommend improvement in policies and systems for efficient handling of the
pension payments to pensioners in the country.



-99                                Annex IV-B
(iv) Provide trainin (including stud tours for five senior staf and equipme  to the
Mlnly (Annex IV-D).
Implng 41
4.    Minsy of Social Welfae.
XtFexi°EkSchedule    12 months
Begin October 1994; end September 1995
Bude
GOT            MBRD              Total
Local    Foreig
(US$ '000)
Cosutant Fees (12 manmnths)                                         25j          250
Local Staff (15 man-months)                               50           -          50
Trninig                                                               50          SO
_4uonent                                                             200        200
SUBTOTAL                                                  S0         S00         550
GOT (conution for local expenses)              20          -           -          20
TOTAL                                          20         50         500         570
Sontingencies                                              -         200         200
GRAND TOTAL                                    20         50         700         77
3tc  lssf fbl  stody fr corwbb p-   sYS



-100-                              Annex IV-C
INSTITUTIONAL BUILDING/TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
Feasity SRudy for the Computer Based Pension Payment System
Term of Reference
Badkground and Objectives
1.    With funds provided by a World Bank loan, the Minstry of Social Welfare (MOW) of the
republic of Turknenistan will contract a consultant to undertake a feasibility study for pension
payment system computerization.
2.    Current Situation: The MOW is responsible for the monthly payment of pensions to 430,000
people throughout Turkmenistan. The number of people receivmg pensions is increasing at the rate
of 18-20% per year. retirement age is 55 for women and 60 for men, although certain professions
(such the military) allow for earlier retirement. Pensions are adjusted periodically according to
inflation. Although four Russian-made minicomputers (VAX type), belonging to the National
Isiute of Statistics, are used in Ashgabat (the capital city) to print out the monthly payment slips,
70% of hem (i.e, 280,000) are produced manually in the rest of the country. The minicomputers are
about 10 years old and not very reliable,a nd the software package utilized was developed in
Sverdloff.
3.    Future Evolution: What the MOW envisages is having its own micrcomputers at the district
level, in about 50 different locations, to print out payment slips for local beneficiaries; the district
information would be consolidated at the regional (obL^st) level in 5 cities (where larger
microcomputer configurations would be needed), with a final consolidation at the MOW in Ashgabat,
probably using a minicomputer or a RISC-based machine. Data would be trsmitted between the
districts and the regions and between the regions and Ashgabat. The MOW would maintain a
dataase with iformation about aU beneficies and estimates that each one would require 250 bytes.
4.    Objectives of Studv: The consultant wil recommend an interim solution to allow the MOW
to prim pension payment slips using microcomputers. More specificaly, the consultant wil suggest:
(a) the software to be utilized, giving preference to packages already being used for similar purposes
in other developing countries, maybe in other FSU republics (as opposed to prescribing the
development of custom made software); (b) the hardware configuration more appropiate, with special
emphasis on printing reliability (in describing these solutions the consultant will not name specific
hardware mauf ers but rather generic featres that the MOW will be able to use for the
preparation of competitive bidding documents); (c) the databases to be mantaied at each location
and their estimated volumes; (d) the realistic data transmission arrangements to be used, compatible
with the local telecom constraits (the Ministry of Economy and Finance is also evaluating the
possibility of establishing a 3-layered structure [district/oblast/Ashgabatl for data transmission and the
consultant should see if the MOW would be able to share the use of these data transmission facilities);
(e) the staffing and orgaitional stmuct  required to operate the equipment, including training
requrements; (f) the associated cost estumates for all of the above mentioned items plus physical



-101-                              Annex IV-C
arrangements (office space, firniture,e ct.); and (g) a reasonable Implemation plan with critical
mestones/maor evet.
5.    For this purpose, the consultant will meet with authorties and staff In the MOW, the Ministy
of Economy and Finance, the National Telephone company, and other related vendors and users as
approiate.
Work   1   r_and Deierables
6.    In order to perform the job, it is esated that one person wil need to work in Turkmenlstan
for a three-week period. The MOW will provide office space, setrial and tration services
(English/Russian) local t tion, visas and hotel reservations. The consultant is expected to
bring its own compuer equipnent for performing the assmgnment. the consultant's proposal should be
done on an all-costs-included basis, covering its fee and overheads, round-trip oaon between
its place of residence and Ashgabat, living expenses while in Turkmenlsan and all other costs.
7.    The MOW will appoint a project Manager who will be the conWltat's main interlocutor.
The Project Manager will assist the consultant in idenUtiing the appropriate itonrso ns to
meet and seting up appointments with them. Halfway through the assignment, the consultant wil
meet with the Project Manager to inform on the status of the study, including acdvities undertaken
during the periods, acc lishm-ents and problems encountered, if any, and to discuss the program of
activities for the folowing period. At this meedng, the consunt will deliver a project Status Report
to the Project Manager. At the end of the project the conultant will issue a Fina report coaning
all the findings and rI  Ions. The Final report can be prepared by the consultant in
Turkmenistan or at its place of residence, but it must be delivered to the MOW not later than 2 weeks
after completig the resrch work in Turkmenistan. The consulat shall deliver the final report to
the MOW in Russian and English and the consultant will also send a copy of the English version to
the World Bank.
C;onultaut's Qifcations
8.    The pes  conuctig the Study will be a seasoned infmai on systems expert, with
experience on computer-based pension systems, and good knowledge of miocomp   and data
tanusmissioIL
9.    The total cost of this work is estimated at US$30,000 (US$20,000 in foreign currency and
US$10,000 in local currency).



-102-                              Annex V-A
INSTrTUTMON BUJLDINGnIECqNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
Oil and Gas Sector
Instutiond              of Joint Venture Coordiaton Uit and
ConQtats Compance and Monitoring
Terms of Referee
1.    The Minstry of Oil and Gas (MOG) of Turkmenista intends to strengthen the newly created,
Joint Venture Coordination Unit (JVCU) of the Ministry, in order to discharge the complex range of
responsibilities required of MOO, effectively and efficiently by recruiting a team of experts through
a management firm with experience in oil and gas industry, particularly, in petroleum contact
administraton. The team should include: (1) an oil and gas exploration and production specialist;
(2) financial and oil industry accountant; and (3) a contract law expert with thorough knowledge of
international petroleum industry. The task will be funded using portion of the proceeds of the World
Bank Technical Assistance Loan to the Govermnent of Turkmenistan.
2.    The Mster of Oil and Gas is designated by presidential decr, and the laws of
Turkinenistan as the concession authority for all oil and gas agreents between the Goverment and
foreign investors. This makes MOG responsible for control and monitonng of the exstng four Joint-
Ventre Agreements and future contracs. MOO has established a new unit (NVCU) to liaise and
coordinate the activities of the foreign operators in order to ensure the interests of the state. To
achieve this objective effectively, the Goverment is requiring the services of management consutants
to fiuntion full time under the MOG in dicharging the Government's responsibilities and ensuring the
sate's interest.
The Task
3.    The management consultant will accordingly:
a) Assist JVCU to bandle the routine day-to-day functions of the unit.
b) Momtor the foreign oil companies operation in order to ascertain that the
annmal work program and plans are progressing efficiently.
c) Review operating companies budget, plans and reports and provide MOO
with comments.
d) Evaluate the technical and financial performance of J V enprises.
e) Establish an internal accounting and audking system to permit control of the oil and gas
industry.



-103-                              Annex V-A
f) Conduct a thorough review of the existing policy and institutional situation of the NVCU
(along with other sectors actors such as the MOO and domestic oil and gas enterprises)
regarding comitmtents by NV partners and natural resource licensing and investment,
especially as regards the current operations of the foreign oil companies, together with a
critcal examination of the stated commitments and objectives as required by each
agreement;
g) Recommend and implement actions aimed at achievement of the objectives and
responsibilities assigned to JVCU, itcluding but not limited to:
i) Hierarchic relationship of the IVCU with the rest of the Ministry, including reporting
relationships, as well as to other sectors actors mentioned in (f) above;
ii) Administrative, budgetary and skill mix/staffing implications for recommendations
arising from the oil agreements; and
iii) On-the-job training of counterparts in discharging the responsibilities of the MOO and
the unit.
4.    The management consultant will include in his proposal the optimum level and type of
equpment with which the JVCIJ should be provided, including but not limited to:
 Computing and word-processing capability, including economic, accountng and financial
analysis of petroleum contracts and production operations (hardware and software); and
o Other equipment (office equipment such as photocopiers, technical document reproducers,
scanners, etc.).
T_b
S.    The recommended skills-mix and staffing elements of the consultant will be accompied by
commendations as to traiinlng courses and inputs, both short-term in Turkmenistan and longer-term
abroad for the various profess;onal disciplines involved, with the objective of building within two to
three years a local capability which would eliminte or greatly reduce the need for outside specialist
advisers and consultants.
Duration of the Assignment
6.    The task is to be performed in two years.  The management consultant team will be led by
one of the experts preferably by the person with experience in international petroleum exploration and
production with adequate exposure to the legal and financial aspects of the oil operation. The team



-104-                              Amex V-A
will be assisted by a financl analyst knowledgeable in the accounting aspects of international oil
operations as full-time staff, and a legal expert for contract administration on a part-time basis.
7.   The cost of this component is estimated at $2,000,000 of which contingencies are $120,000.
The specific cost components are:
GOT            IBRD             Total
Local    Foreign
(US$ '000)
Consultants (40 man-months)                            100       1,500       1,600
Eqipment                                                 -        200         200
SUBTOTAL                                               100       1,700      1,800
GOT (contribution for local expenses)         80         -           -         80
TOTAL                                         80       100       1,700       1,880
Contingencies                                            -         320        320
TOTAL                                         80       100       2,020      2,200



-105-                              Annex V-B
INSTIfUTION BUILDING/TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
Tining in M agement and Tedmology for the Oil and Gas Sectors
Tenns of Reference
Backound
1.    Oil and gas industry play a prominent role in Turkmenistan's economy, particularly gas
production, which provides the country's sizable trade surplus. In 1992, gas production was 60
billion cubic meters and oil production was 5.5 million tons. To maintain the sector's high standards
and increase production to its full potential, Ministry of Oil and Gas (MOG), plans to implement a
broad training program for its staff. The program will be financed from portion of a World Bank,
Techical Assistance (TA) Loan to the Goverment of Turhmenistan.
Objehves
2.    The objectives of the proposed activity are: (a) transfer of technology and increase managerl
and technical skills of the personnel involved in oil and gas operation; (b) to provide the participants
with a thorough understanding of financial -oncepts and analytical techniques applied currently in the
petroleum industry; and (c) to enhance implementation of the exploration, production and transport
programs effectively, leading to prdent investment and financing decisions.
3.    The consultant is required to define the approach it proposes to achieve the objectves stated
in this Terms of Reference (TOR).
Work Program
4.    The program should focus on training of executive managers and tecbnical personnel in a well
defined and organized manner.
*   Executve Managers. Managers responsible for r mng  investments for exploration
or development projects would participate in the program to develop a thorough understaning
of the financial concepts and analytical techniques that are currently used throughout the
industry. This is to be conducted through a series of seminars, lecures and courses specially
designed to meet the needs of Turkmenist. It should provide opportunities to:
- Work with premier specialists teachng oil and gas management issues today
- Develop skills in strategy, leadeship, negotiation, finance and planning
-  Understand the implications of being involved in a global industry.



-106-                              Annex V-B
-  Lean how other inteMational compamies have devised and implemented successful
strategies.
- Interact with international industry colleagues
-  Analyze issues of organiztional and management change in a dynamic environent
This part of the program should be planned approximately for six weeks, preferably, in
collaboration with a reputable university with a strong oil and gas program. The topics to be
covered include, but not limited to: (1) Advanced Management for Oil and Gas Company
Managers, (2) Finance, Accountig, and Control of Oil and Gas Companes, (3) The
Application of Decision Analysis for Petroleum Exploration and Development, (4) Evaluating and
Managing Petroleum Risk, (5) Quantification of Geological and Geophysical Risk in Petroleum
Exploration, and (6) Economics of Worldwide Petroleum Production. The final choice of specific
courses should be made when specific needs and individuals are identified subsequent to review of
the sector management style, and final approval of MOG. Visits to major oil companies and their
facilities should also be considered. This is planned to cover about 20 persons for 7-8 weeks of
overseas training.
5.    Technical Person. In order for the technical staff of MOO to become acquainted with the
most modern geological, geophysical and egineering techniques, the program is to provide
instructioa by undertaking actutl projects, such as a field study or a basin analysis, with the aim to
achieve a practical and useful result. This is to be through conducting four Case Stuie consistng
of: (1) a major oil field, (2) a major gas field, and (3) two prospective but incompletely explored
basins. These field studies would be done in the context of developing numerical reservoir
simulation model and integrated basin studies. The program should focus on how western technology
is used as a tool for prudent decision makdng.
a. Numerical Reservoir Simulation Model
Several major objectives of reservoir simulaton are to be emphasized to the trainees. Such as:
(1) estmation of recoverable reserves, (2) optimization of future production, (3) evaluation of
suitability for enhanced recovery techniques, and (4) selection and design of an enhanced
recovery project. Esimation of recoverable reserves and production optimization should be
exhibited at different stages, when commercial development plans, and production strategy are
key issues.
The Case Studies, for oil and gas fields should be conducted in following manner:
o All data would be screened and collected in Turkmenistan by an assigned 3 or 4 man team
together with Turkmen trainees. These data would include all well data, logs, test
information, seismic lines, biostratigraphic and petrographic information, core analyses, fluid
properties, production history, and so forth. This part is estimated to require following inputs:
o The data assembled would be transferred, to where training of the Turkmen teamn will be
conduted for simulation modeling of the selected field. In each case, a basic review of the



-107-                              Annex V-B
techniques and trainng to a Westem standard would take place. The intent would be to
expose aU members to the basic ideas and assist some to become more specialized.
6.    The next steps are: Computer usage, Digitiation of well logs, Reservoir geometry, Controls
of porosity and permeability, Core analysis, Seismic data interpretation, Structural concep, Use of
3-D model, and Inroduction to Numerical Simulation Modeling. Demonstration should be made to
the partcipants how knowledge of above subjects are used for: (a) Secondary Recovery Screening;
(b) Investigation of alternative development and production programs; and (c) Economic analysis of
altrative options. The total inputs for the oil field study is estimated to be:
a. Gas Field, Case Study
This activity would be more or less with same level of consultant input and Turkmen
participation . The training on the above is expected to be imparted to about 30 persons
for an avenge of 40 days per person.
b. Bashi Analysis
The training program should incorporate integrated basin analysis technique using all
pertnent geological, geophysical, and geochemical data into a form that provides a basis
for esimang the hydrocarbon potential of that basin. The objective is that the trainees
would learn how oil and gas prospects are estimated based on economic and technical
paramees. In particular, the methodology should be demonstrated for determining how
much oil and gas are generated from source rock dunng the thermal matation, the time
sPan of maturation, expulsion and migration, the paths of migration to potental strucural
and stratigraphic traps, and the location and size of oil and gas fields.
The approach for the two basin analyses Case Studies should be carried out in the following
way:
o All data for the basins would be collected in Turkmenistan by 4 or 5 man team of
geologists and geophysicists in collaboration with appropriate Turkmen countparts. It
would include all the well data, a representative grid of seismic lines, basin-wide maps of
gravity and magnetic data, all well logs, biostratigraphic data, source rock analyses,
petrograpbic information, regional and local structural iiterpretations, and an inventory of
already proven reserves.
o  The consutants and the trainees would transfer the data to the computer cener, where the
data would be prwared for analyses for the Turimen team to be aquanted with various
teehniques. A comprehensive well data system should be used to allow computer
liendling and machine plotting; all questions of well coordintes and map projections,
location of seismic lines in relation to wells and velocity-depth relations, modeling of
gravity and magnetic data should be considered. Log suites be digitzed and analyzed
petrophysically, all wells and seismic lines be correlated and important horizons dated by
biostratigraphic means and be mapped. Important facts within each satigrapic interval
are to be identified and mapped. Thermal maturation histories for all important source
rock ivals should be determined. Oil and gas migration paths mapped for periods of



-108-                              Aex V-B
hydrocarbon generation and expulsion, finally, proven fields and possibl undiscovered
prospects should be Identified. At these stages of studies, team members are to be
instucted in each of the techniques. The intent is to provide every team member with an
introduction to every impotn technique, rdated to their job. The total training for the
above will cover about 40 persons who wil be trained for 50 days each, amounting in
total to 2,000 days.
Approach and R_oerRe
7.    It is important for the consultant to appoint senior managers to coordinate and supervise each
task and agree with the MOO on the organiaton, timing, and participation of the trainees in advance
of each event. Because a large part of the training involves some computer applications, dedicated
PC's should be available to each team member. An option is that the computers and various software
packages could be transferred to Turlmestan at the end of the project.
8.    The timing of the training program is anticipated to take 18 months from effective date of the
contract, however, some segments should be completed early. The total tiing covering the
Turkmen participans consist of:
(1) Executive Managers         400 days (20 persons x 20 days)
(2) Numerical Reservoir Simulation
Modeling                    1,200 ""(30 persons x 40 days)
(3) Basin Analysis             2,000 ""(40 persons x 50 days)
(4) To be demnined             400 "" (15 persons x 25 days)
TOTAL                      4,000 ""
Consultant resource requirement is esdmated at:
(1) Sr. Professional and Scientists  1,250 days (20 pesons)
(2) Technicias                 200 "" (5 persons)
(3) Support Staff              300  (3 persons)



-109-                               Annex V-B
Budget
The technical assistance inputs and cost estimates are summarized below.
GOT             IBRD             Total
Local    Foreign
(US$ '000)
Consultants (65 months)                                  180       1,220      1,400
Equipment                                                           400         400
GOT (contnrbution for local expenses)         100          -          -         100
TOTAL                                         100        180       1,620      1,900
Contingencies                                  _         _
GRAND TOTAL                                   100        180      2,020       2,300



-110-                                Annex VI
INSTITUTION BUILDING/TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
Inst onal Arragements for Project Coorfination and Impl       aton
Tenms of Reference
1.    The Secretariat of the Cabinet of Ministers would serve as the Lead Authority for the
management of the proposed Loan and the coordination of its implementation. This Lead Authority
would represent the Borrower and would be the focal point for relations between the Government and
the Bank. A Project Implementation Unit (PIU), under the authority of the Cabinet of Ministrs, has
been established with responsibility for the overall implementation of the Technical Assistance Loan
and the related reporting and accounting activities. The PIU requires support of a specialized firm of
consultants with capability in management of projects, financial control and international
procurmn. Given the wide scope and importance of its assigned fmnctions, the PIU would also be
given the authority and stature to deal directly and effectively with the Bank, Government Minis&ies
and offices, as well as the Central Bank and commercial banks and other project beneficiaries. The
PIU would consist of a fill time Manager and would have overall responsibility for the project. It
would be assisted by a Financial Manager with responsibility for project financing and accounting,
and a Procurement Manager who would advise and assist on all procurement procedures and monitor
their implementation.
2.     project Imlementation. The responsibilities of the PIU would include monitoring the
progress under the proposed loan, overatl project implementation, and co-ordination among various
participating ministries, banks, other project beneficiaries and procarement agencies to ensure a
consistent approach in the implementation of the project. The PIU would also be responsible for the
monitoring and control of the proposed use of Bank funds, the administration of a proposed special
account, overall accountig and auditing of project accounts, and preparation of consolidated progress
reports and Project Completion Report.
3.    The coordination of technical assistance among: (i) technical staff in the line ministries;
(ii) banks; (iii) consultants providing the technical assistance; and, (iv) the policy makers will require
management and organization skills not readily available in Turkmenistan. Therefore, a firm of
consultant- would be recruite internationally for a period of two years and attached to the PIU to
assist the Government in managing and coordinating the technical assistance program. These
consultants, designated as Program Coordinators, would focus on the procurement, administdon and
organzation of technical assistance as well as related financial matters, and ensure that the sdcheuling
of technical assistance allows timely availability of results that can be used in the development and
implemenation of the program.
4.    The consultants will work with counterpart agencies, co-ordinate with other techical
assistance consultants, monitor the progress of technical assistance programs, and ensure the
colmmunication of results to the Cabinet of Ministers and the Bank. The terms of reference of the
three representatives of this specialized management firm are given in Annexes VI-A, VI-B and
VI-C.



-111-                             Anesx VI
The cog eses of this cmVonent e given In the table below.
GOT            IBRD            Total
Loca     Foreign
(USS '000)
Rouemient Advisor (2 yes)                   20      40,000   375,000    435,000
Magme  Finani   dvisor                      30      20,000   225,000    275,000
Loca Co_mtat                                        40,000               40,000
TrSa.O 50,000                                                            50,000
Equtmint                                    -        -
SUBTOTAL                                    SO    100,000   800,000    950,000
Cntinge--s_                                -                  SOOO       SLQaO
GRAND TOTAL                                 50    100,000   850,000   1,000,000



-112-                             Annex VI-A
Procurement Agent
Tenrs of Reference
I.    The services of the Procurement Agent will be financed through: (i) using the proceeds of the
Project Preparation Facility and the Iostitution Building/TA Loan; and /or (ii) obtaining grat fus.
2.    Profile of the Procurement Agent. The Procuremen Agent will be responsible for carrying
out procurement functions on behalf of the Borrower in accordance with the procedur  outlined on
procuremem under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits (May 1992) and specified in the Loan Agreement
with the Borrower. The term Procurement Agent is used to mean expert staff from a specialized
firm which has wide knowledge of and experience with the international commercial practices and the
Procureme  Guidelines and the Guidelines for the Use of Consultants of the World Bank. The
specialized firm must also have an established organization capable of providing the various back-up
services expected under procurement activities.
3.    Responsibilities of the Procurement Agent. For procurement conducted according to
International Competitive Bidding ([CB) procedures, the Procurment Agent will:
(a) Arrange advertising and provide information to interested suppliers;
(b) Prepare bidding documents in all respects, including review of tecbnical specifications,
using the Sample Bidding Documents for the procement of goods issued by the Bank
with appropriate adjustments to suit individual procuremt packages; seek approval of
documents from the World Bank wbich would involve discussions and meetings;
(c) prepare documents for the selection of consultants complying with Bank requiements.
(d) Distribute/sell bidding documents to prospective bidders at a nominal cost, crediting the
funds received to the Borrower's account;
(e) Invite bids;
(t) Provide clarifications in response to potential bidder's questions;
(g) Conduct the bid opening process and prepare the minutes of bid openg;
(h) Evaluate bids (and Consultants' offers) and submit a bid evaluation report to the
Borrower with award recommendation. Provide any clarificaton or analysis required
by the financing agency;
(i) When designated to do so, sign up and finalize the contract, follow-up and monitor the
delivery schedule and status of goods which could include visits to suppliers;
() When required, arrange and witness pre-shipment inspections (PSI); and,
(k) Receive goods at entry, clear customs, and deliver to final destination, if required.



-113-                              Annex VI-A
6.    For non-ICB procurement, the Procurement Agent would follow the appropriate procedures
specified in the Loan Agreement, including:
(a) Soliciting written quotations from a list of potential suppliers broad enough to secure
competitive prices and informing the Borrower of the results in writing; evaluating the
quotations and negotiating the resulting contracts;
(b) Soliciting quotation on sole-source basis, after required approvals, and r.egotiating with
supplier for spare parts or other proprietary items at reasonable cost; and,
(c) Placing purchase orders and contracts with selected suppliers, including follow-up for
delivety of goods according to schedule.
7.    In the area of contract adminisron services, the Procurement Agent will:
(a) Collect documentation, such as inspection certificates, certificates of
origin/m=n facturrs,'/suppliers' guarant, bills of lading, beneficiary insurance
certificates, and manufacturers' invoices;
(b) Forward domentauion to the forwarding agent;
(c) Maitain, in coordination with the PIU, accounting and financial management, and
handle warranty and insurance claims; and,
(d) Assist in the preparation of withdrawal applications with the required supporting
documentaton and arrange payments to suppliers through the PIU.
8.    The Procurement Agent will also undertake the following two tasks:
(a) Training the Borrower's staff in international cocmmial practices and World Bank
Procurement Procedures, including familiarization with Bank's sample bidding
documents so that the Borrower's staff can eventually handle the procurement work in
the future.
(b) Assising in collecting and translating into English local procurement laws, regulations
and commercial practices with the purpose of enabling the preparation of a Country
Procremen Assessment Report for Turkmenistm and recommending improvements to
the existng regulations and practices, within the ftamework of interational procedures
and trading practices using the model developed by UNCIfRAL as a basis.
9.    Reports. The Prurme  Agent will submit periodic reports to the Gov ent of
Turkmenistan as follows:
(a) An Inception Report, within one month of work in Ashkabad, descnrbing the proposed
program of work for assistance in the procurement and training;



-114-                             Annz VI-A
(b) Subsequo repous ay two mouth threafte and a Fina report on the conlusion of
the work hncuding a drft CPAR based on the Bans outie; and,
(c) Five copies of each rport wil be submitted in }gish and in R _ssian to tho Govermen
of       lsta and on copy of the Elishb verion wil be submited to the Wodd
Bank, trugh the Governmet.



-115-                               Annex VI-B
Terms of Reference
Consultant for the Al     eutFnandal Control of Tecnical Assib e Program
1.    The Government of Turkmrienistan is contracting for the provision of a coasiderable number
of Teclnical Consultants in various ministries and agencies to assist it in formulation and
implementation of the components of its reform program. The priy responsibility for supervising
the work of these Technical Consultants lies with the ministries and agencies within which they will
work. However, many agencies have little or no experience in this role and the govermnment wishes
to provide assistance to them for an inidal period. This support function will entail both day-to-day
support to the Technical Consultants and their agencies and measure to ensure the outcome of the
Technical Consultants' work is made available in a timely manner to policy makers.
0rganIatonal Strctr
2.    The Cabinet of Ministers has been established as the agency responsible for external
assistance management, aid management, facilitation of foreign imvestment and related procurement
and disbursement from foreign sources. The support function for the Technical Assistaiwc program
will therefore be located within the Cabinet of Ministers.
3.    The functions of the consultant would be to assist the Cabinet of Ministers in the following:
- monitor the progress of the implementation of the loan;
- assemble information on technical assistance needs in the Government;
-   assist the ministries and agencies to assess and formulate their needs in a maer which
can be put to donors, if required;
-   establish priorides among the various technical assistance requirements under the LoA  so
that implementation progress is smooth;
- ensure that accounting and financial reporting systems are established and carried out in
accordance with the loan agreement;
-   assist in the rerauim    of consultants by those agencies which need them.



-116-                               Annex VI-B
Terms of Referece of the                      Conol Conltant
a.    The Managing Consultant's initial duties will be to:
-   ensure that the schedule of implem io  of the Bank-financed consultancies are
responsive to the schedule of the reform program being implement.
- ensure that the line ministries and agencies are ready to receive and effectively supervise
the Technical Consultants.
- assist Technical Consultants, as required, to obtain access to the data, information and
docwments needed for them to fulfill their tasks, and to travel within the country as
required for their work.
- monitor the progress of the techdical assistance program under the Loan, and to ensure
that financial and other progress reports are presented when due.
- ensure that the supporting services required of the Govermment under the Loan are made
available and that the implementation of the contact is effective.
-   participate and assist in the recruitmen   of Technical Consultants for the project (though
the central responsibility for this task will lie with the line ministries and their
procurement consultants).
-   ensure that accounting, financial reporting and auditng are carried out in accordance
with the loan agreement.
- ensure that the results of the studies are communicated to the relevant policy-makers and
to the Bank.
b.    As these initial duties are accomplished , the consultant will turn hisJher attention to the
longer-term needs of Turkmenistan to enable it effectively to manage the entire program of technical
assistance (TA) under the loan, and to ensure that it meets the needs of the Government. This will
entail interaction between fte mmistries and agencies which need such assistance and the bilateral and
multinational agencies which can supply it. An essential tool for effecve execution of this function
will be a database of on-going and prospective TA projects, which can be used for effective
monitoring of, and reportng on, implementtion of the whole program, and help to identify fnancing
needs. The consultant will be exected to assist in the creation of this databae, which would be
established within the Cabinet of Ministers.
c Crucial to the success of this assignment will be the exent to which the consultant transfers
his/her knowledge and experience in the management of technical assistance programs to the staff of
the Cabinet of Ministers and the Ministries.
d.    Proposed Staff for this asiment should have wide exerien  of managng teebnical
assistance teams and programs. They should be familiar with the processes of recritment, induction
and supervision of technical assistance teams, and have experience in the monitoring and evaluation of



-117-                             Amnex VI-B
TA pras. The techmical discpline of applicats could vary, but should include finance and
accontig. The assignment is ea,tede to last about 24 months.



-118-                                                                       Annex VI
INSllTUTION BUILDINGITECMNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
Cost Es_dates by Major Contrc and Schedule of Critical Procurment Steps
(thousands of US$)
Component                                CoAras Type                                          Metod                             repae 31         Issue MIP
and Bs Coat                                                                           Doonnent        InViaion        Contra
FRIVATIZATION AND PRIVATE SBCTOR DEVELOPET
Pdv adon Policy                            Contsuldngralng          415    Short list of fm  and selecdon based on tecbnical merit      Dec 1994        lan 1995       mar 1995
Enterise Rdoms Advisor                                              485    Short list of firms nd selecdon based on  chnial merit       lun 1995        Feb 1995       Apr 1995
Enteprse Govanme and ResuctigS C                  o                 800    Sort list of frms and selction based on tcnical merit        Feb 1995        Mar 1995       May 1995
Compute  and Eqpum                         Goods                    300       tmational and Loca Shpping                                Jan 1995        Mar 1995       May 1995
Sbhct-rm Assig     itsen Conslting                                   100   bIIvidual conultam                                           May 1995        June 1995      June 1995
Oter Miscelano                             Goods                     100    Imerational and Local Shopping                              may 1995        June 1995      Aug 1995
SUBTOTAL                                                       2,200
PINANCIAL SCO
T_Pe  R          esibfty                Consultng                         Individual conlta                                           Dec 1994       Jan 1995        Mar 1995
Sysems Analysis(Project Management         Consultrainln            260    Sbort Ist of fims and selecdon based on tewnca merit         Jan 1995        Feb 1995       Apr 1995
1ommimication E*dpment                     Goods                   5,400    ICB                                                         Jan 1995        Feb 1995       Apr 1995
Bank Supervison                            ConsutigqlTa             400    Sbort tist of firms and selecton based on tchica merit       Dec 1994        Jan 1995       Mar 1995
Accountin  and Auditong                    Co                       250      Ptcqua*  thfims and slecon based on tchnal merit           Jan 1995        Feb 1995       Apr 1995
and price competIns only
Compt_tm for C4wd Ba*ffbbft                Goods                   1,340    ICB                                                         Feb 1995        Mar 1995       may 199
Tainn of Commeial lankes                   T    8M                   85O    Short list of firms and  aseecon bsd on     a mit           Jan 1995        Feb 199S       Apr 1995
Shost-teIr C     _oNa                      Co                       690    Sbort list of fims ad see n bed on achnicl met               may 1995        Ju   1995     Ah4 199S



-119-                                                                      Annx VII
Cmp_nt                                   Conr   Type                           Procurement method                             Prpr Bid         [oU Bid          SIP
and Bae cost                                                                         Document       iDvitatn        Conrac
M isaous Equpmt                           Goods                   1.050     1 _nteatonal VW LAl Shopping                             May 1995        June 1995      July 1993
SUBTOTAL                                                      9,490
RvMEMN   PROJBCT ANALYSIS
Pect o Anays s ad                         Conslt                   800    Short list of fims and selecion based on tcal ment          Doc 1994       Jan 1995        Mar 1995
Ma _nem  Adviso   W. trining)
Compue  and Equipment                     Goods                   1,500    ICB                                                        lan 1995        Feb 1995       Apr 1995
Odier Rdatd Euipm                         Goods                     100    Ine iona and Local oppig                                   June 1995       July 1995      Aug 1995
SUBITOAL                                                      2.5OO
LBOAL AND REGUATORY REPORM
Legal Advisor                             Colingfrnlng             420    Prnqualiif fims and seecdton based on technical mert        Dec 1994       Jan 1995        bar 1995
E_Pme                                     Goods                    200      nternadonal and Local Shopping                            DMc 1994       Jan 1995        Mar 1995
Spca LAws (short term)                    Coult                    200    Short list of fims and selcdon based on technical merit     Jan 1995       Feb 1995        Apr 1995
Tbann (lel                                TainiB                   100    Short lst of fims and selecon based on echnkal merit        Feb 1995       Mar 1995        May 1995
Odher Relaed    is                         Consuting                95    IndivIdual consa                                            may 1995       June 1995       July 1995
SUBTOTAL                                                      1,015
TOJBCR F3ASI            fDS
Apiutr                                    ConsIting                S00    Short li of fims and selecton based on technical merit      Mar 1995       Apr 1995        may 199S
nfasuce                                   Conslting                600    Short list of fimos and selecdon based on technical merit   Mar 1995       Apr 1995       May 1995
BEnery                                    Condting                 700    Short list of firs and selcion based on teial meit          May 1995       June 1995      July 1995
BE yim                                    Goods                    400    Ieational and Loca Sopping                                  Mr 1995        Apr 1995       May 1995
Oder Related Shudie                       Consltg                  200    Sbort list of fims and seecon based on tehic  merit         May 1995       June 1995      Jluy 1995
SUBTOTAL                                                     2,400



-120-                                                                     Annex VU
C_Mpe.1n                                Cagis Ty"P                            Pre,_    et Med"d               8rbpre DM                     Jsue Did         SP
and am Cost                                                                         Doenmag        lrutis         Contrat
SCA  SECTOR
Povery MonIorin/Sv                        Consgulti                175    Short list of fhms and selecdon based on  cnical met      Apr 1995       May 1995       June 1995
Sochi Potion                              Consulting              350    Short lst of finms and swection based on ehnic  mert       Dec 1994       Jan 1995       Feb 1995
Iqulpmnt for Socia Pw tcdoPovey           Goods                   400    IS                                                         Jan 199S       Feb 1995       Apr 199S
OdecrSbortmAsepmA_                        Consult                 i2      lwduk     l consultant                                    May 1995       June 1995      Aug 1995
Miscellaneous Consaltants                 Consulting               200    Short list of fms ad selecon based on  chnical meri       May 1995       June 1995      Aug 1995
Misclaneous Equipment                     Goods                      p    Intaaon  and Ical Shopping                                May 199S       June 1995      Aug 199S
SUBTOTAL                                                     1,350
MNERaY R
Institutional Strengthening and Joint
Vente Coordh.iaon                      Consu( igrr,IsIvg      1,600    Sbort list of fims and section based on technical merk    Doc 1994       Jan 199S        Feb 1955
Trang for Oil and Gas Minity              Consultinglining       1.400    Short list of firms and selecdon based on technical merit  Dec 1994      Jan 1995       Mar 1995
Eqolpme                                   Goods                   600    Intratonl ad Local Sopping                                 Dec 1994       Jan 199S       Feb 1995
Sboltstenn A     _                        ConDtn                  400    Individual conutant                                        May 1995       June 1995      Aug 1995
Equipm                                    Goods                   300    lntnatonand Local Sbopping                                 May 1995       June 199S      Aug 1995
SUWTOAL                                                      4,300
INSIITUTION BUILDING SUPPOtT AND DEVELOPMENT
MangemeConslta  ConsDt                                           800    Short list of fim  and selcton based on    ncal nmet       Oct 1994       Nov 1994       Dec 1994
EBIPD.                                    Ooods                   200    bnt     oL and Local Shopping                              Oct 1994       Nov 1994       Dec 1994
SUBIOAL                                                      1.000
TOTAL                                                           25,000



-121-                                     Annex VIII
INSTrUTION BUILDING/TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
Detailed Project Costs
(thousands of U.S. doRam)
Foreign    Component
Costs      Costs
asa % of   as a % of
Cost Components                                 Local     Foreign      Total    Total Costs  Total Cost
1. Priatiatn and Private Sector Development
a. Privatzaion                          200         950       I,IS0        82.6         4.4
b. Entprie Reform                       100         850         950        89.5         3.7
2. ISacla Sector
a. Bank Supervision                      70         350         420        83.3         1.6
b. Acc,uni and AudiWng                   30         230         260        88.5         1.0
c. Trainiin                             1S0       1.20O       1,350        88.9         5.2
d. Paymens Systm                        SOO       6,300       6,800        92.6        26.2
3. Instuddonal Support and Deveopment
a. Investment Project Analysis          310       2,130       2,440        87.3         9.4
b. Legal Reform and Framework           110         850         960        88.5         3.7
C. Projet Feaibility Studies            200       2,20)       2,400        91.7         9.2
4. Socal Safety Net
a. Aving Standards Measurement Survey    40         350         390        89.7         0.2
b. Pension                               70         500         570        87.7         2.2
S. Ebnergy Setor (01 & Gas)
a. bIthitonal Srengdtheing Assisance    180       1,700       1,880        90.4         7.2
b. Taining m    Cn and Gas              280       1,620       1,900        85.3         7.3
6. project .n.p.  dntatiau -SO                              800         950        84.2         3.7
7. Price and Physical Contagencies              180       3,400       3,580        95.0        13.8
TOTAL PROECTr FINANCING                       2,570      23,430      26,000        90.1       100.0



-122-                                       Anne  IX
INSTffUTION BUILDING/TECIINICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECr
Jinanclu  pine
(thousands of U.S. dolars)
IBRD
Financing
Total  as % of
Lgw         Poein         Tolat     Pe t Project
Financing Components                            GaT   mRD     3RD    GOT  mRD    Cost    Cost
1. Prinatzatlen and iPriate Sector Dewbpmut
a. Privatizaton                          S0     150    950       50   1,l1O    1.150    95.7
b. Entprise Refrm                        50      S0    850       50    900    950        94.7
2. Fnmncl Sector
a. Bank Suprviion                        20      50    350       20    400    420       95.2
b. Accounting and Audiig                 10      20    230       10    250    260        96.2
c. Trafing                               S0     100  L1.00       50   1,300   1,350     96.3
d. PaymetnsSystm                        200    300   6,300    200   6,600   6,800        97.1
3. bddn-l Sopor alla  _w ne
a. Invesm   t Project Analysis          140    170   2,130      140   2,300   2,440     94.3
b. 1Lead Reform and Framework            40      70    850       40    920    960       95.8
c. Proect Peasibilty Sundes             100    100   2,200      100   2,300   2,400     97.9
4. Social Safety Net
a. Living Sandards Measureme  Survey     10      30    350       10    380    390       97A
b. Pension                               20      50    S00       20    550    570       96.5
S. Knergy Sector (Onl & Gas)
a. InitudovAl Strengdten    Assistance   80    100   1,700       80   1,800   1,880     95.7
b. Traiing in Oil and Gas               100    180   1,620      100   1,800   1,900      94.7
6. ProJect Ipkmatait.                            50    100    800        50    900    950       94.7
7. Prke and Physical CiW"indo                    80    100   3,400       80   3,500   3,580     97.8
TOTAL PROJECr FINANCING                       1.000   1,570  23,430   1,000  25,000  26,000      96.2
a/ PPP refinancing is included in the indiiual componmnts. k covers the pdhvatizadton and enprise reform paymenus
system, energy secor and projec implementaton.



-123-                                 Amex X
INSTITUTION BUDING/TECENICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
IDRD Dtsiments
(US$ 000)
Category                                  Amount    % of Expenditres to be Finaned
Consultants' services and taiing          9,300       100% of enitur.
Computes, equipmien and other goods      10,700       100% of foreign expenditures,
100% of local expenditures (ex-factory
costs), and 75% of expentr  for
other items procured locally.
Project Prepation Facility                1,500      Amounts due to repay the principal
withrawn and outnding chges
thereon.
Unallocated                               3,500
Totl                                     25,000
aR A expenditumeto be finnced wv  be net of taxes.
-          *bS_flmte DMD Dsbmsew_
(US$ nMon)
FY95            FY96               FY97            FY 98
Amnal                     5                7                  7               6
Cumulative                5               12                 19              25



-124-                                                                     Annex XI
INSTITUTION BU1DING/TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE LOAN
Summary of the Techical As_stance Program
Maon G     oenwnez 0bjeti e     Pt.ojet Cmpownt Ac_vles                Elxted Result lmpact                    Resp       Agey                      ug
Impnwhvg tbe eviomen for        Planning and policy work for    * Th preparaon of a comprehnsive          Ministry of Ecowomy and Fiance     De 94- Sept95
pdrve sectot developmen         priva   on and private sector      privataon stategy for he public
streng_enn de capacity for     development including dhe           e     s;
polc developmen and             devebpment of schemes for       * Impovng Government's capay to
mplementation for piaftzaon    broad basig owner   patns.          cay out privaon on a compedtive
of pubc em"ps       od                                             basis; and preparaton of guidies;
st  g,        & sbelr governswe                                 * A report idenfy    barrims (inchuding
and resMft   _ pWQM ID                                             regsualy) to cOmpeit  and private
mpove dteir eficiency.                                             secor development wh mres to
remove toe bariers.
Povide ppOrt for the            * Speed the process of privadtion,        Ministy of Economy and Finance    Feb 95 - Mach 97
prvaunal  of pubWc                 enrme use of comapetive prhvtzation
entprise, cay out entprise         nmbods.
evalon, assist on pner          *   ban  the capaity of the MOEP for
seasch and on special                iadon of enepri         quiring
t _acto.                           seceorgal eperis;
0 Report on goverace sur   and a
,                               ~~~~~~~~~covpoudzadou prograT-



-125-                                                                       Annex Xl
INSIITUTION BUILDING/TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE LOAN
Summary of the Technical Asstance Program
Support the modeizai  and       Devepment of a paymems               Improving and mechanizing the presnt   CRT                                Dec 94- Marc 97
hnsduldond swoget  of           syslem in Tlarbmenistan.             paymens system coverng te entire
TurImesta's fmanil sysm         including the financing and          bankig system in the county:
and thereby improve its ability to  installation of supportig    *  Enhaing the efficiency of the
facDitte economy-wide reforms.   computer and  lecommnions           hnrbank settlement and
equipment, and required          *  Improving the dabae  for the
software.                            Centrd Bank of Turkmenisan (CM.
Deveopmen of bank accoun_n       0*  The new accouing and auditing         CBT                                Dec 94 - Marh 96
and auditng . and training of        standards wbkh  wM make fnnial
central aDd commercial bank staff   information of ban  more taqsaent
based on the new  account             nd reliabble for bank managemns and
standards.                           td parties and facilitate CBT
supervision and polcymaking;
* More skillful and knowledgeabe CBT
and commercial bak staff.
Streng _t of cnal bank           *  Revised pdenal regulktion;             CBT                                Dec 94 - June 95
supvision cpability and          0  New. more comprehensive and updatd
pd        reguladons.                supervision methodology (manuals);
*   Traing of about 20 staff which wil
improve the capabiliy of the CRT to
carmt out the offshe and onsiae
supervision of commera banks;
*   Identfiation of weak bas nd
remedial measures for them.
Training for pfessonal staff in            sem s wcbh wi ste               CT                                 June 95-June 96
banks in leng, credit and            tbe institutional capacity of the CUT
fici aalysis, accuntg,               ad commercial banks
internaio  finance, and          *  Around 250 trained professional CBT
maagemt.                             and commercia bank staff;
_  Around 50 taied bank managers.



-126-                                                                       Annex XI
INSTlTUTION BUILDING/TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE LOAN
Summar of the Technicalssstanc Progam
Main Goven tObjectv                   c npoent AcVites                  Expece  Rmsltnpact                      RespbAgey                           Tiing
Sodia Sector
Develp policies and pgam        Policies for poverty moairing        Govermme  to establish a              Goskotstat                       Jly 95 - Sept. 96
to better target social assisance  and targeting of income support   comprehemive and realistic poverty
and improve capaiy toprvode    gops.                                 line;
services and beneits to the                                      *   Desi  a monitorng systm and
pubic.                                                               implement a suvey of living stndards.
Drp p-mn p-ies ID                0 *   Design of a new naional and         Ministry of Socal Welfre         June 95 - Sept. 96
improve the     _         of the     contibtory penson scheme to cover
pension  hoeme.                      private as wel as public sector
employees;
*  Strty to improwve mgement of die
pendson admisrtion sysem; and
*  An opert  computer system.
inetetPoetAmyl                      _     _    _     _ __    _ __             _     _    _     _     _     ____ __              _     _       __      __      _
Dvelop the capaciq for          Developmn of public investent  0  Development of inestmen project          Minsty of Economics and          Jan 95 - Dec 95
domestc investment by the       project analyss policies ani           alysis meth         mals;            Fhiance
Govam   in bhh prorty and    stteies consie  Witk ntional   *                     tS_8Ihe ster of the
high rm  investmen  in          and sectonl priorities.              secoral and centra mbnistries in terms
a Wit naioml gouds.                                        of their capab    to pepae projects
awl invsmet progrm, focusing on
Co- pMuiuw _   of the bdeng      *   mwov  the eficincy of the exsti       Mbistry of Economics and         Mrh 95 - March 97
ad finua control pre                 ry_ and imleeafi   of a msewr    Pce=
plan for cop_zd    of doe budget
and a _   sslal". 



-127-                                                                       Annex XI
INSTITUTION BUILDING/TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE LOAN
S_mmary of the Technical Assiae Program
Lma  GoveriAmies Objctv         Iftej    CmUpm d                        ExptedeResult       c           I                  Amq           iiing
E-w- se-t
Develop capacity to formuae       sttonal a r_suctuing           *  Develop a plan for reorganizaton and    Mistry of Oil and Gas           Dec 94 - Dec 96
policies and straegies for      assistace for de Oil and Gas         strengteaing the capaciy of the unit in
deopmen and export of ps        MWSty to sUgdhen joint               the Mistr of Oi aNd Gas to:
and Oil sectors.                vete com ance and                    monior joint venus with forein
moniorbng ut                         companies and the operaon of
domestc companies for oi exploraion;
*  Provid expes withb skls In contat,
adminstatio, economics, and law.
Taining                         Training die staff of Tuzmenz    *  Manageril taing for efliwve             Minsty of Oil and Gas            une 95 - Jun 97
and Ministy of Oil and Gas           mangemnt of dte sector;
*  Technical  tg    to improve the
capaity of mid4evel and bigher4evel
Lega   Frinuew ork               _      _      _      _      _    _     _      _      _      _
Design and aticlaon of a        Long-term advbios to coodnate    *   Review laws and  oposals for their    Legal Reform Units in the        lanuary 94 - JIme 96
satg for a legilative and         gal rems and to  a  the            reviion, ensuring ther conistency      Cabinet of Munsters
rguaty reform, to support the   govemment in the atiulation of       with reform objectives;
development of the private      lws.                             *  Coordine approaches of various
mr2ket economy.                                                      govnent agencies that are workig
on dift lbgibladon;
* Provide genetal legal advice to the
.       _     G~~~(overre
Feaslbl it y  Studies           _  _  _  _  _  _  _  _  _  _ _   _  _  _  _  _  _  _  _  _  _  _  _  _  _  _  _  _  _  _  _  _  _  _  _  _  _  _  _  _  _  _  _  _  _
Investment faib    sudbs In     Experts to cuay out fab          *  Choose ptojects for possible           Ministry of Agriculture. Minsty    Jan 9S - Mar  97
prioty aruas.                   sudies in energy. hfrasue,           Investments;                           of Indus. Mistry of Economy
and agricuture.                  *  Prepar feasibility studies for those   and Fnance
projects.



-128-                               Annex XII
INSTITMUION BUILDING/TECIICAL ASSISTANCE PROECT
ImpemetatonPlan
Component                             Responsible Agency                 Timing
PiivatiZaoon and Private Sector
Development
Policy Development                       MOEF                       Dec 94 - Sep 95
Privatization Operations (Enterprise     MOEF                       Feb 95 - Mar 97
Reform)
Corporate Goverance and                  MOEF                       Dec 94 - Sep 96
Restructuring
Financial Sector
Paymes System                            CBT                        Dec 94 - Mar 97
Bank Supervision                          CBT                       Dec 94 - Mar 96
Accounting and Audting                    CBT                       Nov 94 - Sep 95
Training                                  CBT                       Jan 95 - June 96
Prudential Reaons                        CBT                        Dec 94 - June 95
Legal and Regulaory Frmework
Legal Reforms                            LRU                        Dec 94 - Mar 97
Regulatory Framework                      LRU                       Dec 94 - Mar 97
Special Laws                             LRU                        Feb 94 - Mar 97
Public lestment Project Analysis
Policy and Training                       MOEF                      Jan 95 - Dec 95
Computer System                           MOEF                      Mar 95 - Mar 97
Feasibilit Studies                         MOA,MOI,MOEF               Mar 95 - Mar 96
Socal Servic
Living Stds. Meurement Survey            GOSKOMSTAT                 Jul 95 - Sep 96
Pension Policies                          MOSW                      Jan 95 - Oct 95
Computerization of Pension Mgmt.          MOSW                      Mar 95 -Sep 96
Oil and Gas
Insitutional Restcuring                  MOG                        Dec 94 - Dec 96
Traning                                   MOG                       Jan 95 - June 97
Project ImplemenUtation                    PIU                        Nov 94 - Jun 97
Aug 94 - Jun 97



-129-                                Annex XIII
INSTlITTMON BUILDING/TECMNCAL ASSISTANCE PR0JECT
Supervision Plan
Approximate                                              Staff                    Staff
Dates               Activities                    Composition                Weeks
10/94       Project Launch Workshop               Task Manager                 7 (mission)
Procurement, disburement,
and component specialists
10/94 -    Preparation of consultant bid and      Task Manager                     15
6/95      equipment bid packages.                Procurement, disbursement,
and compont specialists
10/94 -     Review of selection of training       Task Manager                     10
7/95      program participants.                  Training specialist
3/95 -      Review of work progress on all        Task Manager                 15 (mission)
4/95      components.                            Component specialists
Finalize timetables for completion of
all components
1/96        Review of final audit reports.        Task Manager                      3
11/95 -     Mid-tem review.                       Task Manger                  20 (mission)
12/95                                            Component specialists
4/96        Final review for privatzation/private  Task Manager                8 (mission)
sector development and financial      Component specialists
sector.
11/96       Final review of payments system.      Task Manager                 5 (mission)
Financial sector specialist
Payments system specialist
11/96
Final review of the social sector     Task Manager                 5
components.                           Component specialists
2/97
Final review of oil and gas           Task Manager                 8 (mission)
components.                           Training specialist
Oil specialist
Gas specialist
2/97
Final review of feasibility study     Task Manager                 3
componen.                             Sector specialist



-130-                                 Annexm
Approximate                                               Staff                   Staff
Dates                Activities                    Composition                Weeks
3/97        Final review of legal component.       Task Manager                      4
Legal specialist
3/97        Final review of investment project     Task Manager                      5
analysis.                             Public sector specialist
8/97        Final supervision of disbursement and    Task Manager               12 (mission)
all finad reports.                    Disbursement specialist
Total                                                                            122



MB\D2509jRI
RLISSAN                                     PED
KAZAKHSTAN           I                                                                                               KAZAKKjSTAN j
/ A-~! UI
I   UZBEKISTAN      (  \                                            ASAXJAN
' \ '- \ ' iZ' ~~~~~~~~~~~~~.... ..                                                                              .... ';' -.'' ...'-:  ....... *  .
Sarlkamy~h.  j.
, .. < - \ v-; C. ~~~~Lak                                                                     5r.                                   -, -;.... ,......
.~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                                        6
TIJRKMENISTA"N       .             - |
O  SEtECEDOlES  ISIAMIC REPUBUC                             [  4              2X_~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~KM  EP
RAIIRQADS~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~' )                                       '> .4
-q,.                                                     AFGHAYIS1AN A  \
W _                                               eAe--_
-40-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0
40'~~~~~~~~
CW" ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~   ~     ~    ~     ~     ~    ~     ~    ~    ~     ~    ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ "-
0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
TUJRKMENISTAN                                                                                                                                 AF04ANITA
o  snem CMES                       ~~~~~ISLAMIC REPUBUC
NANA A  LOF IRAN
-ROADS                                                                                                                                                        20'-
-RAMROADS_
SANDY 0000 W                             0   25  so  75  150
ADMINISTRATIVE BOUNDARIES                  I   . I   I0 7 102    3
---INTERNATIONASBOUNDARS
50                                                     610'60 
APRI 1994



