Page  1
                                                           CONFORMED COPY
                                                      LOAN NUMBER 3791 TM
                              Loan Agreement
            (Institution Building/Technical Assistance Project)
                                  between
                               TURKMENISTAN
                                    and
                   INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                              AND DEVELOPMENT
                           Dated October 5, 1994
                                                      LOAN NUMBER 3791 TM
                              LOAN AGREEMENT
      AGREEMENT, dated October 5, 1994, between TURKMENISTAN (the Borrower)
and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
      WHEREAS the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility
and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has
requested the Bank to assist in the financing of the Project;
      WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the
foregoing, to extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions
set forth in this Agreement;
      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                                 ARTICLE I
                      General Conditions; Definitions
      Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee
Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the modifications set
forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this
Agreement:
Page  2
      (a)   The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
      (b)   In Section 6.02, sub-paragraph (k) is re-lettered as sub-
paragraph (l) and a new sub-paragraph (k) is added to read:
            "(k)  An extraordinary situation shall have arisen under which
      any further withdrawals under the Loan would be inconsistent with the
      provisions of Article III, Section 3 of the Bank's Articles of
      Agreement."
      Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms
defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have
the respective meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms
have the following meanings:
      (a)   "CBT" means the Central Bank of Turkmenistan;
      (b)   "Goskomstat" means the Borrower's State Committee for
Statistics;
      (c)   "MOEF" means the Borrower's Ministry of Economy and Finance;
      (d)   "MOG" means the Borrower's Ministry of Oil and Gas;
      (e)   "MOSW" means the Borrower's Ministry of Social Welfare;
      (f)   "PIU" means Project Implementation Unit established within the
Borrower's Cabinet of Ministers;
      (g)   "Project Agencies" means, collectively, the Borrower's
ministries and other governmental agencies referred to in the Annex to
Schedule 2 to this agreement;
      (h)   "Project Preparation Advance" means the project preparation
advance granted by the Bank to the Borrower pursuant to an exchange of
letters dated January 6, 1994 and March 9, 1994 between the Borrower and the
Bank; and
      (i)   "Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02
(b) of this Agreement.
                                ARTICLE II
                                 The Loan
      Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms
and conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, various
currencies that shall have an aggregate value equivalent to the amount of
twenty-five million dollars ($25,000,000), being the sum of withdrawals of
the proceeds of the Loan, with each withdrawal valued by the Bank as of the
date of such withdrawal.
      Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the
Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made)
in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the
Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Loan.
      (b)   The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and
maintain in dollars a special deposit account in a bank on terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Bank, including appropriate protection
against set-off, seizure or attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of,
the Special Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
      (c)   Promptly after the Effective Date, the Bank shall, on behalf of
the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to itself the amount
required to repay the principal amount of the Project Preparation Advance
withdrawn and outstanding as of such date and to pay all unpaid charges
thereon. The unwithdrawn balance of the authorized amount of the Project
Preparation Advance shall thereupon be cancelled.
Page  3
      Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1998 or such later
date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the
Borrower of such later date.
      Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge
at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the
principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to time.
      Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal
amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate
for each Interest Period equal to the Cost of Qualified Borrowings
determined in respect of the preceding Semester, plus one-half of one
percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the dates specified in Section 2.06 of this
Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest accrued on the principal amount
outstanding during the preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rate
applicable during such Interest Period.
      (b)   As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester, the Bank
shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in
respect of such Semester.
      (c)   For the purposes of this Section:
            (i)   "Interest Period" means a six-month period ending on the
                  date immediately preceding each date specified in Section
                  2.06 of this Agreement, beginning with the Interest
                  Period in which this Agreement is signed.
            (ii)  "Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost, as
                  reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a
                  percentage per annum, of the outstanding borrowings of
                  the Bank drawn down after June 30, 1982, excluding such
                  borrowings or portions thereof as the Bank has allocated
                  to fund: (A) the Bank's investments; and (B) loans which
                  may be made by the Bank after July 1, 1989 bearing
                  interest rates determined otherwise than as provided in
                  paragraph (a) of this Section.
            (iii) "Semester" means the first six months or the second six
                  months of a calendar year.
      (d)   On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than six months'
notice to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) (iii) of this Section
shall be amended to read as follows:
                  "(a)  The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal
            amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time,
            at a rate for each Quarter equal to the Cost of Qualified
            Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding Quarter, plus
            one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the dates
            specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall
            pay interest accrued on the principal amount outstanding during
            the preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rates
            applicable during such Interest Period."
                  "(b)  As soon as practicable after the end of each
            Quarter, the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of
            Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of such Quarter."
                  "(c) (iii) `Quarter' means a three-month period
            commencing on January 1, April 1, July 1 or October 1 in a
            calendar year."
      Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable semiannually
on May 1 and November 1 in each year.
      Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the
Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3
to this Agreement.
                                ARTICLE III
                         Execution of the Project
Page  4
      Section 3.01. The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives
of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this
end, shall carry out the Project through the Project Agencies with due
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative,
financial, management and technical practices, and shall provide, promptly
as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for
the Project.
      Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement
of the goods and consultants' services required for the Project and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions
of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
      Section 3.03. For the purpose of monitoring the progress of the
Project and of overall management and administration of the activities to
be carried out under the Project and the procurement of goods and services
required therefor, the Borrower shall maintain the PIU headed at all times
by a coordinator, whose qualifications and experience shall be acceptable
to the Bank, and who shall be assisted by competent staff in adequate
numbers and having appropriate skills.
      Section 3.04. For the purpose of carrying out Part C.2 of the Project,
the Borrower shall maintain the Legal Reform Unit ("LRU") referred to in
Section 3(b) of Schedule 1 to this Agreement headed at all times by a
coordinator, whose qualifications and experience shall be acceptable to the
Bank, and who shall be assisted by competent staff in adequate numbers and
having appropriate skills.
      Section 3.05. For the purpose of carrying out Part B (iii) of the
Project, the Borrower shall increase, by February 28, 1995, and thereafter
maintain the staff of the supervision department of the CBT to a level of
at least 14 professionals.
      Section 3.06. Regarding the training programs to be carried out under
the Project, the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank for approval the content
of each of such programs as well as the schedule for its implementation and
the criteria for the selection of trainees.
                                ARTICLE IV
                            Financial Covenants
      Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound
accounting practices the operations, resources and expenditures in respect
of the Project of the departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible
for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
      (b)   The Borrower shall:
            (i)   have the records and accounts referred to in
                  paragraph (a) of this Section including those for the
                  Special Account for each fiscal year audited, in
                  accordance with appropriate auditing principles
                  consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable
                  to the Bank;
            (ii)  furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case
                  not later than six months after the end of each such
                  year, the report of such audit by said auditors, of such
                  scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have
                  reasonably requested; and
            (iii) furnish to the Bank such other information concerning
                  said records and accounts and the audit thereof as the
                  Bank shall from time to time reasonably request.
      (c)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the
Loan Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the
Borrower shall:
            (i)   maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with
Page  5
                  paragraph (a) of this Section, records and accounts
                  reflecting such expenditures;
            (ii)  retain, until at least one year after the Bank has
                  received the audit report for the fiscal year in which
                  the last withdrawal from the Loan Account or payment out
                  of the Special Account was made, all records (contracts,
                  orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other documents)
                  evidencing such expenditures;
            (iii) enable the Bank's representatives to examine such
                  records; and
            (iv)  ensure that such records and accounts are included in the
                  annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section
                  and that the report of such audit contains a separate
                  opinion by said auditors as to whether the statements of
                  expenditure submitted during such fiscal year, together
                  with the procedures and internal controls involved in
                  their preparation, can be relied upon to support the
                  related withdrawals.
                                 ARTICLE V
                        Effective Date; Termination
      Section 5.01. The following event is specified as an additional
condition to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of
Section 12.01 (b) of the General Conditions, namely that the Borrower has
staffed the PIU with consultants, acceptable to the Bank, who have expertise
in international procurement and project management.
      Section 5.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the
General Conditions.
                                ARTICLE VI
                 Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
      Section 6.01. The Deputy Chairman of the Cabinet of Ministers
specially authorized for this purpose by the Cabinet of Ministers of the
Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes
of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
      Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes
of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
      For the Borrower:
            Cabinet of Ministers
            17 Gogolya Str.
            Ashgabat
            Turkmenistan
            Fax:                          Telex:
                  3632-25-51-12             116201 (MEKAN)
      For the Bank:
            International Bank for
              Reconstruction and Development
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America
            Cable address:                Telex:
                  INTBAFRAD                 248423 (RCA)
                  Washington, D.C.           82987 (FTCC)
                                             64145 (WUI) or
                                            197688 (TRT)
Page  6
      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their
respective names in Madrid, Spain, as of the day and year first above
written.
                        TURKMENISTAN
                        By /s/ Valery G. Otchertsov
                                                Authorized Representative
                        INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                          RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
                        By /s/ Russell Cheetham
                                           Acting Regional Vice President
                                                  Europe and Central Asia
                                SCHEDULE 1
                  Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to
each Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed
in each Category:
                             Amount of the
                            Loan Allocated           % of
                            (Expressed in        Expenditures
     Category             Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed
(1)   Computers,                                100% of foreign
      equipment                                 expenditures,
      and materials:                            100% of local
                                                expenditures
      (a) for Part C.2             200,000      (ex-factory cost)
          of the Project                        and 75% of local
                                                expenditures for
      (b) other                 10,500,000      other items pro-
                                                cured locally
(2)   Consultants'                              100%
      services and
      training:
      (a) for Part C.2             700,000
          of the Project
      (b) other                  8,600,000
(3)   Refunding of               1,500,000      Amounts due
      Project                                   pursuant to
      Preparation                               Section 2.02 (c)
      Advance                                   of this Agreement
(4)   Unallocated                3,500,000
                                __________
      TOTAL                     25,000,000
                                ==========
Page  7
2.  For the purposes of this Schedule:
    (a)   the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency
of any country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services
supplied from the territory of any country other than that of the Borrower;
and
    (b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency
of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the
Borrower; provided, however, that if the currency of the Borrower is also
that of another country from the territory of which the goods and services
are supplied, expenditures in such currency for such goods or services shall
be deemed to be "foreign expenditures".
3.  Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals
shall be made in respect of: (a) payments made for expenditures prior to the
date of this Agreement except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not
exceeding the equivalent of $2,500,000, may be made for expenditures before
that date but after January 1, 1994; and (b) categories 1(a) and 2(a) above
prior to the establishment of the LRU with staffing and responsibilities
acceptable to the Bank.
4.  The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the
basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures under contracts for
goods and services not exceeding $50,000 equivalent, under such terms and
conditions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
                                SCHEDULE 2
                        Description of the Project
    The objectives of the Project are to: (i) provide assistance in the
design and development of the Borrower's reform policies and programs; and
(ii) help build the institutional capacity and skills base to carry out
these reforms.
    The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time
to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:   Privatization and Private Sector Development
    Provision of assistance to the MOEF in:
          (i)   the development and strengthening of the Borrower's
                privatization program and assistance in its implementation
                through the provision of expert assistance, training, and
                equipment aimed at enhancing enterprise efficiency; and
          (ii)  encouragement of competition and assistance in the
                corporate and financial restructuring and improvements in
                governance of major public enterprises.
Part B:   Financial Sector Modernization
    Provision of assistance to the CBT in:
          (i)   the modernization of the Borrower's payment system;
          (ii)  the further development and strengthening of the Borrower's
                banking legislation and of normative acts of the CBT;
          (iii) the strengthening of the supervision function of the CBT;
          (iv)  the modernization of bank accounting and auditing;
          (v)   the development of prudential regulation; and
          (vi)  the development of a program for training of commercial and
                other banking staff in banking operations and essential
                financial skills.
Page  8
Part C:   Institutional Support and Development
1.  Provision of assistance to the MOEF in developing the capacity for the
economic and financial evaluation of public investment projects, including,
but not limited to, a feasibility study for implementation of a computerized
system for the MOEF.
2.  Provision of assistance to the LRU in designing and development of a
legal regulatory and institutional framework for the development of the
private sector, including contracts, property and company legislation and
dissemination of legal information through legal advisory services, legal
training and equipment to facilitate the foregoing.
3.  Provision of assistance to the PIU in carrying out project management,
project coordination and implementation, and procurement tasks through
consultant services, training and equipment.
4.  Provision of assistance to the Project Agencies in carrying out
comprehensive feasibility studies covering policy, technical, economic,
financial and environmental aspects of investment projects jointly
identified by the Borrower and the Bank in the oil and gas, agriculture and
transport sectors.
Part D:   Social Sector
    Provision of assistance in:
          (i)   the carrying out of a living standards measurement survey
                designed as the first step in developing social protection
                policies targeted to the most vulnerable groups of the
                society; and
          (ii)  the improvement of the existing pension administration
                system and in the design and development of a new pension
                system which would cover private sector employees.
Part E:   Energy Sector
    Provision of assistance to the MOG in:
          (i)   the strengthening of joint-venture admini- stration and
                regulatory function of the MOG; and
          (ii)  technical and managerial training of personnel in the MOG.
                                   * * *
    The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1997.
                            ANNEX TO SCHEDULE 2
                     Project Agencies Responsible for
                         Execution of the Project
Part of the Project                            Agency
Part A                                         MOEF
Part B                                         Central Bank
Part C (1)                                     MOEF
Part C (2)                                     LRU
Part C (3)                                     Project Agencies
Part D (1)                                     Goskomstat
Part D (2)                                     MOSW
Part E                                         MOG
                                SCHEDULE 3
Page  9
                           Amortization Schedule
                                    Payment of Principal
    Date Payment Due               (expressed in dollars)*
    May 1, 2000                                480,000
    November 1, 2000                           495,000
    May 1, 2001                                515,000
    November 1, 2001                           535,000
    May 1, 2002                                550,000
    November 1, 2002                           570,000
    May 1, 2003                                590,000
    November 1, 2003                           615,000
    May 1, 2004                                635,000
    November 1, 2004                           655,000
    May 1, 2005                                680,000
    November 1, 2005                           705,000
    May 1, 2006                                730,000
    November 1, 2006                           755,000
    May 1, 2007                                785,000
    November 1, 2007                           810,000
    May 1, 2008                                840,000
    November 1, 2008                           870,000
    May 1, 2009                                900,000
    November 1, 2009                           930,000
    May 1, 2010                                965,000
    November 1, 2010                           1,000,000
    May 1, 2011                                1,035,000
    November 1, 2011                           1,070,000
    May 1, 2012                                1,110,000
    November 1, 2012                           1,150,000
    May 1, 2013                                1,190,000
    November 1, 2013                           1,230,000
    May 1, 2014                                1,275,000
    November 1, 2014                           1,330,000
_____________________________
*   The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents determined as
    of the respective dates of withdrawal. See General Conditions, Sections
    3.04 and 4.03.
                          Premiums on Prepayment
    Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions, the premium
payable on the principal amount of any maturity of the Loan to be prepaid
shall be the percentage specified for the applicable time of prepayment
below:
    Time of Prepayment                   Premium
                                   The interest rate (expressed as a
                                   percentage per annum) applicable to the
                                   Loan on the day of prepayment multiplied
                                   by:
Not more than three years                      0.15
    before maturity
More than three years but                      0.30
    not more than six years
    before maturity
More than six years but                        0.55
    not more than 11 years
    before maturity
More than 11 years but not                     0.80
    more than 16 years
    before maturity
Page  10
More than 16 years but not                     0.90
    more than 18 years
    before maturity
More than 18 years before                      1.00
    maturity
                                SCHEDULE 4
                   Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.  Procurement of Goods
Part A:   International Competitive Bidding
1.  Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods shall be procured under
contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent with those set
forth in Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD
Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in May 1992 (the Guidelines).
    (a)   For fixed-price contracts, the invitation to bid referred to in
paragraph 2.13 of the Guidelines shall provide that, when contract award is
delayed beyond the original bid validity period, the successful bidder's bid
price will be increased for each week of delay by two predisclosed
correction factors acceptable to the Bank, one to be applied to all foreign
currency components and the other to the local currency component of the bid
price. Such an increase shall not be taken into account in the bid
evaluation.
    (b)   In the procurement of goods in accordance with this Part A, the
Borrower shall use the relevant standard bidding documents issued by the
Bank, with such modifications thereto as the Bank shall have agreed to be
necessary for the purposes of the Project. Where no relevant standard
bidding documents have been issued by the Bank, the Borrower shall use
bidding documents based on other internationally recognized standard forms
agreed with the Bank.
Part B:   Other Procurement Procedures
1.  Items or groups of items estimated to cost the equivalent of $300,000
or less per contract, up to an aggregate amount equivalent to $3,200,000,
may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of comparison of price
quotations obtained from at least three suppliers from at least three
different countries eligible under the Guidelines, in accordance with
procedures acceptable to the Bank.
2.  Items or groups of items for estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000
or less per contract, up to an aggregate amount equivalent to $500,000, may
be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of comparison of price
quotations obtained from at least three suppliers eligible under the
Guidelines, in accordance with procedures acceptable to the Bank.
Part C:   Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.  Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final contracts:
    (a)   With respect to each contract procured under International
Competitive Bidding set forth in Part A of Section 1 of this Schedule 4 and
the first two contracts procured under international shopping set forth in
Part B(1) of Section 1 of this Schedule 4, the procedures set forth in
paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where
payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special Account, such
procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the
contract required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said paragraph 2
(d) shall be furnished to the Bank prior to the making of the first payment
out of the Special Account in respect of such contract.
    (b)   With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding
paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4 of Appendix 1 to
the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made
out of the Special Account, said procedures shall be modified to ensure that
the two conformed copies of the contract together with the other information
Page  11
required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be
furnished to the Bank as part of the evidence to be furnished pursuant to
paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
    (c)   The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall not apply
to contracts on account of which withdrawals are to be made on the basis of
statements of expenditure.
2.  The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of paragraph 4 of
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II. Employment of Consultants
1.  In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out the Project, the
Borrower shall employ consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms
and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Bank. Such
consultants shall be selected in accordance with principles and procedures
satisfactory to the Bank on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing
Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981 (the Consultant Guidelines).
For complex, time-based assignments, the Borrower shall employ such
consultants under contracts using the standard form of contract for
consultants' services issued by the Bank, with such modifications as shall
have been agreed by the Bank. Where no relevant standard contract documents
have been issued by the Bank, the Borrower shall use other standard forms
agreed with the Bank.
2.  Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section, the
provisions of the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior Bank review or
approval of budgets, short lists, selection procedures, letters of
invitation, proposals, evaluation reports and contracts shall not apply to:
(a) contracts for the employment of consulting firms estimated to cost less
than $100,000 equivalent each; or (b) contracts for the employment of
individuals estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent each. However,
this exception to prior Bank review shall not apply to: (a) the terms of
reference for such contracts, (b) single-source selection of consulting
firms, (c) assignments of a critical nature, as reasonably determined by the
Bank, (d) amendments to contracts for the employment of consulting firms
raising the contract value to $100,000 or above, or (e) amendments to
contracts for the employment of individual consultants raising the contract
value to $50,000 equivalent or above.
                                SCHEDULE 5
                              Special Account
1.  For the purposes of this Schedule:
    (a)   the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1) and (2) set
forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
    (b)   the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of
the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to
the eligible Categories in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement; and
    (c)   the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to
$500,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited in the Special
Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, provided, however,
that unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall
be limited to an amount equivalent to $100,000 until the aggregate amount
of withdrawals from the Loan Account plus the total amount of all
outstanding special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section
5.02 of the General Conditions shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent
of $2,000,000.
2.  (a)   Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for
eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
    (b)   Each payment (including a payment under a letter of credit) for
an eligible expenditure in an amount equal to or less than the equivalent
Page  12
of $10,000 shall be made exclusively out of the Special Account. The Bank
may from time to time, by notice to the Borrower, revise the threshold
amount specified in the preceding sentence.
3.  After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special
Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and
subsequent withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as
follows:
    (a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall
furnish to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the Special
Account of an amount or amounts determined by the Bank to be required to pay
for eligible expenditures during the four months following the date of each
such request, which amount shall not exceed the aggregate amount of the
Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the Bank
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit
in the Special Account such amount or amounts as the Bank shall have
determined to be so required.
    (b)   (i)   For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower
                shall furnish to the Bank requests for deposits into the
                Special Account at such intervals as the Bank shall
                specify.
          (ii)  Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower
                shall furnish to the Bank the documents and other evidence
                required pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the
                payment or payments in respect of which replenishment is
                requested. On the basis of each such request, the Bank
                shall, on behalf of the Borrower, with- draw from the Loan
                Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount as
                the Borrower shall have requested and as shall have been
                shown by said documents and other evidence to have been
                paid out of the Special Account for eligible expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan Account under
the respective eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent
amounts, as shall have been justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.  For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the
Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish
to the Bank such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was
made exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.  Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank
shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
    (a)   if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account
in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and
paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
    (b)   if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within
the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any
of the audit reports required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said
Section in respect of the audit of the records and accounts for the Special
Account;
    (c)   if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Borrower of its
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make
withdrawals from the Loan Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02
of the General Conditions; or
    (d)   once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the
eligible Categories, less the amount of any outstanding special commitment
entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions
with respect to the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount
of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn
amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such
procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further
Page  13
withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the Bank shall
have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the
Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making
payments for eligible expenditures.
6.  (a)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out
of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not
eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified
by the evidence furnished to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon
notice from the Bank: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Bank may
request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so
request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such payment
or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank shall
otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account
shall be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such
deposit or refund, as the case may be.
    (b)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further
payments for eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice
from the Bank, refund to the Bank such outstanding amount.
    (c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all
or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
    (d)   Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c)
of this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent
withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions
of this Agreement, including the General Conditions.
