                   Document of
                The World Bank




                                                       Report No: 30854

  IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
     (CPL-37910 SCL-3791A PPFB-P2310)

                       ON A

                     CREDIT

    IN THE AMOUNT OF US$25 MILLION

         TO THE GOVERNMENT OF

                TURKMENISTAN

FOR An Institution Building Technical Assistance Loan




                 December 1, 2004

                   CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

               (Exchange Rate Effective October 2004)

                     Currency Unit = Manat
                         5,200 TM = US$ 1.00 US Official
                     US$ 1 Parallel = 22,000

                   WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
                         METRIC SYSTEM


                           FISCAL YEAR

     TURKMENISTAN FISCAL YEAR            January 1 - December 31


               ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

CAS               Country Assistance Strategy
CIS               Commonwealth of Independent States
EU               European Union
FDI              Foreign Direct Investment
FSAP              Financial Sector Assessment Program
GOT               Government of Turkmenistan
GDP               Gross Domestic Product
IAS               International Accounting Standards
IBTA              Institution Building Technical Assistance Loan
IDA               International Development Association
IMF               International Monetary Fund
QAG               Quality Assurance Group
SAL               Structural Adjustment Loan
SME               Small and Medium Enterprises
SOE               State-Owned Enterprise
TA                Technical AssistanceState-Owned Enterprise
USAID             United States Agency for International Development



                    Vice President:    Shigeo Katsu (ECAVP)
                 Country Director      Dennis De Tray (ECC07)
                   Sector Director     Cheryl Gray (ECSPE)
                   Sector Manager      Helga Muller
    Task Team Leader/Task Manager      Dominique de Roquefeuil

                                      TURKMENISTAN
                        Institution BuildingTechnical Assistance Credit


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            7
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                            13
6. Sustainability                                                                15
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 16
8. Lessons Learned                                                               18
9. Partner Comments                                                              19
10. Additional Information                                                       20
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             21
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             22
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             24
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             25
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             27
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                28
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            29

Project ID: P034092                                                  Project Name: Technical Assistance
Team Leader: Dominique de Roquefeuil                                 TL Unit: ECSPE
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: December 1, 2004


1. Project Data
                   Name: Technical Assistance                                     L/C/TF Number: CPL-37910; SCL-3791A;
                                                                                                     PPFB-P2310
   Country/Department: TURKMENISTAN                                                       Region: Europe and Central Asia
                                                                                                     Region

        Sector/subsector: Central government administration (48%); Payment systems,
                            securities clearance and settlement (32%); Oil and gas (9%);
                            Banking (6%); Law and justice (5%)
                  Theme: Regulation and competition policy (P); State enterprise/bank
                            restructuring and privatization (P); Social analysis and monitoring
                            (P); Administrative and civil service reform (P); Legal institutions
                            for a market economy (P)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 10/04/1993                                     Effective:                           07/20/1995
     Appraisal: 03/01/1994                                         MTR:
      Approval: 09/15/1994                                      Closing: 06/30/1998                 12/31/2003



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          REPUBLIC OF TURKMENISTAN/MINISTRY OF FINANCE
                      Other Partners:

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Shigeo Katsu                                   Wilfried Thalwitz
Country Director:               Dennis de Tray                                 Russell J. Cheetham
Sector Manager:                 Cheryl W. Gray                                 Kadir T. Yurukoglu (Division Chief)
Team Leader at ICR:             Dominique de Roquefeuil                        Pervaiz Rashid
ICR Primary Author:             Richard J. Carroll


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        HU
                      Sustainability:      HUN
   Institutional Development Impact:       N
                 Bank Performance:         U
            Borrower Performance:          HU


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry:                                  U
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: Yes

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:

         Background

Turkmenistan is the fourth largest of the former Soviet Union (FSU) countries, with a land area of
half a million square kilometers. Despite its expansiveness, its population is only 4.5 million.
Turkmenistan is landlocked and 90 percent of its land area is covered by the Kara Kum desert.
Still, Turkmenistan has a rich endowment of natural resources, most notably natural gas and oil,
and is one of the world's top producers of natural gas. At the time of the launch of IBTA, as well
as today, Turkmenistan was mainly an agricultural country, with cotton accounting for half of
production. Turkmenistan had weak social indicators with the highest infant mortality and the
lowest life expectancy in the FSU. Though its economic decline after the fall of the Soviet Union
was substantial, it was not as severe as in other FSU countries, largely attributable to its energy
endowment, but also to the fact that Turkmenistan put off making the reforms needed for the
transition to a market economy.

Turkmenistan became independent on October 27, 1991 and a member of the World Bank on
September 22, 1992. A Country Economic Memorandum (CEM) was issued (May 31, 1994),
after which the Institution Building Technical Assistance (IBTA) Loan was launched, the first
Bank lending operation in Turkmenistan. There was no IMF operation prior to the IBTA or
during IBTA implementation.

Prior to the IBTA, the Government took a few tentative steps to move toward a market economy
with some price liberalization, land reforms and establishment of its own currency, the Manat.
The Manat was originally pegged to the dollar, but was then devalued rapidly during November
1993 to August 1994 when the Manat declined from 2 per dollar to 75 per dollar. There was no
Bank-supported adjustment operation associated with the IBTA.

         Objective

The overall objective of the IBTA was to assist Turkmenistan in its transition to a market
economy. Specifically, the IBTA was intended to "(i) provide support to the Government in the
policy formulation process by helping to overcome the critical human resource gap that is slowing
the preparation of a reform program and to develop policy options for implementing and
managing reforms including strategies for removing energy sector constraints; and (ii) provide
support for institution building and strengthen domestic capacity to ensure that Turkmenistan has
the capability to implement and sustain reforms over the medium term."

A priority for Turkmenistan following the breakup of the Soviet Union was to create modern
institutions of economic management to replace those of a centrally planned economy. The
transition would require capacity in     privatization of public assets, public finance, financial
management, legal, social and energy sectors. The          IBTA was designed to support the
Government in these areas.




                                                - 2 -

IBTA objectives were based on the economic and institution building priorities identified in the
CEM, which were of a general nature, typical of first operation TA projects in FSU countries.
This general approach was more effective in some FSU countries (e.g., Kyrgyzstan and
Kazakhstan), than in others (e.g., Tajikistan). Although the Government had signed off on these
objectives, it eventually became clear that it was not committed to taking the steps needed to
achieve them. There was no CAS until 1997 and the Bank/Borrower dialog, though active, was
relatively limited compared with that of other countries in the region.

As with the other FSU countries, the Government had had only limited dealings with the Bank
(aside from cooperation on the CEM) at the time of project design and no experience in
managing a market economy. The $25 million IBTA was approved as the first Bank project in
Turkmenistan under these uncertain conditions. A major education effort was thus an implicit
objective of this multi-component institutional development project. The meta goals also were to
develop the new Bank/Borrower relationship and, possibly prepare a rehabilitation loan. The
achievement of these objectives are evaluated in Section 4.1.

3.2 Revised Objective:

The overall objectives as stated above were never officially changed.        However, with the
cancellation, at the Government's request, of 60 percent ($15 million) of the project financing in
1999 after the Bank's investigation into fraud and corruption allegations, both the Bank and the
Government understood that these objectives were no longer fully attainable. In 2000, after
misprocurement had been declared and the issues were resolved, the project's objectives were
revisited and the project reactivated. With the support of USAID consultants (see Section 3.3), a
more focused, less policy-intensive project was designed. It was hoped that this simplification
would open a small window of engagement in an area that the Government could support.

The 2000 decision was also taken in light of the fact that the Bank could not make new loans
because of a negative pledge clause violation (see Section 5.2). Because of these changes, the
IBTA could no longer be viewed as a fund for building capacity across institutions for the
Government's reform program as there was no reform program. There was essentially only one
major component left in the project after 1999, which was the modernization of the treasury
system through technical assistance and hardware. There were also smaller activities on pensions,
living standards measurement (LSMS- see Section 4.2) and the census. Table 1 provides a
timeline of events leading up to and following the disbursement suspension.




                                                - 3 -

                      Table 1: Timeline of Events for the Turkmenistan IBTA

     Date                                                   Event
  9/15/1994        Board Approval
   Mid-1995        IAD review of "kickbacks" on IBTA procurements charge and confirmation thereof
                   (including complicity of a procurement agent who was a computer company associate).
   7/20/1995       IBTA Effectiveness, 10 months after Board approval.
   7/25/1997       Former IBTA PIU staff sends letter reporting details of misprocurement (by PIU) and
                   misallocation of funds.
    8/1997         IAD reopens investigation and pursues allegations of fraud and corruption in the IBTA.
    3/1998         Portfolio Review mission lends further credibility to allegations, and disbursements on
                   entire Turkmen portfolio (also including the Urban Transport and Water Supply and
                   Sanitation projects) are suspended.
   3/28/1998       Official Suspension Announcement to the Government.
   6/30/1998       Original Closing Date. Bank defers decision on closing the project until investigation
                   is complete.
    3/1999         Investigation confirms PIU head's complicity in the allegations. The Bank declares
                   misprocurement on three contracts totaling $4.38 million.
    3/1999         Government refunds $1,869,125.84 of funds disbursed for misprocured contracts, and
                   replaces PIU directors of all Bank-supported projects.
    4/1999         Investigation formally ends and the Bank permanently debars four firms and one
                   individual from future participation in Bank financed contracts.
    6/1999         Bank cancels $15 million of the $25 million IBTA at Government request.
    8/1999         Bank lifts country-wide suspension on disbursements
    11/1999        Government submits refocused IBTA plan to the Bank focusing on treasury
                   modernization, with the assistance of USAID consultants.
  12/29/1999       Government requests re-activation of IBTA with reinstatement of cancelled funds and
                   extension to December 31, 2001. Misprocured amounts and remainder of contracts
                   affected by misprocurement are cancelled ($4.38 million). See section 5.4.
   6/30/2000       Retroactive extension of the closing date of the IBTA agreed, with MD approval. Bank
                   re-activates the IBTA and restores $9.2 million of the cancelled portion of the IBTA and
                   defines future activities. Remaining component focuses on improving transparency and
                   efficiency of government treasury through computerization. USAID to assist.
    12/2001        International consultant in place. Second extension granted to December 31, 2002.
    12/2002        Procurement package awarded to lowest bidder. Third extension granted to December
                   31, 2003.
  12/31/2003       The Bank does not grant fourth extension request. Actual Project Closing Date.

Sources: Project files, staff interviews.

After the procurement improprieties were resolved (see Section 3.5), the suspension of loan
disbursements was lifted and most remaining components cancelled, the project focus was on
improving the transparency and efficiency of government budgeting through computerization (see
April 2000 Project Status Report). With the assistance of USAID, the Government formulated a
broad budget modernization agenda and the closing date of the IBTA was extended (initially to
December 31, 2001). The Government proposed the amount to be reinstated ($9.2 million)
needed to finance activities relevant to the new agenda. Ultimately, the agenda was never fully
implemented and the Government used only $5.1 million (55 percent) of the reinstated amount.




                                                        - 4 -

3.3 Original Components:

The components of the IBTA followed a design similar to those in most other Bank-funded TA
projects in the newly independent FSU countries. The components and subcomponents of the
IBTA were as follows (IBRD allocations in millions in parentheses):

1.     Privatization and Private Sector Development ($2.1)

       Privatization and Private Sector Development ($1.15)
       Enterprise Reform and Training ($0.95)

2.     Financial Sector Reform ($8.83)

       Banking Supervision and Prudential Regulations (($0.42)
       Bank Accounting and Auditing Reform ($0.26)
       Training of Commercial Bank Personnel ($1.35)
       Payments System ($6.8)

3.     Institutional Support and Development ($5.8)

       Public Investment Project Analysis ($2.44)
       Legal Reform Component for Private Sector Development ($0.96)
       Sector Strategies and Feasibility Studies ($2.4)

4.     Social Safety Net ($0.96)

       Living Standards Measurement ($0.39)
       Pension Administration ($0.57)

5.     Energy Sector ($3.76)

       Institutional Strengthening of Joint Venture Coordination Unit ($1.88)
       Training ($1.9)

6.     Project Implementation ($0.95)

In addition, there was a large allocation for price and physical contingencies of $3.58 million (15
percent of total base costs), which gave additional flexibility to the IBTA to fund new activities as
needs evolved. This feature was common to TA projects in other FSU countries. There was
additional flexibility as the subcomponents were generally defined. The GOT was to contribute an
additional $1 million equivalent bringing the total project amount to $26.0 million.

Based on the analytical effort of the first CEM, the Bank identified, with Government agreement,
the priority areas for TA for a transition to a market economy. As all FSU countries had been
part of the highly centralized, socialist regime, it seemed logical that all countries with a similar



                                                 - 5 -

Soviet background would require the development of essentially the same types of institutions,
with some adjustments for the structure of the economy, such as energy resources. As wide
differences in country experience has shown, however, the one-size-fits-all approach was not
appropriate in some cases, including Turkmenistan (see Section 3.5).

3.4 Revised Components:

Following the cancellation of 60 percent of the loan and the completion of the investigation, the
Bank cancelled another $4.38 million on account of misprocurement, further reducing the project
to $5.51 million. In August 1999, the 15-month suspension of disbursements was lifted, and the
IBTA was reactivated. The reactivation also restored $9.2 million for use under the IBTA,
previously cancelled to avoid incurring commitment fees. The reactivation defined the following
project activities, which were to be completed within one year:

·       Budget computerization and consultants--Treasury and Pension ($8.2 million)
·       Census work ($270,000)
·       PIU ($100,000)
·       Outstanding expenditures ($528,000)

All other components were cancelled with the agreement of the Government and with amendment
to the loan agreement.

3.5 Quality at Entry:


ICR ­ Unsatisfactory. The Bank did complete basic ESW as a CEM was issued on May 31,
1994 (though it was completed two years earlier) prior to IBTA approval (September 15, 1994).
The Bank also conducted an energy sector review and conclusions were discussed with the
Government. The IBTA project also had the benefit of a Project Preparation Facility (PPF). The
CEM documented the basic fiscal, monetary and structural prescriptions that tended to follow a
general, standardized approach for countries in the region.

As in other FSU countries, although the Bank had completed its first ESW, it was still on a steep
learning curve. The Government was relatively cooperative with the Bank early on, though not as
cooperative as other FSU countries. The Bank team had regular consultations leading up to the
IBTA. However, the flow of information to the Bank that was needed for a healthy dialog was
already declining prior to IBTA effectiveness.      There were also confirmed "kickbacks" on
procurements even prior to the date of effectiveness (September 20, 1995). The signs of future
implementation problems were evident.

The CEM concluded that "the risk factors which could affect Turkmenistan's financing
requirements are mostly exogenous developments."          In fact the greatest risks were weak
Government reform, corruption and exceedingly weak implementation. Leading up to the IBTA,
the Government of Turkmenistan had taken only the very basic early reform measures, such as
first stage privatization of small and micro enterprises and land reform. At the time, it was not
much behind other CIS countries, but it made no strong reform commitments for 1993-1996. The
administrative and policy regime declined significantly after 1997. Table 2 summarizes the risks


                                               - 6 -

and mitigation measures as presented in the appraisal report.

The SAR's risk assessment did not reflect the problems that would later materialize, displaying
little anticipation of the potential for corruption. As Table 2 shows, there really was no mitigation
plan, other than a few weak statements about Government commitment, targeted TA and close
supervision. The procurement risks were to be reduced through close supervision. The condition
of effectiveness was the appointment of a firm to assist the Government/PIU to implement the
project, in particular the hiring of a procurement expert. In retrospect, this condition did not
mitigate risk. Although the task manager was alert to some procurement irregularities that arose
after effectiveness, the expert procurement advisor hired by the project failed to monitor the
process effectively. The procurement fraud that later led to project suspension was exposed not
by the procurement expert, but by the chance occurrence that a former PIU staff became
disenchanted and "blew the whistle" (see Table 1 and Section 4.). It was he who provided details
of the trail of corruption that had taken place and that the Bank's Internal Auditing Department
(IAD) could follow.

          TABLE 2: Risk and Mitigation Measures as Presented in the SAR

Risk                                               Mitigation
Changes in resolve and commitment to the reform    Counterparts have expressed the need for such
effort.                                            assistance at both cabinet and agency levels.
Limited    administrative capacity  and   lack of The TA components provided to the critical
familiarity with Bank procurement and disbursement ministries and agencies are aimed at assisting the
procedures, which could lead to implementation preparation of their respective reform programs and
delays.                                            would reflect the Government's priorities.
The Government's inexperience with managing        Close supervision during implementation would
technical assistance.                              assure that inefficiencies are addressed as needed
                                                   and procurement and disbursement risks would be
                                                   reduced through close attention to procurement and
                                                   other implementation constraints during project
                                                   supervision.


In summary, the IBTA was built on basic ESW and was similar to the first operations in other
FSU countries. However, in retrospect, major aspects of quality at entry, the project design,
country dialog, borrower commitment and risk mitigation were weak. There was also ineffective
M&E and there is no evidence that alternative project designs were considered.

QAG ­ Not applicable

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:


The achievement of development objectives is rated highly unsatisfactory. There were few
accomplishments (see Table 4), and, after being given an opportunity to implement a drastically
simplified project, essentially a single component, the Government was unable to implement at a
reasonable pace. After much effort to reinstate $9.2 million in IBTA financing, the Government
managed to implement only $5.1 million of activities (55 percent of the reinstated funds), even


                                                    - 7 -

with two additional extensions (three extensions overall).           The Government's minimal
commitment to reform and limited ability to implement activities transparently and in a timely
manner is reflected in the complete collapse of Bank lending to the country. With the closing of
the IBTA project, as of the date of this ICR, there are no longer any active Bank loans to
Turkmenistan. The Government contends (see Borrower Comments attached) that there were
important accomplishments, but does not cite outcomes that support their position.

Macroeconomic Setting. It is difficult if not impossible to know the macroeconomic conditions
during the IBTA because data are not reliable. Available data point to a positive macroeconomic
picture as Table 7 shows (see Additional Information section 10), despite the Government's
inability and unwillingness to establish and implement a reform program. Official data suggest
that growth was extremely fast, international reserves increased and exports (though mainly
energy-based) exceeded imports. The positive picture may reflect, in part, the benefits of oil and
gas production, which also probably undermined incentives to comply with the objectives of the
IBTA, inasmuch the Government was not dependent on IBTA funds.

Objective 1: Provide support to the Government in the policy formulation process by
helping to overcome the critical human resource gap that is slowing the preparation of a
reform program and to develop policy options for implementing and managing reforms
including strategies for removing energy sector constraints. (Highly Unsatisfactory)

The premise of the objective was only partly true in that it attributed the slow reform program to
a human resource gap. There was, and is, a significant human resource gap. The main problem,
however, was not this human resource gap, but a near total lack of Government commitment to
reforms or to implement activities effectively. There was little readiness to implement policy
options and manage reforms, or to remove sector constraints ­ as provided in the energy and
health sector reviews, as well as in the PER and the Poverty Assessment, all carried out during the
IBTA

A few of the subcomponents were at least partially implemented. The Banking School was
established, though under a cloud of misprocurement. The School has been supported by the EU
and is active today and produces graduates who work not only in the financial sector but at top
levels in the Government.      The Banking School was probably the IBTA's most significant
accomplishment as it gave opportunities to capable people to continue their education.
Unfortunately, the outcome of this institution is questionable because there is little evidence that
any of these trained officials have any influence to make positive changes in the country, or that
Turkmenistan has a functioning financial sector. The Banking Payments System, by far the largest
of the subcomponents, passed the feasibility stage and equipment delivery had begun. However,
because of misprocurement and project suspension, this component was discontinued and the
Bank did not assist further in this area. The equipment was used to some extent with the help of a
Russian company, but the resulting payment system was greatly simplified and fell far short of the
IBTA design. In any case, Turkmenistan's banks remain largely unreformed. The Government
disputes this fact, but does not offer concrete evidence of growth and deepening of the financial
sector.




                                                - 8 -

The 1997 and 2000 Country Assistance Strategies (CAS) corroborated the weak outcomes and
cited the lack of a reform program. The majority of IBTA components were cancelled and a
reform program, except for treasury modernization, was never developed. The 2000 CAS noted
that, "the 1997 CAS was designed around mixed signals from Turkmenistan with an official
gradual approach to reform and indications of the potential for stronger reform, particularly in
agriculture, foreign exchange management and price liberalization. However, since then reform
progress has been weak."       Specific to the energy sector, the main sub-component to design a
regulatory framework and develop supervision capacity for petroleum operations and administer
existing agreements was cancelled.

Objective 2: Provide support for institution building and strengthen domestic capacity to
ensure that Turkmenistan has the capability to implement and sustain reforms over the
medium term. (Highly Unsatisfactory)

The premise of the objective was that there would be a reform program to support. It was
evident even before the suspension of disbursements, however, that there was a disconnect
between the government's (lack of) willingness to implement reforms and what the IBTA was
trying to achieve. None of the objectives of the privatization and PSD and institutional support
and development components' objectives was achieved. The privatization program essentially
stalled after the privatization of 2,000 small and micro-enterprises. Even in the financial sector,
where most of the subcomponents were implemented, the banking sector continues to operate
largely as channel for budget funds to state-owned enterprises (SOEs).          Once again, the
Government dissents from the ICR characterizing its reform program as one with a large role for
the Government. However, its response does not demonstrate that efficiency has improved or
that capacity has been developed to implement a meaningful reform program.

Against the meta objectives of the IBTA, the project was also not successful. No rehabilitation or
other reform-type adjustment operation was developed. And though the Bank learned a great
deal about Turkmenistan, the Bank/Borrower relationship was not furthered under the IBTA.


                              TABLE 3: IBTA DISBURSEMENTS

     Fiscal Year  1996     1997    1998   1999   2000   2001    2002    2003    2004

   Planned          7        8      8      2      0       0       0      0        0
   Cumulative       7       15      23     25     25     25      25     25       25
   Planned.
   Actual          2.21    2.37    2.71   0.01   -1.67  0.63    0.54    0.53    3.38

   Cumulative      2.21    4.58    7.29   7.30   5.63   6.26    6.80    7.33    10.71
   Actual
   Actual as a %  31.6%   30.5%   31.7%  29.2%  22.5%  25.0%   27.2%   29.3%   42.8%
   of Planned

                Amounts are in US$million.




                                                - 9 -

4.2 Outputs by components:


The outputs for the IBTA are rated highly unsatisfactory. After the disbursement suspension
was lifted and the project reactivated, all remaining components except one, treasury (with small
amounts for LSMS and pensions), were cancelled, without being partially or fully implemented.
Table 3 provides the disbursement profile, planned and actual for the IBTA. At actual project
close, the lone standing treasury component had not been completed (for further details see
description of mitigating circumstances in section 5.). Three major sub-components had already
been severely affected when the Bank declared misprocurement in three contracts (contract
amounts in parentheses):

·       Banking Payments System (Company that supplied computers GBP2,491,211)
·       Banking School (Bogus company that supplied and overcharged for computers $295,240)
·       PIU Computers (Bogus company that supplied and overcharged for computers
        GBP73,891)

These amounts were cancelled as well as all other amounts associated with these components.
Table 4 summarizes the outputs/outcomes from the IBTA components. With the disbandment of
the PIU and the generally poor M&E up to the suspension period, there is no accounting for
actual expenditures by component. The Bank records expenditures by procurement and financing
categories. The actual expenditures by procurement category are provided in Annex 2.

          TABLE 4: Overview of IBTA Components, and Major Outputs/Outcomes

     Components                Objective/Activity        Outputs/Outcomes
 1. Privatization and
 Private Sector
 Development ($2.1)
 Privatization and     Plan and develop policy for        Cancelled. EU TACIS grant took over this
 Private Sector        privatization and PSD              activity to design a privatization program.
 Development ($1.15)                                      However, there was little progress in this
                                                          sector as Government did not proceed with
                                                          large and medium scale enterprise
                                                          privatization.
 Enterprise Reform and Restructure and improve governance Cancelled
                       of enterprises
 Training ($0.95)
 2. Financial Sector
 Reform ($8.83)
 Banking Supervision   Strengthen Central Bank and        Implemented. Supervision and prudential
 and Prudential        prudential regulations.            regulations were adopted. However,
 Regulations ($0.42)                                      negligible impact because of lack of
                                                          complementary financial sector reform and
                                                          enforcement.
 Bank Accounting       Develop commercial bank accounting Implemented. New bank accounting and
 and Auditing Reform   and auditing guidelines.           auditing rules were adopted, but negligible
 ($0.26)                                                  impact because of lack of financial sector
                                                          reform.




                                                  - 10 -

Components            Objective/Activity                     Outputs/Outcomes
Training of           Train professional staff in credit and Implemented and resulted in establishment
Commercial Bank       financial analysis and management.     of the Banking School, which the EU took
Personnel ($1.35)                                            over. Actual outcome is minimal because the
                                                             financial sector has not developed, but rather
                                                             continues as a conduit of resources to SOEs.
                                                             However, the school is significant for the
                                                             Turkmen population because of its role in
                                                             providing further technical education and in
                                                             improving the qualifications of civil servants.
Payments System       Develop a payments system through      Partially implemented then cancelled. This
($6.8)                procurement of computers, telecom      component was seriously damaged by
                      equipment, software and expertise.     misprocurement. The feasibility study for the
                                                             inter bank payments and settlement system
                                                             was completed and a contract was awarded
                                                             to a firm to install the equipment. Equipment
                                                             delivery had begun when this contract was
                                                             postponed because of misprocurement and
                                                             disbursements were suspended. The
                                                             component was cancelled and the equipment
                                                             was only marginally used.
3. Institutional
Support and
Development ($5.8)
Public Investment     Develop policies and strategy for      The original subcomponent was not done.
Project Analysis      public investment and train in project The sub-component was reformulated into the
($2.44)               analysis methodology at MOEF.          computerization of treasury operations with
                                                             US$8.2 million in funds after the suspension
                                                             was lifted. This reformulation was a subject
                                                             for discussion during the Public Expenditure
                                                             Review preparation, as well as the CAS
                                                             (2001-2003). This component was partially
                                                             implemented with the procurement of many
                                                             computers, but its sustainability is
                                                             questionable as is the achievement of its
                                                             intended outcome of improving the
                                                             transparency and efficiency of government
                                                             budgeting through computerization. The
                                                             software required to operate the computers,
                                                             at last report, had not been procured. This
                                                             component required three extensions.
Legal Reform          Develop legal framework for PSD        Cancelled
Component for Private and strengthen implementation
Sector Development    capacity.
($0.96)
Sector Strategies and Prepare feasibility studies in         Cancelled
Feasibility Studies   infrastructure, industry and
($2.4)                agriculture.




                                                    - 11 -

4. Social Safety Net
($0.96)
Living Standards       Conduct LSMS as basis for social     Implemented. This activity was successful as
Measurement            protection policies.                 a poverty assessment was based on the
($0.39)                                                     LSMS. Through the LSMS the Bank had an
                                                            opportunity to conduct a dialogue with the
                                                            Government, though very limited. The
                                                            assessment was used by the Bank for the
                                                            second CAS as well as for discussions with
                                                            Turkmen civil society and international
                                                            partners.
Pension                Develop policy framework for a       Partially implemented. The system for
Administration         national and contributory pension    handling payments improved somewhat
($0.57)                scheme, which also covers private    through computerization and training. In
                       sector workers, and improve pension  the reformulated pension component,
                       administration.                      however, the procurement of software
                                                            for additional computerization was still
                                                            pending. Thus, there is no traceable impact
                                                            of the additional activities.
5.  Energy Sector
($3.76)
Institutional          Design regulatory framework and      Cancelled
Strengthening of Joint develop domestic supervision
Venture Coordination   capacity for petroleum operations
Unit ($1.88)           and administering existing
                       agreements.
Training ($1.9)        Increase capacity at the Oil and Gas Implemented. Most staff in the oil and gas
                       Ministry in finance, technical,      Ministry were trained. However, the twinning
                       marketing and management areas.      arrangements that were envisaged, did not
                                                            materialize. Nor would the Government allow
                                                            consultants access to the unit responsible for
                                                            joint ventures.
6. Project
Implementation
($0.95)
PIU ($0.95)            Provide office equipment, advisors   Implemented. However, leading up to the
                       in procurement and management        suspension, implementation was plagued by
                       and training.                        misprocurement. After reinstatement,
                                                            implementation was plagued by indecision
                                                            rather than corruption. The result was that
                                                            benchmarks were not met, and the project
                                                            closed before the remaining component could
                                                            be implemented.



   In the extension period that consisted of a series of three one-year extensions, the Bank
   focused on a treasury operations component. Such a component is a long-term institutional
   effort, which experience shows requires five to seven years. It was not realistic that the GOT
   would implement this component in a shortened timeframe. Given past experience with the



                                                    - 12 -

    IBTA, it was also not realistic to expect that the Government would maintain even a
    reasonable pace of implementation that could have earned additional extensions. Still, the
    strategy of the Bank was to give the GOT one more chance to adhere to strict benchmarks
    and to implement a component that could have benefits even in the Turkmen setting.

    The Government would receive Bank support and continuous one-year extensions, as long as
    implementation benchmarks were met. This "short-leash" approach worked during the first
    extension, but inexplicable procurement delays occurred on a major computer procurement
    during the second one year extension. Despite the zero tolerance approach, the Bank allowed
    a third one-year extension, during which no benchmarks were met and the project was not
    extended further.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:

    Not applicable.

4.4 Financial rate of return:

    Not applicable.

4.5 Institutional development impact:


    Negligible.      Despite more than eight years (not including the suspension period) of
    effectiveness of a project that was designed to build institutional capacity, there has been
    negligible institutional development impact (IDI). The only areas where there was any IDI
    were in the payments system for banking, in the computerization of the treasury operations, in
    the Banking College, and in the oil and gas ministry. These impacts were minor, given the
    lack of reform in the financial and energy sectors. More generally, the IDI of the IBTA was
    undermined by the absence of the very type of reform program it was supposed to support.
    The Government disagrees with this assessment maintaining that where the components were
    implemented, the IBTA did have a significant IDI and would have had a greater impact had
    the Bank not cancelled the project at a key juncture. That juncture was the point at which
    procurement for the software for the treasury component was underway. The software, to
    date, has not been procured.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:

There were several important external factors that affected implementation. The first external
factor was the 15-month suspension of disbursements in the entire portfolio (March 1998-June
1999), though it was driven by the allegations of fraud and corruption and GOT's lack of
cooperation with the ensuing investigation. The grounds for this suspension led to a drastic
reduction in scope of the IBTA to only one component (see Section 3.4). A second factor was
the inadequate amount of time to implement the treasury operations component. After the
suspension was lifted, this component was launched, but with only one year scheduled until the
project's revised closing date ­ with the expectation that any further extensions would be



                                                     - 13 -

contingent on project progress. This "short leash" was necessary given the project's history, but
the tight timeframe was unrealistic in any setting for such components. This issue is discussed
further in Section 7.2 Bank Supervision. A third factor was that, as an oil and gas producing
country, Turkmenistan is potentially able to earn a good deal of foreign exchange.                The
availablility of foreign exchange reduces GOT's reliance on donor assistance, which was evident in
the lack of motivation in implementing the agreed project

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:

One serious factor that drove the Bank's decisions on the IBTA was the Negative Pledge issue
that arose in 1998. The Government had pledged oil export proceeds to a supplier through a
special bank account set up in the supplier's country in violation of the Bank's Negative Pledge
policy. This violation made it impossible to launch a new project until the issue was resolved. It
was never resolved.       This meant that if the Bank wanted to continue any of the activities
envisioned under the IBTA, it could not cancel the IBTA and start "fresh" as might have been the
preferred route. Rather, the IBTA had to be extended to continue any of the activities in
Turkmenistan.

The most obvious factor subject to Government control was the corruption that characterized the
first three years of the project's implementation and the Government's reluctance to deal with
officials implicated by the investigation. This factor is detailed in other sections, notably Sections
3 and 7.

Another negative factor was that the administrative system was based on "one hand
management," meaning that all decisions affecting the project had to go through the executive
branch. This constraint crippled project implementation. The general lack of will to implement
the project as initially designed was yet another factor undermining the project. And, without an
associated reform program, the premise of the IBTA was absent, and the project could not be an
effective development tool. Recognizing this and not desperately in need of the IBTA funding,
the Government requested the cancellation of 60 percent of the original project amount ($15
million) in 1999.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:

Because of the concentration of decision-making at the top of government, a critical factor,
perhaps as critical as the initial corruption issue, was the inability to make a decision on even the
most simple and routine matters at the lower, implementation levels. The implementing agencies
that should have been able to conduct routine project matters were also simply unwilling to share
information, no matter how unthreatening. In the final year of IBTA implementation, a decision
on opening a simple letter of credit delayed the purchase of computer equipment by six months.
Specifically, the MOF delayed excessively in committing to the winner of the bid (approved by the
Bank procurement officer) to supply a large amount of computer equipment. The MOF did not
go forward with the contract until September, only three months before project close. Because it
would require nine to ten months to install the computers, it was not possible to complete the
installation before project close. The strict adherence to benchmarks dictated that the Bank not
extend the project further.



                                                    - 14 -

There was also procurement fraud at the level of the implementing agency (IA), and the PIU was
implicated for participation in this fraud. The Government did not appreciate fully the seriousness
of the corruption evidence against the PIU head and this person continued to appear at meetings
related to the project until the Bank objected.

5.4 Costs and financing:

The total original loan amount was US$25 million and combined a single currency and a pooled
currency loan. Only 43 percent of the combined loan amount was disbursed ($10.7 of the original
$25 million) with the remainder canceled at project close (Table 3). The project was suspended
for 15 months, scaled down and extended three times with the final closing date of December 31,
2003. The loan was made with a term of 15 years, a 5-year grace period and level principal
repayment at six-month LIBOR for U.S. dollars and a variable spread for Variable-Rate Single
Currency Loans. The borrower was the Government of Turkmenistan. An accounting was made
during the suspension period in (1999) which reported the cancelled and undisbursed amounts and
required repayment of the "tainted" project funds:


                   TABLE 5: Undisbursed Balance on IBTA Loan-1999 ($million)

                        Initial amount                                    $25.00
                        Cancellation Requested by Government              $15.00
                        Refunded and Cancelled due to Misprocurement      $ 1.87
                        Cancelled from Undisbursed due to Misprocurement  $ 2.51
                        Disbursed                                         $ 5.43
                        Undisbursed Balance                               $ 0.20




6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:


The sustainability of the IBTA is rated highly unlikely. Among the original components, only
the Banking School has continued.            The sustainability of the single, restructured treasury
component is uncertain because it is hardware intensive and Bank assistance has been
discontinued. The necessary software to operate these computers, at last report, had not been
procured. There is also no Bank or Fund program active in Turkmenistan that could serve as a
monitor or catalyst for the types of capacity building originally envisioned under the IBTA.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:

With the complete termination of the program and no credible reform program in place, the
transition arrangement to regular operations is essentially moot.




                                                  - 15 -

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:


Unsatisfactory. Throught the IBTA operation, Bank responded to what the SAR called, the
GOT's "transition to a market oriented economy." Based on what the Bank knew then, the
approach seemed appropriate as a first operation and was in-line with the approach taken in other
FSU countries. However, in retrospect the Bank should have sought to understand the dynamics
of Turkmenistan better, and could have tailored the project design to country implementation
constraints. The general approach of the IBTA was not suitable for Turkmenistan. The Bank
needed to pursue a more focused, rather than the standard, broad/catch-all approach to the newly
independent country. And, as seen several years later in implementation, even a more focused
approach ultimately proved unable to be effectively implemented. The Bank's risk mitigation plan
was weak and vague, as Section 3.5 documents. In addition, in the 10-month interval between
Board approval and effectiveness, there were already confirmed procurement irregularities ("kick
backs"). However the project was declared effective without adjustments to the design.

7.2 Supervision:


Unsatisfactory.

Initial Period-Up to 1998. The Bank provided a reasonable level of supervisory assistance at the
technical level. Though Turkmenistan's corruption might not have been exceptional among the
Bank's clients, it was one of the first countries in which the Bank took decisive measures against
proven corruption. The Bank's suspension of the entire Turkmen portfolio was a major step in
addressing corruption. As indicated, the Bank was also driven to this suspension partly because
of the lack of cooperation with the investigation from the Turkmen Government. Also, the
Turkmen portfolio was relatively weak to start with, so the cost to the Bank's overall portfolio
was small.

The Turkmenistan IBTA was also one of the first Bank loans in which corruption was
investigated following the Bank President's 1996 speech calling corruption a "cancer." Although
corruption was not part of the dialogue when the IBTA was conceived, it clearly became a major
part of the dialogue during the course of implementation, despite reported initial disagreements
within the country team on how far to go.

IBTA Reactivation-1999-Present.         In 1999, after the investigation was completed and the
misprocurements were declared, there was debate over whether to close the project. After the
GOT made its restitution of the tainted project funds (see above), the Bank decided to preserve
engagement with the GOT by reactivating the project, reinstating a portion of the funds and
extending the closing date. This decision was taken on the premise that a more focused, less
policy-driven project could be a means to re-engage. Although carefully planned, this decision
carried the cost of sending the wrong message to the Government ­ that abysmal implementation,
procurement fraud, and reluctance to address corruption would not necessarily result in project
termination. The Bank could also have done a better job of assessing more systematically what the



                                                - 16 -

project had accomplished up to the point of suspension, including actual financing by project
component, such as might have been reported in a mid-term review, which apparently was not
done. This accounting was particularly important, given that the original PIU had disbanded, and
did not provide a final report.

Budgetary Component Implementation. The Turkmen IBTA was also unusual in that it
involved all levels of Bank management, particularly in the decision of whether to cancel the
project. Bank management may have partially undermined the benefits of the statement it had
already made against corruption by reactivating the project, extending it three times and
reinstating $9.2 million for the use of the Turkmen Government. In extending the project, the
Bank worked with the Government to place full time consultants with the Ministry of Finance,
and supervised the planning and implementation stage closely with a single team in order to
implement the treasury operations component.

Though the IBTA was reactivated, the Bank was clearly following a "winding down" scenario
that included cancellation of the other two projects in the portfolio and a non-lending CAS
(December 22, 2000). The Bank's policy for extensions was to give Turkmenistan one more
chance to implement, but with zero tolerance for not meeting benchmarks.               The Bank's
management provided yearly extensions, though it recognized that the component would take
longer to implement. The Bank relaxed its tolerance during the second extension as procurement
delays re-occurred, and granted a third extension. Procurement delays persisted, and the request
for a fourth extension was not approved, despite complaints from the contractor. Ultimately, the
Bank took the appropriate decision not to grant a further extension request based on continued
slow project implementation and failure to meet the agreed benchmarks.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:


Unsatisfactory. The Bank performance at lending, despite a degree of client orientation, was
unsatisfactory. The early supervision of the project was technically adequate and the Bank took
strong action against corruption. The reactivation was done with considerable pre-planning and
gave the IBTA a much more limited and less policy intensive focus. The supervision of the
remaining component was also done with adequate technical skill.                Bank supervision,
nevertheless, is rated unsatisfactory because, in addition to the reasons already cited, with
hindsight, this was a largely unachievable project. Moreover, Bank task managers and senior
management should have been able to step back from the legitimate desire to maintain
engagement, look at the big picture, and cancel the project sooner.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:


Unsatisfactory. Though the borrower cooperated with the ESW, its inputs were weak. There
was limited interest in reform initially, but Turkmenistan soon fell far behind other FSU countries
in the main components of the transition to a market economy. The borrower had a low degree
of ownership of the IBTA design. The Government was hostile to the use of foreign consultants
(not necessarily unusual for the FSU) and appeared interested only in purchasing hardware,
mainly computers.



                                                - 17 -

7.5 Government implementation performance:


Highly Unsatisfactory. Generally, though there was initial presidential interest in developing
relations with international institutions, that interest appeared to wane after 1997.
Implementation was also severely hampered by the procurement fraud, which led to the
declaration of misprocurement. This was not a rare occurrence among Bank clients. However,
when confronted with allegations of corruption, rather than acknowledge there could be a
problem and offer cooperation with the investigation, the GOT's reaction was to deny the charges
and "stonewall." This reaction was out of line with those of other governments, which tended to
cooperate. Although some components were implemented, they did not achieve the expected
benefits because the Government failed to implement a reform program.

7.6 Implementing Agency:


Highly Unsatisfactory. IAs implemented five of the 14 subcomponents, partially implemented
four and cancelled 6 (5 without implementation). The last remaining component for treasury
operations and pensions, experienced continued delays. IAs occasionally showed commitment to
carrying out the activities. However, this commitment was insufficient to warrant further project
extensions. The first IBTA PIU created a negative attitude toward the PIUs for the subsequent
transport and water projects. The experience also showed that a PIU under the Cabinet of
Ministers in a country like Turkmenistan was not an effective arrangement. The MOF would have
been a better location from the start, because the expertise at the MOF was more suited to project
implementation. After the reinstatement of the project, the PIU was, in fact, located in the MOF.
While there was no further evidence of corruption after 1999, the ability to make even small
decisions did not improve.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:


Highly unsatisfactory. With non-implementation of most of the project, continued procurement
mismanagement, minimal commitment to policy reform, and delays in implementing even a
drastically simplified project, the Borrower performance was highly unsatisfactory.

8. Lessons Learned


The Bank needs to have a clearer idea of when engagement is simply not effective. The
Bank accepted poor implementation and weak policies and commitment in order to stay engaged
in Turkmenistan. The Bank did wind down its operations in Turkmenistan, starting with a
portfolio-wide suspension of disbursements for more than a year, followed by a non-lending CAS.
Reactivation was also done carefully, and the Bank did ultimately take the decision not to approve
a fourth extension of the project. However, the project, in the end, proved ineffective, not only
because of the weak policies and the Government's unwillingness to seriously pursue corrupt
officials, but also because the Government could not make even simple decisions in a timely
manner, even in a more focused scenario. Without this as a minimum, engagement cannot be
effective.



                                                - 18 -

The Bank should be diligent about moving quickly on corruption issues. The Bank could
have moved sooner in Turkmenistan, given the gravity of the violation and the fact that there was
little evidence of true changes in behavior. Even before the IBTA became effective, there were
confirmed instances of "kickbacks" on procurement of goods. Eventually the Bank was firm and
there were no other proven violations after that.


One size-fits-all post-Soviet TA projects are not appropriate in all settings. Governance and
implementation capacity, particularly decision-making, in Turkmenistan were far too weak to
expect success in a standard TA project. The IBTA for Turkmenistan needed to be more focused
and tightly controlled to increase the chance for success. As the administrative situation in the
country deteriorated after 1997, even the radical simplification of the project proved largely
ineffective. Large expenditures on training were not appropriate in such a government. It would
have been far more appropriate to simply focus on treasury operations from the outset, so that
there could at least be some understanding of what the Government was doing and attempt to
achieve some budget transparency.

If the Bank is going to reactivate a project with a new focus, it needs to allow a reasonable
amount of time for implementation. The decision to put the reactivated IBTA on a "short
leash" was appropriate given the difficulties of the past, However, one year for a treasury
component is highly unrealistic. As shown in the IBTA, even with two additional extensions, the
component could not be implemented. If it had been able to, a new project would have been
better, but this was not possible in this case, given the GOT's negative pledge violation.


9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:



        See Attachment I




         IBTACommentsICRSept42004.pdf




(b) Cofinanciers:




(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):




                                                  - 19 -

10. Additional Information


                    TABLE 6: Summary of PSR Ratings for Turkmenistan IBTA

Category        11/94      5/95      6/96    10/96   2/97     6/97      4/98      3/99     4/00     12/00
PDO                S        S          S      S       S        S         U        HU       HU        HU
Implement.         S        U          U      S       S         S        U          U       U        U
Project            2        2          S      HS      HS       HS        U          U       U        U
Mgmt.
Procurement        2        2          S      S       S        S        HU         HU      HU        U
M&E              NR         NR       NR       NR      NR       NR        S         U        U        U



Category         6/01      12/01      5/02    12/02    6/03     12/03
PDO                S         S         S        S       S       HU
Implement.         S         S         S        U       S       HU
Project            S         S         S        S       S        U
Mgmt.
Procurement        S         S         S        S       S        S
M&E               NR        NR         NR      NR      NR       NR




                         TABLE 7: Turkmenistan Macroeconomic Indicators 1995-2003

Indicators                                           1995       1998      2000        2001      2002      2003
Real GDP Growth (Percent change) a/                   -7.2      6.7        18.6       20.4       19.8     16.9
 CPI, percent (average)                              1005.3     16.8       8.0        11.6        8.8      5.6
 Official Unemployment rate-ILO (%) b/                 ..        ..         ..          ..        ..       ..
 Foreign Direct Investment (% of GDP) c/              4.0       2.4        4.6         4.9        6.0      3.6
 Fixed Investment (% of GDP)                           ..       45.5       35.4       32.5       26.7     26.3
 Government Overall Cash Balance (% of GDP) d/        -2.6      -2.6       -0.3        0.6        0.2     -1.4
 Gross External Debt (% of GDP) c/                    6.8       86.7       83.9       65.4       43.0     30.0
 Current Acct. Balance (% of GDP) c/                  0.4      -35.9       14.4        3.3       12.7      8.5
 Exports of Goods and Non-factor Services
 (% of GDP) c/                                        35.5      32.7       97.2       83.6       66.9     62.0
 Imports of Goods and Non-factor Services
 (% of GDP) c/                                        35.6      70.8       82.4       78.9       51.7     53.2
Gross Official International Reserves (months of
imports of goods and non-factor services)             6.7       9.0        9.2         9.1       11.8     10.0
 Exchange Rate-TM/US$ (period average)
         Official                                     111      4,890      5,200       5,200     5,200    5,200
Parallel market                                        ..      6,493      17,836     21,867    21,663    19,678
Sources: Turkmenistan Government, World Bank and IMF.

a/ According to official statistics. Since 2001 real GDP growth rates appear to be overstated. According to the
IMF's alternative estimates, real GDP growth rates in 2002-03 were around 8 percent.
b/ Official statistics does not report unemployment.
c/ At the indicative exchange rate defined as the weighted average of the official exchange rate (70%) and parallel
market exchange rate (30%).
d/ Excluding operations of extra-budgetary funds and self-financing ministries complete data on which is not
available.



                                                      - 20 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

Outcome / Impact Indicators:
                                                                        1
              Indicator/Matrix                      Projected in last PSR               Actual/Latest Estimate
'Quick-wins' for Treasury, Taxes and       11/15/2003                        Hardware delivered, but not operating
Pensions implemented.                                                        because of lack of software. This follows for
                                                                             all items below.
Accounting system developed or             06/15/2004                        Not completed.
parameterized and tested
Budget system implemented.                 07/15/2004                        Not completed
Taxation system implemented                08/15/2004                        Not completed.
Pensions system developed and tested       08/15/2004                        Not completed
Treasury software developed and tested     06/15/2004                        Treasury software was not installed.


This indicator matrix applies only to the reformulated project (2000-03). For outcomes for both the original
and reformulated project, see text Table 4.




Output Indicators:
                                                                        1
              Indicator/Matrix                      Projected in last PSR               Actual/Latest Estimate
PIU settled, manned and equipped                                             Implemented in mid-2000.
Contract signed with consulting firm for                                     Signed in 2001.
Blueprint, Modernization plan and Treasury
functional study.
Contract signed with hardware vendors for                                    Signed in September 2003.
workstations, servers, network devices.
Contract signed with consulting firm for                                     Signed in September 2003.
software developments and package
implementation and parameterization.
Software package and developments full                                       Not yet implemented.
implementation.

1End of project

This indicator matrix applies only to the reformulated project (2000-03). For detailed outcomes for both
the original and reformulated project, see text Table 4.




                                                          - 21 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                Appraisal     Actual/Latest    Percentage of
                                                                 Estimate        Estimate        Appraisal
                        Component                              US$ million      US$ million
1. Privatization and Private Sector Development                     2.10             0.00                0
2. Financial Sector Reform                                          8.83             2.23              25.2
3. Institutional Support and Development                            5.80             5.40              93.1
4. Social Safety Net                                                0.96             0.59              61.5
5. Energy Sector                                                    3.78             2.00              52.9
6. Project Implementation                                           0.95             1.43            150.5
Price and Physical Contingencies                                    3.58

Total Baseline Cost                                                26.00            11.65
                           Total Project Costs                     26.00            11.65
                    Total Financing Required                       26.00            11.65

NOTE: The actuals in this table are only estimates. The PIU, which was responsible for compiling the
estimates by project component, did not provide any accounting. The first PIU disbanded in 1999, and did
not leave a record to date of expenditures by component. These numbers are only estimates that are based
on the original amounts and the degree to which the component was actually implemented.




Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                           1
                                                  Procurement Method
     Expenditure Category             ICB             NCB                    2       N.B.F.       Total Cost
                                                                       Other
1. Works                             0.00             0.00              0.00          0.00           0.00
                                    (0.00)           (0.00)            (0.00)        (0.00)         (0.00)
2. Goods                             8.20             0.00              3.70          0.00          11.90
                                    (8.20)           (0.00)            (3.70)        (0.00)         (11.90)
3. Services                          0.00             0.00             13.10          0.00          13.10
Consulting and training             (0.00)           (0.00)            (13.10)       (0.00)         (13.10)
4. Misc. Transport,                                   0.00                            1.00           1.00
Software and other support
                                       ()            (0.00)              ()          (0.00)         (0.00)
    Total                            8.20             0.00             16.80          1.00          26.00
                                    (8.20)           (0.00)            (16.80)       (0.00)         (25.00)

Note-Expenditure category for computers, etc., had slightly different name from ICR Annex template.




                                                  - 22 -

   Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                    1
                                                          Procurement Method
         Expenditure Category               ICB               NCB                      2         N.B.F.         Total Cost
                                                                                Other
   1. Works                                 0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
                                           (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
   2. Goods                                 4.35               0.00              0.83             0.00              5.18
                                           (4.35)             (0.00)            (0.83)            (0.00)           (5.18)
   3. Services                              0.00               0.00              5.47             0.00              5.47
   Consulting and training                 (0.00)             (0.00)            (5.47)            (0.00)           (5.47)
   4. Misc. Transport,                                         0.00                               1.00              1.00
   Software and other support
                                              ()              (0.00)               ()             (0.00)           (0.00)
       Total                                4.35               0.00              6.30             1.00             11.65
                                           (4.35)             (0.00)            (6.30)            (0.00)           (10.65)

     1/Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.

     2/Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
       of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
       managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.



Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                                       Percentage of Appraisal
        Component                   Appraisal Estimate                  Actual/Latest Estimate
                                Bank        Govt.        CoF.         Bank         Govt.      CoF.       Bank     Govt.     CoF.
Privatization and Private       2.20         0.10                     0.00                                0.0      0.0
Sector Development
Financial Sector Reform         9.02         0.28                     2.03                               22.5      0.0
Institutional Support and       5.86         0.28                     5.10                               87.0      0.0
Development
Social Safety Net               1.01         0.03                     0.59                               58.4      0.0
Energy Sector                   3.88         0.18                     1.90                               49.0      0.0
Project Implementation          3.60         0.08                     1.08                               30.0      0.0
Contingencies
Total Costs                    25.00         1.00                    10.65                               42.6      0.0


   No information is available on Government contribution. As stated above, Bank financing by component is
   estimated on the basis of original loan amounts and degree of component completion.




                                                           - 23 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

Not Applicable




                                      - 24 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty            Performance Rating
                                     (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)    Implementation Development
                   Month/Year  Count           Specialty                   Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              01/94                     3    TTL, E, PSD
              04/94                     3    TTL, E., PSD

 Appraisal/Negotiation
              07/94                     8    TTL, E., EN, P., PSD


 Supervision
              11/94                     3    TTL, EN, PSD                     S               S
              05/15/95                  5    FINANCE & BANKING (1);           U               S
                                             OIL & GAS (1); SOCIAL
                                             SECTOR (1); TASK
                                             MANAGER (1); LEGAL
                                             SYSTEM (1)
              06/14/96                  4    SOCIAL SECTOR (1);               U               S
                                             FINANCIAL ADVISOR (1);
                                             TASK MANAGER (1); OIL &
                                             GAS SPECIALIST (1)
              10/18/96                  2    OPERATIONS OFFICER (1);          S               S
                                             TASK MANAGER (1)
              02/12/97                  2    OPERATIONS OFFICER (1);          S               S
                                             TASK MANAGER (1)
              06/10/97                  1    TASK MANAGER (1)                 S               S
              04/19/98                  4    TASK MANAGER (1); HD             U               U
                                             OPERATIONS OFFICER (1);
                                             CONSULTANT (1);
                                             PROCUREMENT ANALYST
                                             (1)
              03/15/99                  2    OPERATIONS OFFICER (1);          U             HU
                                             TASK MANAGER (1)
              05/15/00                  3    TTL AND INFORMATICS (1);         U             HU
                                             PROCUREMENT (1);
                                             OPERATIONS OFFICER (1)
              12/15/00                  2    TTL AND INFORMATICS (1)          U             HU
              06/15/01                  1    INFORMATICS SPECIALIST           S               S
                                             (1)
              01/19/02                  3    TTL+INFORMATICS (1);             S               S
                                             OPERATION ANALYST (1)
              05/15/02                  1    TASK MANAGER (1)                 S               S
              12/15/02                  2    TASK MANAGER (1)                 S               S
                                             OPERATION ANALYST (1)
              05/31/03                  4    TASK MANAGER (1);                S               S
                                             PROCUREMENT OFFICER (1);
                                             OPERATIONS ADVISER (1);
                                             RESEARCH ANALYST (1)



                                              - 25 -

               12/15/03                       1   TASK MANAGER (1)                    HU              HU

 ICR
               No mission                    1     E                                  HU              HU


TTL - Task Team Leader, E - Economist, En - Energy Specialist, P - Privatization Specialist, PSD -
Private Sector Development Specialist, F - Financial Specialist




(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                       Actual/Latest Estimate
                                        No. Staff weeks                 US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation
  Appraisal/Negotiation                                                     300.2
  Supervision                                                               761.6
  ICR                                                                         15.2
  Total                                                                   1,077.0


\a Staff week totals not available (FACT System disconnected, SAP does not provide staff weeks prior to
FY2000).
\b Includes Identification/Preparation.




                                                   - 26 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 27 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 28 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

Correspondence in the Project Files.

Country Assistance Strategy for Turkmenistan, May 5, 1997.

Country Assistance Strategy for Turkmenistan, December 22, 2000.

Loan Agreement, IBTA, October 5, 1994.

Project Status Reports.

Staff Appraisal Report, Turkmenistan, IBTA Project, August 25,1994.

Turkmenistan a World Bank Country Study, 1994.




                                            - 29 -

- 30 -

