Document of                                  ran' L  wv X  t0  P
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-2486-KO
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF "HE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIREC-ORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOA;
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF KOI'EA
FOR AN ELECTRONICS TECHN(OLOGY PROJECT
March 6, 1979
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit   -  Won
Won 485          =  US$1
Won 1,000       =  US$2.06
Won 1,000,000   =  US$2,061.86
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 square meter (sq m)       =   10.76 square feet
1 kilometer (km)            =   0.62 miles
ABBREVIATIONS
EPB   -   Economic Planning Board
FIC   -   Fine Instruments Center
ICE   -   Integrated Circuit Engineering Corporation
KAIS  -   Korea Advanced Institute of Science
,KIET  -   Korea Institute of Electronics Technology
KIST  -   Korea Institute of Science and Technology
14CI   -   Ministry of Commerce and Industry
MOC   -   M4inistry of Communication
MOST  -   Ministry of Science and Technology
UNDP  -   United Nations Development Programme
FISCAL YEAR
Government: January 1-December 31
KIET      : January 1-December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
KOREA
ELECTRONICS TECHNOLOGY PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:        The Republic of Korea
Beneficiary:     Korea Institute of Electronics Technology (KIET)
Amount:           $29 million equivalent
Terms:           The loan would be for a term of 15 years, including 4 years
of grace, with interest at 7.0% p.a.
Project
Description:   The proposed project is intended to stimulate and support
the development of technological capabilities in the Korean
electronics industry. The project consists of:
(a) Development of KIET comprising:
(i) physical facilities including a semiconductor
building, other buildings, support facilities
and equipment; and
(ii)  technology-related items including training,
expert invitation, and the purchase of
technology;
(b)  Research, Development and Engineering (RD&E) Program
designed to promote and finance research carried out at
KIET for the benefit of the Korean electronics industry.
While the risks inherent in this complex project which
would operate in a rapidly changing technological
environment are higher than for projects in most other
industries, the potential benefits as well as the costs
of inaction considerably outweigh these risks.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Estimated Cost:
% of
Project element                     Local   Foreign /a    Total    Total
-   ($ '000) ---------
Development of KIET
(a)  Physical facilities          11,500    18,830        30,330   48.2
(b)  Technology items                 310     4,500        4,810    7.7
Phyical contingency           620      2,210        2,830    4.5
Price contingency           1,130      1,880        3,010    4.8
Working capital             5,880        990        6,870   10.9
Total cost of KIET
development               19,440    28,410        47,850   76.1
RD&E program                       10,000     5,000       15,000   23.9
Total project cost         29,440    33,410        62,850  100.0
of which:
Base cost lb               21,810    28,330        50,140   80.1
/a   Includes indirect foreign exchange estimated at Won 1.07 billion
($2.2 million equivalent).
/b   Excluding contingencies and working capital.
Financing Plan:                               Local   Foreign   Total
----- ($ million) -----
Korean Industry              5.1         -      5.1
Government/KIET             24.4       4.4     28.8
Proposed Bank loan             -      29.0     29.0
Total                 29.5      33.4      62.9
Estimated
Disbursements:                  --…    --------- ($ million) --------------
Bank FY      1980     1981      1982    1983
Annual                      18.0      5.3       5.0      0.7
Cumulative                  18.0     23.3      28.3    29.0



- iii -
Rate of Return: Based on a conservative estimate of the direct and indirect
benefits attributable to the project, the rate of return
would be in excess of 15%.
Staff
Appraisal
Report:          No. 2322-KO, dated February 27, 1979






REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE REPUBLIC OF KOREA FOR AN ELECTRONICS TECHNOLOGY PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
loan to the Republic of Korea for the equivalent of $29 million to help
finance a proposed electronics technology project. The loan will have a term
of 15 years, including 4 years of grace, with interest at 7.0% p.a.
PART I - THE ECONOMY /1
2.        The latest Economic Report ("Growth and Prospects of the Korean
Economy") was distributed under cover of SECM77-158, dated March 4, 1977.
The Country Data Sheets are attached as Annex 1.
Recent Economic Developments
3.        Korea's economic position at the commencement of the Fourth Plan
period (1977-81) was stronger than ever before. Despite the balance of pay-
ments difficulties of 1974 and 1975 and a much less favorable international
economic environment than expected, most of the economic objectives set in
the Third Plan (1972-76) were achieved. The economy has shown continued
strength since the commencement of the Fourth Plan period. The exports and
balance of payments targets for 1977 were realized. The rate of growth of
GNP in real terms was 10.3% (as compared with the annual average of 9.2%
postulated in the Plan), and per capita income in current dollars rose from
$700 in 1976 to $864 in 1977. Export value increased by about 29% (albeit at
a considerably lower rate than the 56% registered in 1976), and exceeded the
target of $10,000 million. Continued success was achieved in diversifying
the markets for, and composition of, Korean exports. Although there was a
trade deficit of $477 million, resulting from a 25% increase in imports, net
receipts from services ($266 million) and net transfers of about $223 million
offset this deficit and resulted in a current account surplus of $12 million,
as compared with a deficit of $314 million in 1976. The rapid improvement in
the balance of payments was the result of a substantial improvem-i:i,t iiarhe
terms of trade, due in part to quality improvements, and the sharp increase
terms of trade, due in part to quality improvements, and the sharp increase
in the earnings from construction contracts abroad. Furthermore, net trarls-
fers averaged nearly $300 million during 1976-77. The net gain from all
/1 This section is identical to the correspondinig one in the President's
Report on the Chungju Multipurpose Project (No. P-2478-KO), dated March 2,
1979, which was distributed under cover of R79-37, dated March 5, 1979.



these factors, together with the increase in tourism receipts, was nearly
equivalent to the total of the current account deficits in 1974 and 1975.
4.        Although price increases averaged about 10% in 1977, due, in part,
to the continued stability of import prices and, in part, to the success of
anti-inflation policies, including price controls, inflationary pressures
began to accelerate again during the second half of 1977 and persisted
in 1978. The Government has tended to view this as being mainly the result
of the high rate of growth of the money supply caused almost entirely by the
large inflows of foreign exchange earnings, especially from construction
contracts abroad. In response to this view of the inflation problem, the
Government has attempted to reduce the net inflow of foreign exchange by
inducing more cash imports and reducing credit imports, and by neutralizing
the possible monetary impact of some of the foreign exchange earnings
through various monetary measures. Furthermore, the Government adopted
wide ranging import liberalization measures in 1978. In addition, interest
rate adjustments have been made, the most recent being the raising of deposit
and loan rates in June 1978 in an attempt to reduce the prevailing excess
demand and dampen inflationary pressures.
5.        According to preliminary data, in 1978 there were nominal increases
of 27% and 39% in the values of exports and imports, respectively. The
resulting trade deficit of about $1,900 million was partially offset by a
surplus in the invisibles account of about $870 million (including net
transfers), leaving a current account deficit of some $1,000 million. Net
inflows of medium- and long-term capital would be about $1,900 million and,
in spite of the substantial repayment of some of Korea's short-term debt,
Korea's gross holdings of foreign exchange was augmented by an estimated $615
million in 1978. The outlook for 1979 is for a continued high growth of
exports and imports and a gross level of capital inflow of about $3,000
million, including an allowance for an increase in reserves to about $6,000
million, or about four months of imports, a level considered prudent in view
of Korea's trade dependency.
Longer-Term Problems and Prospects
6.        The preparation of the Fourth Plan (1977-81) afforded an opportu-
nity for a comprehensive review of Korea's economic problems, prospects and
priorities. Korea's longer-term goals as specified in the Plan are "growth
with enhanced self-sufficiency" and "greater equity and social development."
The firm intention of the Government as stated in the Plan is to achieve a
maximum rate of growth consistent with a sound balance of payments and also
with the maintenance of internal price stability. National savings are ex-
pected to finance as much as 92% of total investment as compared with about
72% in the Third Plan period (1972-76).
7.        Growth and stability are not the only objectives.  Enhanced equity
and greater social development are also of importance in the Korean plans.



- 3 -
The main emphasis is on achieving a wider distribution of the benefits of
growth. Health outlays will increase as a proportion of total investment
with special stress on preventive care and an innovative health delivery
system to service low-income families, particularly in the rural areas.
Rural incomes are expected to increase as a result of greater agricultural
productivity and diversification and of increased opportunities for nonfarm
employment primarily through the Saemaeul (New Community) Movement and
small industries development, and also because of increasing construction
activities in the rural areas. The quality of life in these areas is to be
further enhanced by the provision of additional infrastructure facilities.
8.        The achievement of these goals would not require a change in the
basic development strategy of export-led growth, which Korea has followed so
successfully since the mid-sixties. The Fourth Plan postulates an annual
rate of increase of exports of 16% in real terms, and a real growth rate of
14% per year will be required during the rest of the Plan period if the
target is to be met. The ratio of commodity exports to GNP is expected to
rise from the level of about 30% in 1976 to about 42% in 1981, with the
manufacturing sector providing about 90% of total commodities. This demands
the achievement of continuous gains in efficiency and productivity, further
success in diversifying both exports and markets and the maintenance of a
favorable domestic policy environment. More than half of Korea's manufactured
goods still consist of textiles, garments, electronics and footwear, but
clearly Korea's comparative advantage is starting to shift from unskilled
labor-intensive items to more capital- and skill-intensive products.
Although not a critical factor at present, Korea will in future face increas-
ingly severe competition from the less industrially advanced countries which
are more amply endowed with natural resources and where unskilled labor is
cheaper. Furthermore, Korea is beginning to experience constraints on the
expansion of several traditional manufactured exports due to its already
dominant position in some cases (e.g., plywood) and due, in other cases, to
the trade restrictions imposed by some developed countries (e.g., textiles
and footwear).
9.        A changing pattern of exports reflecting and responding to shifting
comparative advantage is, therefore, essential for sustained export expansion.
Korean planners are conscious of the need to effect structural changes in ex-
ports and industrial output and are focusing on electronics and machinery
to achieve this. The achievement of the targets set for the export of
electronics, machinery and other capital goods generally requires a concerted
effort on a number of fronts. As the World Development Report points
out, the essential problems in expanding these exports are technological and
organizational. Action is required to bring about the assimilation or
learning of new technology, its adaptation to local needs and conditions,
technology innovation, the rationalization of production processes, quality
improvement and market development, including the provision of export
credits on a significant scale if market penetration in the less developed
countries is to succeed.
10.       In the Korean context, the continued high rate of growth of the
economy is essential, since significant progress toward the basic equity



- 4 -
goals of improved income distribution and reduced poverty could be more
easily affordable when the growth of incomes is high. The predominant role
the export sector is expected to play is appropriate in view of Korea's
limited natural resources. Moreover, Korea has the manpower and the entrepre-
neurial capacity to implement the Plan's investment programs. The Fourth
Plan's priorities, strategy and programs, therefore, remain appropriate. The
Plan strikes a reasonable balance between the various objectives of increas-
ing employment, maintaining a minimum growth of per capita incomes, strength-
ening the balance of payments and making progress towards diversifying the
industrial structure so as to sustain export growth in the 1980s.
11.       Notwithstanding the efforts being made to increase the mobilization
of domestic resources, Korea will continue to need sizeable gross capital in-
flows. It is estimated that foreign capital commitments of about $3,000 mil-
lion would be required annually over the next several years. While Korea is
extending its use of commercial financing from the traditional suppliers and
private bank credits to Euro-dollar syndicated loans and bond issues in the
Euro-bond and Asia bond markets, the magnitude of its external capital
requirements is such that it will have to continue to rely on considerable
capital inflows from official sources, including Eximbanks. Servicing
of the debt should not pose serious difficulties given the present debt
service ratio and the prospects for continued export growth, provided that
the proportion of external debt incurred on shorter term and at high interest
rates is not excessive. On the assumption that Korea can obtain the required
inflow of capital on reasonable terms, the debt service ratio which now
stands at just over 10% is expected to remain at 10-11% until the end of the
decade and decline slowly thereafter.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS /1
12.       As of December 31, 1978, Korea had received 41 Bank Loans (including
one Third Window Loan) and 8 IDA Credits, totalling $2,247.5 million in loans
and $106.8 million in credits (taking into account cancellations and the
refinancing of one IDA Credit in a subsequent Bank Loan). As of that date,
$783.6 million of the total Bank lending remained undisbursed on effective
Loans and Credits, mostly from commitments in the past two years. Annex II
contains a summary statement of Bank Loans, IDA Credits, and IFC Investments
as of that date and notes on the execution of ongoing projects. As indicated
in the notes, progress on project implementation is generally satisfactory.
13.       In recent years, the thrust of the Bank Group's lending operations
in Korea has been directed towards assisting the Government's efforts: (a) to
secure the external resources required to supplement domestic savings in
sustaining a high GNP growth rate by following a policy of rapid export-
oriented industrialization; (b) to avoid the emergence of infrastructure
/1   This section is identical to the corresponding one in the President's
Report on the Chungju Multipurpose Project (No. P-2478-KO), dated
March 2, 1979, which was distributed under cover of R 79-37, dated
March 5, 1979.



- 5 -
bottlenecks; and (c) to complement industrial development with agricultural
and rural development schemes aimed at bringing about a better dispersal of
the fruits of growth through raising incomes and improving the quality of
life in the rural areas.
14.       A substantial part of Bank financing has been directed towards the
vital industrial sector through our lending to Korea's three major development
banks. The Korea Development Finance Corporation has received $320.0 mil-
lion, the Korea Development Bank $252.5 million and the Medium Industry Bank
(now called the "Small and Medium Industry Bank") $85 million in Bank loans
for relending to private industry. This has resulted not only in the overall
development of the industrial sector, but has also contributed to the achieve-
ment of institutional improvements and of the Government's objective of
decentralizing industry. The loan of $80 million for a Heavy Machinery
Project was intended to assist in achieving the structural shift to more
skill-intensive industries, which is necessary to ensure the long-term
viability of Korea's export strategy.
15.       As Korea's economy continued to grow and the pace of industrializa-
tion has quickened, there has had to be a parallel expansion of transport fa-
cilities. The Bank Group, through its association with the Government's effort
to modernize and expand the transport sector dating back to 1962, has played
an important role in these developments. Some $340 million has been provided
for six railway projects designed to increase the railroad's capacity and im-
prove its operations; four loans totalling $334.5 million have been made for
highway construction and paving of high priority sections of the national
network and for a countrywide maintenance organization; and two loans amount-
ing to $147 million have been provided for the expansion of port facilities
at Busan, the premier port, and Mugho, primarily for improving coal handling
facilities.
16.       Korea's paucity of natural resources and dependence on the manufac-
turing segment of its economy has resulted in the adoption of a strategy
based on maximizing the advantages of a skilled and hardworking labor force.
The Bank Group has been involved in helping to meet the requirements for
appropriately trained workers and certain categories of skilled manpower
through its lending for four education projects, which have pursued the broad
objectives of technical manpower development either through the expansion of
relevant subsectors or through specific quality improvements. Together these
projects have catered to a wide range of manpower training needs within
agriculture, fisheries, industry and services.
17.       Korea's record of achievement in modernizing its agricultural
sector, although less spectacular than the gains made in the industrial
sphere, is nevertheless commendable. The past fifteen years have seen
agricultural output grow at about 4% per annum, which has resulted in
the country becoming near self-sufficient in its staple food, rice, and made
possible a steady and perceptible improvement in the living standards of the
40% of Korea's population who live in the countryside and rely primarily
on agrarian pursuits for their livelihood. The Bank has lent $325.5 million
for the improvement of irrigation facilities, land and seed development and
the provision of agricultural credit to farmers and processors of agricultural
products. In addition, $155 million has been provided for two rural infra-



structure projects in support of the Government's rural development program,
initiated in 1971, to improve the quality of life and the standard of living
in the rural areas.
18.       The Bank's first essay into the field of regional development in
Korea through the project approved in January 1975 (Loan 1070-KO) has proved
successful. The project was designed to support the Government's policy by
financing high priority investments in the poor, primarily agricultural,
southwest region.
19.       Excluding one project that was cancelled subsequently, IFC had by
December 31, 1978, entered into 21 commitments totalling $70.0 million (net
of participations and cancellations). Korea's industrial development programs
have required large capital expenditures in the private sector, a situation
which has enabled a substantially enhanced IFC presence in the past few years.
20.       A primary objective of the Bank's future lending to Korea is to
assist it in sustaining its growth momentum. The basic issue in this connec-
tion is whether Korea can deepen and diversify its industrial structure to
the extent necessary to ensure that it attains its export targets. Lending
to industry will be diversified by the provision of a loan for a second
machinery project which will provide financial and technical assistance to
small- and medium-scale machinery industries. It will also be necessary to
introduce RD&E programs which are better adapted to the technological needs
of industrial development. In addition to a proposed loan for an electronics
technology project, a project for the technological development of technology-
intensive industries is envisaged in the program.
21.       Korea's industrialization program, which calls for entering into
more complex fields of manufacturing than hitherto, will require increasingly
high levels of technical competence on the part of its labor force. A loan
to modernize and expand the system of higher technical education so as to
increase its flexibility and responsiveness to the changing requirements
of the economy is, therefore, proposed.
22.       Another strand in the lending strategy is increased support of the
Government's efforts to spread the fruits of growth even more equitably by
the diversification and expansion of the output of the agricultural sector
and through nationwide development programs. Projects are envisaged for land/
water resource development, for agricultural credit, marketing and processing
and for the further development of rural infrastructure.
23.       The further development of the industrial and agricultural
sectors and the anticipated growth of exports will require concurrent
infrastructural development. Although the transport sector will be given
less emphasis than in the past, the investments required are large, and thus
there is considerable support for this sector in the proposed program.
24.       The share of the Bank Group in Korea's total external debt dis-
bursed and outstanding at the end of 1977 was about 11%, and the share of
debt service was of the order of 6% at that time. These ratios are
expected to increase to around 13% and 7%, respectively, by the end of the
present decade.



PART III - THE INDUSTRIAL SECTOR
25.       Korea has sustained an impressive record of economic growth since
the 1960s; aggregate real GNP has risen at the rate of about 10% p.a. over
the last 15 years. Given Korea's poor natural resource endowment, this
growth was based on the expansion of manufacturing. Between 1961 and 1977,
manufacturing grew at a real rate of 19% per year, and the share of manufac-
tured goods in GNP increased from 11% in 1961 to 35% in 1977 (despite a 4% per
year growth in agricultural output). A major impetus to this remarkable
growth came from exports which grew at an average of 32% p.a. in real terms,
from $175 million in 1965 to $12,700 million in 1978. In 1978, the share of
manufactured exports in total exports was 90% and their share in manufactured
output in 1977 was about 28%.
26.       This growth was accompanied by a significant deepening of the
industrial structure and diversification of manufactured exports. The share
of metals, chemical and mechanical industries in total industrial output
increased from 34% in 1965 to 41% in 1977. The most striking increase was
registered by the combined machinery, electronics and shipbuilding industries
spearheaded by electronics products. In the sphere of exports, despite
Korea's continued reliance on labor-intensive traditional exports, there was
a similar discernible trend in the direction of skill-intensive products
(notably electronics and ships). Korea was also successful at reducing the
geographical concentration of its exports: the combined share of the U.S. and
Japan dropped from 70% in 1973 to 49% in 1978, and commodity exports to the
Middle East, which had previously constituted a very small market for Korea,
exceeded $1,300 million in 1978.
27.       This remarkable industrial transformation was achieved through
an aggressive and balanced outward-looking development strategy that encouraged
and supported industry's attempts to focus Korea's literate and disciplined
manpower and dynamic management on selected areas where Korea could compete
effectively in the world market. Central to this strategy was a continuous
adjustment of industrial policies, notably exchange rates and export policies,
to ensure the operation of a free trade regime for exports, and thereby to
maintain the profitability of exports in the face of high rates of domestic
inflation without jeopardizing the efficiency of resource allocation. This
strategy was also stimulated and supported by Government's efforts at providing:
(a) a sound physical infrastructure (e.g. transport, telecommunications,
power); (b) education; (c) a framework of aggressive export marketing policies;
and (d) a financial sector that plays an increasingly important role in
mobilizing resources and allocating them to strategic sectors.
28.       The growth of export-led manufacturing will remain a key element in
Korea's development strategy. The growth rates of the industrial sector and
manufactured exports in the Fourth Plan period (1977-81) (14% and 16.5% p.a.,
respectively) are planned to surpass that of GNP (9%). As noted earlier, in
the face of rising protectionism abroad and increasing wages, Korea's emphasis
is shifting more rapidly from its traditional labor-intensive industries and
exports to more skill-intensive ones such as chemicals, metals, machinery and
electronics. The same rationale for a shift into more skill- and technology-
intensive areas also applies to the choice of direction within industries,
such as electronics, which is the focus of the proposed project.



-8-
The Korean Electronics Industry
29.       The Korean electronics industry was established in the early sixties
as an import substitution industry based on the assembly of radios and other
consumer goods. It gained momentum in the seventies spurred by direct foreign
investment, joint ventures and the growth of domestic firms. Production and
exports have increased at a rate of about 50% between 1970 and 1977, leading
the growth in the manufacturing sector. Production has increased from $106
million in 1970 to $1,760 million in 1977, and exports have increased from
$55 to $1,108 million over the same period. The number of firms has also
increased dramatically from about 175 in 1970 to over 700 in 1978. The
industry has become increasingly important to Korea's economy and in 1977
accounted for 11% of the nation's total exports and employed over 140,000
persons. By international standards, however, it is still very small, account-
ing for only about 1.6% of the world electronics production in 1977.
30.       Korea's electronics production has consisted primarily of conventional
components (39%); technologically fairly mature, low cost consumer products,
such as clocks, radios and black and white TVs (33%); and assembly of advanced
components, principally by wholly-owned subsidiaries of large U.S. companies
(18%). Production of more sophisticated industrial electronics products
(10%) has been limited to telecommunication equipment for the domestic
market. By contrast, industrial electronics accounts for over 67% of U.S.
production, the remainder being split evenly between consumer products and
components reflecting its dominance in the advanced areas such as computers,
as well as the shift of labor-intensive consumer products and components to
offshore locations. Japan's electronics industry is divided more evenly
between consumer products (38%), industrial electronics (32%), and components
(30%).
31.       This direction of growth of Korea's electronics industry has been
influenced by several constraints. First, the high cost of capital and a
corresponding desire for a high return on investment have discouraged approaches
requiring large investments in areas such as product or process development,
which typically result in high and prolonged amortization of costs. Second,
the lack of knowledge about product design trends and of experienced design
personnel has forced Korean companies to seek and rely on products designed
elsewhere and proven in world markets. Third, the absence of required
production and other support services has further discouraged entry into new
areas such as semiconductor manufacture. Of the broad range of functions
performed by the "semiconductor service industry" in other countries, Korea
has acquired competence only in assembly. Fourth, the newness of Korea as an
electronics producer has precluded it from having an extensive distribution
system and has prompted reliance on foreign wholesale distributors, notably
in the US and Japan. This reliance on foreign distributors has kept Korean
companies away from the ultimate markets and limited their direct knowledge
of market trends. There has been, however, an increase in independent
marketing efforts lately in consumer goods, such as TVs, particularly in
Europe and in developing country markets. In summary, therefore, despite
its impressive growth, the Korean electronics industry, by comparison to
that of advanced countries, generally lacks breadth and depth in design,
technology and marketing.



- 9 -
32.       The Fourth Five-Year Plan calls for a continuing important role
for electronics in Korea's growth strategy with a target of electronics
production of $4,700 million and exports of $3,000 million by 1981. The
latter is one-fifth of the country's total merchandise export target for that
year. The Government and industry plan to achieve these ambitious targets
through the continued emphasis on consumer electronics as a major export,
backward integration into raw materials and components required by end-product
manufacturers, the development of industrial electronics primarily for the
domestic market, and the building of a broad technological base. While the
achievement of these targets will bring the Korean electronics industry by
1981 up to the scale and structure of Japan's electronics industry of about
a decade ago (1967), by present standards, the Korean output will remain
relatively small. It will account for only around 3% of the total world
production, up from present level of 1.6%. The Korean share of the elec-
tronics world trade (excluding shipments between West European markets) will
be about 6-7% compared to about 40% each for the US and Japan.
33.       The worldwide shift within consumer electronics from the developed
to the developing countries on the basis of lower production costs, the rapid
growth of industrial electronics together with the trend towards vertically
integrated operations confirm the soundness of the Korean electronics industry's
development plan in its direction and emphasis for the next few years. The
technologies required for growth in some conventional products for the near
future are relatively mature and readily available through licensing and
joint ventures within the existing policy framework. At the same time, and
particularly for the medium and longer term, the continued competitivenesss
of the Korean electronics industry will have to be supported by the acquisition
and diffusion of semiconductor and digital systems technologies, which have
become the cornerstone of the modern world electronics industry. In view of
the present capabilities of the industry, this effort will require special
Government attention.
34.       The chief development in these industries has come from the progress
in integrated circuits (ICs), which combine in one small "chip" (3-6mm square)
the functions performed by up to thousands of discrete components at a very small
fraction of the space and costs involved only a few years ago. Since being
launched commercially in 1961, IC complexity has risen from a few components
per chip to as many as 10,000 per chip, with corresponding dramatic reductions
in cost. These increases in complexity and cost reductions are, if anything,
accelerating. These developments and the advent of the microprocessor/l are
creating an industry that is not only important in its own right, but is going
to exert significant impact in factories, offices, homes, and virtually every
facet of human life. Based on new applications and others yet to be conceived,
the electronics industry is expected to become one of the world's major industries
reaching a production level of $230 billion (equivalent to the value of the
world's present annual 700 million tons of steel production) by 1985, from a
level of $110 billion in 1977. Many governments in developed countries,
/1   A complex standard chip with stored programs (software) in memory
which can be instructed to perform a range of different functions.
Complete micro- and mini-computers are now being based on micro-
processors.



- 10 -
notably the US, Japan, and the UK, have recognized the importance of this
industry and extended it considerable financial support, in the hundreds of
millions of dollars, through research, development and engineering (RD&E)
grants, the establishment of RD&E institutes, and by providing markets under
Government procurement practices.
35.       The combination of dramatic growth and rapid technological change
is exerting a profound impact on the structure of the world electronics
industry, and the international division of labor. At the low-technology end
of the product spectrum are the labor-intensive assembly operations and
products, where the advantage is shifting away from countries like Korea to
other developing countries where wages have not been increasing as rapidly.
Further, these markets are being eroded considerably, as ICs replace thousands
of individual components and significantly reduce the requirement for assembly.
At the opposite end of the spectrum are the R&D and high technology-intensive
sophisticated products and systems (such as large computers, complex mini and
microcomputers, and advanced telecommunications systems) which are dominated
by the US and to a lesser extent by Europe and Japan, and are likely to
continue to be the preserve of the advanced countries. As operations in
these segments become more complex, companies in advanced countries are being
prompted to specialize and concentrate their manpower and resources on the
latest technologies and products with the largest potential for profit and
growth. This trend towards concentration is creating an opportunity for
countries like Korea in the intermediate technology areas, where the developed
countries have already progressed down the learning curve and further cost
reductions are only possible by transferring operations to countries where
wages for skilled labor and engineers are relatively low.
36.       These intermediate technologies span areas of low- and medium-
complexity semi-conductors, small digital systems such as micro-computers and
other price competitive supportive lines such as add-on peripherals and software
for digital systems, where the skilled labor and engineering costs constitute
a high proportion of total cost. These areas, while not promising the
explosive growth potential of advanced areas, continue to be extremely
attractive. It is this niche in the electronics industry that Korea should
focus on to maintain its impressive growth and develop a technological base
for the future, particularly in light of eroding competitiveness in its
traditional product lines. Leading international electronics companies are
already exploring joint venture possibilities in these areas in Korea.
37.       In pursuing these opportunities, the choice of the proper technology
and of the methods of technology acquisition is of paramount importance. The
development and diffusion of the semiconductor industry in the US, Europe and
Japan can provide Korea with some insight. The spectacular growth of the US
industry is attributed to a number of factors among which are the considerable
R&D effort (10% of sales), direct support from the US Government and availa-
bility of venture capital that has enabled scientist-entrepreneurs to start
their own firms. An equally important factor in the diffusion and spread of
know-how has been the rapid movement of people within the industry and
exchange of information through cross licensing. This has enabled US firms
to complement each other and to quickly absorb the technologies required for
different stages of manufacturing (circuit design and layout, mask making,
various stages of diffusion, ion implantation) and to concentrate on systems
design, process and market development. Equally important has been the large



network of specialized services companies that has emerged to support all
stages of development of the industry (equipment manufacture, integrated
circuit design and layout, mask-making, wafer-fabrication, IC testing,
assembly, and general consulting).
38.       To compete effectively with the US firms, the European and Japanese
companies have narrowed their field of operations primarily to consumer
electronics with high, though relatively stable, technological content and
have spread the cost, risk and effort among themselves by joint research and
development programs. Their effort in the more advanced micro electronics
and digital systems fields have been selective and are supported by Government
financing in the hundreds of millions of dollars. The experience in this
industry suggests that the most effective way of transferring technology has
been through exchange of people and of information from experts to experts.
This situation exists in carefully conceived joint-venture arrangements which
complement the basic strength of the parties involved and also obtains in
manufacturing contracts where the recipient gets his technology as a package
in return for supply of reliable and price-competitive products. By contrast,
licensing arrangements which are solely based on patents and do not include
training, long-term technological support, manufacturing know-how and possible
market links have been less effective.
39.       The preceeding discussion suggests that Korea must focus initially
on a few technologies, which allow upgrading of the design and reliability of
its existing product mix, and at the same time permit entry into the new
areas. In addition to ensuring focus on these technologies and products,
Korea has to attract foreign companies that are technology leaders, and can
provide Korea with a continuous inflow of know-how in new areas, where these
leaders are already investigating possibilities of securing supply sources in
low-cost, off-shore locations. In order to succeed, however, the effort will
require substantial design and manufacturing know-how, as well as an expensive
infrastructure beyond the individual capabilities and resources of Korean or
joint venture firms. Accordingly, direct Government intervention, such as in
the U.S. and Japan, is needed to stimulate, complement and support the effort
of the industry. The cooperation of industry, research institutions, and
Government in formulating and financing a development program is essential.
It is expected that these ingredients can be brought together in Korea.
40.       The proposed project will be the lead effort in the Government's
support of the electronics industry. It will provide industry with the
necessary infrastructure and specialized services, which cannot be provided
by each individual company, and will serve as a focal point for the initial
transfer of the required intermediate technologies to Korea, and provide
on-the-job training in these technologies. It will, thus, promote Korea's
development in these areas, and create the environment necessary to attract
joint-venture and domestic operations. Finally, the Government will, through
the proposed project, share with private industry the costs and subsequent
benefits of RD&E in areas where Korea can compete effectively in world
markets, encourage the diffusion of RD&E benefits to a wide segment of
the industry, and promote cooperative RD&E among Korean firms. The effect-
iveness of direct Government support for RD&E and of cooperative research



- 12 -
for catalyzing technology development in this industry, where RD&E involves
high costs (and risks), has been successfully demonstrated irn the U.S. and
Japan. Korean industry, which has been actively involved in preparing and
formulating the proposed project, has demonstrated strong support for these
objectives.
PART IV: THE PROJECT
Introduction
41.       The Government established the Korea Institute of Electronics
Technology (KIET) in December 1976. The proposed project, which will finance
the development of KIET and a program of RD&E to be carried out at KIET, was
prepared in July 1977, and appraised in November 1978. A Staff Appraisal
Report on the "Korea Electronics Technology Project" (No. 2322-KO, dated
February 27, 1979) is being circulated separately. Supplementary data are
given in Annex III. Negotiations were held in Washington from February 12
to 15, 1979. The Korean delegation was led by Mr. Wi-Tchol Kang, of the
Economic Planning Board, and i-fcluded Dr. S.J. Hahn, President of KIET.
42.       The Bank has played an important role in shaping the proposed
project. The industrial sector mission of November 1974 had recommended that
Korea should seriously consider the acquisition of semiconductor technology
as a basis for the development of its electronics industry, and that the
cooperation of Government, industry and research institutions was vital for
the achievement of this objective. Subsequent Bank involvement in 1975
(as executing agency) in a UNDP-financed Planning Assistance Project helped
shape Korea's new development thrust in the semiconductor and digital systems
industry during the period of the Fourth Plan. The Bank's efforts also
helped transform KIET from a relatively isolated research institute into a
service-cum-RD&E organization catering directly to industry needs. During
1978, the Bank acted as executing agency for a UNDP project to assist KIET in
reformulating and preparing the project along these lines. Further, by
working closely with private industry, the Bank has helped foster an effective
relationship between KIET and the electroi..nis firms KIET is intended to serve.
43.       The Bank's continued involvement is expected to help maintain
"focus" in KIET's activities, a focus which is required both for the Se-ii',l
OC. p;Ipropriate products and technologies for Korea, and to prevent a situation
arising where resources are spread too thinly to provide an important impact
on industry. The Bank's inputs are expected to contribute significantly to
maintaining KIET's service-cum-RD&E orientation and its responsiveness to
industry requirements; indeed, KIET in its new rolh- iw4 -. s.ected to serve as a
model for other research institutions planned in Korea. The Bank will also
encourage policies for widespread diffusion of project benefits, particularly
to small and medium companies) and policies for cooperation among Korean
firms. And, finally, through its involvement in the project, the Bank expects
to increase its knowledge of the field and its i.mpa'i n} ii V-:lry in general
to the benefit of other countries which may endeavor to embark on a similar
effort.



- 13 -
Objectives and Role of KIET
44.       The primary objective of the project is to stimulate and support
development of the semiconductor and digital systems capabilities necessary
for the continued growth of the Korean electronics 1ridlustry.  It will focus on
critical functions that are either beyond the technological capabilities of
industry or cannot be undertaken profitably by individual companies in view
of the present size of the industry, but are vitally needed for its development.
These functions include: (i) Production Support Services such as design,
supply of process inputs, testing, quality assurance and control, equipment
services, training and market analysis.  KIET will have the capabilities
of the network of service companies - the service industry - that performs
these functions on a specialized basis in the US. In providing these services,
however, KIET wil perform a function different from that performed by these
commercial service companies. In view of the present stage of development of
the Korean industry, KIET will emphasize the diffusion of manufacturing
know-how to build domestic technological capability, and also provide trouble-
shooting and back-up support to industry, particularly in the early stages of
development. Further, KIET will emphasize the education and training of
industry personnel and, as a development institution, provide a continuously
advancing mix of services to spearhead the pace of industry's development;
and (ii) Product and Process Development focusing on relatively mature areas
where Korea can develop a competitive advantage based on relatively low cost
skilled labor and engineering manpower in comparison to advanced countries.
KIET will focus both on upgrading capabilities in existing products, such as
watches, audio systems and TVs, and on developing new products, such as
microcomputers and terminals. It will share the risks and benefits of major
projects in these areas with industry sponsors through the RD&E program.
45.       KIET's major emphasis in the initial years of operation, 1979-82,
will be on providing production support services as well as assisting industry,
through the production of wafers, masks, etc., to acquire manufacturing
know-how, which is the most critical area in semiconductor techviology.  In
this area, KIET will focus on improving process yields to satisfactory levels
so that production may then be transferred to industry. In this sense, much
of KIET's service activities will represent continuous technical assistance
to industry. As industry acquires basic capabilities in these areas, an
increasing share of KIET's resources will go into product and process develop-
ment and engineering under the RD&E program. By 1987, for example, it is
expected that 40% of KIET's manpower will be devrlted io: ?D&E activities,
compared to 30% in 1982.
Project Description
46.       The project has two primary components: the physical and technolo-
gical development of KIET and an RD&E program.
Development of KIET
47.       KIET will be located at the semiconductor systems estate in Gumi,
200 km southeast of Seoul (see Map). The primary facility to be developed
under the project is a semiconductor building, where all semiconductor-related
activity will be concentrated. The building, which woutld reflect the latest



- 14 -
technology, has been designed jointly by a competent Korean firm and a
leading US architectural/engineering company financed under the UNDP Project
(para. 42) and is expected to serve as a model for Korean industry in planning
its own semiconductor facilities. The project also provides for a combined
systems and administrative building, a training center for industry personnel
at the KIET site, and other support facilities. Dormitories and apartments
for KIET staff and dining facilities are also included in the project. Further,
the Government has agreed to implement its plans to support the development of
the estate through the timely provision of additional facilities such as
housing, medical care facilities and other support systems (Section 4.04 of
the draft Loan Agreement).
48.       This component also includes a comprehensive program for technology
development, which will focus on areas which have proved most effective in
technology acquisition, namely: training in selected technologies; recruitment
of staff and consultants with experience in these technologies; contractual
production and service arrangements with the sources of technology, where
KIET receives technology in return for providing a competitive and reliable
supply of product/services; and purchase of advanced equipment which in-
creasingly incorporates much of the technology. Since industry experience
indicates that licensing alone has not proved as effective as these other
methods of technology transfer, KIET will purchase technology in this manner
only in a few limited cases. KIET will emphasize relatively mature appli-
cations of a limited number of dominant technologies, which are expected to
be available from a number of sources at reasonable cost. In addition, a
number of industry leaders worldwide have already started or expressed
interest in training of KIET personnel.
RD&E Program
49.       This program is designed to promote and finance research carried
out at KIET for the benefit of the electronics industry. To ensure that
research work is closely tied to industry goals, the major proportion (about
70%) of the research will be required to have an industry sponsor. In the
initial years, industry will contribute an average of about 35% of the costs
of research sponsored by it; the remaining 65% would be provided by KIET and
subsequently recovered from industry through a system of royalties. Industry's
contribution to RD&E costs under this risk sharing arrangement is significantly
higher than in other countries involved in such efforts. As KIET's success
is demonstrated, both the percentage of industry-sponsored projects and of
industry's contribution to direct research costs are expected to increase.
Detailed guidelines for KIET's RD&E operations have been discussed and agreed
to with KIET and industry, and have been adopted by KIET's Board of Directors
as its RD&E operating policy to be amended only with the Bank's approval
(Section 3.04(a) of the draft Project Agreement). Among other aspects, the
guidelines: establish project selection of criteria to ensure a high prob-
ability of significant and widespread impact on the Korean electronics
industry; encourage cooperative development efforts among Korean firms; and
encourage development of research projects by small- and medium-sized firms
by allocating about 25% of annual RD&E resources for this purpose and allowing
more liberal cost-sharing arrangements with such firms.



- 15 -
50.       An RD&E Review Committee, drawn from KIET's senior management, will
be responsible for the coordination and integration of KIET's research
efforts into a comprehensive program. The committee will prepare a 4-year
RD&E program annually (consisting of a detailed program for the first year,
and an indicative program for the remaining three years) and will monitor its
implementation on a quarterly basis.
Ecology
51.       The project facilities are designed to meet the latest US environ-
mental standards and include advanced techniques for the collection and
removal of corrosive chemicals and toxic fumes and gases from the work area
to maintain an ultra-clean and safe working environment. KIET will implement
and operate its facilities in accordance with all appropriate national and
international environmental designs and standards (Section 2.10 of the draft
Project Agreement).
Organization and Management
52.       KIET's organization is lheaded by a Board of Directors drawn from
Government ministries, the electronics industry, universities and foreign
assistance organizations. The President of KIET was formerly President of the
Korea Institute of Science and Technology, Korea's primary industrial research
institution. Under the President, KIET is organized as a service operation
along three major functional lines -- semiconductor design, semiconductor
processes, and digital systems. Each of these activities is headed by a Vice
President, responsible for planning, executing and monitoring the service and
development activities in his area. The three incumbent Vice Presidents have
significant academic training and industrial experience in the US in their
fields and are capable of directing KIET's activities effectively. As a
supplement to KIET's management capabilities, senior management will be
assisted by a qualified technical advisor, already appointed under the UNDP
project, and short-term consultants as necessary.  KIET will continuously
retain a technical advisor at least through the end of 1982 (Section 3.06 of
the draft Project Agreement).
53.       The above operating groups are supported by adequate administrative
staff and the US liaison office, already established in California, which
will maintain contacts with worldwide electronics activity centers and assist
both Korean industry and KIET in training, purchasing, imarket and technology-
related areas. In viewq of the complex accounting and financial requirements
of KIET operations, KIET has agreed to establish an independent department,
headed by a Director, for this purpose (Section 3.05 of the draft Project
Agreement).
Project Implementation
54.       KIET, with the aid of its project management team, will be
responsible For executing the project. KIET has also agreed to retain a
semi-condtuctor facility experl Lo inonitor the construction and installation
oF equipment in this specialized facility (Section 2.03(a) of the draft
Project Agreement). Implementation is already under way in a number of



- 16 -
areas: the site has been acquired and prepared; the semiconductor building
shell and the power plant financed by the Government are under construction;
initial stages of the procurement process have been completed; UNDP funds
have been applied effectively towards initiating training programs; and the
liaison office is already functional.
55.       Mechanical completion of the physical aspects of the project,
defined as completion of all civil works and equipment installation, is
expected by October 1981. The training, expert invitation, and technology
purchase program, which are also part of the project, are expected to be
implemented continuously through the end of 1981, and the RD&E program
through the end of 1982.
Project Cost and Financing
56.       The total cost of the project is estimated at $62.9 million.
This includes $47.9 million for fixed assets, working capital, training and
technology acquisition for the development of KIET, and $15.0 million for
projects to be carried out under the RD&E program in the period 1979-82.
About $33.4 million of the total project cost represents the estimated
foreign exchange. The cost estimates are based on prices prevailing at
end-1978 plus physical and price contingencies amounting to 12% of the
base cost estimate.
57.       The proposed Bank loan of $29 million would finance 100% of foreign
exchange expenditures and 100% of local expenditures (ex-factory) for process
support systems and equipment for KIET's facilities; it will also finance
100% of foreign exchange expenditures for educational materials, training,
expert invitation, technology acquisition, and for selected subprojects under
the RD&E program (up to a maximum of $5 million). The remainder of the
foreign exchange requirement ($4.4 million) representing: amounts already
expended, indirect foreign exchange, and working capital, will be provided by
the Government. Local expenditures, estimated at $29.5 million, would be met
by: (a) the Government and KIET (from internal cash generation) which will
finance an estimated $24.4 million in local costs; and (b) local industry
which is expected to contribute $3.7 million as its share of RD&E subproject
costs and has already provided $1.4 million towards the establishment of
KIET. This latter amount is particularly significant since it is unusual
for private firms to contribute so much to a Government institution, par-
ticularly one which has not yet demonstrated its capabilities. Moreover,
these funds have been contributed in advance of the establishment of indus-
try's own facilities, clearly indicating the extent of industry's commitment
to KIET.
58.       In line with the Government's policy for establishing research
institutes, Government funds for the project will be passed on as a grant to
KIET through budgetary allocations. The Government has agreed to meet any
cost overruns on the project and to provide KIET with its annual funds require-
ments, including necessary foreign exchange, for operations, RD&E, working
capital, and capital expenditures to the extent that these are not covered by
KIET's internal cash flow (Sections 3.01(a) and 4.02(a) of the draft Loan
Agreement).



- 17 -
59.       In channeling the Bank loan to KIET, the Government will treat KIET
as it would treat other similar agencies. The proceeds of the loan would be
made available to KIET under arrangements reflecting the terms and conditions
of the Bank loan to the Government. However, corresponding annual budgetary
allocations would be made to KIET to cover debt service obligations pertaining
to the loan. In practice, therefore, the full cost of the Bank loan (principal
and interest) would be borne by the Government as would have been the case
had the proceeds of the Bank loan been made available to KIET as an outright
grant. The provision of Bank funds to KIET in this form is in accordance
with Government policy with respect to the financing of research institutes
and is also necessary if KIET is to become financially self-sustaining. This
is expected to be achieved in about four years after start-up which would be
a remarkable achievement for a research institute of its kind, which in most
developed and developing countries must rely on continuous government support
to finance their capital and operating requirements. KTET, however, has been
structured so that the income from its service operations will enable it to
cover its RD&E deficits (caused by an increasing level of RD&E expenditures
over time and the lag between these and the receipt of royalty income) and
ongoing capital expenditures which will be required to keep its facilities
up-to-date with advances in industry technology. This financial self-suffi-
ciency is essential to preserve KIET's basic RD&E and service character. If
KIET were subjected to continuous financial pressure, as might arise if debt
service obligations were imposed on it, it might be forced to utilize its
production equipment to undertake production activities and thus forego its
prime objectives of developing new technologies and providing services for
the industry.
60.       To ensure that prices of KIET's services and products reflect the
cost of the Bank loan even though it is provided in this manner, KIET will,
in costing its services, apply a notional interest of 10% per annum on that
portion of the loan attributable to KIET's service activities in accordance
with its service pricing policy which has been adopted by its Board and is
satisfactory to the Bank; this policy will only be amended with the Bank's
approval (Section 3.04 (a) of the draft Project Agreement).
Procurement and Disbursement
61.       In the process support systems and equipment category, packages over
$100,000 in value will be procured through international competitive bidding
in accordance with the Bank Guidelines (over 65% of the equipment is expected
to fall in this group). Proprietary items not exceeding $2 million in aggregate
will be procured through negotiations; the remaining small packages in this
category will be procured through limited international tendering with Bank
approval of the list of items to be so procured. Technology-related items
will be procured through negotiations with selected sources from within the
annual programs reviewed by the Bank (para. 64). For the RD&E program, in
view of the necessity for KIET to act quickly in executing RD&E subprojects,
the low cost of most individual items and their specialized and often proprie-
tary nature, most procurement will follow limited international tendering
procedures. As per present capabilities, Korean suppliers are not expected to
compete for Bank-financed items. Nevertheless, if they are judged qualified
to compete based on future developments, a 15% preference or the customs duty,
whichever is lower, would be allowed to them on equipment supply in accordance
with Bank Guidelines. Other items, including civil works, which will be
financed by the Government and industry, will be procured in accordance with
Government procurement procedures, which are satisfactory.



- 18 -
62.       Bank funds will be disbursed against 100% of the foreign exchange
expenditures (or 100% of the ex-factory price if an equipment package is
awarded to a local supplier after international competitive bidding) for
goods, technology and services to be financed by the Bank.
Financial and Reporting Covenants
63.       In order to ensure the maintenance of a sound financial position,
once project operations begin in 1980, KIET will maintain a current ratio of
at least 3 to 1 (Section 4.03(a) of the draft Project Agreement). Further,
until 1984, KIET has agreed not to undertake any investments, other than for
the project, exceeding $2 million in the aggregate, in any one year, including
investments for fixed assets under the RD&E program, without prior consent of
the Bank (Section 4.04(a) of the draft Project Agreement).
64.       Until the Bank loan is fully disbursed, KIET will annually submit to
the Bank, for review and approval, an annual training and expert invitation
program, and consult with the Bank on its annual four year research program
and its annual technology acquisition program (Sections 2.08 and 2.09 of the
draft Project Agreement).
Benefits and Risks
65.       KIET's primary objective is not to be a financial success, other
than from the point of view of reasonably balancing its revenues and expenses.
Instead, the success of KIET will be measured by its impact on building up a
local semiconductor and systems industry and the effect this will have on
reducing costs and improving the quality and reliability of the products
produced by the electronics industry generally.
66.       The project is expected to have a high rate of return.  Between
1977-82, local production of semiconductors and systems is forecast to
increase from $21 to $260 million, reaching $700 million by 1987. In order to
achieve an economic rate of return of 15%, only 10% of this increase would
have to be attributed to the project. This estimate is conservative since
the services provided by KIET will act as a major catalyst in attracting new
firms to enter the semiconductor and systems industries. Indeed, without the
project, it is unlikely that any more than half the projected increase in
industry production could, in fact, be achieved. On this basis, the foreign
exchange savings from the increase in industry output attributable to the
project is expected to be about $50 million annually by as early as 1982 (in
1978 prices).
67.       The major risks faced by the project are technological and managerial.
First, rapid technological change could curtail the useful life of processes
and technologies acquired by KIET. This is an ever-present risk faced by all
firms in the industry. However, KIET's planned focus on a limited number of
relatively mature technologies and their application to upgrading existing
product capabilities is expected to alleviate this risk significantly,
especially as compared to the risks run by the semiconductor industry leaders
who are engaged in developments at the cutting edge of technological change.
Second, the timely and effective absorption of complex technologies will be



- 19 -
critical to KIET's success. In this regard, the project provides for extensive
recruitment, local and overseas training, inputs from foreign technical
experts, and installation of sophisticated equipment incorporating a large
proportion of the required technology. In addition, to ensure that KIET is
able to attract and retain the necessary high calibre managerial and technical
personnel, KIET will periodically review its compensation sytem which will be
designed to reward and motivate achievement by its staff. Third, KIET's RD&E
activities must be focused and coordinated with industry goals if they are to
achieve the maximum impact in upgrading Korea's technology base. KIET's
close links with industry, and the fact that a major proportion of RD&E
projects will be required to have an industry sponsor, will ensure to a
large degree that the desired results are achieved. Further, each year
KIET will prepare, with industry, an indicative 4-year work program for
Bank review. As an additional guide to the direction of KIET's operations,
Bank financing will emphasize RD&E projects which impact a large segment of
the industry and promote cooperative arrangements among Korean firms.
68.       While the risks inherent in this complex project operating in a
rapidy changing technological environment are higher than for projects in most
other industries, the potential benefits of the project as well as the costs
of inaction considerably outweigh these risks. Indeed, the creation of a
domestic technological capability in semiconductors and systems is an essen-
tial prerequisite to the further growth and development of Korea's electronics
industry.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
69.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Republic of Korea and the
Bank, the draft Project Agreement between the Bank and KIET, and the Report of
the Committee provided for in Article III, Section 4 (iii) of the Articles of
Agreement of the Bank are being distributed to the Executive Directors
separately. The draft Loan and Project Agreements follow the general pattern
of Loan and Project Agreements relating to industrial projects. Special
conditions of the project are listed in Section III of Annex III.
70.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
71.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
March 6, 1979






ANNEX I
20                                        Page 1 of 6 pages
KOREA RPUBLIC OF - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
REERENCE GROUPS (ADJUSTED AjERAGES
LAND AREA (TBOUSAND SQ. M.)                  KDREA UPUBLIC OF               - MOST RECENT ESTIMATE) 1
TOTAL             98.5                                                  SAME        SANE     NEXT HIGHER
AGRICULTURAL      24.4                                MDST RECENT     GEOGRAPHIC   INCOME       INCOME
1960 Lb    19 70 /b ESTIMATE Lb      REGION jc   GROUP /d   GROUP  e
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                 120.0       290.0     810.0           616.0      867.2      1796.4
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)    258.0       815.0   1038.0             522.0      578.3      1525.0
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
TOTAL POPULATION, MID-YEAR
(MILLIONS)                       25.0        32.2       36.5
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 28.0        41.2      48.5            30.1       46.2        52.2
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. KM.                      254.0       327.0     371.0           156.8   N  50.8         27.6
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND   1168.0      1371.0    1496.0           794.8       93.3       116.4
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14  RS.                        40.5        42.1       38.6            40.8       42.9        34.8
15-64 YRS.                        55.7        54.5       57.9            55.4       53.5        56.0
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                  3.8          3.4       3.5             3.2        3.5         5.7
POPULATION GROWrH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                             2.8          2.3       1.8             2.3        2.5         1.6
URBAN                             5.9          6.4       5.4             5.1        4.7         3.4
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)     39.7        35.0      28.8            34.6       37.8        27.0
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)    22.9         11.4       8.9             8.7       10.8         9.9
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE              3.1 If      2.6       1.9             2.6        2.5         1.9
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS. ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)      ..        672.0    686.0
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)    ..        42.0      34.2            22.1       20.0        19.3
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF POOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1970-100)            81.6        100.0    104.5            106.8      107.3       103.8
PER WITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIRDIENTS)                   85.0       114.0     115.0           108.7      105.3       110.4
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)         53.0         65.0      75.7            57.7       63.0        77.7
OF NEICH ANIMAL.AND PULSE       13.0 L      19.0      16.3            17.0       21.7        22.2
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE       ..         ..         ..             4.0        8.0         1.9
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)    56.0        65.0      68.0            59.0       57.2        63.0
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                           82.9 .h       ..      38.0            44.0       53.9        38.2
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                               *-        58.0      66.0            21.9       56.8        67.7
URBAN                               ..        84.0      95.0            58.3       79.0        83.5
RURAL                               ..        38.0      38.0             9.8       31.8        41.5
ACCESS TO ECRESA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OP POPULATION)
TOTAL                               ..        25.0      64.0            28.6       30.9        70.3
URBAN                               ..        59.0      80.0            66.6       45.4        90.7
RURAL                              ..           ..      50.0            14.8       16.1        38.3
POPUILATION PER PHYSICIAN         3220.0      2110.0    2100.0          4103.1    2706.8       1310.8
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON     3220.0 /f   2170.0 /i 1440.0 a        1520.2    1462.0        849.2
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                           2510.0      1900.0    1760.0           657.1      493.9       275.4
URBAN                               ..          ..        ..           145.5      229.6       129.9
RURAL                               ..          ..        ..          1011.8    2947.9        965.9
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED           ..        14.9        *.            19.0       22.1         18.9
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                              5.6         5.3       5.1             5.2        5.2         3.9
URBAN                              5.4         5.0       4.9             5.2        5.0
RURAL                              5.6         5.5       5.3             5.4        5.4
AVERAGE NUMBER OP PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                              2.5         2.3        ..              ..        2.0         0.9
URBAN                              2.8         2.7        ..              ..        1.5         0.8
RURAL                              2.4         2.2        ..              ..        2.7          1.0
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                             28.0        50.0        ..            39.1       64.1         59.2
URBAN                             67.3        92.3        ..              ..        67.8        78.0
RURAL                             12.0        30.0      64.9              ..        34.1        12.5



-21 -                                             AMNEX I
Page 2 of 6 pages
KOREA REPUBLIC OF - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
REFPERENCE GROUPS (ADJUSTEID AVERAGES
KOREA REPUBLIC OF               -LDrRCNaETgi   -
SAME         SAME     NEXT KBEGUn
MOST RECENT      GEOGRAPHIC    INCOME        INCOME
1960.Lb     1970 Lb ESTIMATE Lb        REGION Le   GRtOtP /d    GROUP Le
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMAY:       TOTAL                 94.0        105.0      109.0             95.6        99.8         97.6
FEKALE                88.0        105.0      109.0             93.7        93.3         87.4
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                  27.0         43.0       59.0             43.3        33.8         47.8
FENALE                14.0         34.0       50.0             38.6        29.8         42.6
VOCATIONAL (PERCENT OF SECONDARY) 14.0           16.0       16.0              11.3       12.8         22.7
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                             58.0         57.0       52.0             30.0        34.9         25.4
SECONDARY                           34.0         37.0       38.0             25.4        22.2         24.9
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)         70.6         87.0       92.0 LI           84.0        71.8        96.3
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAnD
POPULATION                           0.4          2.0        2.4              9.3        12.4         32.3
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOLISAND
POPUIATION                          32.0        126.0      144.0             97.6       104.5        201.9
TV RECEIVERS PER THDUSAND
POPULATION                           0.3         13.0       48.0             21.8        28.1         97.7
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
iNTEREsr") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                   69.0        138.0      175.0             25.9.       45.2          70.9
CINEMA ANNUAL ATrENDANCE PER CAPITA  4.0             5.0       3.0               4.6         4.6          4.4
EMPLOYMENT
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)       7500.0      10200.0   13100.0
FEMALE (PERCENT)                    25.8         32.7       32.8             33.2        25.7         17.4
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)               66.0         50.4       44.6             48.4        46.2         38.4
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                   9.3         20.1       22.8
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                 33.4         35.0       36.6              38.9       33.8         33.7
MALE                                  49.5          46.8      48.8              48.6       48.1         50.8
FEIIALE                                17.2         23.0      24.2             28.4        17.3         12.6
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                 1.5          1.4       1.2               1.2         1.4          1.4
INCOHE DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVAT E INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HIOUSEHOLDS   15.1 A        17.1       16.1             17.3        23.6         20.2
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OP HOUSHODS42.3 fk            44.5       45.3             45.6        52.3         47.9
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUISEHOLDS    5.7  k~       7.1        5.7              6.5         4.3          3.2
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   19.0  k        17.7       16.9             17.3        13.1         13.6
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIM4ATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 ...                  220.0            140.8       191.9
RURAL                                  ...                 200.0            112.8       193.1        157.9
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                  ...                 194.0               ..       319.8        448.8
RURpAL                                 ...                 176.0             76.8       197.7        313.1
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW POVERTY
INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                 .                      9.0             27.7        19.8         23.2
RURAL                                  ...                  14.0             40.4        35.1         54.5
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a The adjusted group averages for each Indicator are population-weighted geooetric mean&, excluding the extreme
values of the indicator and the moat populated country in each group. Coverage of countries among the
indicators depends on availability of data and Is not uniform.
lb    Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970. between 1969
and 1971; and for M4oat Recent Estimate, between 1973 and 1977.
Ic East Asia & Pacific;   Ld  Interme,diate Middle Income (9551-1135 per capita. 1976);   /a  Upper Middle tncome
($1 136-92500 per capita, 1976);   /f  1950-55;   L&  1962;  -/h  1957;   /i  Registered. not all, practising
in the country;   L~ Aged 10 years and over;   Lk  1965.
September 1978



- 22 -                                                                       ANNEX I
KEY TO COUNTRIES BY REGION AND INCOME UROUP/a                                               Page   3   of   6   pages
r-Lente  ourpius
RlegionJ/ln-o    Croup             Loo Income/b                      LovnT Middle              ITter-odi*te Middle                     Upper Middle           High In-ome/f                Countries
Inco_e/c                     Inco-Ld                             -nconeL                                         Oil Exporter
Benin                  Mblaian            Angola                   Ch...                                   Djibouti                  Gabon
Burundi                 Melt              Rotevana                  Ivory Coast                            Reunion
Central African Etp.   Monanbique         Cameroon                 Meoritius
Chad                    Niger             Cape Verde               Ntibia
-Comoro                 Ro.nd.            Congo, P.R.               Seychelles
Ethiopia                Siters Leone      Equatorial Enine.
AFRtIC  SOUTH        GCabis, The              Somalia           Liberia
OF SAHARA             Tuinee                  Yemen.ia          Mauritania
oCjino-Sia.au           To.n              Nigeria
U-nyc                   Uganda            Rhode.ia
LeJotho                Upper Volta       San TCae & Pnincipe
Madaegocor             CaIne             Senegal
Soa-iland
Zaebia
NORTlH AFRICA         Ygap  A.R                                 Meronde Algeria *BhaiI O                                                                         l                     KLie
kND MIDDLE            Y-men  PiDR.                                                       Syrian A.R.                             Iraq                                                 QOtar
EAST                                                              ~~~~              ~          ~          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~T-onic  LeanonSaudi Arabia
United Arab  nir.
Afghaniatan             Maldi-na
SOUTH ASIA            Shutan                  P dp N Ia
Buort                   Sri Lonok
India
Ceebodia                                  Ne.  hebridee            China, Rep. of                          Fiji                      Aerinen Samo
Indoneala                                 Pepop  NHe Guinea        Gilbert Ilends                          gong Kong                 Bron.i
EAST ASIA             Lo P.D.R.                                 Philippines              Korca, Rep. of                                                    French Polyneia
Eolomon IElanda                           Thailand                 Macan                                                             Cu
Viet No                                   Tong-                    Malasia                                                           Hen  Caladonia
Western Samoa            Trnst Territory of the Pacific                                    Singapore
Haiti                                     golivia                  Antigna           G.nt  1a.l            Argentina                BRhanas
El Salvador              e.Ise             Jeomece              Barbados                   Rernuda
Go,enada                 ChIle             Menico                B_ail                     Cana ..I ne
LA1IN AMERICA                                                   Gruyny                    Colombia         Nicaregu              Pren-h Uni.na             Martinine.
AND CARIBBEAN                                                   Hond-r..                 Coata Rica         Paraguay             Ucadeloope                Venesuela
St. Vincent              Doinica           Peru                 Netherl ada  gnOilles      Virgin Ilande (U.S.)
Dominican Rep.   St. Kits-HeNs         Panema
Ecador           St. Lucia            Puarto Rico
Surin-
Trinidad & Tobago
Uruguay
Turkey                                 Cypr-a                    Channel lalands
Isle of Man              Frer-e 1a1nds
EUROPE                                                                                                                          Malta                      Gibr-ltar
Portugal                  freece
TugosLania                Spain
Aettra li        Fiolund                       Italy               Norway                  United Stane.
INDUSTRIALIZED        A-Strie          France                        Jspen               Sooth Afnino
COUNTRIES             BeGgi-           GDemnany Fed. Rep. of         Luxembourg          SWeden
Canada           Iceland                       Netherlande         SwitoerlI-d
Un-mark           Ireland                      Nen tealed          United Kingdom
Albacia          Unm-n Sen  Rep.            USSR
Bulgr_ar         Hungary
CENTRALLY PLANNED    China P.R. of    Koree Dem. Rep. of
ECONOMIES             Cuba             Mongolia
Cohoboslovakia   Poland
(a  Yac.d on 1076 CNP pen  .opitc in 1976 US dollars.
7b  0281 on Inca per capit.
/c S2H1-550 per capita.
Ad S551-1135 pen capIta
-  $1136-2500 per capita                                                                                                                                                                           EPDFS
/f  ovor $2500 pr crapit.



- 22-                                                                      ANNEX I
DEFINITIONS OF 1OCTA1 INDICATORSPae 4 o                                                                   6 p gs
Notes:  Although the data are drawn front sources generally judged the moat authoritative and reliable, it should al.o be noted that they say not be inter-
natioall1y ceoparable becga.e of the lack of standardized defintitions and conoepta Used by different oxootries in col1eotiug the data. The date are, nonetheless,
useful to describe orders of magnitude, indicate trends, and charecterize  certain major differences between cutis
The odjue ted group averogRes for eah Indicator are pepulation-weighted goensetric means, excluding the eotre,se values of the indicator and the moa t
populeced country in each grop.  Coverage of oo-trlsa amog the indicators depend. on availability of data  -rd is rot uniform.  Sue to lark of data,
group aeae  for Capital Surplus oil Eoporters end ludicstore of access ta water and excrete disposal, hous.ing, inctes  distribution  and poverty are
simple pupulotion-usighted geozmmtrlr~ mean ithout the exclusion of antraee values.
L.AND ASEA (tiou. ned sq. k.)                                                              Population par boapical bed - total, urban. sod cocci - Population  (total,
Total - Toto1 ourface area comprising land area and Inland waters,                          Urban, sod rural) divided by thair respective. number of hospital bede
iciottl-Most recen.t estimate of agricultural. area Used tompxrerily                available in public and private general and specialized hospital andta
orpormaon.tly for crops, pastures, macbat and kitchen gardens ar to                     habilitacion centers.  Hospitals are establiabmenre permanlently staffed by
lie fallow,                                                                              at least one Physician.  fEctbliabhanto providing principally custodial
cr.sare, not included. Ratal hospitala, however, include health and sedi-
GNP PER CAPITA (US$) - GNP per capita estimates at oc-rent, market prices.                   cal centers not permanently staffed by a physician (but by a medical as-
calculated by sane conversion method as Wor-ld Bank Atlas (1975-77 basis);                sistant, nurse, midwife, etc.) which offer in-patient accoemodation and
1960, 1970. and 1977 data.                                                                pravide a limited range of medioal facilities.
Admissions net hospital bed - Total number of admissions to or dischargea
ENERGY COQNSUMPTION PER CAPITA - Annual  mooemptien of comeorcial energy                     from, hospitals divided by the number of bede.
(coal sod lignite, petroleum, natural gas end hydro-, nuclear and 5e0-
thermal electricity) in kilograms of coal equivalent per capita.                     100815
Averagte esie of household (persoos Per household) - total, Urban, and rural-
POPUIATION AND VITAL STATISTICS                                                              A household consicst  of a group of individuals who chars living quarters
Total population, mid-year Ceillionn) - An of July 1; If oar available.                     and thair  mei  meals.  A boarder or lodger may or may, not be included in
yavrage of two en4-year estimatest 1960, 1970, and 1977 data.                             the bouseha1d for statistical purposes.  Statistical definitions of house-m
Irban, population. (percent of total) - RAtio of urban to total popula-                     hold very.
tion; different definitions of urban, areas may affect comparability                   Averag  number of persons Per coon - total, urban, and rural - Average num-
of data amog co-ntrise.                                                                  bar of parsons per room in all, Urban, and rural occupied conventional
Population density                                                                          dwellings, respectively.  Swellings exclude oma-permanent structures end
Per  so. km. - Mid-year pupulation par square kilometer (100 hectares)                     Unoccupied parts..
of total area.                                                                         Access to electricity  (percent of dwellings) - totsl, Urban. n  rural -
Per so. he. acrioulture land - Computed as above for agricultural land                     Conventional dwellIngs with electricity in living quarters* aspercentage,
only.                                                                                    of to,tal, urban, and rural dwellngs respectively.
Populat ionE axstructure (Percent) - Children, (0-14 years), working-age
(il-hi yearn), and retired (65 yeare eod ever) as prerentages of mid-                EDUCATION
yesar population.                                                                     Adjusetd ennlmmcctias
Population growth rate (Percent) - total, and urbac - tompound annual                    Primacy school - total. andl female - Total and fem,ale, enrollmenut of all ages
growth craes oftotal and urban mid-year populations for 1950-60,                         at the primary level ae percentrages of respbtively primary school-age
l9h67,an 90-7        1.                                                               .Populations; normally includes children aged h-11 years but adjusted for
c odebieth _race(pr ~thosand) -Annual live births per thousand of                           differant lengths of primary educatIon; f-o coutroi.  with uiwarsal adu-
mid-year poplation; tec-y.e. arithmetic averamges ending to 1960 sod                     cation -n-clmeot may ea...ed 100 percen.t since some Pupils -ae below or
:970 er.d five-year average euding in 1971 for meat roecnt estimate,                    above the official school age.
Crude deeth rate (per thousand) - Annuafl dsaths per thousand of eid-                    SecondarY school - total. and female - Computed as above; secondary educa-
yea  population; ten-year arithmetic averegee ending in 1960 and 1970                    tion requires at least four years of approved primary inetruction; pro-
and flue-year average ending in 1975 f or most recent estimate.                          vides general v-osional, or teaoher training instructiona, for pupila
Cones reproduction cats - Average number of daughtrer  a woman will hear                    Usually of 12 to 17 years oF age; correpondience courses are gemarally
in her normaml teprnductive period if  hin experiences present age-                      axoluded.
specific fertility rates; Usually fiva-yaar averages ending do 1960.                   Vocationtal enrollment (Percent of secondary) - Vocational institutions in-
1970, And 1971.                                                                          rinds technical, industrial, or other programs which operate independently
Family planningt - acceptors, annual (thousands) - Anneal nuber of                          or as dapartments of secondary institutions.
s-pcror  of birth-control devices Under auspices of national fenily                  Pupil-teacher ratio - Primary, and secondary - Total- students enrolled In
planniog Program.                                                                        primary and secon.dary levels divided by numbere of teachers in. that oerre-
family planning -tsr  prcn   lmried women) - Percentage af                                  spnding levels.
maried women of child-bearing age (15-44 peac) who uae hirtch-control                 Adult literary rate (percent) - Literate adulte (able to read end write) as
devicee to all married wome  in sam   age group.                                         a Percentage of total adult papulation aged 11 years and over.
Fool) AND NUTRITION                                                                     CONSUMPTION
Index of foodprdcinerait  (19704100) -  odex number of per                              Peaieenger cars (Par th-uaand population) - Passenger cars comprise msotor care
capita annual production of all food comomdities.                                      searing less than aight per-nus; excldes ambulances, hearses and military
Per capita su,pply of calorfee (marenct of requirss,ents) - Comsputed from               vehicles.
energy equival1at of net food sapplite  available in, couotry per capita.             Radio ceceive-a C ee  thou..ad oolatian) - All types of ra..aivers far radix
Per day.  Available supplies comprise dometic Production, impnrcs laes                 broadcasts to general public per thousand of population; dstlud6lm omlisemeed
emPorra, and changes in stock.  Net supplies amolde anmAsal faed, seeds,               receivers In countries sod In years when registration of radio sets wee in
qu...titie  usd In food processing, and Losees  in distribution,  Na-                  effect; data for recent years may not he comparable since msact countriese
q     Uosom e.ur  setixatd by PAO based on phyaialogmr.l mede f- orma-           abolished li-oeing.
mel activity and hsalth o-osideoiog enviromenctal teomperature, body                  TV receivers (per thousand population) - TV ceceivers for broadcast to genecrt
weights, age and sex distributions of population, and allowing 10 per-                    public per thousand population; excludes unlicensed TV rece.ivers is coon-
cent fr w.aste at heusehold Isvel.                                                        tries  and in years when registration of TV sets was in effect.
Per caPita suply of prroten (a:renoa pr den) - Protein content of par                    1e%,emanrf circulatgion (per thousand population) - Shows the average circula-
capita net su.pplyu  fodpr my.  Net supply of food is defined ae                          tin   o'dIly genral interest newspaper", defined as a periodical publi-
sabov.  Requiremeota for all countries escablished by USDA prowids f or                  cation devoted primarily to rsc,rdiog general news.  It is considered to
a minimum allowance of hi gramst of total Protein per day and 20 grawe                   be "daily" if it appears at least tour tines a week.
of animal sand pulse protein, of which 10 gruema should be animal prtotei.            Cinema, anneal attendance Per caita per year - Based on the number of tickets
..e. etandarda are lowr tsan choase of P5Sgrena of total protein and                     sold during the yer,inluin  adisions to drive-in cinemas and mobile
23 grams of animal protein as an average forc the world, propaaed by                     units.
FAO in the Third World Pond Survey.
P~eraita  rti  upyfomaia  n    ue  - Protein eupply  fi food                           EKPLODIRT
derIved from anim1alssd pulses in gracme per day.                                     Total labor force Cthousanda) - Etoonomically active persons, including armed
Child (ages I-i) mentality rate (ner thouaend) - Annual deaths per thong-                   forces and unemployed but excluding h-uaewivea, studants, etc.  Definxi-
and in age group 1-4 yerar, to children in this age group.                               tions in various countries are not conpacable.
PFmale (percent) - Fenle labor force us percentage, of total labor force.
HiLIHt                                                                                    Aaiulus(pret) - Labor focue Ic fazolog, fo.caty. huntine and fishing
Life expectancy at birth (years) - Average number of years of life                          as percen.tage of total labor focus
remaining at bi~rth; Usually five-year averages snding in 1960, 1970,                 Industry (Percen t) - Labor forte in mining, construction, nanufactiring and
and 1971.                                                                                 slectricity, water sod gsa as Percentage of total labor force.
bloant soccality crs pethousan d) - Annual deaths of infants Under                      participation cane (percent) - total, male, and femalx - Total, male, and
one year of age per thousand live birhts.                                                 female lsbor force as percanttage  of their respective populations.
Access to safe water (percent of pop ulatian) - total, Urban, end rural -These are TLOs adjustead participation rates re flecting Ae-s.n
Nunbec of people (total, urban, an,d rural) with reasonable access co                     structure of the popa1atioc, And long tine  trend.
oafo water supply (ilacldee traut.d aorfaeew-tar  or untrestad but                    Onoseia depanden..y ratio - conic of populatico  und-r 15 cud is and ovar to
uncontoninared water such as that from protected boreholes, springs,                      the labor force in age grocp of 15-64 years.
cod osnitary wells) as percentages of their respective populations.
ic an coben area a public fountain or standposnt located not more                    INCOME DISTRIBUTION
that 200 meters iron a house may be considered  as being within rem-                  Peroentas of private income  (both in cash and bind) received by richest 5
sona.bla accssue of that house.  Ix rural areas reasona6ble arc..  woul-.d                percent. richest 20 per-n.t  p..r..t 20 percent, and poorest 40 perccant
imply that the bousewife or members of the household do not have to                       of householdu.
spend a dlaproportion..te Part of t-he day in fstching rho fenily's
outr -ccdo.                                                                          POVERTf TARGET GROUPS
Acceus to encrete dipsl(eceto   ouation) - total, urban, and                             Estimated absolute poverty Income leve  (US$ pot caio              ra   n   ual -
total - lumber of people (total, urban, and rural) served by excceta                        Absolute poverty income level is that ic-ce level below which a minia
diupo-al an pecrcentagu of theIr respective populations.  Eucreta                         nutritiona.lly adequate diet pluas ..u..otia1 non-food requirements is not
disposal na-y ioclude the collection  and disposal, with or without                       affordabla.
t-roatet.or coma. a-cmrota san waste-water by water-borne systea.                      Estimated relative poverty income level (ill Per capita) - _urban and coral -
or tie coo of pit privies and similar intlatosRelative poverty inco.e level ix that income level loon that. one-third
?oculutloo petL phyalcian - PoPulation divided by number of practicing                       per capito poroonal income. of rho coutry.
ph'sic-otc qualified fcon a m.ed-Ica  school at university level.                      Estimated ocoainbelow poverty Incs   ee   pcer  - urban and rural -
Ocuccofccrrlfoco   - Populani.o divided by nuber of                                 Percent of population (urban sand ru-al) who are either "absolute poor" or
p-aticiof muale and feona iraduata nurson, prscti.lca uss  and                            "relative poor" whichever Is greater.
Econcoic sod Socio1 Dato Division
icnncA-nylyx   und Projoctiano  Departo...t



ANNEX I
-24 -                                                                     Page 5 of 6 pages
ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT DATA SHEET
Actval                                                  Projected             Growth rates (in per-ent)
1965       1970      1972        1973       1974      1975       1976      1977       1980       1985   1965-75  1975-80  1980-85  1985-90
A.  Natiosal Accounts
(Million US$ at 1975 prices)
1.  GDP                           6,939.3  11,760.4  13,852.7  16,127.4  17,542.2  19,089.2  21,947.8   24,097.4  32,031.5  52,575.1   10.7                 10.9      10.4      10.6
2.  Gains from TOT                   140.4      665.3   1,122.9   1,486.4        348.7         -    1,160.5    2,325.4   3,390.4   6,080.2          -         -         -         -
3.  Gross domestic income          7,079.7  12,425.7  14,975.6  17,613.7  17,890.9  19,089.2  23,108.4   26,422.8  35,423.3  58,655.3   10.4                13.1      10.6      10.7
4.  Imports (goods and NFS)          984.3   4,228.6   5,273.4   7,154.3   7,373.4   7,464.0   9,680.0   12,574.5  18,885.0  37,318.7   22.5                20.5      14.6      14.6
5.  Exports vo-sme                   388.3   1,843.8   3,111.5   5,001.9   4,887.9   5,678.6   8,129.6   10,226.4  15,362.1  31,693.3   30.7                22.2      15.6      15.2
6.  Ixports (adjusted for TOT)    528.7   2,509.1   4,234.3   6,488.3   5,236.6   5,678.6   9,290.1   12,551.8  18,754.4  37,773.5   26.1                   27.0      15.3      14.7
7. Resource gap (adjusted for
TOT)                          455.6   1,719.5   1,039.0        666.0   2,136.8   L,785.4        389.9         22.7      130.6    -454.8       -         -         -         -
8.  Total cossomptios              6,873.1  10,771.0  12,686.9  13,617.4  14,525.2  15,381.1  16,538.4   17,698.7  24,632.6  40,514.2              0.3       9.9      10.4      10.1
9.  In-estment                       917.1   3,276.1   3,105.5   4,275.9   5,070.2   i,120.6   5,874.4    7,247.7  10,921.7  17,692.5   18.8                16.4      10.1      11.9
10.  Domestic savings (adjusted
for TOT)                      206.6   1,654.8   2,288.7   3,996.3   3,365.7   3,708.1   6,569.9    8,724.2  10,790.7  18,141.2    33.6                23.8      11.0      12.2
11.  GDP at current 0S$             2,996.5   8,303.4   9,835.8  12,393.1  16,780.1  19,089.2  25,369.5   31,644.7  46,698.7 100,565.7    20.7               19.6      16.6      16.6
B. Sector Output
(Share of GDP at 1975 prices)
1. Agriculture, forestry ano
fisheries                      46.3       32.8       29.3       26.1       25.3       24.9       23.6        22.2       19.0        13.7
2.  Mining and -asofactoriog          13.9       20.5       23.4       26.2       28.2       29.2       31.8        32.2       36.8       41.4
3.  Other                             39.8       46.7       47.4       47.8       46.5       45.9       44.5        45.6       44.2       44.9
C.  Prices (1975 - 100)
1.  EIport price isdem /a             57.7       67.4       67.3       85.2      107.9      100.0      111.7       122.3      141.6      176.4
2.  Import price index Ia             46.3       46.2       46.8       62.5       97.2      100.0       98.0       100.2      116.0      148.0
3.  Terms of trade index             124.6      145.9      143.8      136.3      111.0      100.0      114.0       122.1      122.1      119.2
4.  GDP deflator                      43.2       70.6       71.0       76.8       95.7      100.0      115.6       131.3      145.8      191.3
5.  Average exchasge rate            266.2      310.4      394.0      398.5      406.0      484.0      484.0       464.0      484.0      484.0
D.  Selected Indicators                1965-75      1975-80      1980-85       E.                                          1960    1970    1975    19 7    1980         1905
1.  ICOR                                2.39         2.82         3.21        1.   Labor force (million)                   S.9    10.2    12.33    13 4    14.4        16.8
2.  Import elasticity                   2.10         1.88          1.40      2.   Unemployment (% of E.1)                  7.9     4.9       4.1      3.8     2.1       1.5
3.  Average domestic savings rate    0.15            0.29         0.30        3.   Employment (million)                    8.2     9.7    11.8    12.9    14.1         16.6
4.  Marginal domestic savings rate   0.29            0.34/b        0.32      (X shares)                                  100.0   100.0   100          .0   100.0    1O.0
5.  Imports/GDp                         0.36         0.52          0.65       3.1  Agriculture, forestry, fisheries   58.6    50.5    45.9    41.8    39.5             34.1
6.  Investsent/GDP                      0.25         0.31          0.33       3.2  Mining and aanufacturing               10.4    14.3    19.1    22.4    23.0         25.5
7.  Resource gap/GDY                    0.11         0.02          0.00       3.3  Other                                  31.0    35.2    35.0    35.8    37.5         40.4
F.  Public Finance /c (X of GDP)         1972          1973         1974         1975         1976          1977/e       1980         1985
1.  Curreot revesue                     17.8         16.9          18.3         20.3         22.9         22.7         22.4          23.5
1.1 Tax revesme                         13.5         13.2          15.0         16.8         18.9         18.9         19.2          20.0
2.  Current expenditure                 14.2          11.6         12.4         14.4         14.3         15.7          15.4         15.8
2.1 Defesse expenditures                 4.5          3.7           4.4          4.8          5.7          6.3           7.0          7.4
3.  Government saving                    3.5          5.3           5.0          5.8          8.5          7.0           7.0          8.7
4.  Capital expenditure /d              11.3          8.7           8.0          8.3         12.7         10.5          11.0         10.8
/a Dollar price inde-. Refers to mmrchandise trade only.
7b Refers to period 1976-80.
Ic Refers to the Government Sector, comprising Central Government (including goverment enterprises), Local Government and Special
/d Refers to total capital expenditures, less repayment of debts, for 1972-77.
/e Budget estimates.
November 10, 1978



ANNEX 
-25 -PeA. 6 of 6 pages
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS AND EXTERNAL ASSISTANCE
(S sillier at current prices) 
AMtua                                              Projectd
1969    1970    1971    1972    1973    1974    1975    1976    1977       1960      1985     1990
B.SoocoofSl-c  c  Pay.e.t
Exports lied.  NPS1 ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~1998  1,2211  1,478   2,075   3,962   5,125    ,69    ,111   12,306   21,753   55,902   141,311
2.    xors      -od    ISF0                               ,880  2064   2490  2 , 577  4,368   7,209  7464  9,493   12,531  21, 9E6  55,243  139,112
3.  M-s1-c  b.lo-c'                                       -881    -843 -1,012    -502   -406 -2,084 -1,785   -382              -23     -153       664     2,249
4.  Ned fa-oorerolc   i.c-ma
(1)  Ne,  i-tr-t  pa Iec                                 2    -29    -911   -138I   -166    -229   :399   - ,1           -429     -665      -015       -534
xl  bh leeetx  poblle fLIT Eoa-    -47              -68     -6     -20   -15        -201I 290   -345          -437     -900  -1,296    -1,475
(2)  blreco  locesorert 1r:cosr          ~~~     ~~       ~       ~~-6  -8    -2  1  -N    -5    -37        -63      -52      -150      -215
(3)Work-r'r-ittorce   irs)Ia                       …        …         ……                           …        …-                       -         -         -
(4)   the  fa-o    erlcoce    er)                    9       77       84     101      72      74        6     167      354       400      350        300
Ocrccoctcoxt lots Ixto)                 ~~~~ ~~~~~~~246  160  171 17      190     224      2.6     349      223       250      250        2N9
6.  Ia Ixoco ox cortex r accoost           ~~~~~~~-549   -623   -648   -371   -309 -2,023 -,7        -314        12    -220        299    2090
7.  Prlc-e dlcc ..Icceo. se.                                 16      65      43      7x      137     104       .3     76        90      260       360       505
0.  0bIc) oxp _a grxt                                       150     131      84      87       61      64       -       -         -        -         -          -
Poblic M 4 LTI  ..a.
9.  Sluixcursects                           ~~~~ ~~~~ ~~~~ ~~~~660  414  625  73 5 757  1,135   1,66.7   1,701    2,216    3,041    3,316  4,209
H:.   bsorclcattxo                           ~~~~ ~~~~ ~~~~ ~~~~~109  205  215  289  334  391  3 8     504      7127   1,322    2,681       3,384
il.  Ne 'drIxcoe-ects                                        55 1    209     410     446     423      7964   1, 3j9   1,197    1,501    1,719      635       825
2. Olbrs,et                                                  17       76      33      49      71     174       15    120        50       162      390        802
3.  "sort lealo                                               3       8      10      10       15      23      18      66        73       78       272       468
LB.    ditdlbr.eox.    s1 4                                           70      23      59       56     15157             4       -23       84       118       3034
I5I.   L oIMF tocoe/b                                               -210      -8     -110      -    132       10       97      -24       -78        -          -
is.   booro-oc to ropllxi trantac r loso      ~~~   ~~~57  122  135    19      82     -45    680       357       59      -250       53        150
17  xitaoascl Et 001  _c78                                       71     112    -82    -100       868      11      _-48    -270     -357         -          -
10.  Obaxoc lx rrecrncx  (-~iW- Iocae   Pd         -161     -35       49   -159   -340       -15   -453 -1,419  -1,345  -1,165  -1,462    -3,904
I9.   Hr1xelagrtre 1                                         549     584     535     694  1,034   1,049   1,5'2   2,961    4,306    7,302   13,811    28,981
(-od of -irld)
-- Cxccxd  ocC-ia-t-ct                                                                                                                                                                 1972    1973    1974    1975    1976       1972
erbt aod Debt berri-e
I.  Official root                           153~~~~~~~~~~~~~I  131  84  87    61       64                                P,bli  dbt oxtaturdieg &                  2,691  3,199  3,982  5,277  6.659    8,472
-.  Extol poclic 17 &LT loose                         753     475     689     813  1,073   1,872   1,314   3,613    3,465           diu.tord  edofPeid
.1)   1001                               ~~~     ~~~     ~~~      ~~~ ~~~~~~65  40  85  73  150  05 312.5  372  426     Ictret 00poblic debt                      120      150     201     290     389      437
(2)   104                                 IS~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1  IS  7  26  20       -                         -         Repo y,..   00 .poolic debt               289      334     391     36E     504      717
(3)  Otict sotlocal                                     25      20       81      68      46      89     111.5  114        135         Total peb'li, deb  u-ri-e                 409      484     592     656      893   1ISo5
14)  (ixrc-co-  /g                                     102     161     255    479       383     477     3(0     91 7      427         Other debt  -eri-  (ort)23                           3      54      6       103     15
01   Icih  -rc-raly Floo-d ed         i-r …      …        …        …        …        …       …        …        … -            Tota   debt  -ei-e (ret)                  432      517     646     718     996   1 ,2 79
so   ' Bppllec                                        374      134     248      94     223     486      222     609    1,6
1) Pxaeb-kir                                   144      104      13      23     240     737      103   1448    1341        B.rd..  .c Onort taEicot  Ill
(7)   84cds   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-                      -       -19                            60O       68       Pub'lic debt  _rroc                        19.7    12.2   211.6    11.66    9.8    9.2
(01   Foblic  I.a.o 801 /b                              28        1                      11-      79      34                -        Total debt  -teri-e                       20-8    13.1    126      12.      10.9    10.2
3.  Obbh-  0 4 LT loae  /i                                  100      26      67      74     213      120     118      97        16       TDSIS Dirt-  I-cet. le.-                   20. 7    13.1    12.4    12.6    11.3    10.0
Os.t--dieg Drceber 31, 1920                             Axerage Terms Zoo Pb'lic Debt
A.oxt             i                                  totra   t       pIor year lOAD             5. 3     5 .6    6.3     7.6       0.92    7.3
derx l Dci _(disb-end only)                                                                                                               A-oolai-ie at 0 prior yec 006.)   12.3    12.4   12.2                9.2    10.9   11.9
I.  ItOl                                                                                 1835.1)          (9.9)
1.  Bask Gro.up                                                                           946.2            11.2                             180RD debZt ox-utadi.x   & disrocie d       94 .57  139.8  27 3 .6  403.75  659.0  635.91
3.  Otbe   iollla -1a 7k                                                                  322.8             3.8                              0bt    pilc debt lAD                         35      4.4     5.6      7.79     .       .
Oocrr,,occtx                                                  2,912~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'l.7  34.4                     at    poblic debt  erie1.7                      25       3.3     4.9     57       6.
ofoc  -~ri-l1y  1lon-d ecri-t                                                       
5.  bpplicr                                                                           1:,560.:0         18.4                             lID  debt  -neato-dtog A diaboesed           47.1    58.5    70.3    92.    102.   11~1.1
6.Flr-,~1      -,-ioExr ...  2I,558.6                                                                   30.2                              0      iPubIcdein  010                        1.8     1.8     2.      1.6      1.5     1.
7.  Scxd                                                                                  167.1             2.0                              xalpxblitc debt            _ie_l             0.1     0.1     0.1l    0.1       .1     0.
9 T. _10 P11 pbid  84LT dnbt                                                            8,472.3          100.0
10.  obiet '1417 debt                                                                      544.8-
ii.  Tota  pu1 blic debt (ldE   xdlsurs)                                                13,48.9               -
12.  T.la  SALT xrb   (dtb-udox)9,1.-
13.  oTa1 SALT dbes  (led. 01ditbe-d7                                                   14,053.1 
lb  Nrc o-dalg'ad  depapee.st by p-h-ute  (IFS).
1-1Ird-oc   1580 silltin  borcned by the  baekixgi.yurt-   i.1974.  Since belk xf ite.   -i-se   ot Ector  atd Oesi ,n   ttemptea
sade xcbtalx   rojectins  Inc1985 a-d .11990.~       __~y
Id  EecIndex  err            MF x   18hruxcueich aesnr61prt
If ~Bb.
L_o  1-cudes  bilater1 ODIA, Exoba-ki, officEol enpntcrditt, including 0.0. CCC c-di-o
lb  Otber g_ura-tod plaeto
E.axcldr-  IPO.
/k  ADb.
/I  Prlic-  baxkr ard  tber financ ialIutotnt
--bsi-  ID, 1970



- 26-                       ANNEX II
Page 1 of 12 pages
KOREA
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN THE REPUBLIC OF KOREA
A. Statement of Bank Loans and IDA Credits (as of December 31, 1978)
Loan or                                                             Amount ($ million)
Credit                                                             (less cancellations)
Number  Year         Borrower             Purpose              Bank   TW    IDA  Undisbursed
Eleven loans and eight credits fully disbursed                 513.5         106.8
795    1972   ADC                    Irrigation               33.0                    0.1
863    1972   Republic of Korea   Railways IV                 40.0                    0.7
906    1973   Republic of Korea   Education II                23.0                   10.9
917    1973   Republic of Korea   Ports I                     80.0                   10.5
942    1973   Republic of Korea   Seeds Production             7.0                    2.4
953    1974   Republic of Korea   Tourism                     25.0                    5.5
994    1974   AFDC                   Agriculture              13.0                    4.2
1070    1975   Republic of Korea   Secondary Cities            15.0                    5.3
1096    1975   Republic of Korea   Education III               22.5                   11.7
1101    1975   Republic of Korea   Railways V                 100.0                    7.1
1145    1975   KDFC V                 Dev. Fin. Co.            55.0                    0.2
1175    1975   SMIB - I               Dev. Fin. Co.            30.0                    1.0
1193    1976   Republic of Korea   Second Integrated           15.0                    3.1
Dairy Development
1203    1976   Republic of Korea   Highways III                90.0                   29.8
1216 &  1976   Republic of Korea   Rural Infra-                20.0                    2.1
1218-T                                  structure I                  40.0              4.1
1319    1976   ADC                    Irrigation               29.0                   27.7
1328    1976   Republic of Korea   Agricultural Credit   20.0                          8.0
1338    1976   KDB II                 Dev. Finance Co.         82.5                   14.4
1364    1977   ADC                    Irrigation              95.0                    90.4
1401    1977   Republic of Korea   Ports II                    67.0                   66.7
1461    1977   KDFC VI                Dev. Finance Co.         70.0                   28.2
1466    1977   Republic of Korea   Heavy Ma:hinery             80.0                   54.3
1474    1977   Republic of Korea   Vocational Training   23.0                         23.0
1503    1978   ADC - Ogseo Stage I Agricul/Errigation    36.0                         36.0
1507    1978   SMIB - II              Dev. Finance Co.         55.0                   21.5
1530    1978   Republic of Korea   Rural InErastruc-
ture It              95.0                    86.7
1542    1978   Republic of Korea   Railway "II                120.0                  120.0
1574    1978   KDB III                DFC                    110.0                  108.0
1635/a  1978   KDFC VII               Dev. Finnnce Co.       100.0                  100.0
1640/a  1978   Republic of Korea   Highways IV               143.0                  143.0
Total                                             2,207.5  40.0  106.8 1,C26.6
of which has been repaid                           76.9   -        1.2
Total now outstanding                             2,130.6  40.0  105.6
Amount sold                     7.1
of which has been repaid   1.9                      5.2    -        -
Total now held by Bank and IDA
(prior to exchange adjustment)                  2,125.4  40.0  105.6
Total undisbursed                                 1,022.5   4.1    0.0 1,026.6
/a Not yet effective.



-27 -                    ANNEX II
Page 2 of 12 pages
B. Statement of IFC Investments (as of December 31, 1978)
Fiscal                                                       Amount ($ million)
Year   Obligor                Type of Business               Loan  Equity  Total
1968   KDFC                  Development Financing             -     0.7    0.7
1969   Honan Silk Co.        Textiles                         1.4    0.3    1.7
1970   Atlas Paper           Pulp and paper                   4.5    0.5    5.0/a
1971   Korea Investment
Finance Corp.         Capital Market Development       -      0.6    0.6
1974   KDFC                  DevelopmEnt Financing             -     0.4    0.4
1974   Korea Investment
Finance Corp.         Capital Farket Development       -      0.3    0.3
1975   Gold Star & Co.,
Ltd.                  Electronic Products            16.0    1.3   17.3
1975   Korea Securities
Finance Corp.         Capital Market Development    5.0    0.6    5.6
1975   Tong Yang Nylon
Company, Ltd.         Synthetic Fibers                6.9    2.1    9.0
1975   Hae Un Dae Develop-
ment Company, Ltd.   Tourism                          2.8    0.7    3.5
1976   Korea Investment
Finance Corp.         Capital Market Development       -      0.4    0.4
1976   Chungju Paper
Mfg. Co.              Paper                           5.0    0.5    5.5
1976   Korea Zinc Co., Ltd. Zinc                             15.0    4.0   19.0
1976   KDFC                  Developmeit Financing           17.8     -    17.8
1976   Gold Star & Co.,
Ltd.                  Electroni: Products            10.0    0.4   10.4
1977   Gold Star & Co.,
Ltd.                  Electroni: Products                     0.2    0.2
1977   KDFC                   Development Financing                  0.3    0.3
1977   Korea Securities
Finance Corp.         Capital Market                   -      0.5    0.5
1977   Korea Development
Leasing Corp.         Capital Market                 15.0    0.4   15.4
1978   KDFC                  Development Financing             -     1.1    1.1
1979   Gold Star & Co.,       Electronic Products
Ltd                                                    -      1.7    1.7
1979   KiFC                   Capital Market                   -     0.6    0.6
Total gross commitment                               99.4   17.6  117.0
less cancellations, terminations,
repayments and sales                               45.7    1.3   47.0
Total commitments now held by IFC                    53.7   16.3   70.0
Total undisbursed
/a Cancelled at the request of the Company.



- 28 -                  ANNEX II
Page 3 of 12 pages
PROJECTS IN EXECUTION /1
Agricultural Sector
Loan No. 942      Seeds Project; $7.0 Million Loan of November 16, 1973;
Effective Date: April 24, 1974; Closing Date: December 31,
1979
Progress of implementation is satisfactory and physical implemen-
tation should be completed about mid-1979. The contractor for the last
cereal plant civil works has declared bankrupcy, and completion of the works
has been let to other contractors; thus, there could be some additional
delay. More than two-thirds of the proceeds of the loan have been disbursed
and it is estimated that disbursements could be completed in 1979. It is
planned that all plants will operate on a pilot basis in 1979 and would reach
an average of 75% of capacity in 1980.
Loan No. 994      Integrated Agricultural Products Processing Project;
$13.0 Million Loan of June 7. 1974; Effective Date:
March 19, 1975; Closing Date: June 30, 1979
This project provides long-term funds to the Agriculture and
Fisheries Development Corporation (AFDC) for onlending to subborrowers in the
private sector for the purpose of integrating on-farm production of fruits
and vegetables with modern, hygienic processing facilities, using land that
was idle or underutilized.  The vegetables and fruits involved are mainly
asparagus, shiitake (oak mushroom), spinach, mushroom, strawberry and peach.
Implementation of the project was delayed by about 18 months owing to lack
of loan demand for some of the processing facilities included in the project.
However, the project is now progressing satisfactorily since September 1977
when the Bank approved AFDC's proposal to widen the project's scope to meet
changed investor demand. Under the revised scope, AFDC will finance
processing and cold storage of fish, meat, fruits and vegetables, and also
fruit juice extraction and concentration and vegetable drying, for which the
loan demand is strong. Subloan applications and approvals have increased
significantly, and AFDC expects to disburse all the project funds by the end
of 1979. Disbursements as of December 31, 1978 were about 68% of the loan.
/1 These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any prob-
lems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to remedy
them. They should be read in this sense, and with the understanding that
they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths and
weaknesses in project execution.



-29-                          ANNEX II
Page 4 of 12 pages
Loan No. 1193    Second Integrated Dairy Development Project;
$15.0 Million Loan of June 4, 1976; Effective Date:
November 11, 1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1982
The project consists of: (a) the establishment of about 450 new
dairy farms; (b) the continuation of the development begun as part of the
First Integrated Dairy Beef Project on about 400 dairy farms; (c) the expan-
sion of existing processing plants and construction of a new processing plant,
the diversification of their production, the establishment of 2 milk collection
centers and 50 small milk cooling units; and (d) provision of technical
services for both farm development and milk processing. Effectiveness of the
project was delayed for about a year, but farm development is progressing
rapidly and the project may be completed ahead of schedule. Technical
assistance to the farmers has been strengthened. Construction of new process-
ing plant and expansion of one of the existing plants were completed last
year; expansion of the other plant will be completed this year. KDBC's
financial situation improved over the course of 1976 and the company made
profits in 1977 and 1978. Prospects are for continued, gradual improvement.
As of December 31, 1978, disbursements were over 79% of the loan amount.
Loan No. 1216    Rural Infrastructure Project; $60.0 Million Loan of which
Loan No. 1218T   $40.0 Million Third Window of March 19, 1976; Effective Date:
June 4, 1976; Closing Date: June 30, 1979
Project implementation is proceeding very well. The Fuelwood,
Roads and Bridges, Water Supply and Rural Electrification components were
completed by the end of 1977. Minor Irrigation has experienced some delays,
mainly the result of budgetary shortages and a cost overrun of 18%, but
should be substantially completed by early 1979. Upland reclamation was
completed in 1978. Project monitoring and reporting continue to be satis-
factory and a good start has been made on the Hydrologic Services Study and a
major project evaluation study. The estimated cost of the project is likely
to be 16% above the appraisal estimate, mostly as a result of cost overruns
for Minor Irrigation and Rural Electrification and an increase in the size of
the Water Supply component. Disbursements are practically in line with
appraisal estimates.
Loan No. 1319    Miho Watershed Area Development Project; $29.0 Million
Loan of August 5, 1976; Effective Date: October 21, 1976;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
This project, located in the central region of Korea, is being
financed under the first Bank loan for area development in Korea. A project
office has been established, and construction work has started on the first
of five major civil work contracts. Altogether, the five contracts will
involve construction of 8 large and 19 small earthfill dams, 284 km of main



- 30 -                        ANNEX II
Page 5 of 12 pages
and secondary canals and land development for irrigating 12,700 ha. The
project, which will require five years to complete, also involves construction
of 80 km of river channel improvement and 150 km of village access roads, as
well as feasibility studies for a second stage project in the Miho Watershed.
Loan No. 1328    Second Agricultural Credit Project; $20.0 Million Loan
of October 12, 1976; Effective Date: March 10, 1977;
Closing Date: June 30, 1981
The project is a continuation and expansion of the agricultural
program financed under the First Agricultural Credit Project (Credit 335-KO).
It provides funds to the National Agricultural Cooperative Federation (NACF)
for medium and long-term loans to farmers, through selected Gun (county)
cooperatives of NACF, for investments in apple orchard development, silkworm
rearing houses, sprinkler irrigation for orchards, greenhouses for vegetable
production, and on-farm storage. The project became effective on March 10,
1977 and lending to subborrowers commenced in the following month. Project
implementation continues to progress satisfactorily and total lending is on
schedule. As of December 31, 1978, disbursements were 60% of the loan amount.
Loan No. 1364    Yong San Gang Irrigation Project Stage II; $95.0 Million
Loan of February 11, 1977; Effective Date: April 22, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1984
The project will provide irrigation and land development on
20,700 ha in the lower reaches of the Yong San River. Project works include
an estuary dam, sea dike, pumping stations, irrigation canals, reclamation of
5,500 ha of tidal lands, conversion of 3,250 ha of uplands for irrigation of
paddy, land consolidation of 3,200 ha, and irrigation of 1,050 ha of uplands.
Construction of the access roads and a portion of the estuary dam was recently
completed. The main contract for estuary dam construction was awarded in
December 1977, in line with the appraisal schedule.
Loan No. 1503    Ogseo Area Development Project - Stage I; $36.0 Million
Loan of January 4, 1978; Effective Date: March 29, 1978;
Closing Date: June 30. 1983
The project will benefit some 23,000 farm families by providing
new irrigation on 7,100 ha, improved irrigation and drainage on 3,700 ha and
a more assured water supply on an additional 1,500 ha. Project work consists
of nine pumping stations, 190 km of main and secondary canals and land
development including 5,800 ha of land consolidation, 2,500 ha of improved
drainage (of which 1,500 ha would also be consolidated), 2,200 ha of tertiary
irrigation and conversion of 1,800 ha of upland and forest to paddy land.



- 31 -                       ANNEX II
Page 6 of 12 pages
Loan No. 1530    Rural Infrastructure Project II; $95.0 Million Loan of
March 13, 1978; Effective Date: June 8, 1978;
Closing Date: June 30, 1983
The project would assist the Government's program to intensify
agricultural production, thereby raising rural incomes and foodgrain produc-
tion, and to improve the quality of rural life. The project includes
60 irrigation subprojects on about 9,200 ha, construction of water supply
systems in about 7,400 villages, construction or improvement of about
2,500 km of river banks, connnection of about 2,700 villages to the telephone
network and the installation of about 75,000 subscriber's lines, and training
and project monitoring and evaluation. The project would benefit about
7.7 million people or about 48% of Korea's rural population. As of December 31,
1978, disbursements were about 9% of the loan amount.
Industrial Sector
Loan No. 1145    Fifth Korea Development Finance Corporation Project;
$55.0 Million Loan of July 23, 1975; Effective Date:
September 5, 1975; Closing Date: June 30, 1980
The loan covered about half the KDFC's foreign exchange require-
ments through the end of 1977. The proceeds are being used to finance
direct imports of machinery and equipment, and the foreign exchange component
of domestically-produced capital goods and of civil works. Over 99% of the
loan proceeds have already been disbursed. KDFC's performance in using
the loan has been highly satisfactory.
Loan No. 1175.   Medium Industry Bank (MIB); $30.0 Million Loan of
November 26, 1975; Effective Date: January 28, 1976;
Closing Date: March 31, 1980
The project provides funds to MIB to make subloans to small
and medium-sized manufacturing enterprises. The project is progressing
satisfactorily. Disbursements are about 97% of the total loan.
Loan No. 1338    Second Korea Development Bank Project; $82.5 Million
Loan, of which $7.5 Million for the Korea Industrial
Leasing Company, of December 23, 1976; Effective Date:
March 21, 1977; Closing Date: December 31, 1980
The project provides $75.0 million to be used by KDB to make
subloans and investments to finance direct imports for industrial subprojects
during the period 1977-78; the remainder of the loan, $7.5 million, was
relent by KDB to its wholly-owned subsidiary KILC, to acquire machinery,
equipment, facilities and other property to be leased to investment enter-
prises. Commitment of funds is progressing as expected; as of December 31,
1978, disbursements were about 83% of the total loan amount.



- 32 -                        ANNEX II
Page 7 of 12 pages
Loan No. 1461    Sixth Korea Development Finance Corporation Project;
$70.0 Million Loan of June 30, 1977; Effective Date:
September 15, 1977; Closing Date: December 31, 1981
The loan was made to help cover the foreign exchange requirements
of industrial subprojects to be financed by KDFC subloans in 1977-78.
KDFC's performance has been very satisfactory. As of December 31, 1978,
disbursements were about 60% of the total loan amount.
Loan No. 1466    Heavy Machinery Project; $80.0 Million Loan of
June 30, 1977; Effective Date: December 1, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1980
The project is designed to manufacture equipment required for
power generation, steel mills, and chemical and petrochemical plants. It
consists of: (a) foundry and forge shops; (b) fabrication shops; (c) machine
shops; (d) assembly and test shops; (e) support facilities; (f) other auxili-
ary facilities; and (g) technical assistance. Project costs have been
increased by 24% above the appraisal estimate due to addition of equipment
to meet increased emphasis in nuclear power plant in KECO's construction
program; and depreciation of the US Dollar since appraisal. Project imple-
mentation is proceeding well, although increased project scope and some
procurement delays have extended the targeted completion date to April 1980.
The company has submitted a plan of action to reduce the debt equity ratio to
the 70:30 level specified in the Project Agreement. As of December 31, 1978,
disbursements were over 32% of the total loan amount.
Loan No. 1507    Second Medium Industry Bank Project; $55.0 Million Loan
of January 4. 1978; Effective Date: March 10, 1978;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
The project provides $55.0 million to be used by MIB to help
cover the foreign exchange requirements of industrial subprojects over four
years. A substantial portion of the loan - $20.0 million - would be earmarked
to assist small-scale, labor-intensive subprojects creating employment at a
gross capital cost per job not greater than $6,000 or enterprises whose fixed
assets are not greater than $250,000. As of December 31, 1978, disbursements
were about 61% of the loan amount.
Loan No. 1574      Third Korea Development Bank Project; $110 Million Loan
of June 21, 1978; Effective Date: September 14, 1978;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
The loan would be used to help cover the foreign exchange require-
ments of subprojects to be financed by KDB; apart from direct imports, the
loan would be utilized by KDB to finance the foreign exchange component of
domestically produced capital goods. An amount of up to $10.0 million of
the proceeds of the proposed loan would be made available to KDB's subsidiary,
the Korea Industrial Leasing Corporation Ltd. (KILC), by way of subloans in
order to finance small- and medium-sized leasing projects. Overall progress
is satisfactory. Commitments started in October 1978.



- 33 .                         ANNEX II
Page 8 of 12 pages
Loan 1635          Seventh Korea Development Finance Corporation Prolect;/1
$100.0 Million Loan of December 7, 1978; Closing Date:
June 30, 1983
The loan was made to cover the foreign exchange requirements of
subprojects to be financed by KDFC over the years 1979 and 1980. In order to
support KDFC's efforts to provide financial assistance to small- and medium-
scale, relatively labor-intensive enterprises, a component of $20 million
would be earmarked for financing specifically: (a) enterprises with fixed
assets not exceeding $750,000; or (b) projects generating employment at a
fixed investment cost per job not greater than $12,500. Also, in order to
finance small- and medium-sized leasing projects, an amount of up to $10.0
million of the proceeds of the proposed loan will be made available to the
Korea Development Leasing Corporation (KDLC), a leasing company affiliated to
KDFC, by way of subloans.
Education Sector
Loan No. 906      Second Education Project; $23.0 Million Loan and
Credit No. 394   $20.0 Million Credit of June 13, 1973; Effective Date:
September 10, 1973; Closing Date: December 31, 1979
The project includes assistance for re-equipping 85 educational
institutions at secondary and university levels. The Loan/Credit funds are
mainly used to finance equipment. The Government is financing related works.
Project execution remains about two years behind schedule due to initial
delays and some project changes. The project is now making satisfactory
progress. About 88% of the equipment has been contracted, and 60% delivered;
furniture procurement has been completed; civil works were all completed by
the end of December 1978; and the fellowship program is well under way. The
project is expected to be completed in about June 1979, six months before the
present Closing Date, which has been extended by one year to December 31,
1979 to allow full disbursement of the proceeds after project completion. As
of December 31, 1978, disbursements were completed under the Credit and
reached about 53% of the total loan amount; they are expected to improve
rapidly.
Loan No. 1096    Third Education Project; $22.5 Million Loan of March 31, 1975;
Effective Date: June 6, 1975; Closing Date: June 30, 1980
The project includes assistance for extension and equipping of
nine institutions (technical, agricultural and fisheries) under the Ministry
of Education (MOE) and seven vocational training institutes (VTIs) under the
Administrator of Labor Affairs (ALA). Project implementation has improved for
the MOE part of the project and is about six months behind schedule compared
with being about one year behind schedule in early 1978. Implementation of
the ALA part is satisfactory. Training operations have commenced in five VTIs.
Project completion is expected before the Closing Date of June 30, 1980 for
both parts of the project. Estimated total project cost now is expected to
/I Not yet effective.



- 34 -                        ANNEX II
Page 9 of 12 pages
be below the appraisal estimates. As of December 31, 1978, disbursements were
around 48% of the total loan and were close to the original forecasts, partic-
ularly for ALA part of the project.
Loan No. 1474    Vocational Training Project; $23.0 Million Loan of
July 22, 1977; Effective Date: October 25, 1977;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982
The project includes the establishment of eight new Vocational Training
Institutes (VTIs), equipment for a Central Vocational Training Institute (CVTI)
and technical assistance, part of which is being provided by UNDP and the
Federal Republic of Germany. The implementation schedule has been revised.
The construction of dormitories are postponed to 1979 and construction of two
VTIs planned in 1979 is being postponed to 1980, because the present budget
has been affected by recent price increases in wages and materials. The
Government's attention has been drawn to the importance of adequate budgetary
provisions. Civil works contracts were awarded in November 1978, approximately
six months behind schedule. Equipment procurement has commenced for two VTIs
and the CVTI with about $4.0 million purchased. Disbursements should improve
significantly in 1979. Technical Assistance from UNDP and Germany is satis-
factory. Initial experience with in-plant training schemes in Korea indicates
lack of interest from industry. The Government's Vocational Training Bureau
(VTB) is exploring ways to improve the system.
Tourism Sector
Loan No. 953      Kyongiu Tourism Project; $25.0 Million Loan of
January 4, 1974; Effective Date: May 6, 1974;
Closing Date: December 31, 1979
The project forms part of the first phase of the planned develop-
ment of the Bomun Lake resort near Kyongju. It provides for a multipurpose
dam; an irrigation system for about 1,200 ha; improvement and expansion of
the water supply and sewerage and solid waste disposal systems for the city
of Kyongju and the resort area; installation of electrical supply and tele-
communication facilities for the resort area; the construction and/or realign-
ment of about 57 km of roads, infrastructure, including storm water drain-
age, environmental sanitation, community facilities, and a golf course; and
and a school for training hotel personnel. Project implementation is now
progressing satisfactorily although completion of some project components is
likely to be delayed by about a year, due mainly to budgetary constraints.
The Government has now taken steps to provide all needed funds. The delay
has had no adverse effects on hotel development. The first two hotels with
600 rooms are under construction and are scheduled to commence operations in
the spring of 1979. Negotiations with other private investors are under way
for a third hotel and also for apartments and restaurants in the Bomun resort
area. About 78% of the loan had been disbursed as of December 31, 1978.



- 35 -                        ANNEX II
Page 10 of 12 pages
Regional Development
Loan No. 1070    Secondary Cities Regional Prolect; $15.0 Million
Loan of January 15, 1975; Effective Date: August 18,
1975; Closing Date: March 31, 1979
Implementation of the Secondary Cities Regional Project is pro-
ceeding satisfactorily. Three housing sites, two access roads and a city
market have been completed. The Fisheries port complex at Yeosu has been
completed. Construction of houses in the housing estates is nearly completed;
a substantial portion of sites have been occupied. Overall completion of
works is 99%. After the initial delays, mainly in fulfilling conditions of
effectiveness and establishing the Gwangju Regional Development Unit, the
project has moved extremely well. As of December 31, 1978, disbursement was
about 65% of the loan amount.
Transportation Sector
Loan No. 863      Fourth Railway Project; $40.0 Million Loan of
November 22, 1972; Effective Date: February 26, 1973;
Closing Date: March 31, 1979
The main elements of the project are: electrification of lines
in the Seoul suburban area; purchase of electric railcars and locomotives;
the completion of electrification of 350 km of line running from Seoul to
the northeastern part of Korea; track and bridge renewal; provision of yard
facilities; acquisition of passenger and freight cars; and improvement of
facilities for the maintenance and repair of motive power and rolling stock.
No major problems have been encountered; most of the loan proceeds have been
committed, and over 98% already disbursed. The Closing Date has been extended
to March 31, 1979 to allow time for the completion of procurement.
Loan No. 917      Ports Project; $80.0 Million Loan of June 27, 1973;
Effective Date: September 18, 1973; Closing Date:
June 30, 1979
Eight of the ten civil works contracts and all equipment supply
contracts are satisfactorily completed. Work is also progressing on the
grain handling facility and the grain silo which will be completed by April
1979. Total cost is currently estimated to be $144 million with a foreign
exchange component of about $102 million. The loan provides $80 million
foreign exchange and the overrun is being financed by a loan from the
Saudi Fund for Development (SFD). The Korea Maritime and Port Authority
(KMPA) is adequately staffed, but there has been a delay in implementing
operational and financial procedures. Consultants for the implementing phase
are now assisting KMPA who expect to introduce commercial accounting by



-36 -                          ANNEX II
Page 11 of 12 pages
January 1981 under Loan 1041-KO. Around 91% of the loan proceeds has
already been disbursed.
Loan No. 1101    Fifth Railway Project; $100.0 Million Loan of April 10,
1975; Effective Date: July 15, 1975; Closing Date:
December 31, 1979
The project will help the Korean National Railroad (KNR) continue
as a major carrier of freight and passengers by providing for: the upgrading,
modernization and expansion of track, rolling stock, motive power, and
other equipment; the improvement of the efficiency of operation; and the
strengthening of its financial position. The main components of the project
are: an increase in station and line capacity and improvements in signaling;
acquisition of rolling stock, diesel and electric locomotives, spare parts
and repair facilities; track renewal and improvement; bridge strengthening;
completion of electrification of 71 km of industrial lines; and other
miscellaneous items. Contracts, financed by the loan, have been signed for
procurement of passenger and freight cars, wheel sets, spares for locomotives,
rail, bridge girders and track maintenance machinery, amounting to about
$96.4 million equivalent. Ninety-five percent of the loan proceeds have
already been disbursed.
Loan No. 1203    Third Highway Project; $90.0 Million Loan of
February 20, 1976; Effective Date: May 17, 1976;
Closing Date: December 31, 1979
The loan provides funds to help finance: (a) the construction,
chiefly on new alignments, including paving, of about 195 km of four national
highways, including supervision of the work by consultants; (b) paving and
improvement,, chiefly on present alignments, of nine national highways
totaling about 600 km, including supervision of the work by consultants; and
(c) feasibility studies by consultants of about 1,200 km of national and
provincial roads, to be followed by detailed engineering. Contracts for
construction and paving are progressing substantially on schedule. Feasi-
bility studies by consultants started in January 1978, and are now
proceeding satisfactorily. Disbursements to the end of December 1978 were
about 67% of the total loan. The Saudi Fund for Development is providing a
loan of $35 million to assist in financing the project.
Loan No. 1401    Second Ports Project; $67.0 Million Loan of
April 28, 1977; Effective Date: July 27, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
The project consists of: (a) a 700 m extension of container berths
being financed under the First Ports Project and a 335,000 sq m expansion of
the container stacking area provided under that project with ancilliary works;



ANNEX II
Page 12 of 12 pages
rehabilitation of piers 3 and 4, the central wharf, and lighter wharf No. 5;
(b) procurement of container cranes, mobile container handling equipment, and
tugboats; (c) Engineering Consultant Services and (d) Technical Assistance
and Training. Appointment of engineering consultants for the civil works was
delayed and final design of the extension of the container facility is about
30% complete. The first contract will be let about mid-1979.
Loan No. 1542    Sixth Railway Project; $120.0 Million Loan of April 10,
1978; Effective Date: August 3, 1978; Closing Date:
June 30, 1982
The project would provide KNR with the capacity required to meet
forecast traffic, and reduce operating and maintenance costs. It includes
continued double tracking and electrification of lines, extension of yards
and terminals, continued installation of centralized traffic control, track
and rail renewal, separation of road and rail at crossings, installation of a
permanent way workshop, procurement of diesel locomotives, passenger cars and
freight cars, provision of a new passenger car workshop, installation of
additional telecommunication and power facilities and provision of technical
assistance to KNR. The loan will also finance transport sector studies.
Bids have been received for about 96% of the Bank-financed items. Consultants
have been selected to carry out feasibility studies of major investment items
for 1980 and 1981.
Loan No. 1640    Fourth Highway Project;/l  $143.0 Million Loan of December 22,
1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1982
The project consists of: (a) construction and improvement, including
paving and supervision by consultants, of 36 sections of national roads
totaling about 950 km; (b) construction and improvement, including paving and
supervision by consultants, of 10 sections of provincial roads totaling about
280 km; (c) procurement of additional road maintenance equipment for maintaining
national roads; (d) a study by consultants of the institutions involved in
the planning, design, maintenance, construction, administration and financing
of provincial and county (gun) roads, and the preparation of a program for
improving the organization and functions of such institutions, upgrading
provincial and gun road maintenance and the future development of the gun
road system, to be followed by detailed engineering of about 2,000 km
of gun roads; and (e) provision of fellowships for training staff of the
Ministry of Construction.
/1 Not yet effective.



-38 -                                   ANNEX III
Page 1
KOREA
ELECTRONICS TECHNOLOGY PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I:           Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken to prepare project: 16 months
(July 1977-October 1978)
(b) Agency which prepared the project: The Korea
Institute of Electronics Technology (KIET)
(c) Date of the first Bank Mission to consider the
project: July 7, 1977
(d) Departure of Appraisal Mission: October 30,
.1978
(e) Negotiations completed: February 15, 1979
(f)  Planned date of Effectiveness:  June 15, 1979
Section II:          Special Bank Implementation Actions:  None
Section III:         Special Conditions:  The following special conditions
are incorporated in the Loan Agreement:
(a) The Government would support the development of
the Gumi semiconductor-systems estate, where the
project is located, through the timely provision of
additional facilities such as housing and medical
care facilities (para. 47).
(b) KIET would not amend its RD&E operating policy
except with the Bank's approval (para 49).
(c) KIET would be required to implement and operate its
facilities in accordance with all appropriate
national and international environmental designs and
standards (para. 51).
(d)  To strengthen man H.enlit capabilities, KIET would be
required to continuously retain a technical advisor
at least through the end of 1982 (para. 52);
establish an independent Financial and Accounting
Department (para. 53); and retain a semiconductor
facility expert to monitor construction of the
semiconductor building and the installation of
equipment therein (para. 54).



_ 39 -                                  ANNEX III
Page 2
(e) The Government would meet any cost overruns on the
project and provide KIET with its annual funds
requirements, including necessary foreign exchange,
for operations, RD&E, working capital and capital
expenditures to the extent that these are not
covered by KIET's internal cash flow (para. 58).
(f) The proceeds of the loan would be channeled by
the Government to KIET essentially as a grant (para.
59). To reflect the cost of the Bank loan, KIET
will apply in its pricing calculations a notional
interest of 10% per annum on that portion of the
loan attributable to KIET's service activities, and
not amend its service pricing policy except with the
Bank's approval (para. 60).
(g) KIET would maintain a current ratio of at least 3 to
1, and not undertake any investment, other than for
the project, exceeding $2 million in the aggregate,
in one year, without prior consent of the Bank
(para. 63).
(h) KIET would submit to the Bank, for review and approval,
an annual training and expert invitation program;
and consult with the Bank on its annual four-year
research program and its annual technology acquisition
program (para. 64).



_______,____________18___                                                                  IBRD   14Q0
U.S.S.R                                        127-                             128'                              129w                   DECEMBER 1978
_ /  ;  .                   N O R T H   K O R E A
C H I N A 
, Japan Sea                                                                                                                East 
:~7a                                     Panmurjum                                                       1     F                   t         |
Ye/low                      3ea                                                                                                                                         - et{S GmCN 793*
.ast  '  ° eEuijeon gbu
Ch47a Sea,Muh
G4MINUSRIL  ATE                       -;
AMembIg Up4.1n --  /                                                                             ;;
~~~~~~~ S .. Rrers~  (<7ET)44ro                          ueo            e
GM.v.UI
3$'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ yong                                             .                         !         J Seocl CiE
37.-
.\   -                                                      .-  I      A                                        .-   -  InlerncEroncl anseong  n
Kofeansrta '"'" --
Y.elrlow               gYenu,h
36'
35.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~wnj                                                                                                       UA                     5
ELECrTRoNICS TECHNOLOGY PROJECT
taco n of K.,eo InsWfoe of EOocoonics Tachofogy
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~,-- 04 , 
IZ'a-    lo..'Pony Rod .K.s
,peciat -aes
-    nfer I ronl 6ov,ndoriss
0  20  ~~'440   0        sE.6o  MeO.    1 0140         6
20                 AO   60 #0 0 12 f0                  160
125,2'                                                                                          ~                                                        0



