Document of                    U
The World Ban                   17C
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONI Y            tS[ ITHriX BjE
FCON(OMIC PV[LbEE I iNSIIrlTE
Report No. 2322-KO
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
KOREA
ELECTRONICS TECHNOLOGY PROJECT
February 27, 1979
Industrial Projects Department
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$1       =  Won 485
Won 1      = US$0.00206
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
All weights and measures are in metric units.
1 square meter (sq. m.) =  10.76 square feet
1 kilometer (km)         =  0.62 miles
PRINCIPAL ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
For technical abbreviations please see Annex 1
EPB       Economic Planning Board
FIC       Fine Instruments Center
ICE       Integrated Circuit Engineering Corporation
KAIS      Korea Advanced Institute of Science
KIET      Korea Institute of Electronics Technology
KIST      Korea Institute of Science and Technology
MCI       Ministry of Commerce and Industry
MOC       Ministry of Communication
MOST      Ministry of Science and Technology
UNDP      United Nations Development Programme
FISCAL YEAR
Government: January 1 - December 31
KIET: January 1 - December 31
Industrial Projects Department
February 1979



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
KOREA
ELECTRONICS TECHNOLOGY PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
I.    INTRODUCTION ............................................                   1
II.    THE KOREAN ELECTRONICS INDUSTRY..........................                   4
A.    Introduction ..................................                 4
B.    Background:   An Overview of the World
Electronics Industry ..... ............                      5
1.  The World Semiconductor Industry  ......              6
2.  The World Dligital Systems Industry ....              8
3. Structural Changes in the Electronics
Industry .           ...........................    10
C.    The Korean Electronics Industry  .............         ..    11
1.  Evolution and Past Performance .... ....    11
2. Output Composition and Structure of
Industry   ...........................           12
3.  Exports and Imports ....            ...............  14
4.  Industry Weaknesses  ....           ...............    15
D.    Development Plans for the Korean
Electronics Industry .......... ..           ............   16
E.   The Semiconductor and Digital Systems
Industries in Korea .......... ..           .............    17
1.  Semiconductors ........................              17
2.  Digital Systems .......................    17
F.    Development Strategy ...........       ..     .............    18
III.    THE KOREA INSTITUTE OF ELECTRONICS TECHNOLOGY (KIET) ....                  22
A.    Evolution .....................................                22
B.    Role and Functions of KIET .....             ...............   22
C.    Location ........          ..............................      24
D.    Organization ..................................                24
E.    Coordination with Industry .....             ...............    27
IV.    THE PROJECT .............................................                  27
A.    Objectives and Scope ..........................    27
B.    Development of KIET ........... ..           ..............   28
1. Physical Facilities, Infrastructure,
Raw Material Supply, Ecology ....          ......    28
2. Technology Acquisition, Training and
Manpower Development  .....          .............    30
3.  KIET's Service and Development Program.    31
This report was prepared by M.R. Iskander, A. Sood, and S.R. Greig of the
Industrial Projects Department.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Page No.
C.   RD&E  Program   ..................................     33
1.  Purpose   ...............................     33
2.  Organization and Administration .......   34
3.  Monitoring of RD&E ....................   34
4.  Recovery of Research Costs ....     ........    34
D.   Project Implementation and Management .... .....    35
V.   PROJECT COST AND FINANCING ..............................    36
A.   Project Cost Summary ........... ..      .............    36
B.   Financing Plan ................................    38
C.   Items to be Financed by the Bank Loan .........   40
D.   Procurement ............... ..      ..................    41
E.   Disbursement ...............  ..    .................    42
VI.   FINANCIAL ANALYSIS ......................................    42
A.   Introduction ......     ............................    42
B.   Service Operations:  Revenues and Costs .......        43
C.   RD&E Operations:  Revenues and Costs ..........   45
D.   Overall Funding of KIET and
Financial Position              ...   46
E.   Financial Covenants .................. . . ........    48
F.   Auditing and Reporting Requirements ........ ...    48
G. Sensitivity Analysis            . . .49
H.   Major Risks ...................................    49
VII.   ECONOMIC ANALYSIS .......................................    51
VIII.   AGREEMENTS ..............................................    53
ANNEXES
I     Glossary of Technical Terms
4-1     KIET Layout
4-2     KIET:  Technology Acquisition Arrangements
4-3     KIET:  Manpower Development/Training Program
4-4     KIET:  Development Program
4-5     RD&E Operations
5-1     Project Cost Estimate
5-2     Allocation of Bank Funds
5-3     Estimated Disbursement Schedule
6-1     Basis for Revenue Projections
6-2     Assumptions for Financial Projections
6-3     KIET:  Service Pricing Policy
6-4     Projected Income Statements (Services)



- iii -
6-5     Projected Sources and Application of Funds (RD&E)
6-6     Projected Sources and Application of Funds (Services and RD&E)
6-7     Projected Balance Sheets
MAP
IBRD    14069-Korea:  Electronics Technology Project
DOCUMENTS CONTAINED IN PROJECT FILE
A. Reports and Studies on the Sector
Al.  Growth and Change in Korean Industry, Industrial Sector Mission,
May 1975
A2.  The Korean Electronics Industry, The Stanford Research Institute,
May 1975
A3.  The Fourth Five Year Electronics Industry Plan, UNDP-financed
Consultants, June 1976
A4.  Electronics Industry Planning Study, A. D. Little Inc., June
1976
A5.  Korea Electronics Industry Data Book, Fine Instruments Center
(FIC), Korea, 1977
A6.  Electronics Industry in Korea, Ministry of Commerce and Industry
and FIC, 1977, 1978
A7.  Status - A Report on the Integrated Circuit Industry (worldwide),
Integrated Circuit Engineering (ICE) Corp. (US), 1977, 1978,
mid-1978 update
A8.  Sale and Purchase of Semiconductor Know-how, ICE, October 1978.
B. Reports and Studies Related to the Project
Bl.  Loan Application to IBRD for the RD&E Project, Government of the
Republic of Korea, January 1977
B2.  Project Brief, July 6, 1977
B3.  A Report for the Preparation Mission, KIET, July 1977
B4.  Korea Institute of Electron,ics Technology (KIET), Preliminary
Report, Preparation Mission, July 1977
B5.  A Review and Analysis of the Project, ICE, July 1977
B6.  Preparation Issues Paper, August 18, 1977
B7.  United Nations Development Programme-Project Document,
January 1976
B8.  KIET Project, UNDP-financed Consultants, March 1978
B9.  Preappraisal Back-to-Office Report, June 27, 1978
B1O. KIET Program Review, ICE, June 1978
Bll. Korea Electronics RD&E Fund Mission Report, Dr. Yaakov, Consultant,
August 1978
B12. Appraisal Issues Paper, November 22, 1978
B13. Appraisal Decision Memoranclum, December 12, 1978



- iv -
C. Working Papers and Other Data
Cl. Working Papers for Financial Projections
C2. KIET: Historical Financial Data
C3. Additional Information (data prepared by KIET for appraisal of the
project)



I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The Government of the Republic of Korea has requested Bank assis-
tance to finance a project that would promote and assist the technological
development of the Korean electronics industry. The project has two compo-
nents: (i) the development of the Korea Institute of Electronics Technology
(KIET) which was established in late L976, and which, through its service,
development and production activities, would stimulate and support the
electronics industry's drive into new areas; and (ii) the establishment of a
Research, Development and Engineering (RD&E) program to promote and finance
RD&E carried out at KIET for the electronics industry. The total cost of the
project is estimated at US$63 million equivalent, of which US$33 million is in
foreign exchange. The proposed Bank loan of US$29 million would finance about
87% of the foreign exchange component of the project.
1.02      Korea has sustained a remar'kable record of economic growth since
the early 60s; aggregate real GNP has risen at the rate of 10% p.a. over the
last 15 years. This growth, based primarily on the expansion of manufacturing
activity, has been spearheaded by the remarkable increase in manufactured
exports. Within manufacturing, the Korean electronics industry has served
as a leading growth sector since the 70s; between 1970-78 electronics pro-
duction and exports rose at an average annual rate of about 50% from a low
base, and in 1977, electronics products represented 11% of Korea's total mer-
chandise exports. The industry's performance, like that for other manufac-
turing subsectors, has largely been based on Korea's labor advantage. Elec-
tronics export activity has consisted primarily of the labor-intensive assembly
of components, and the production of technologically fairly mature, low cost
consumer products.
1.03      However, recent domestic arLd international developments necessitate
a reconsideration of Korea's pattern of comparative advantage in both the manu-
facturing sector in general and the electronics industry in particular. The
recent rise in protectionism in the industrial countries and the rapid increase
in wage rates in Korea dictate a shift away from traditional labor-intensive
lines of production into areas which are more in line with Korea's emerging
comparative advantage, i.e. product areas which rely on the more intensive
utilization of Korea's existing and potential endowments of skilled labor and
trained engineers at costs which are still low in comparison to industrial
countries. In Korea's manufacturing sector, this has dictated a structural
shift towards chemicals, metals, machinery and electronics. Within elec-
tronics, Korea's emerging comparative advantage is thus also perceived
to lie in more skill-intensive segments of the product spectrum.  The
need to change the product structure has acquired a certain urgency in
view of the large share of electronics in Korea's total exports, the Fourth
(1977-81) Five Year Plan's emphasis on the industry's continuing role in the
country's growth strategy 1/, and rapid ongoing technological changes in the
electronics industry, particularly the mounting importance of semiconductors
1/   By 1981, production is planned to increase from US$1.8 billion in 1977
to around US$4.7 billion, and exports from US$1 billion to US$3.0 bil-
lion, the latter constituting around one-fifth of total exports in 1981.



-2-
and digital systems 1/.  These more advanced technologies, which have become
the cornerstone of the world electronics industry, are fast replacing conven-
tional labor-intensive assembly operations, on which Korea's electronics growth
has been based, by integrated circuits (ICs) 2/; at present, these circuits
constitute only a negligible proportion of Korea's production and exports.
Thus, there is the need for a significant increase in Korean industry's tech-
nological capabilities in order to accelerate development into the semi-
conductor and digital systems areas, if Korea is to gain rather than lose ex-
port opportunities in electronics.
1.04      Chapter II presents an overview of the recent developments in the
world electronics industry and discusses their implications for Korea. The
world electronics industry is undergoing rapid change. At the low technology
end of the industry are the relatively low skill, assembly operations and
consumer products, in which Korea is becoming increasingly less competitive.
At the opposite end are the research and high technology-intensive areas, such
as large computers, complex mini and microcomputers, and advanced telecommuni-
cation systems. In these lies the largest potential for growth and it is here
that the developed countries are increasingly focussing their scarce highly
skilled manpower and financial resources. This shift by developed countries
to advance into the most advanced technology area is, however, creating an
opportunity for developing countries to move into the intermediate technology
areas where the developed countries have already progressed down the learning
curve and further cost reductions are only possible by transferring operations
to countries where wages for skilled labor and engineers are still compara-
tively low. These intermediate technologies span areas such as low and
medium-complexity semiconductors and simple microprocessor applications.
Korea, like other developing countries, with the required manpower base, can
participate in this emerging international division of labor, and leading
world electronics companies are actively exploring the possibility of estab-
lishing joint ventures in these intermediate technology areas in Korea.
For effective entry into this field, however, Korea will require substantial
capabilities in the semiconductor and systems technologies, as well as re-
sources that are well beyond those available to individual private or joint
venture efforts. As has been the case in most countries, the Korean Govern-
ment, therefore, plans to stimulate, support, and complement industry's effort
to advance in these selected areas. The proposed project represents the lead
effort in this endeavor.
1.05      The first component of the project -- the development of
KIET -- provides specialized infrastructure and sophisticated and capital-
intensive production services which, while they cannot be provided economic-
ally by each individual firm, are necessary for industry's development. KIET's
facilities will also be used to train Korean engineers and facilitate the
1/   A technical glossary is attached as Annex 1.
2/   ICs combine in one small "chip", (3mm x 3mm), the functions performed
by up to thousands of discrete components, for which only a few years
ago, several hundred times more space at vastly higher cost was neces-
sary.



- 3 _
acquisition and transfer of the intermediate electronics technologies to
Korea. The second component of the project -- the RD&E program -- aims to
encourage technological development in the industry, wherein the rapid pace of
technological change makes RD&E vital to competiveness while at the same time
increasing significantly the costs and risks associated with RD&E. The RD&E
program consists of selected subprojects for which KIET will share with
private industry these high costs (and thus risks) and subsequent benefits of
RD&E. The program will be linked directly to industry's needs and will
focus on a small number of basic semiconductor and digital systems tech-
nologies and product groups where Korea can utilize its advantage with respect
to low cost engineering and skilled labor resources to compete effectively in
the world market. The program will aim at upgrading a significant segment of
the electronics industry, and will particularly encourage cooperative RD&E
efforts among Korean firms.
1.06      KIET will be equipped with facilities to enable it to undertake
production-oriented development. This is expected to significantly reduce
the lead time and cost associated with the transfer of research results to
commercial scale industrial production, and to assist industry beyond the
initial development stage by enabling it to more effectively acquire and
transfer manufacturing know-how. This structure will thus combine in KIET
both RD&E capabilities and producticin services. In addition, it is intended
to make KIET financially self-sustaining in about four years after start of
operations, by using revenues from services rendered to industry to gradually
balance the expected deficits from its RD&E program. The project to be
undertaken by KIET is designed to irLcrease the local production of semi-
conductors and digital systems from around US$20 million in 1977 to about
US$250-300 million (excluding potential export opportunities) by 1982, and
to technologically upgrade a number of electronics products already manu-
factured in Korea.
1.07      The Bank has played an important role in shaping the proposed
project, and its continued involvement during project implementation is
expected to contribute positively to project success. The industrial sector
mission of November 1974 recommended that Korea should seriously consider
acquisition of the semiconductor technology as a basis for development of its
electronics industry. The mission also suggested that the cooperation of
Government, industry and research institutions was vital for the achievement
of this objective. Subsequently in 1975-76, the Bank acted as executing
agency for a UNDP-financed Planning Assistance Project which included a review
of the prospects of the electronics industry and suggestions for policy
formulation in this sector over the period of the 1977-81 Five Year Plan; the
Plan emphasizes industry's new deve:Lopment thrust in the direction of the
semiconductor and digital systems areas. A project preparation mission
visited Korea in July 1977 to review the project proposed by the Government to
develop KIET, and recommended that KIET should be redirected from a relatively
isolated research institution to a service-cum-RD&E organization catering to
and working directly with industry. From February to December 1978, the Bank
acted as executing agency for a UND]' project to assist KIET in reformulating



- 4 -
and preparing the project along these lines. The project has been prepared
in conjunction with industry representatives, who are keenly aware of the
necessity of the services and RD&E to be undertaken by KIET, and have
expressed strong support for the project.
1.08      The Bank's involvement in the project has been useful in a number
of ways. The Korean Government has recognized the importance of supporting
technological development in the industry, and perceives the Bank as pro-
viding useful feedback in the process of formulating strategies to encourage
the accelerated development of technological capabilities in the sector.
KIET's formulation as a service - cum - RD&E institution with close links
to industry and its associated financially self-sustaining nature is further
expected to serve as a model for other research institutions planned in
Korea. The Bank will continue to play a useful role, particularly in the
early years of operation of the project. The Bank's involvement is expected
to help maintain "focus" in KIET's activities, a focus which is required
both for the selection of appropriate products and technologies for Korea,
and to prevent a situation arising where resources are spread too thin to
provide an important impact on industry. The Bank's inputs are expected to
contribute significantly to ensuring KIET's service-cum - RD&E orientation
and its responsiveness to industry requirements. The Bank will also en-
courage policies for widespread diffusion of project benefits, particularly
to small and medium companies, and policies for cooperation among Korean
firms. And, finally, through its involvement in the project, the Bank
expects to increase its knowledge of the field and its impact in industry
overall, and thus become able to advise other countries which may endeavor
to embark on a similar effort.
1.09      The project was appraised in November 1978 by Messrs. M. Iskander,
A. Sood and S. Greig (Industrial Projects Department), and Mr. G. Madland and
I. Yaakov (Consultants).
II. THE KOREAN ELECTRONICS INDUSTRY
A.   Introduction
2.01      The electronics industry worldwide is undergoing a revolutionary
change in technology and structure. The following sections present an over-
view of its recent development and prospects, followed by an analysis of the
structure, performance and development plans of the Korean electronics indus-
try. The chapter concludes with a discussion of Korea's strategy in devel-
oping the semiconductor and digital systems industries which have become the
centerpiece of the modern electronics industry.



-5 -
B.   Background:  An Overview of the World Electronics Industry
2.02      There is rapidly growing evidence that electronics is destined for
a place of particular importance in the world economic system. The expanding
capability of electronics to perform needed functions at attractive prices is
creating an industry which is not only important in its own right but, perhaps
of more consequence, is becoming a critical element in other industries. Ex-
amples of this indirect impact on large, established industries are not hard
to find. The projected improvements in the automotive industry, such as in
safety, gasoline mileage, and pollution controls, will be directly dependent
upon the application of electronics. Timekeeping is rapidly converting to
electronics and the calculator industry has almost completely moved from
electro-mechanical machines to electronic ones. Computers are rapidly being
introduced into factories, offices ancd homes in a variety of guises.
2.03      These improvements -- and those which are still to come, and which
even for a few years ahead are hard to grasp in all their dimensions -- are
the result of the expanding range of functions which can be performed elec-
tronically and the rapid reduction of the cost of performing those functions.
Cost reductions, which are most fundamental, are, if anything, accelerating.
This is likely to further expand the market for electronics into one of the
most important industries in the worldl as shown in the following table.
World Electronics Production
(Current IJS$ Billions)
1965      1970       1975       1977       1980       1985
…-----------… Actual…----------            ---Estimate---
38        58         84        108        150       230
Source: Integrated Circuits Engineering Corp., (ICE) of the US
The above data is shown in current terms. However, even after allowing
for inflation, which has in the past and is expected to continue to balance
the effects of unit price reductions, it suggests volume growth of 9-10% a
year, far in excess of most other products. To put these figures into proper
perspective, the present annual world steel production of about 700 million
tons can be valued at about US$230 billion. This remarkable growth will create
vast employment opportunities in the electronics industry, but the employment
impact in user segments, such as manufacturing, has been a long standing
concern. Overall, the effect of electronics -- now widely acknowledged to
quickly become the dominant technology of the future -- on employment gener-
ation appears to be positive. Among others, a recent study by the industry
department of the National Economic Development Council (UK) concludes that
more jobs will be created than lost if a competitive electronics industry is
developed. The increased employment is expected to be accompanied by a shift
from low to higher skilled jobs.



2.04      For a better understanding of the following overview of the world's
semiconductor and digital systems industries, it is useful to understand the
variety of terminologies used to categorize electronics markets 1/: (i) Sys-
tems/Components: a straightforward division between the end product which
performs a desired function and the parts which are used to build the end
product; (ii) Industrial/Consumer: terms which are used to distinguish between
the activities of the end user. The industrial category generally includes
computers and telecommunication systems other than those specifically directed
to the consumer (i.e. non-industrial) market; (iii) Digital/Linear: a divi-
sion based upon the technique by which the electronics system processes
information. A digital system handles information using binary arithmetic
equivalents of input quantities while a linear system, in general, handles
the signals directly using electrical analogs of input quantities. Digital
systems include computers and computer-based applications; audio-and video-
systems are examples of linear systems; and (iv) Hardware/Software: computing
systems are comprised of assemblages of components, the physical system or
"hardware", and the programs, or "software"; software provides instructions to
the hardware for the operations to be performed by it.
1.   The World Semiconductor Industry
2.05      The prime mover in the broadening of electronic capability and the
reduction of electronic function cost has been the semiconductor industry.
Semiconductors are solid state devices (i.e. a single crystal with no distinct
separable parts) that perform certain electrical functions. They can either
be discrete electronic devices such as transistors, or integrated circuits
(ICs) consisting of a number of devices on a silicon chip.
2.06      The manufacture of semiconductors involves a series of highly
sophisticated batch processes carried out in an ultra-clean and vibration-free
environment. The first step is to melt and refine silicon into a single
crystal form. The crystal is cut into wafers, typically 75-100 mm in diameter
and 0.25-0.30 mm thick. The wafers are lapped and polished to a mirror finish.
The desired circuit is designed, generally with the aid of a computer, and
a series of masks ("photographic" masters replicating the desired circuit
pattern) are prepared. Impurities are then introduced over selected parts of
the wafer (to impart desired electrical properties in those parts) through
"openings" in the masks in a number of steps (involving etching, diffusion,
and ion implantation) to produce the desired circuit properties. A 75 mm (3")
wafer costing about US$40-50 contains around 400 ICs each on a 3 mm by 3 mm
chip. After the wafers are fabricated, the ICs are individually tested, and
cut into single chips, each containing the required circuit. Yield, or the
number of functioning ICs produced versus the maximum number possible, is
the most important factor in the economics of IC production. A major part
of IC technology is related to understanding and improving production yields.
Expected process yields vary between 2-80% depending upon design complexity,
wafer size, and the process used.
1/   See also Annex 1, Glossary of technical terms.



7 -
2.07      IC production is based on a number of process technologies belonging
primarily to two families -- bipolar and Metal-Oxide-Silicon (MOS). Dominant
in these families are the linear bipolar technology and N-channel MOS (NMOS)
technology. Linear bipolar technology, which gave IC production its start
in the 1960s, continues to be the major technology applied to production of
linear ICs for consumer applications such as radios and televisions (TVs).
NMOS technology developed in the 70s in response to the needs of digital
applications has rapidly made inroads into other technologies and is expected
to continue to dominate IC production for digital applications such as com-
puting. The linear bipolar technology presently accounts for over 20% of
worldwide IC consumption, NMOS, for over 25%, and a large number of special-
ized technologies for the remainder (55%).
2.08      The chief contribution of the semiconductor industry has come from
progress in ICs, which have become the major electronic component. The
circuit complexity has risen from a few devices per chip, to as many as 10,000
devices per chip now, as the industry moved through Small Scale Integration
(SSI), Medium Scale Integration (MSI), Large Scale Integration (LSI), and now
to Very Large Scale Integration (VLSI). The growth of IC production in the
world is illustrated in the following table.
World Semiconductor Production
(Current US$ Millions)
% Annual
Growth
Products                        1973      1976      1977     1978 a/      1973-78
ICs
USA                          1,705    2,747    3,397    3,990              19
Eastern Europe                 132       257      349       432            27
Western Europe                 161       274      333       399            20
Asia                           327       714      903    1,111             29
Others                          32        38       44        50             8
Worldwide IC                   2,357    4,030    5,026    5,982              21
Discretes
USA                          1,152       833      988       942            (4)
Others                       1,721    1,719    1,901    2,067               2
Worldwide Discretes            2,873    2,552    2,889    3,009
Total                          5,230    6,582    7,915    8,991              11
a/   Estimates.
Source: ICE (US).



- 8 -
As shown, discrete devices, although they have been the foundation of the semi-
conductor industry, are declining in importance due to displacement by ICs.
Since prices of ICs have fallen rapidly relative to those of the discretes,
the dollar figures, in fact, understate the magnitude of this shift to ICs.
2.09      A few years ago, the pace of IC technology was losing some of its
momentum. While at that time, the complexity of the IC chip was growing fast,
the range of functions a single type could perform was still limited. The
answer was to build a standard chip with stored programs in memory so that the
customers could have a choice of uses; so was born the microprocessor. Complete
mini and microcomputers can now be based on the microprocessor. The IC indus-
try is far from reaching the ultimate limitation of its technology. For 1980,
the industry's target is 1 million devices on a chip (100-fold increase in
number of devices on a chip as compared to 10,OOOs of devices at present), and
the speed of microprocessors will undoubtedly rapidly increase. The fantastic
growth in complexity and speed per dollar foretells many new types of home and
industrial applications; e.g., computers, word processing, games, educational
devices, production and process controls and a host of new ideas which have
yet to be created. The long-term growth in demand for ICs worldwide is
expected to be around 20% per year.
2.   The World Digital Systems Industry
2.10      Another segment that has contributed to the remarkable growth of
electronics, and is expected to continue to increase rapidly, is the digital
systems industry (largely included in the industrial electronics segment). It
primarily includes computers and related equipment (hardware), and supporting
software. Digital systems are also increasingly being applied to other indus-
trial and consumer equipment such as machine and process controls and TVs.
In parallel with semiconductor developments, the industry has moved through
successive generations of vacuum-tube, transistor, IC and LSI technologies.
2.11      The digital systems market is primarily categorized into (i)
computer systems: large computers (mainframes), medium and small sized
general purpose computers, minicomputers, microprocessor based micro-
computers; (ii) special systems, such as for banking, offices, and point-of-
sale systems; (iii) add-on peripheral components, such as terminals; and
(iv) software services. The consumption of hardware in the world's major
markets is shown in the following table.



-9 -
Sales of Computer and Related Equipment
in the US, Western Europe, and Japan
(Current US$ Billions)
1976   1977   1978 a/
Computer Systems                   12.8   14.7   18.4
Special Systems                     7.1    8.0    8.4
Add-on Peripherals                  7.6    8.8   10.1
Total                         27.5   31.5   36.9
a/   Estimate.
Source: Industry Journals.
Computer systems are the fastest growing area spurred by the introduction
of micro- and mini-computers. The software market (not included above)
is estimated to have amounted to around US$2.5 billion in the US alone in
1977.
2.12      The requirements for success and future prospects in the above
markets differ markedly by segment; for the purpose of the following discus-
sion, special systems are included with the type of computer on which they
are based. The mainframe market, as discussed briefly below, is dominated by
IBM (US) and shared by other large manufacturers in Japan and Europe. It is
dependent on vendor capabilities to provide entire systems, leasing alter-
natives, and excellent software support and maintenance services. It is
expected to grow at an annual rate of 8-10%. The medium and small computer
market is similarly determined by equipment reliability and customer support
requiring a broad network of support services. Though relatively small
manufacturers have been able to enter this field, over 50% of market share is
held by the giant mainframe manufacturers, such as IBM. Future annual growth
of this market is estimated at 25%. In these markets, the lack of a track-
record and reputation and the requirements for a broad service network present
effective barriers to new entrants. The minicomputer market, where basic
systems range between US$15-150,000, is price-competitive. Further, marketing
requirements are less intense than those for the larger computers as the
primary customers (original equipment manufacturers of machine tools, control
systems, communication systems or small and medium computers) represent a
relatively narrow market. Minicomputer demand growth is expected to average
20-25% annually. The micro-computer market derives its base from a wide range
of applications, with an expected increasing reliance on consumer goods. It
is expected to grow, from its present small base, at over 50% per year to
reach a level of US$1.5 billion by 1982. This market provides easy entry
to semiconductor manufacturers as evidenced by the entry of several US semi-
conductor firms such as Texas Instruments, Intel and National Semiconductor.



- 10 -
2.13      The add-on peripheral market is fragmented and includes a number of
small manufacturers who compete with the computer manufacturers, such as IBM,
on the basis of special features and price. Finally, the software/services
market is fragmented and localized with over 2,000 competitors in the US
alone. Though customer support is important in a large segment of this
market, price is the most important consideration in marketing pre-packaged
software for specific applications. This market segment is also expected to
grow at explosive rates of at least 50% annually to reach a size of US$12.5
billion by 1982.
3.   Structural Changes in the Electronics Industry
2.14      The development of the semiconductor industry is having a signi-
ficant impact on the structure of the electronics industry; one facet of
such impact has been the extent of assembly operations required to produce a
system. In the manufacture of ICs, the entire circuit is produced at the
same time and in batches. The individual components are connected to each
other during the manufacturing process. Thus, what had been expensive hand
assembly of components is now done in batches at very, very low cost,
thereby reducing the need for the offshore assembly houses in developing
countries, that had sprung up in the 1960s and early 70s.
2.15      The advent of LSI (Large Scale Integration) technology has triggered
a technical revolution far beyond the mere replacement of traditional equipment
by smaller, less expensive, and more reliable LSI circuits. The fact that LSI
circuits now contain a significant part of the total system technology is
causing a most profound change in the structure of modern electronics industry.
The traditional component suppliers are becoming the competitors of the equip-
ment manufacturers as evidenced in microcomputers (para 2.12). Conversely,
system manufacturers are integrating backwards into the production of compo-
nents. Accordingly, for any serious attempt in entering the semiconductor
field at this time to have a significant long term impact it will have to
integrate the semiconductors and systems industries.
2.16      Another modification to the historical structure of the electronics
industry which may be emerging is a tendency toward end market specialization.
The classical electronics companies, RCA (US) for example, have tended to
operate in a wide variety of electronic markets. As operations in each market
segment become more complex, it is possible that such companies will find that
they must specialize in a few areas and abandon or deemphasize the remaining
market segments. Thus, the electronics industry of the future may tend toward
companies which are more selective in the markets they attack but are more
vertically integrated in order to better serve the selected markets. This
trend towards specialization is resulting in companies in advanced countries
concentrating their scarce and expensive manpower resources on the latest
technologies with explosive growth potential. This move is creating a gap
in the already relatively mature technologies, such as low- to medium-
complexity semi-conductors, where demand growth is expected to be less attrac-
tive. The industry leaders in developed countries are looking at offshore
manufacturing facilities to fill the gap. Korea, along with other developing
countries with a base in the electronics industry and the required trainable
manpower, is in a good position to attract these companies, and also to
establish domestic ventures.



- 11 -
2.17      A further shift in the mode of industry operations stems from the
growing importance of software as illustrated in expected high growth rates
(para 2.13) . The cost of software during the operating life of many systems
is substantially larger than the cost of the hardware. This is in sharp
contrast to the earlier days of the electronics industry when the hardware
cost was the dominant cost of the system. This shift toward software from
hardware is particularly pronounced in systems based on microcomputers. A
microcomputer can be programmed to perform a reasonable variety of tasks.
Thus, each new system need not have new hardware but only new software. This
is a return to the general purpose components of yesteryear except with the
critical difference of the general purpose component now being a whole system
or at least a major portion thereof.
2.18      In summary, the electronics industry in the past has had the system
manufacturers in the leading role with component suppliers and software
designers as the supporting cast. The design and manufacture of the system
contributed the single largest part of the total value added and was in a
position of control. This is changing with many of the design decisions
now being made by the component supplier, especially the semiconductor manu-
facturer, while at the same time software, which requires a larger number
of skilled technicians and programmers, is overshadowing hardware as the
primary cost of ownership. This opens up new possibilities for advanced
developing countries like Korea.
2.19      In many ways, Korea, as a country, has the same problems as a com-
pany in trying to address the electronics industry of the future. There are
finite limits to the rate at which it: can acquire technology, train manpower
and dedicate financial resources.  As a result, it has to focus its efforts
in order to match its electronics goals to its resources.
C.   The Korean Electronics Industry
1.   Evolution and Past Performance
2.20      Korea's electronics industry was established in the early 60s as an
import substitution industry based oni the assembly of radios and other consumer
goods. It gained momentum in the 70s spurred by foreign direct investment,
joint ventures with foreign firms, and the growth of domestic firms. Its
recent performance is illustrated in the following table.



- 12 -
Korea: Growth of Electronics Industry
(Current US$ Millions)
% Average
Annual
1970     1972      1974      1977      Growth 70-77
Production (A)                  106       208      814      1,758            49
Exports (B)                      55       142      518      1,108            54
Imports (C)                      83       179      446        847            40
Export Ratio % (B/A)             52        68       64         63
Import Ratio % (C/A)             78        86       55         48
% of World Production           0.2       0.3      1.1       1.6
Source: Fine Instruments Center (FIC), Korea
Production and exports have increased at average annual rates of 49% and 54%
respectively between 1970-77. The industry has also become increasingly more
important to Korea's economy and, in 1977, accounted for 11% of the nation's
total exports and employed over 140,000 persons. By international standards,
however, it is still very small, accounting in 1977 for about 1.6% of world
electronics production.
2.21      This growth has been based on:  (i) abundance of highly skilled,
disciplined, and literate labor at wages about one-tenth and one-sixth of
corresponding wages in the US and Japan; (ii) the Government's efforts in
providing sound basic infrastructure (transportation, communication, power,
etc.); and (iii) an aggressive and balanced development strategy embodied in
the Foreign Capital Inducement Law and the Electronics Industry Promotion Law.
The Inducement Law offers a competitive incentive package for export oriented
enterprises and has attracted a large amount of foreign investment into the
electronics industry. The Promotion Law further extends these incentives, as
was done for other key industries, such as the machinery industry.
2.   Output Composition and Structure of Industry
2.22      As can be expected in view of Korea's labor advantage, the country's
electronics production growth has been based on labor intensive consumer
products, primarily audio-systems and black and white TVs, and conventional
components, such as transistors and capacitors. Entry into the semiconductor
field has been limited to assembly of semiconductor devices, and has been
followed by domestic manufacture by one Korean company (Samsung Semiconductor).
Attempts at penetrating the industrial market have largely been limited to
simple telecommunications equipment for the domestic market. Korea's product
composition is shown in the following table relative to that of Japan and the
US.  The data is presented on a value added basis.



- 13 -
Korea: Comparative Composition of Electronic Production - 1977
(Current US$ Millions)
US                    Japan                    Korea
Value       _        Value           %         Value
Consumer           8,119      15.0       8,584          38.2        679       38.6
Industrial        36,703      67.7       7,263          32.3        185       10.5
Components a/      9,409      17.3       6,612          29.5        578       32.9
Semiconductor
Assembly b/       -           -          -              -         316       18.0
Total    54,231    100.0       22,459         100.0      1,758       100.0
a/   In Korea US$562 million (or 94%) is attributable to non-semiconductor
components, as against much smaller proportions in the US and Japan.
b/   Semiconductor component assembly has no counterpart in US or Japan.
Source: Industry journals and FIC (Korea)
2.23      The table illustrates several aspects of Korea's electronics indus-
try. Korea, like Japan, has emphasized consumer products, reflecting an
export oriented strategy, while the US; production is largely directed towards
industrial use based on its dominance of the computer market and a more
broadly developed industrial electroniLcs sector. The variation among the
three countries in percentage output resulting from component manufacture is
also important. The high percentage iin Korea, particularly if assembly of
semi-conductor components is included., reflects a focus on the labor inten-
sive, low technology end of the industry. The low percentage in the US on the
other hand reflects, both the shift of these activities to offshore locations
and a large proportion in the production of complex machines, such as computer
mainframes, where a high percentage of value derives from engineering rather
than from manufacturing.
2.24      The structure of the Korean industry can also be related to the size
of its firms, as shown in the following table, and its product composition.
Korea: Structure of Electronics Industry - 1978
Production
Employees           Number of Establishments          Jan. - June 1978
1970           1978
Number  %    Number  %           US$ million      %
over 2,000           4       3     17      2            426.2         39
1,000 - 2,000           3       2     30      4            170.3         16
500 - 1,000           9       5     62      9            117.8         11
100 -   500          41      23    294    42             274.7         25
below 100         118      67    304    43              95.0          9
Total            175    100    707   100            1,084.0        100



- 14 -
Industry growth has been accompanied by a large increase in the number of
electronics companies, from 184 to 691 between 1970-77 and to 707 by mid-78.
The size of the firms also increased significantly. By mid-78 about 57% of
the firms employed over 100 persons, compared to only 33% in 1970. These
firms now account for over 90% of the industry's output. Of these 707 firms,
495 are domestic operations, 168 are joint ventures with foreign firms, and 44
are wholly owned subsidiaries of foreign firms. In terms of output value, the
domestic firms accounted in 1977 for about 40% of total Korean production, the
joint venture firms for 22%, and the foreign companies for the remaining 38%.
The local firms comprise a number of large companies (such as Gold Star,
Taihan, Samsung, and the Oriental Precision Company (OPC)) and principally
small operations with less than 200 employees. The joint ventures are gener-
ally intermediate in size averaging several hundred employees, and the subsi-
diaries owned by world industry leaders (such as Fairchild, Motorola and
American Microsystems (US), Toshiba (Japan), Signetics (owned by Phillips,
Netherlands)) are large ranging between several hundred and several thousand
employees. The handful of large Korean companies and some medium sized joint
ventures dominate the consumer and industrial end-product markets with the
production and assembly of audio-systems, TVs, telecommunication products
and, in a single case, minicomputers. The small local companies cater to the
non-semiconductor component market domestically and for export. The large
wholly owned foreign subsidiaries are principally engaged in, and account for
the bulk of semiconductor component assembly, almost entirely for re-export
to their parent corporations.
3.   Exports and Imports
2.25      The structure of Korea's electronics exports and imports is shown
in the following table.
Korea: Structure of Electronics Exports and Imports - 1977
(Current US$ Millions)
Exports                    Imports
Value           %          Value             %
Consumer                         437        39.5              76           9.0
Industrial                       103         9.3            122           14.4
Non-semiconductor Comp.          263         23.7            563          66.5
Semiconductor Components         305        27.5             86           10.1
Total                    1,108        100.0            847          100.0
Source: FIC (Korea)
Components, followed closely by consumer end-products, are Korea's largest
exports. Components also constitute its largest import suggesting a narrow
domestic product base. Furthermore, despite a large volume of domestic output
of certain products, others are not locally available and must continue to be
imported.



-- 15 -
2.26      The geographical breakdown of Korea's exports and imports, shown in
the following table, illustrates the country's dependence on Japan and the US,
particularly for its imports with a somewhat broader distribution of its exports.
The import reliance on Japan and the US is indicative of its technological
links with these countries and Korea's continued dependence on its sources of
technology for its component needs.
Korea: Breakdown of Korea's Exports/Imports of Electronics - 1977
Destination/Source                 Exports                  Imports
USA                                  45                       34
Japan                                22                       55
Europe                               17                        6
Others                               16                        5
100                     100
Source: FIC (Korea)
4.   Industry Weaknesses
2.27      The direction of growth of Korea's electronics industry, discussed
above, has been influenced by several constraints. First, a high cost of
capital and a corresponding desire for a high return on investment, has dis-
couraged approaches requiring large investments in areas such as product or
process development, which typically would have resulted in high and prolonged
amortization of costs. Second, the lack of knowledge about product design
trends and of experienced design personnel has encouraged Korean companies
to seek and rely on products designed elsewhere and proven in world markets.
Third, the absence of required production and other support services has fur-
ther discouraged entry into new areas such as semiconductor manufacture. Of
the broad range of functions performed by the "semiconductor service industry"
in other countries, Korea has acquired competence only in assembly. Fourth,
the newness of Korea as an electronics producer has precluded it from having
an extensive distribution system. This lack has forced reliance on foreign
wholesale distributors, which has kept Korean companies away from the ulti-
mate markets and denied them direct knowledge of market trends.
2.28      The above factors have combined to push the development of the Korean
industry in the direction of minimal own development, product design, and
marketing. The industry has favored receiving licenses for proven and mature
product designs, particularly Japanese, leaving sales activities to others.
There is, however, an increase in independent marketing efforts lately in
consumer goods, such as TVs, particularly in Europe and in developing country
markets. In summary, therefore, despite its impressive growth, the Korean
electronics industry, by comparison to that of advanced countries, generally
lacks breadth and depth in design, technology and marketing.



- 16 -
D.   Development Plans for the Korean Electronics Industry
2.29      The Fourth Five Year Plan (1977-81) for the electronics industry
calls for US$4.7 billion in production and US$3.0 billion of exports by 1981
(in current dollars). The latter is one fifth of the country's export target
for that year. The achievement of these targets is essential to Korea's
ability to maintain its overall growth momentum, and therefore it has to
expand exports, on which further growth, to a large extent, is based. The
Government and industry plan to achieve these ambitious targets by bringing
the composition of Korean electronics production by 1986 closer to the com-
position now existing in the Japanese industry (para 2.22). This would be
done by concentrating on the development of industrial electronics primarily
for the domestic market, continuing emphasis on consumer electronics as a
major export, backward integration into raw materials and components required
by end-product manufacturers, and the development of a broad technological
base. While the achievement of these targets would bring the Korean elec-
tronics industry by 1981 up to the scale of Japan's electronics industry about
a decade ago (1967), by present standards, the Korean output will remain
relatively small. It would account for only around 3% of the total world
production up from 1.6% presently (para 2.20). The Korean share of the
electronics world trade (excluding shipments between West European markets)
would be about 6% compared to about 40% each for the US and Japan. In the
semiconductor field, which is the project's primary emphasis, Korea's share in
world production and exports is expected to be around 2 and 3% respectively.
In the digital systems area, it would be even less significant.
2.30      The worldwide shift within the consumer electronic sector from the
developed to the developing countries on the basis of lower production costs,
the rapid growth of industrial electronics, together with the technological
trend toward vertically integrated operations, principally confirms the
soundness of the Korean development plan in its new direction and emphasis.
The technology for a large segment of consumer goods, such as for monochrome
television sets and radios, is relatively mature, and Korea has only to attain
a moderate degree of development capability to incorporate the necessary
improvements in these products. Domestic component manufacture could then
be shifted away from the present focus on exports, and be geared to meet the
component needs of consumer goods manufacturers. This would increase Korean
value added in electronics output and reduce the present reliance on component
imports (para 2.25).
2.31      The desire to shift emphasis in component manufacture is prompted
by the evolving semiconductor and particular LSI circuit technology. These
technologies are fast replacing non-semiconductor components and labor inten-
sive assembly of discrete semiconductor components (which now account for all
of Korea's component output). In about 10 years, semiconductors are expected
to account for as much as 12-15% of final product manufacturing cost in
advanced countries compared to a current 6-8%, through the increased use of
LSIs thereby reducing the labor component used in assembly operations. Fur-
thermore, because of its rapidly increasing wages, Korea will be facing stiff
competition from other developing countries in the shrinking labor intensive
assembly operations. Similarly, the emphasis on industrial electronics
reflects the fact that this is expected to be the fastest growth area in
electronics in the next 20-30 years.



- 17 -
2.32      A large part of the conventional technology required for this
development can be readily obtained through licensing agreements or joint
venture operations within the existing Korean incentive framework. The
development of a technological base in the semiconductor and the digital
systems fields, which as noted have become the backbone of the electronics
industry, will however require special attention and effort. Consequently,
the following sections will review the prospects and development strategy
for the semiconductor and digital systems industries in Korea.
E.   The Semiconductor and Digital Systems Industries in Korea
1.   Semiconductors
2.33      The consumption of semiconductors in Korea's electronics products
was US$60-70 million in 1977; of these only US$16 million was produced by
the sole Korean manufacturer, Samsung Semiconductor (para 2.22), and by one
foreign company, the rest were imported from the US and Japan. In addition,
about US$60 million worth of semiconductors was imported by assembly houses
for assembly and re-export. The demand for semiconductors in Korea in the
next few years can be expected to grow, in physical terms, by more than 40%
per year well above the projected growth rate (27%) of electronic products as
a whole. Most Korean products are based on dated designs and incorporate only
part of the full IC potential. The introduction of new products, which must
be preceded by more design, will further increase the demand for ICs beyond
the average growth rate of the electronics industry. Depending on the pace of
technological change introduced by the industry and the effort by the Govern-
ment to attract leading foreign companies to Korea to establish joint ventures
with local firms , the domestic demand for semiconductors is expected to range
between US$240-300 million by 1981, corresponding to 5-7% of the value of
total target electronic production (compared to the 6-8% in advanced countries
presently). An export market for Korean made semiconductors may be expected,
which might increase this figure.
2.   Digital Systems
2.34      In digital systems, Korea has no capabilities in the computer main-
frame and small/medium computer area and none is expected in the foreseeable
future. In the minicomputer area, it has indigenously completed one project
which is equivalent in complexity to the development of a minicomputer -- a
private branch telephone exchange (PBX) communication system. There is one
minicomputer manufacturer in Korea carrying out what is primarily an integra-
tion of imported processors and peripherals into systems. Foreign competition
is strong and able to offer a leasing alternative, thus significantly con-
straining the prospects of the local manufacturer. The microcomputer, which
is the fastest growing digital systems area, is the most promising field for
Korea, and a number of end-equipment manufacturers have already been estab-
lished and others are also considering the development of indigenous micro-
processor based products including add-on peripherals (paras 2.11 and 2.13)
such as terminals and key-entry systems. Scarcity of adequately trained
digital system designers, long lead times on prototype parts, lack of software



- 18 -
development tools, testing and other basic services such as supply of two-
sided printed circuit boards (PCBs) have constrained these programs. These
problems are, however, not insurmountable, and the industry could grow rapidly
in response to the expected strong growth in demand and increased availability
of trained programmers. With the active support from a technological infra-
structure (design service, etc.) and an active effort to attract joint
ventures, production in Korea of small digital systems could increase from
virtually nil to about US$50 million by 1982.
F.   Development Strategy
2.35      The acquisition and development of semiconductors and digital
systems technology is essential if Korea is to develop a viable electronic
industry. The timing is also opportune. In the semiconductor industry, the
rapid growth is prompting companies in advanced countries to look at the
possibility of establishing overseas manufacturing facilities for relatively
mature technology such as low- and medium- complexity semiconductors so as to
concentrate their scarce and expensive manpower on more advanced technologies,
products, and markets (para 2.16).   The markets for products based on these
relatively mature technologies are expected to continue to be sizable, though
not growing as rapidly as those based on the latest technologies. Facilities
to cater to these markets and thus fill the gap created by companies in
advanced countries moving out of these areas, are expected to be established
in developing countries, such as Taiwan, the Philippines, and Korea. This
trend is already in evidence in Korea. Samsung, presently the sole Korean
semiconductor manufacturer, is expanding operations in assQciation with a US
manufacturer. Toshiba (Japan) is expanding its Korean operations in semi-
conductor manufacture. American Microsystems International (US) has also
formed a joint venture in this area with Goldstar. A number of other world
industry leaders (such as Motorola, Fairchild, National Semiconductor, all
of the US) are discussing joint venture possibilities in Korea. As further
evidence of this interest, a number of these companies have started or are
considering training Korean engineers in their plants. This is likely to
considerably simplify and facilitate Korea's task of acquiring the required
technologies.
2.36      Potentially, Korea has a significant cost advantage in a number
of semiconductor and microprocessor applications areas over advanced countries.
As shown in the table below, estimates of the cost of manufacturing a typical
medium complexity semiconductor wafer amount to about 65% of the equivalent
cost in the US, assuming equal yields and reasonable production volume.
Korea's advantage is based on low cost skilled labor and engineering re-
sources which results in a close to 5 to 1 differential in the categories of
direct and indirect labor, and overhead. Thus, once yield competitiveness is
achieved, Korea can be expected to have a real price advantage even after
allowing for cost of technology purchase and training.



- 19 -
Comparison of Manufacturing Costs
of a Semiconductor Wafer in the US and Korea
U.S.    Korea
(US$/Wafer)
Starting Material (3" wafer)             5.0       5.5
Photo-Masks                              2.5        2.8
Chemicals, Gases, Water                  3.0       3.3
Direct Labor                             5.0        1.0
Indirect Labor                           2.0       0.5
Overhead                                12.6       2.7
Equipment Depreciation                   5.0       5.5
Sub-total                         35.1       21.3
Total (with 20% yield loss)        43.9      26.6
2.37      In the systems area, the introduction of the microprocessor has
opened a broad range of untapped opportunities that will increasingly require
a large number of skilled programmers and digital system designers. A large
consumer equipment segment can provide a large domestic market for micro-
processors and also allow equipment manufacturers to significantly upgrade
their products, for example by introducing microprocessor-based digital
tuning systems into audio and video products. The growing importance of
microcomputers and software (paras 2.12, 2.13, and 2.16) will increasingly
require large numbers of digital systems designers and skilled programmers.
In these price competitive areas, where engineering accounts for a substantial
proportion of the manufacturing cost, Korea has a potential large comparative
advantage, based on wage levels that are much lower than those in the US,
Japan, and Europe.
2.38      In pursuing these opportunities, the choice of the proper technology
and of the methods of technology acquisition is of paramount importance. The
development and diffusion of the semiconductor industry in the US, Europe and
Japan, can provide Korea with some insight. The spectacular growth of the US
industry is attributd to a number of factors among which are the considerable
R&D effort (10% of sales), direct support from the US Government and avail-
ability of venture capital that has enabled scientist/entrepreneurs to start
their own firms. An equally important factor in the diffusion and spread of
know-how has been the rapid movement of people within the industry and exchange
of information through cross licensing. This has enabled US firms to comple-
ment each other and to quickly absorb the technologies required for different
stages of manufacturing (circuit design and layout, mask making, various
stages of diffusion, ion implantation) and to concentrate on systems design,
process and market development. Equally important has been the large network
of specialized services companies that has emerged to support all stages of
development of the industry (equipment manufacture, integrated circuit design
and layout, mask-making, wafer-fabrication, IC testing, assembly, and general
consulting).



- 20 -
2.39      In Europe, foreign subsidiaries of US multinational corporations
have provided the mechanism for the swift diffusion of technology and have
captured a substantial share of the European market. To efficiently compete
with US firms, European firms more recently have narrowed their field of
operations primarily to consumer electronics with a high, though relatively
stable, technology content and have spread the cost risk and effort among
themselves by joint research and development programs. Recently, the UK has
initiated several programs amounting to over US$300 million to encourage
development of the microelectronics industry. Japan acquired its technology
principally through licensing supported by training, and shared development
efforts among Japanese companies.
2.40      With the advent of LSI technology, the traditional technology
diffusion process is undergoing a drastic change. Licensing alone is losing
its effectiveness as a mechanism for acquiring the latest technologies. The
progress of LSI circuits has now given the US over 60% of the market. To
bridge the technological gap in the electronics field in Japan, the Ministry
of International Trade and Industry (MITI) encouraged the large computer firms
to reorganize into two VLSI (very large scale integration) research teams
(Fujitsu-Hitachi-Mitsubishi and Nippon Electric-Toshiba Electric). MITI, the
perennial matchmaker, is footing half the research bill (estimated at around
US$500 million equivalent), and has established an electronics RD&E laboratory
to assist the rest of the industry.
2.41      The experience of the semiconductor and systems industries suggests
that the most effective way of transferring technology has been through
training and the continuous exchange of people and information from expert to
expert. This is best done when the supplier of technology has a continuous
interest in providing his know-how to the technology recipient. This situa-
tion exists in carefully conceived joint venture arrangements, which comple-
ment basic strengths of the parties involved and also pertains to manufactur-
ing contracts where the recipient gets his technology as a package in return
for supply of reliable and price competitive products. By contrast, licensing
arrangements alone, which are largely based on patents and do not include
transfer of technological and manufacturing know-how and possible market
links, have been less effective.
2.42      The difficulty in obtaining technology through licensing is par-
ticularly severe where the recipient lacks an established technological base.
It is further accentuated by the rapid pace of technological change in the
electronics industry, and the need therefore to quickly enter a market before
a product either becomes obsolete or competition so strong that product prices
decrease to a level where they are no longer attractive. In these instances,
the technology recipient lacks the capability to keep pace with developments
in the licensed technology and perennially lags behind competition. Accord-
ingly, to acquire a technological base rapidly, a number of European and
Japanese companies, in the last few years, have purchased part or all of
US companies. Similarly, an increasing number of leading US companies are
entering into cooperative RD&E arrangements among themselves to share the risk
and benefit of the increasing cost of research in advanced technology areas.



- 21 -
2.43      The  preceding discussion suggests that Korea has to concentrate
initially on a few technologies that allow upgrading of the design and reli-
ability of existing products, and at the same time permit entry into new areas
where Korea has an emerging competitve advantage (paras 2.36 and 2.37). In
addition to ensuring focus on these technologies and products, Korea has to
attract foreign companies that are technology leaders, and can provide Korea
with a continuous inflow of know-how in new areas, where these leaders are
already investigating possibility of securing sources in low-cost off-shore
locations (para 2.35). Even then, the: effort will require substantial design
and manufacturing know-how as well as an expensive infrastructure beyond the
individual capabilities and resources of Korean or joint venture firms.
Accordingly, direct Government intervention, such as in the US and Japan, is
needed to stimulate, complement, and support the effort of the industry. The
cooperation of industry, research institutions, and Government in formulating
and financing a development program is essential. It is expected that these
ingredients can be brought together in, Korea.
2.44      A major focus of this Government support in Korea would be to provide
the necessary infrastructure and specialized services until such time that the
size of the industry reaches a critical mass which can sustain a profitable
supply of such services. A central facility providing these services could
also be used for on-the-job training to complement the training of Korea's
engineering undergraduate universities and the professional graduate programs
of the Korean Advanced Institute of Science (KAIS).
2.45      The Korean Government has devised a balanced financial incentive
system for RD&E (as embodied in the Technology Development Promotion Law,
para 2.21). However, in view of the perceived high risks associated with the
rapidly changing electronics technology, the requirement of a relatively large
amount of capital and the present small size of the local market, Korean com-
panies have been reluctant to make significant investments in RD&E. Accord-
ingly, direct Government participation in financing and sharing in the cost of
research, development and engineering, as has been successfully demonstrated
particularly in the US and Japan, can effectively spread the costs of these
activities across a number of individu,al companies and catalyze an effective
program of development in technologies, new to Korea.
2.46      The proposed project will combine these elements, and be an impor-
tant vehicle for Government support tc the electronics industry. It will
provide industry with up-to-date specialized services that cannot be provided
by individual companies thus promoting development into new areas by creating
the environment necessary to attract a,nd assist joint-venture and domestic
companies. It will serve as a focal point for the initial transfer of ad-
vanced technologies to the Korean industry, including required training. It
will manage an RD&E fund and share with the industry the cost and benefits of
RD&E work in areas where Korea can compete effectively in the world market and
upgrade the capabilities of a significant segment of the electronics industry.
Korean industry, which has been directly involved in preparing and formulating
the proposed project, has demonstrated strong support for these objectives.



- 22 -
III. THE KOREA INSTITUTE OF ELECTRONICS TECHNOLOGY (KIET)
A.   Evolution
3.01      KIET was established in December 1976 under the Specific Research
Institute Promotion Law. Under this law, KIET is an institute of the Govern-
ment of the Republic of Korea responsible to the Ministry of Commerce and
Industry. Its creation reflects a significant commitment by the Government
to establish a technological base in the electronics industry. Its charter
includes a broad range of functions in the field: planning and coordination
of RD&E; technology acquisition, development and dissemination; direct ser-
vices to industry; and market research and development. KIET is an outgrowth
of the Semiconductor Development and Systems Units, which were established
within the Korea Institute of Science and Technology (KIST) in 1974, as
small-scale research laboratories for projects in wafer fabrication and
systems development. The Bank has played an important role in developing
KIET. KIET's orientation has been modified from that of a relatively isolated
research facility to a service and development organization. It is now
capable of catering directly to industry requirements by providing essential
support services, undertaking RD&E activities for industry, and introducing
and developing new technologies in a production-oriented environment.
3.02      KIET's efforts so far have focused on the recruitment and training
of its staff, and preparation for its development into a functioning institute.
A UNDP project (para 1.07), with the Bank as executing agency, has been vital
to this effort. The project provided US$400,000 for: the appointment of a
technical advisor and several short-term consultants to KIET for both project
preparation and start-up of KIET's US liaison office; architectural/engineer-
ing assistance in the design of KIET's semiconductor building; and, training
of KIET staff.
B.   Role and Functions of KIET
3.03      KIET will act as a catalyst in the technological development of
Korea's electronics industry into the semiconductor and digital systems areas.
KIET's role, which has been planned in conjunction with industry represen-
tatives to maximize responsiveness to industry's needs, is illustrated in the
chart below. Primarily, it will focus on critical functions that are either
beyond the current technological capabilities of industry or cannot be under-
taken profitably in view of the present size of the industry, but are vitally
needed for its development.



- 23 -
KIET: Role in Semiconductor and Systems Industries
SEMICONDUCTOR
Markets      Market     Product Opportunit  Prodit_ r  IneraeCict   Mask =
Consumer  |  Infotmatien  L  drntificatier  Dns,1gn      Design     Making       M aterials 
InMustrkal                                _       _S-
Cummue ice ion 
C.                                           ADDITIONAL SUPPORT
Aee,sn to Equipment
S-uppY of Printed
iCircai Boards
Macnina Shcic Pacilitie
Tra-- ig
0    Mark ting  _   Ouality  [   r    Packaging  I   [   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ Nafer   < _r Cryttal 
li.. ~S- o 1-1        _Tt           Pa            Orpwing
DIGITAL SYSTEMS
Software       Suren  ,  , ;  r-are
De __ice       Deueuopirenc  |attin
Markets   X7 /                         
Small Digital  Markats              
Systemt     Oppocrtunity       i  KIET  |Marketing                     Marketn
Myst.-      leasId-t ticasion
Cmputers                                                                        ADDITIONAL SUPPORT
Technoiogy Aqu,sinian-Tras-fer
SuPple fi Gat-/M.ak Materials
r   Hatdware  j Harciware  .-_  l Hardavare  |  _   Daulity  l    Equipment Seryices
Otig         Ortomn        Pr&uei        Assuranee r               Training
Prototype- Build ing
These functions include:
(i) Production Support Services such as custom design of semi-conductor
ICs and digital systems; supply of process inputs--masks, wafers, printed
circuit boards (PCBs), and pure gases; testing, quality assurance and control;
equipment services; training; and matrket research and analysis. KIET will
have the capabilities of the "service industry", which performs these functions
on a specialized basis in the US (para 2.38). In providing these services
however, KIET will perform a function different from that performed by commer-
cial services companies. In light of the present stage of development of
Korean industry KIET will emphasize the diffusion of manufacturing know-how
aimed at building domestic technological capability. Thus, unlike the US
service industry which provides the above services in long production runs,
KIET in many instances will provide them for only a short period of time
followed by trouble-shooting and backup support, particularly in the early
stages of production. Further as part of the service function, KIET will
emphasize the education and training of industry personnel. As a development
institution it will provide a continuously advancing mix of services to
spearhead the pace of industry's development. Easy access to these services
in Korea is expected not only to encourage small and large companies to enter
these industries, but also help atttact potential joint-venture operations to
the country; and



- 24 -
(ii) Product and Process Development focusing on areas where Korea can
compete effectively in world markets, such as ICs for consumer applications
(clocks, audio-equipment, TV, and household appliances), and software/hardware
for small digital systems (numerical and process controls, communication
systems, micro- and minicomputers, and terminals). Major development projects,
such as the development of an advanced color TV and a microcomputer will be
executed under the RD&E program. KIET will share the risks and benefits
of these projects with industry sponsors.
3.04      The combination of service and development functions distinguishes
KIET from conventional research institutes. Another feature of KIET is that
it will carry out its semiconductor process development work on production
equipment. This arrangement is normal in the semiconductor industry, and
significantly reduces the lead time and costs associated with transferring
research results to a production setting in industry. It will also enable
KIET to undertake production of wafers, both, as a means of acquiring process
technology from selected overseas companies in return for reliable supply of
product (wafers), and as a means of developing manufacturing know-how, which
can subsequently also be transferred to local industry. This production-cum-
market-development function is expected to be particularly useful to industry,
since unlike most research institutes, KIET could then assist industry in the
critical early stages of commercialization, beyond the research and develop-
ment stage. KIET's basic principle of operation in its production of wafers
will be to directly assist and serve industry and not compete with it. It
intends to work with technologies perceived as too risky by industry initi-
ally and limit production to serve as a temporary back-up "second source",
once production has been transferred to industry. As reliable domestic supply
of a product is assured, KIET will discontinue its production and redirect
its resources to other required technologies.
C.   Location
3.05      KIET is located temporarily in Seoul, and is using semiconductor
facilities at KIST for training and staff development. KIET will move to
a semiconductor-systems industrial estate in Gumi in 1980 (see below). Gumi,
around 200 km southwest of Seoul (Map IBRD 14069), is already a major center
of electronics assembly operations in Korea, and with the development of the
semiconductor-systems estate, it would effectively become the base for the
bulk of the country's electronics activity. Site preparation and civil works
for KIET's facilities are already underway at Gumi and are expected to be
completed by the end of 1979. In addition to KIET, the estate is planned to
eventually house 12 semiconductor and 16 systems companies, with a projected
total employment of around 9,000 persons. Access to KIET resources and
services is expected to act as a major incentive in attracting comRanies to
the estate; some major electronics companies have already acquired sites.
D.   Organization
3.06      The Board of Directors of KIET comprises 12 regular directors, an
honorary director and an auditor. Four of the directors are drawn directly
from the Government, and represent the Economic Planning Board (EPB), and the



-- 25 -
Ministries of Commerce and Industry (MCI); Science and Technology (MOST);
and Communication (MOC). Two other directors, the President of KIET and the
President of the Electronics Industr, Association of Korea are ex-officio
members. The remaining directors are selected for a four-year term from
industry, universities and foreign assistance organizations. The Board
presently includes top executives of five large private electronics companies.
The significant representation of both Government and industry in the policy-
making function is designed to ensure consistency with Government policies and
responsiveness to industry requirements.
3.07      The President of KIET reports directly to the Board, and is respon-
sible for implementing the policies esstablished by it. He is appointed by
the Board for a term of four years (extendable by one more term), subject to
the approval of MCI. The present President of KIET is Dr. S.J. Hahn, who was
formerly President of KIST for six years (1972-77). Dr. Hahn is a capable
scientist and administrator who has contributed significantly to the develop-
ment of KIST; he is widely respected in both Government and industry circles,
and well known outside Korea. His sitature will be particularly important in
continuing to attract experienced and talented professionals to KIET.
3.08      The organization of KIET is shown in the following chart.
KIET: Organization
L Bend of Di-wrctnO
Vice Pident  Vice Presnt  I   VicePresidInI
DOeign    Stmiconductor .   S;sses  l
IC  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~  ~   ~  ~   P'it4                     I -Psc. and
ICDesign  l   Procese    StntsPoetN Dnl eintnnt  Aminstrt     Accou___nting
Mask.nmaking    |Pr NOcS les  DeveoopmenOt    l   clrno Economic  | L Prnitnnnel l
D  nontor  l_                                      Analy-sis  and General Affairs|
-| Developntent  l  Planning !
Engminceing &h  Q uality A."unnsce  | _ Educetion and
Utility Service    and Caneno  linfonmetion   -   nomto       rcrmn 
ndiepenoent anit for FPnance enC Accounting to be estabished cogsv a Director by thre end ot Juon. 1 BIb



- 26 -
It reflects an "engineering service" rather than a "research" orientation.
KIET is organized as a service operation along the three major functional
lines: semiconductor design, semiconductor processes and systems. Each of
these groups is managed by a Vice President, who is responsible for planning,
executing, and monitoring the service and RD&E activities in his area. The
three incumbent Vice Presidents have significant academic training and indus-
trial experience in the US in their respective fields and are capable of
directing KIET's primary activities. The Vice President-Design will be
responsible for IC design, the related area of mask-making, and also for
testing, quality assurance and control, engineering and utility services; the
Vice President-Semiconductor Processes, for all wafer fabrication and process-
ing activities; and, the Vice President-Systems, for all systems-related
activity including training and advisory services to industry. The RD&E
program will also be executed within these functional lines and be under the
control of an RD&E Review Committee (para 4.26). The three Vice-Presidents
together with the President will be responsible for coordinating KIET activ-
ities. Senior management will be assisted by a reputable technical advisor
and short-term consultants (presently being financed under the UNDP Project).
The technical advisor has played an important role in training and project
formulation and is expected to continue to provide necessary guidance. Since
this is critical in supplementing KIET management's capabilities, KIET has
agreed to retain at least through the end of 1982, a technical advisor, whose
experience and qualificatons are acceptable to the Bank.
3.09      The activities of the three operational divisions are supported
by three staff groups: Administration, Project Development, and the-liaison
office in the US. The Administration section is presently responsible for
functions such as finance, personnel and procurement. In view of the com-
plex financial and accounting requirements related to KIET operations and
RD&E, a strong financial capability is regarded as essential. Accordingly,
KIET has agreed to establish a separate financial department under an indepen-
dent Director by the end of June 1979. The Project Development group will
conduct market research, analyze the products and technologies to be developed
by KIET, and coordinate the preparation of planning and policy documents for
the Government.
3.10      The US liaison office was established in the San Francisco Bay area
(known as Silicon Valley to reflect the concentration of semiconductor activ-
ity) in early 1978, to perform a broad range of important functions. The
office is staffed by a permanent Director guided by the technical advisor
(para 3.08) and a pool of technical staff on assignment from KIET. In the
implementation phase, the office will assist KIET in procuring equipment,
key technologies, special materials and supplies. It is also expected to
maintain close contact with major electronics activity-centers in the US and
Europe, and assist both Korean industry and KIET in market- and technology-
related areas (contact with Japan would be maintained directly from Korea).
In view of the rapid response required in the electronics field, an ability
to respond quickly to industry and KIET requests, particularly with regard
to purchasing spares, materials and supplies, is vital to the office's success



- 27 -
in fulfilling its role. Present administrative procurement procedures re-
quire ratification of each individual bid by the Korean Government and prior
approval of each purchase, and leacd to substantial unnecessary delays.
The Government has agreed to work with KIET to develop simplified procedures
to enable quick and efficient procurement.
E.   Coordination with Industry
3.11      As noted, a close working relationship among Korean industry,
Government, and KIET is critical to KIET's success. At the policy level,
interaction between industry, Government, and KIET is incorporated into the
structure of the Board. In addition, three working groups (with a composition
given below) have been established during project preparation to ensure KIET's
responsiveness to industry needs. Industry representatives in the groups have
been particularly enthusiastic and clearly foresee KIET's usefulness to them.
These groups have contributed significantly to project design and preparation
and are expected to continue to play a useful role through project implementa-
tion. The groups are the: (i) Facility Group comprising representatives of
industry, Government and KIET managrement to develop final plans for building
design and equipment selection; (ii) Work Program Group comprising represen-
tatives of industry and KIET management to jointly develop KIET's-initial
direction and program for service and RD&E activities; and (iii) Training
Group comprising representatives of- industry, the Korea Advanced Institute
of Science (KAIS), and KIET management to formulate KIET's training program,
which will also include industrial personnel as trainees. The latter two
groups will continue to meet through project operation to periodically review
KIET's work and training programs. At the professional level, links are
expected to be built through easy access for industry personnel to KIET staff;
cooperation in research teams, as provided for under the RD&E program; and
joint participation in training programs.
IV. THE PROJECT
A.   Objectives and Scope
4.01      The primary objective of the project is to stimulate the development
of a technological base in the Korean electronics industry to achieve the
planned high growth level. The proposed project aims to develop KIET to play
a central role in this growth, and accordingly to: (i) provide technological
infrastructure of essential production and support services; (ii) assist in
the required training and technica:L manpower development; (iii) lead the
industry in acquiring and developing semiconductor and systems technologies;
(iv) carry out RD&E for industry and share the financial risk of these activ-
ities with industry; and (v) explore and develop export market opportunities
for Korean electronics industry overseas.
4.02      The proposed project comprises the following two components:  (i)
Development of KIET: The project would finance (a) physical facilities for
KIET: land, buildings and ancilliary services; equipment; and specialized



- 28 -
utility and support systems; and, also (b) training, technical assistance and
technology acquisition; and (ii) RD&E Program: Funds would be provided to
finance RD&E projects carried out at KIET. These would include: primarily
industry-sponsored projects where KIET will share costs and benefits with the
sponsors; and a small proportion of longer-term projects initiated by KIET.
The sections below detail these two components of the project.
B.   Development of KIET
1.   Physical Facilities, Infrastructure, Raw Material Supply, Ecology
4.03      Land and Operational Buildings.  KIET will be located at a site
occupying 230,000 sq. m. in the Gumi semiconductor - systems estate. The
proposed layout of KIET facilities planned under the project is shown in
Annex 4-1.
4.04      All semiconductor-related activity including IC design, mask-making,
testing, and wafer fabrication will be concentrated in one building with a
working area of 8,700 sq. m. The design of the building is critical in view
of the special environmental requirements of semiconductor activity. It
incorporates special process systems to deliver: large amounts of power to
support processing temperatures as high as 1,200 C, large amounts of highly
conditioned air to maintain cleanliness and temperatures within tolerances of
1°C, special gases (primarily nitrogen, oxygen, hydrogen), and DI (deionized)
water. To transfer semiconductor building technology to Korea and to minimize
the foreign exchange cost of this transfer, the KIET building has been de-
signed jointly by a competent Korean firm and a leading US architectural/
engineering company responsible for many of the latest semiconductor buildings
in the US (the assistance was financed under the UNDP project, para 3.02).
The US company provided the overall design concept, is supervising detailed
engineering carried out by its Korean counterpart, and will also monitor
building construction. The building incorporates the most advanced techno-
logies, and is expected to provide at least 10-15 years of service without
serious modification; also the design permits easy internal rearrangement and
expansion of semiconductor capabilities. The building is expected to serve
as a model for Korean industry in planning its facilities. In view of its
critical nature, KIET has agreed not to undertake any major deviations from
agreed designs without prior Bank approval. For day to day supervision of
building construction, KIET plans to recruit a semiconductor facility expert
by March 1979; KIET has agreed to appoint and retain the expert for at least
until one year after the start-up of the semiconductor facility so that the
expert, besides supervising construction and installation of equipment, could
adequately train counterpart Korean staff.
4.05      A second building will combine administrative and systems activities
in a relatively conventional structure of around 4,000 sq. m. with some special
support equipment for climatic control for systems work.



-- 29 -
4.06      Support Facilities:  The project provides for a training center
for industry personnel at the KIET site, and the staff of the liaison office,
already established in California (para 3.10). A power substation and an
emergency generation system to assure an uninterrupted power supply to the
processing equipment at KIET will also be included. A utility plant will be
installed to provide for chemical and gas storage, air-handling and chilling
equipment, and a deionized water plant. Since hydrogen of the required purity
is not readily available and difficuLt to transport, a pure hydrogen generating
plant will also be provided.
4.07      Physical Infrastructure:  A road linking the estate (and therefore
KIET) to Gumi city has already been completed. Dormitories for around 90
single staff, and apartments for arotnd 60 families are also included in
the project (additionally, MCI has provided KIET with 40 apartment units in
Gumi for a 10-year period). There will also be dining facilities on site for
employees, industry trainees, and visitors. Further, the Government plans
to support the development of the semiconductor-systems estate through the
provision of educational facilities, including an electronics technical
school (which has already been located in the estate), housing, medical care
facilities, and adequate support systems.  The Government has agreed to
provide such infrastructure in line with the project schedule.  Since KIET is
one of 29 potential occupants of the estate, the proportion of the cost of
this Government-provided infrastructure attributable to KIET is negligible,
and has not been included in the analysis of the project.
4.08      Raw Material Supply:  A large proportion of the raw materials
required by KIET--wafer- and mask-blanks, special chemicals--will be imported
from overseas on a continuous basis; these materials are readily available.
Of the required gases, nitrogen and oxygen, are available in adequate quantity
and will be purchased locally, and purified on-site. Several bulk chemicals
will also be procured locally. Gumi is adequately connected by road with the
major sources of these supplies, particularly Seoul, which will be the entry
point for most imports.
4.09      Future Expansion:  The large area available at the KIET site allows
for significant future expansion of KIET. Tentative second phase expansion
plans include a separate testing center, and a separate computer hardware
laboratory. Expansion capability in the semiconductor area is already incor-
porated in the semiconductor building design (para 4.04). The need for ex-
pansion would be based on the performance of KIET under the project and will
require Bank approval (para 6.15).
4.10      Ecology:  KIET activities involve a number of corrosive chemicals
and toxic fumes and gases, in the semiconductor building. The building design
incorporates advanced techniques for collection and removal of these from the
work area to maintain an ultra-clean and safe working environment. The project
includes scrubbers for gaseous exhausts, an acid neutralization system, and
disposal systems for treating wastes from semiconductor and printed circuit
board (PCB) processing. Overall, the facility is designed to meet the latest
US environmental standards. KIET has agreed to implement and operate its
facilities in accordance with agreed ecological designs and standards.



- 30 -
2.   Technology Acquisition, Training and Manpower Development
4.11      The development of KIET's technological capability will be accom-
plished through a directed effort of manpower recruitment and training, and
technology acquisition. Experience in the electronics industry demonstrates
the effectiveness of training, and of association with a source of technology
that has a continuous interest in ensuring technology transfer to the reci-
pient, as methods of acquisition of technology. It also shows the limitations
of licensing alone as a means of acquiring technology (para 2.42). Accord-
ingly, for technology acquisition, the project emphasizes: (i) training of
staff, including on-the-job output-oriented experience in US, Japanese and
European companies; (ii) recruitment of staff and consultants with familiarity
and experience in the technologies selected; (iii) contractual production
and service arrangements with foreign firms in the selected technologies,
where KIET, as the contractor, receives the technology as part of the order
specifications in return for competitive and reliable supply of product/ser-
vices; (iv) purchase of advanced equipment (as part of its physical facili-
ties) that incorporates much of the technology, supplemented by training
provided by vendors of such equipment; and (v) purchase of technology in
highly specific cases. KIET is exploring a number of possibilities and
combinations along the above lines, as part of a continuous technology ac-
quisition effort. The technologies KIET will initially focus on are: the
linear bipolar processing technology for consumer applications and the NMOS
processing technology for systems and memory applications; IC design, mask-
making, testing, quality control and quality assurance (systems and pro-
cedures) know-how; and a range of systems hardware and software technologies.
Of these, the processing technologies (linear bipolar and NMOS) will most
likely be licensed. As noted (para 2.07), these are the dominant technologies
used by a number of semi-conductor companies around the world, and are ex-
pected to be available to KIET at reasonable cost. Funds for their purchase
have been provided in the project based on recent license fees. The arrange-
ments already concluded and being discussed are listed in Annex 4-2. Further
arrangements will be concluded in the coming years, on a continuous basis.
4.12      Training of staff is expected to be the most important means of
developing technological capability. A training program comprising three
major phases, supplemented by a continuous ongoing training effort at KIET,
is planned. These phases are: (i) basic training at the Korea Advanced
Institute of Science (KAIS), other Korean universities which offer programs
in electronics, and courses at KIET itself; (ii) overseas group and fellowship
training under formal training schemes in academic and industrial settings;
and (iii) on-the-job experience in overseas companies in selected techno-
logies. Industry participation will be invited and actively promoted in
all these programs. This is expected to serve the dual purpose of training
industry personnel and fostering close working relationships between KIET and
industry staff. Additionally, the project provides for attendance at inter-
national conferences and seminars and the invitation of foreign experts for
brief periods to conduct workshops/brief programs for industry and KIET
personnel. Supported by these programs, and a vigorous local and overseas



- 31 -
effort, total manpower at KIET is expected to reach around 700 persons by
1982. Annex 4-3 gives details of the staff build-up at KIET and its training,
conference-attendance and expert-invitation programs.
4.13      In view of the rapidly changing nature of electronics technology,
and accordingly Korean industry's and KIET's needs, the technology and man-
power requirements are expected to evolve continuously. Accordingly, KIET
will submit, during disbursement of the Bank loan, an annual technology
acquisition program along with the recommendations of its technical advisor
for Bank review and consultation (para 6.17). The training and expert
invitation programs will be similarly submitted for Bank review and approval.
Implementation of these programs will be monitored on a quarterly basis.
4.14      A key element in enabling KIET to attract and retain sufficient
numbers of qualified staff will be the compensation level which KIET, as a
Government institute, is permitted to provide. At present, KIET's salaries
and benefits are roughly comparable with industry, although industry salaries
are rising rapidly. In order to allow KIET to maintain employee compensation
at competitive levels, the Government has agreed to review the compensation
structure from time to time to maintain competitiveness, and to allow KIET to
reward employee performance through an incentive system. Further, KIET will,
by September 30, 1979, in consultation with the Bank, adopt and implement such
an incentive system.
3.   KIET's Service and Development Program
4.15      The facilities to be developed and the technological capability
established under the project will provide KIET with significant service
and development capabilities. KIET's program for these activities has been
developed in conjunction with industry representatives, and is summarized
below.
4.16      Services:  KIET will provide a central capability to perform a
broad range of services which in countries such as the US are provided through
a large network of service companies. This central capability will reduce the
initial investment requirement of companies entering these fields, and improve
their operating environment. KIET's services, largely expected to be avail-
able by early 1980, include: (i) Custom Design: KIET will design ICs and
small digital systems to meet specific requirements of individual companies.
For example, KIET might assist a TV-game manufacturer by redesigning the
existing IC to offer additional competitive options; (ii) Supply of Mask-sets,
Wafers, PCBs, and Gases: KIET will perform an import-substitution function
by domestically supplying mask-sets and wafers to semiconductor companies.
To assist small digital systems companies, KIET will produce special printed
circuit board (PCB) prototypes. Domestic supply of these critical inputs is
expected to significantly reduce turnaround times, provide cost-savings, and
also encourage the development of a domestic semiconductor industry. KIET
will also provide special gases, which are needed for semiconductor process-
ing, and are presently not available at required purity levels; (iii) Testing,
Quality Control and Assurance: KIET' will carry out electrical and environ-
mental testing of semiconductor devices and systems hardware. These services



- 32 -
are presently omitted or contracted in the US and Japan at very high costs.
KIET will also perform the related quality control and assurance function,
which is expected to provide a major benefit by improving product quality and
reliability; (iv) Equipment Services: KIET will provide industry with access
to its facilities for special processing such as ion-implantation, and will
incorporate and centrally offer an equipment maintenance and service cap-
ability; (v) Training: Training of industry personnel in both the semi-
conductor and systems areas will be one of KIET's major services. KIET will
operate a training center for industry, and offer short courses, seminars
and workshops supplemented by practical hands-on training. Training will be
conducted by KIET staff and the foreign experts to be invited periodically by
KIET (para 4.11); and (vi) Market Analysis: KIET, through its liaison office
and its Project Development group, will process market information and point
out export opportunities to industry. In this regard, it will also promote
Korean capabilities overseas.
4.17      Product and Process Development:  KIET's development activities
have been defined in a tentative 4-year program which is illustrated in
Annex 4-4. The program is being finalized, particularly for the systems
area, and will be submitted to the Bank for review and consultation no later
than June 30, 1979. The program focuses on proven product and process tech-
nologies which were selected on the basis of the following primary criteria:
(i) potential to enhance competitive position in existing products through
technology upgrading and local development of components that incorporate
improvements made possible by semiconductor technology; (ii) potential for
impact on broad segment of Korean electronics industry; (iii) relative stabil-
ity of process and product technologies; (iv) relative maturity of products
in their life cycle leading to demonstrated market acceptance and minimal
marketing requirements; (v) size of the domestic market, import substitution
and export potential; and (vi) capability of Korean industry to adapt the
selected technologies.
4.18      The program aims to adapt proven advanced technologies to upgrading
existing product capabilities and developing new product opportunities. More
specifically, in the semiconductor area, it focuses on both product and process
development for the domestic manufacture of ICs for consumer, industrial and
telecommunications applications. KIET will initially work on circuits that
are presently required in large volumes by Korean industry. These include
circuits for clocks, audio-systems, calculators, TVs, instrumentation and
control systems, and Korea's advanced telecommunication system. Of particular
significance is a program to improve capabilities in the manufacture of TVs
(Korea's most significant electronics export) by developing an advanced Korean
color TV through an expected cooperative effort among several local manufac-
turers and KIET. These efforts will be supported by the development of
processes for the manufacture of these circuits using linear bipolar techno-
logy. Subsequently, KIET intends to emphasize process development for digital
applications, such as the fabrication of microprocessor and memory chips,
using primarily the popular NMOS technology.
4.19       In the digital systems area, KIET is refining its present program
to better identify opportunities for Korean industry with the assistance of



- 33 -
consultants financed under the UNDP project (para 3.02). Presently, KIET
proposes to work initially on the development of an intelligent terminal,
key-entry systems and small digital systems at specific industry request.
In parallel, it will develop the required software for these applications.
Also, it will emphasize the development of a manufacturing capability in
two-sided printed circuit boards, which form the base of most digital systems
and are presently not available domestically. Subsequently, KIET will under-
take the development of controllers for peripheral devices used along with
computer systems, and a Korean microcomputer.
4.20      In line with its semiconductor process development program KIET
will undertake production of wafers for domestic supply, and initially also
for export on a limited contractual basis (para 3.04). Production is expected
to be limited to the most common linear bipolar and NMOS processes. KIET's
production of mask-sets and double-sided printed circuit boards is also
expected to reach a scale adequate to support domestic industry.
4.21      This development work will largely be carried out within the frame-
work of the RD&E program, which is discussed below.
C.   RD&E Program
1.   Purpose
4.22      The RD&E program will assist in financing both KIET and industry-
sponsored projects carried out in KIET's facilities for the development of
products, processes, and systems up to the final development stage. It will
not finance RD&E conducted by industry in-house. To ensure that research work
is closely tied to industry goals, the major proportion (about 70%) of the
research carried out in KIET's facilities will be required to have an industry
sponsor, who would contribute directly to research costs. In the initial
years, industry will contribute about 35% of the costs of industry-sponsored
projects. The balance would be provided by KIET and recovered from industry
through a system of royalties (para 4.27).  Industry's contribution to RD&E
costs under this risk-sharing arrange-ment is significantly higher than in
other countries involved in such efforts.  Research projects sponsored by
small and medium-sized firms will receive particular emphasis by KIET, which
is expected to allocate about 25% of its annual RD&E resources to this purpose
and to allow more liberal cost sharing arrangements with smaller firms (para
6.11). Industry's contribution to RI)&E project costs, as well as the percent-
age of industry-sponsored projects are expected to increase over time as
KIET's success in carrying out RD&E projects is demonstrated. Commercializa-
tion, production, and sale of the final research product will be the responsi-
bility of the industry sponsor. KIET, however, may undertake prototype
production until sufficient volumes are built up for transfer to industry
for large-scale production.
4.23      Detailed guidelines for KIET's RD&E operations are provided in
Annex 4-5. These have been adopted by KIET's Board of Directors and dis-
cussed and agreed to with industry. KIET will review any future substantive
changes in these guidelines with the Bank.



- 34 -
2.   Organization and Administration
4.24      Identification of suitable research projects in conjunction with
industry is the responsibility of KIET's management. An RD&E Review Committee
will be formed, chaired by the President of KIET and composed of KIET's three
operating Vice-Presidents, the Director of Project Development, and the
Director of Finance. The Committee, in consultation with KIET's technical
advisor and industry will, before the beginning of each fiscal year, review
and approve a 4-year research program consisting of a detailed research
program for the first year and an indicative program for the three subsequent
years. The 4-year program will be updated and reviewed by the Committee at
least quarterly. This approach is expected to ensure the coordination and
integration of the research efforts of KIET's three operating divisions and
provide a focus to the research efforts of KIET overall.
3.   Monitoring of RD&E
4.25      Close monitoring of KIET's RD&E activities in its early years is
considered necessary to ensure that proper direction is maintained. There-
fore, until the Bank loan is fully disbursed, KIET will submit to the Bank
annually for review: its 4-year RD&E program, including the budget, and
quarterly implementation reports for monitoring purposes.   These quarter-
ly reports to be submitted to the Bank to assist in this review process are
detailed in para 6.18.
4.26      The Bank will not necessarily finance all projects in KIET's RD&E
program, but will select only those projects which are expected to have a
broad impact on industry, and particularly those which promote a cooperative
effort among firms. Bank financing of individual RD&E projects will be based
on the submission of a recommendation from the RD&E Review Committee and
KIET's technical advisor, a project budget and a comprehensive research
proposal outlining, among other things: (i) research objectives; (ii) the
rights, obligations, and financial contributions of KIET and the industry
sponsor under the research contract; (iii) economic, financial and commercial
merits of the project; (iv) ability of KIET to carry out the work from a
technical point-of-view; and (v) ability of the sponsoring firm to bear its
share of research costs and to bring the product to commercial fruition.
These arrangements are detailed in Annex 4-5.
4.   Recovery of Research Costs
4.27      KIET's investment in research will be recovered through royalties
on successful research projects. Such royalties will be set at a level suffi-
cient to recover, in real terms, KIET's costs on both successful and unsuc-
cessful research work. Royalty rates and the period over which royalties will
be paid will be negotiated at the time of (KIET's) signing a research contract
with the sponsoring firm. Depending on the type of product or process devel-
oped, royalty arrangements could take the following forms: (i) fixed fees
regardless of sales volume; (ii) percentage of sales; or (iii) unit royalties
based on the number of units sold.



- 35 -
D.   Project Implementation and Management
4.28      KIET will be responsible for project execution, under the direction
of its President and three Vice Presidents. Civil works will be the respon-
sibility of a project management team, responsible to the President, which
will draw on requisite capabilities in design, engineering, construction,
procurement, and project finance frem within its administration group. As
indicated, the semiconductor building has been designed with the collabora-
tion of an experienced architect/engineering company, which will continue to
monitor construction. A semiconductor facility expert will be responsible for
day-to-day supervision of construction and equipment installation (para 4.04).
Equipment selection and procurement will largely be coordinated at KIET's
US liaison office with the assistance of its technical advisor. Technology-
related components of training, expert-invitation, and technology acquisition
will be executed under the direct responsibility of the Vice Presidents, also
with assistance from the liaison office and the technical advisor.
4.29      Project implementation is already underway in a number of areas.
The site has been acquired and prepared, the semiconductor building shell
and the power plant financed by the Government are under construction.
Initial stages in the procurement of process support systems and operational
equipment - advertisement, prequalification, and preparation of specifica-
tions - have been completed. KIET has also demonstrated remarkable resource-
fulness in getting training programs underway. Equipment available at the
KIET Semiconductor Laboratory has been supplemented to serve as a training
ground for KIET staff so that a core of experienced personnel will be avail-
able to start operations as equipment is installed. UNDP funds have also
been applied effectively towards overseas training. The liaison office
is already functional. The schedule for further implementation of the project
is shown in the following chart. Equipment will be procured in two phases (in
early 1979 and in early 1980) to match KIET's manpower and workload buildup,
and allow KIET to take advantage of technological changes in 1979, particu-
larly in the rapidly changing field of sub-micron (millionths of a meter)
lithography, possibly utilizing an electron-beam in place of conventional
i ght. Mechanical completion of the project, defined as completion of all
civil works and equipment installation, is expected by October 1981. As
noted and as part of the project definition, technology acquisition, training
and expert-invitation programs will be implemented on a continuous basis
through 1981, and RD&E program activities through 1982.



- 36 -
Project Implementation Schedule
Category                   1978                       1979                      1980                      1981
III   IV     I    I III         IV     I                 l1 III  IV        -  Ill  IV
BUILDINGS
Semiconductor Building           .  ,  .                          -
Administration Building
Systems Annex                            ......... ....
Training Center                                                               .....
Utility Building
Power Plant                       _
Dormitories                                                     _
Apartments
EQUIPMENT
Design/Mask/Testing                                ............
Semiconductor Process                              ............ ..
Systems                                            ........... ...
Second Phase and                                                         ......... ..
Advanced Equipment
Utilities/Process Support                         ...... 
.                 Design/Ordering
Constrcution/Delivery & Errection
V. PROJECT COST AND FINANCING
A.   Project Cost Summary
5.01           The total cost of the project is estimated at US$62.9 million equiv-
alent, of which US$33.4 million is in foreign exchange. The cost estimates
were developed by KIET, with the assistance of its technical advisor, and
reviewed by the Bank. These are detailed in Annex 5-1 and summarized in
the following table for the two components of the project--the development of
KIET including physical facilities and technology-related elements; and the
RD&E program.



- 37 -
KIET: Project Cost Estimates
% of
Won Millions                  US$00(            % of   Base
Local Foreign a/  Total  Local Foreign a/  Total Total  Cost
Development of KIET
(i) Physical Facilities
Land                     710        -       710  1,460         -      1,460   2.3    2.9
Civil Works           3,490      870      4,360  7,200   1,780       8,980  14.3   17.9
Process Support
Systems                800   2,600       3,400  1,650   5,360       7,010  11.2   14.0
Equipment                  -   5,670      5,670       -  11,690    11,690  18.6   23.3
Erection and
Installation           410        -        410    850         -       850   1.3    1.7
Taxes                    160       -        160    340         -        340   0.5    0.7
Subtotal             5,570   9,140    14,710 11,500  18,830    30,330  48.2   60.5
(ii) Technology Items
Training                  50   1,000      1,050    100   2,070       2,170   3.5    4.3
Expert Invitation        100     370        470    210       770        980   1.6    2.0
Technology
Acquisition               -     810        810       -   19660       1,660   2.6    3.3
Subtotal                150  J2,180      2,30    310   4,500        4,810   7.7    9.6
Physical Contingency   300   1,070        1,370    620   2,210       2,830   4.5    5.6
Price Contingency        550     910      1,460  1,130   1,880       3,010   4.8    6.0
Subtotal               850   1,980       2,830  1,750   4,090       5,840   9.3   11.6
Working Capital       2,860      480      3,340  5,880       990     6,870  10.9   13.7
Total Cost of
KIET Development   9,430  13,780    23,210 19,440  28,410    47,850  76.1   95.4
RD&E Program
RD&E Program          4,850   2,420       7,270 10,000   5,000    15,000  23.9   29.9
Total Project Cost 14,280  16,200    30,480 29,440  33,410    62,850 100.0  125.3
of which:
Base Cost b/        10,570  13,740    24,10 21,810  28,30    50,140  80.1  100.0
a/   Includes indirect foreign exchange, estimated at Won 1.07 billion (US$2.2
million equivalent), around 80% of which is for civil works
b/   Excluding contingencies and working capital.



- 38 -
5.02      Capital cost estimates are based on prices prevailing at end-1978,
and actual contract amounts/costs for some Government-financed items which
have already been contracted/expended. Equipment cost estimates include
appropriate allowances for vendor training, spares, freight and insurance.
The taxes shown represent a defense tax of 10% of applicable duties for equip-
ment imports, which are expected to average 20%. KIET, however, is exempt
from paying the duties themselves. The amount for expert invitation provides
for 104 man-months of visiting foreign experts at an average cost of US$8,000
per man-month, including travel and subsistence expenses. A physical contin-
gency of 10% has been provided for all expenditures which have not already
been expended/contracted at fixed prices. Price escalation allowances are
also provided, based on the following annual inflation rates: 10% for local
cost items for 1979-81; 10% for imported process support systems and equipment
for 1979-81; and 7.5% for training and expert invitation expenditures for
1979, declining to 7% for 1980-81.
5.03      Initial working capital requirements are estimated at US$5.9 million
in local currency, and US$1.0 million in foreign exchange for inventories
of imported materials. Projects expected to be carried out under the RD&E
program between 1979-82 are estimated to required expenditures of US$15
million, a third of which is in foreign exchange. Total project cost
estimates are considered reasonable.
B.   Financing Plan
5.04      Project costs will be financed by Korean industry, the Government,
KIET, and the proposed Bank loan as shown below:
Project Financing Plan (1977-82)
(US$ Millions)
Local     Foreign      Total      % of Total
Development of KIET
Korean Industry                      1.4           -        1.4           2.2
Government of ROK/KIET a/          18.1         4.4 b/    22.5           35.8
IBRD Loan                             -        24.0        24.0          38.2
Subtotal                        19.5        28.4        47.9          76.2
RD&E Program (1979-82)
Korean Industry                     3.7           -         3.7           5.9
Government of ROK/KIET a/           6.3           -         6.3          10.0
IBRD Loan                             -         5.0         5.0           7.9
Subtotal                        10.0         5.0        15.0          23.8
Total                           29.5        33.4        62.9         100.0
a/   KIET' s contribution to project costs will arise from internally generated
funds.
b/   For indirect foreign exchange (US$2.2 million) some items already ex-
pended (US$0.7 million); working capital (US$1.0 million); and contin-
gencies (US$0.5 million) not covered by Bank loan.



- 39 -
5.05      Korean industry has already provided a capital contribution of
US$1.4 million toward the development of KIET as shown, and has pledged an
additional US$0.6 million equivalent, which would then reduce the required
Government contribution by the same amount. Industry's contribution, though
small in relation to total project cost, reflects a significant commitment
to the objectives of the project by the companies with plans to invest in
the semiconductor and systems areas. It is also unusual for private firms
to contribute so much to a Government institution, which has not yet demon-
strated its capabilities. Moreover the funds are being contributed in
advance of the establishment of industry's own facilities in these areas.
The remainder of the funds required for KIET's development will be provided
by the Government, KIET's internal cash generation, and the proposed Bank
loan.
5.06      Of the RD&E program, 70% of the projects are assumed to be spon-
sored by industry, and the remainder by KIET. The financing of the program
is designed to encourage industry to engage in RD&E. Industry will be re-
quired to finance US$3.7 million equivalent, or around 35% of the cost of
RD&E projects sponsored by it. The remainder of the cost of industry-spon-
sored projects (US$6.8 million) and KIET-sponsored projects (US$4.5 million)
will be financed by the Government, KIET's internal cash generation, and the
Bank loan, which would cover US$5 million in foreign exchange expenditures.
As RD&E results are obtained and commercialized, royalties from industry are
expected to enable KIET to recover its share of project costs (para 4.27).
KIET will then continuously reinvest: these funds in new RD&E projects.
5.07      In line with the Government's policy for establishing such insti-
tutes, Government funds to KIET will be passed on as grants through budgetary
allocations; the Government has agreed to provide adequate allocations to meet
project expenditures, including any cost overrun. The proposed Bank loan
of US$29 million will be provided to the Government for 15 years including
4 years grace. The Government has agreed to channel the loan to KIET in
accordance with its practice for pasSing-on the proceeds of Public loans to
Government agencies. The proceeds of the Bank loan will be made available to
KIET on the same terms and conditions as the Bank loan to the Government, with
automatic corresponding budgetary allocations to KIET to cover its debt
service obligations under these terms. In practice, therefore, no debt
service obligations will be imposed on KIET.
5.08      The provision of funds in this form is justified in view of KIET's
nature as an institution providing infrastructural support and vital services
to industry, as well as its objective of promoting development in a high risk
area. Such direct support is in line with the experience and practice in both
developed and developing countries.  Research institutes normally require at
least 7-10 years to become financially self-sustaining. Under present arrange-
ments, which combine services and RD&E, KIET is expected to become financially
self-sustaining in only about four years after start-up, and not require further
support for operations from the Government. This financial self-sufficiency
is essential to preserve the basic character of KIET, which emphasizes
services to, and for the benefit of, the industry. If KIET were subject to



- 40 -
continuous financial pressure, as might arise if debt service obligations
were imposed on it, it might be forced to utilize its production equipment
to undertake production activities and thus forego its prime objectives of
developing new technologies and providing services for the industry. This
would be particularly detrimental to the development of small and medium-sized
firms, which will have to rely on KIET for the bulk of their technological
requirements.
5.09      Nevertheless, to reflect the cost of the Bank loan, KIET will, in
costing its services, apply a notional interest of 10% per annum on the por-
tion of Bank funds used in providing such services (para 6.06).
5.10      In order to meet foreign exchange expenditures not covered by the
Bank loan and those for which KIET would disburse directly and only thereafter
seek reimbursement from the Bank, the Government has agreed to provide KIET
with the required foreign exchange or permit KIET to convert local funds to
foreign exchange as necessary. The Government also will provide an advance of
US$500,000 equivalent (US$250,000 by June 30, 1979 and US$250,000 in January
1980) in order to enable KIET to pay for Bank-financed items prior to seeking
reimbursement from the Bank.
C.   Items to be Financed by the Bank Loan
5.11      The Bank loan will be used for financing 100% of the foreign ex-
change expenditures for process support systems, equipment, training, expert
invitation, and technology-acquisition (excluding US$700,000 already paid by
the Government), and associated contingencies. It will also be used for
100% of the foreign exchange expenditures for selected subprojects under the
RD&E Program between 1979 and 1982 up to US$5.0 million. Details are provided
in Annex 5-2, and summarized below.



-- 41 -
Allocation of Bank Funds
(US$ Millions)
Amount of 100%
Foreign Exchange
Development of KIET                        Expenditures a/
1. Physical Facilities
Process support systems                    4.9
Equipment                                 12.8
2.  Technology-related items                     4.4
Sub-total                            22.1
RD&E Program                                     5.0
Contingencies b/                                 1.9
Total                                29.0
a/   For limited qualification, please see para. 5.12 below.
b/   Physical contingencies only; price contingencies are
included in relevant categories.
D.   Procurement
5.12      In the process support systems and equipment category (US$17.7
million), packages over US$100,000 in value will be procured through inter-
national competitive bidding in accordance with Bank guidelines (over 65%
of the packages are expected to fall in this group). Proprietary items not
exceeding US$2 million in aggregate are expected to be procured through
negotiation; the remaining small packages in this category will be procured
through limited international tendering with Bank approval of the list of
items to be so procured. Technology-related items (US$4.4 million) will be
arranged through negotiation with selected sources from within the annual
programs reviewed by the Bank (paras 4.13 and 6.17). For the RD&E program
items (US$5 million), in view of the necessity for KIET to act quickly in
executing RD&E subprojects, the low cost of most individual items, and their
specialized and often proprietary nature, most procurement will follow limited
international tendering procedures. As per present capabilities, Korean sup-
pliers are not expected to compete for Bank-financed items. Nevertheless,
if they are judged qualified to compete based on future developments, a 15%
preference on equipment supply would be provided to them in accordance with
Bank guidelines. Other items including civil works, which will be financed by
the Government and industry, will be procured in accordance with Government
procurement procedures, which are satisfactory.



- 42 -
E.   Disbursement
5.13      Bank funds will be disbursed against 100% of the foreign exchange
expenditures (or 100% of the ex-factory price if a package is awarded to a
local supplier after international competitive bidding) for goods and services
to be financed by the Bank. For small items related to training, expert
invitation, technology acquisition, and the RD&E program, KIET will be re-
quired to disburse directly and seek reimbursement from the Bank against
accumulated expenditures on a quarterly basis. For this purpose, KIET will
use the US$500,000 Government advance (para 5.10). Disbursement for process
support systems and equipment will be based on submission of documents in
accordance with the Bank's standard requirements. For expenditures under the
training, expert-invitation, technology-acquisition and RD&E programs, dis-
bursement will be based on the prior Bank approval of the relevant program and
RD&E subprojects, and submission of contracts/agreements and invoices (also
evidence of payment where reimbursement is requested).
5.14      The amount allocated for process support systems (US$4.9 million) is
expected to be disbursed by mid-1980. The amount allocated for equipment
(US$12.8 million) is expected to be disbursed fully by mid-1981. Training and
technology related items (US$4.4 million) are expected to be disbursed by
early 1982 and RD&E program expenditures (US$5.0 million) by the end of 1982.
An estimated disbursement schedule is provided in Annex 5-3.
VI. FINANCIAL ANALYSIS
A.   Introduction
6.01      The prime objective of institutes engaged in RD&E is to stimulate
and support technological development and not to be financially renumerative.
Indeed, the vast majority of research institutes in both developed and de-
veloping countries rely on continuous Government support to finance their
capital and operating requirements. This is particularly true in developing
countries, where the industry does not have the capability to carry out its
own RD&E activities. Although financial return is not a relevant measure of
performance (para 6.18), financial analysis of KIET is necessary not only to
determine the amount and terms of resources required, but also to assist in
determining the most appropriate orientation of the institute.
6.02      In this regard, KIET has been structured so that its RD&E operations
will be supported to a large extent by revenues from its service activities
(paras 6.12 and 6.13). The distinction between the two, however, is somewhat
blurred since in the semiconductor industry, most of the research and develop-
ment is carried out continuously on the production line, where improvement in
yields, once a product or process has been developed, is the most important
determinant of competitiveness. The importance of this is confirmed in a
recent study on the sale and purchase of semiconductor know-how worldwide. 1/
1/   Sale and Purchase of Semiconductor Know-how, ICE, October 1978.



- 43 -
This study shows that generally about 90% of the price paid for purchased
technology is for services such as training (15-20%), start up assistance
(10%), yield guarantees (15%), and, most significantly, long term product and
process development support (45-50%). KIET will be providing this type of
assistance to industry through its service operations where KIET will assume
production of wafers, masks, etc. in order to improve process yields to
satisfactory levels so that production may then be transferred to industry.
In this sense, much of KIET's service activities represent, in fact, ongoing
RD&E on the production line for the benefit of industry.
6.03      KIET's major emphasis in the initial years of operation (1980-82)
will be on providing the development and support services that are necessary
to help industry acquire design, process and manufacturing know-how. As in-
dustry acquires basic capabilities, an increasing share of KIET's resources
will go into process and product development and engineering. By 1987, for
example, it is expected that about 40% of KIET's manpower will be devoted to
RD&E activities, compared to 30% in 1982.
6.04       For the purpose of preparing financial statements, KIET's activities
have been divided into their two main components -- services and RD&E. Major
assumptions for revenues and costs in these areas are presented in Annexes 6-1
to 6-3. Projected income statements for KIET's service operations are given
in Annex 6-4. For RD&E, expenditures are treated as an investment to be
recovered over time in the form of royalties. This is shown in the projected
sources and application of funds for RD&E operations in Annex 6-5. These
statements provide the basis for the consolidated (services and RD&E) sources
and application of funds (Annex 6-6) and balance sheets (Annex 6-7). Projec-
tions are prepared in current terms for 1978-87.
B.   Service Operations:  Revenues and Costs
6.05        Revenues from KIET's major services (wafers, masks, IC design,
testing, and systems) are derived from the assessment of the local require-
ments for these items contained in Aknnex 6-1. Export revenues may arise in
the few cases where, as a means of acquiring technology, contract production
is undertaken for foreign firms directly by KIET, rather t:han by the ultimate
recipients of such technology, i.e. Korean electronics firms. These revenues
are, however, expected to be small and uncertain and have not been included in
the projections.  During 1979, revenues will be confined to those which can be
generated from the existing head office in Seoul. Initial operation at Gumi
is expected to commence in January 1980, with revenues increasing thereafter
to a steady state level in 1982.
6.06      Assumptions for prices and costs are detailed in Annex 6-2.  They
are based on KIET's service pricing policy (Annex 6-3) which has been adopted
by KIET's Board of Directors. This policy emphasizes KIET's role as an
organization designed to stimulate the development of the industry while, at
the same time, recognizing the desirability, to the extent consistent with
that objective, of recovering the cost of carrying these service operations
and generate from December 31, 1983 onwards funds sufficient to cover both its
cash deficit from its RD&E operations and the funds required to maintain and
develop its technological capabilities consistent with the industry's needs.
For the purpose of costing KIET's services, a notional interest of 10% will be
applied to the portion of World Bank funds used in providing such services. In



- 44 -
view of the competitive nature of the electronics industry worldwide, the
prices for KIET's services are expected to be set in line with prices for
such services elsewhere so as not to place at a disadvantage an industry
which is still at a very early stage of development. This is not only im-
portant to attract domestic and joint venture investment in this sector but
also vital for the small and medium sized firms which will have to rely on
KIET for the bulk of their basic technological and technical needs. These
prices are on average sufficiently high to cover total production costs,
including the notional interest on the Bank funds used in providing such
services. Any changes in this pricing policy will be made in consultation
with the Bank.
6.07      As shown by the summarized income statements, KIET is expected to
operate at a loss until steady state operations are achieved in 1982. This
reflects both heavy fixed costs, such as depreciation and administrative
expenses, and the fact that about one-third of KIET's facilities will be
utilized by RD&E projects for the benefit of industry and will thus not be
available for revenue earning activities. Moreover, the advantages of lower
wage and engineering costs in Korea are expected to be offset by lower yields
attributable to the nature of KIET's on-going process and product development
work (para 6.02).
KIET: Summarized Income Statements (Services)
(Won Millions)
1979     1980      1981      1982     1984      1987
Service Revenues
Wafers                 -       1,673    4,220    7,421    8,979   11,946
Masks                 68         330       461       582      704       937
IC Design             49         206       550      606       733       975
Testing               49         310       577      631       764    1,016
Systems              339         560       822      905    1,095    1,457
Other                 49         454       945    1,040    1,259    1,675
Total Revenues             554      3,533    7,575   11,185   13,534   18,006
Net Income (Loss) a/    (892)    (1,313)    (695)          53       589    1,953
Cash Generation b/        (613)        22    1,090    1,972    2,581    3,925
a/   As a Government Institute, KIET does not pay income taxes.  Accordingly,
these have not been included in the net income calculation.
b/   This will largely be absorbed by deficits on RD&E operations and on-
going capital expenditures (para 6.14)
6.08      The largest component in KIET's revenues comes from wafer services.
Initially, about 70% of wafer services will be for process and product develop-
ment that would be transferred to industry upon completion of development
work. This percentage is expected to decline to about 40-50% by 1987 as
industry develops its own process and engineering capabilities. The remaining
wafer supply will consist of wafers required by the smaller firms which cannot
obtain their relatively small requirements at competitive prices elsewhere.
KIET will supply these wafers by pooling and standardizing the industry's



- 45 -
requirements and will produce them until the volume grows to the level that
would attract commercial production. An important distinction between KIET
and industry wafer activities is that KIET will concentrate on product and
processes that are beyond the industry's capabilities, and it will only be
engaged in small volume production until the product and process development
is sufficiently advanced to be transferred to industry. Thereafter, KIET will
act as trouble shooter to solve industry production problems and will support
it continuously in increasing yields.
C.   RD&E Operations:  Revenues and Ccosts
6.09      RD&E revenues consist of royalties and small inflows (about 5% of
annual royalties) from the sale of specialized equipment on the completion
of the RD&E projects for which such equipment was purchased. Royalties are
planned to be set at a level sufficient to recover in aggregate (in real
terms) KIET's costs on both successful and unsuccessful research work. For
projection purposes, royalties are calculated in equal installments over 5
years to return to KIET the cost of research expended in any particular year
plus an allowance for inflation of 10% annually.
6.10      Annual RD&E expenses (manpower, materials, equipment, training,
technology purchase, and overheads) are based on cost estimates for repres-
entative RD&E projects which KIET is likely to undertake over the 1979-82
period. Annual research expenditures in current terms are forecast to in-
crease from about US$1.5 million in 1979 to US$6.0 million in 1982 and to
US$15.5 million by 1987.
6.11      KIET will bear 100% of the cost of RD&E projects sponsored solely
by it (about 30% of the total).  On industry sponsored projects (70% of the
total), cost sharing between KIET and industry is expected to be done on a
65:35 basis respectively, with industry participation likely to increase over
time as KIET's effectiveness in carrying out RD&E is demonstrated. These
assumptions are realistic and have be,en confirmed in discussions with industry
leaders in Korea. As already mentioned in para 4.22 and detailed in Annex
4-5, Section 9, KIET will endeavor to allocate at least 25% of its annual RD&E
expenditures to small and medium sized enterprises, and will foster small
scale companies in a variety of ways, such as through more 'Lenient cost
sharing arrangements for research expenditures and royalty payments.
6.12      Because of the increasing level of RD&E expenditures over time, and
the lag between these and the receipt of royalty revenues, KIET's RD&E activi-
ties are expected to operate at a deficit over the 1979-87 forecast period.
In the initial years, 1979-82, deficits will be covered by Bank funds, provided
as part of the project, for research expenditures in foreign exchange, and by
Government funding. This is shown in the summarized sources and applications
of funds for RD&E in the following table:



- 46 -
Summarized Source and Application of Funds (RD&E)
(Won Millions)
1979    1980    1981    1982    1984    1987
Sources
RD&E Revenues                          -      121     424      837   2,119   4,370
Contributions
ROK                                326     533      567        -        -       -
IBRD                              242      485      728      970        -       -
Total Contributions                  568   1,018   1,295       970        -        -
Total Sources                        568   1,139   1,719   1,807   2,119   4,370
Applications
RD&E Expenditures a/                 728   1,455   2,184   2,911   4,260   7,545
Less Industry Share                  178     356      535      713   1,044   1,849
550   1,099   1,649   2,198   3,216   5,696
Increase in RD&E Work Cap.            18      40       70       88      140     170
Total Applications                   568   1,139   1,719   2,286   3,356   5,866
Deficit to be met from
KIET's Service Operations          _         -        -    (479) (1,237) (1,496)
a/   Including small amounts of fixed assets purchased for RD&E projects.
It is however expected that, beginning in 1982, additional Government con-
tributions to KIET's overall operations will not be required, since cash
generation from KIET's service activities should be adequate to cover RD&E
deficits; this is further discussed below.
D.   Overall Funding of KIET and Financial Position
6.13      During the initial period of operations, 1979-82, Bank funds, for
the development of KIET and the RD&E program (para 5.05), as well as Govern-
ment funding will be required to meet the gap between KIET's operating, RD&E
and capital expenditures, and its revenues. Thereafter, KIET's operations
are expected to become financially self-sustaining on an overall basis.
Nevertheless, the Government has agreed to meet, on a timely basis and at
all times, KIET's annual funds requirements, including necessary foreign
exchange, for operations, RD&E, working capital and capital expenditures to
the extent that these are not covered by KIET's internal cash flow.



- 47 -
KIET: Summarized Sources and Applications of, Funds
(Services and RD&E)
(Won Millions)
1979    1980    1981    1982    1984    1987
Sources
Funds from Service Operations        (613)      22   1,090   1,972   2,581   3,925
Funds from RD&E Operations              -      121     424      837   2,119   4,370
Contributions
ROK                               3,402   4,176   1,290         -        -        -
IBRD                             6,445   4,141   2,508        970        -       -
Total Contributions                 9,847   8,317   3,798       970
Total Sources                       9,234   8,460   5,312   3,779   4,700   8,295
Applications
Capital Expenditures                9,722   6,483   2,458         -   1,455   1,936
RD&E Expenditures a/                  550   1,099   1,649   2,198   3,216   5,696
Increase in Working Capital b/  (1,038)    878   1,205   1,049           480     625
Total Applications                9%234   8,460   5,312   3,247   5,151   8,257
Surplus Cash                           -      -        -        532    (451)       38
Accumulated Surplus Cash              -        -       -        532      655     410
a/   Including small amounts of fixed assets purchased for RD&E projects.
b/   Working capital declines in 1979 as 1978 cash balances are utilized
for project construction.
KIET: Summarized Ba:Lance Sheets (Services and RD&E)
(Won Millions)
1979    1980    1981    1982    1984    1987
Current Assets                          369   1,643   3,329   4,779   6,047   8,514
Surplus Cash                              -        -       -      532     655      410
Fixed Assets                         10,634  15,781  16,454  14,535  12,080  11,767
Investment in RD&E                      550   1,528   2,753   4,114   6,465   9,996
Total Assets                         11,553  18,952  22,536  23,960  25,247  30,687
Current Liabilities                     167     563   1,044   1,445   1,809   2,566
Capital - Contributions              12,870  21,187  24,985  25,955  25,955  25,955
- Retained Earnings         (1,484) (2,798) (3,493) (3,440) (2,517)  2,166
Total Liabilities & Capital          11,553  18,952  22,536  23,960  25,247  30,687



- 48 -
6.14      As can be seen from the projected sources and applications of
funds and balance sheets for KIET as a whole, which are summarized in the
preceding tables from Annexes 6-5 and 6-6, KIET's surplus cash build-up
through 1982 will be very small.  Subsequently, it is estimated that beginning
in 1984, KIET will be required to spend in excess of US$3.0 million annually
for new equipment to enable it to keep pace with technological developments in
the industry. This, together with the cash drain created by RD&E operations,
will act as a further limitation on surplus cash generation and underlines the
necessity to relieve KIET from annual debt service commitments on Government
as well as Bank funds for the project (para 5.08).
E.   Financial Covenants
6.15      In order to ensure the maintenance of a sound financial position,
once project operations begin in 1980, KIET will maintain a current ratio of
at least 3.0. Further, until the end of 1983, KIET will not undertake any
investments, other than for the project, exceeding US$2 million in any one
year, including investments for fixed assets under the RD&E program, without
prior consent of the Bank.
6.16      Under the supervision of its financial director, KIET will prepare
by September 30, 1979 a cost accounting system to determine the allocation
of KIET's direct and indirect costs of its services and RD&E activities,
including an evaluation of the implications of such on its RD&E operating
and service pricing policies. This system will be reviewed by the Bank and
implemented by KIET by December 31, 1979.
F.   Auditing and Reporting Requirements
6.17      KIET is presently audited by Oju Audit Corporation, the fifth largest
auditing firm in Korea and the Korean representative of the international firm
of Peat, Marwick, Mitchell. The Corporation is approved by the Ministry of
Finance to perform audits of Government institutes, and publicly-owned corpo-
rations traded on the Korean Stock Exchange, and is satisfactory to the Bank.
KIET will submit annual audit reports to the Bank within four months of the
end of each fiscal year as well as quarterly financial statements and project
progress and procurement status reports within 45 days of each quarter.
6.18      In addition to the above, KIET will submit to the Bank a number of
other reports covering key areas of its operations. For RD&E, in addition to
the annual four-year research program (para 4.25), quarterly reports will be
submitted to the Bank as follows: (i) a brief evaluation of the outcome of
research projects completed in the quarter; (ii) a summary of the progress of
on-going projects; (iii) an outline of new projects approved; (iv) a statement
showing actual costs to date, original budgeted costs, and estimated costs to
complete for the research program overall, and for individual projects where
these have been financed by the Bank. Second, until the Bank loan is fully
disbursed, KIET will: submit to the Bank, for review and approval, an annual
training and expert-invitation program (para 4.13) together with the recommen-
dations in these areas of its technical advisor; and to consult with the Bank
on its annual technology acquisition and capital expenditure program. Finally,



- 49 -
after completion of the project, KIET will prepare and furnish to the Bank a
comprehensive report on the project, its implementation, initial operation,
and the costs and benefits derived and expected to be derived thereon.
G.   Sensitivity Analysis
6.19      The main financial issue facing KIET is the question of the amount
of funding, over and above internal cash flows, which will be required to
sustain its service and RD&E activities. While the Government will meet
any cash deficits which may arise from KIET's service and RD&E operations
(para 6.13), sensitivity tests have been performed on KIET's funds flows to
assess the impact of changes in capitaLl costs, operating costs, and revenues
as shown in the table below.
Sensitivity Tests on Increases (Decreases) 2f Total
Funding Requirements for KIET -
1979-82          1983-87
(Won Millions)
Increase in Capital Costs by 10%                 1,987              675
Decrease in Service Revenues by :[0%             2,022           6,187
Increase in Operating Costs by 10%               2,083           6,235
Decrease in RD&E Royalty Revenues by 25%           315           3,384
Increase in RD&E Royalty Revenues by 25%          (315)         (3,384)
a/   As compared to Base case funding.
6.20      These figures clearly show that should revenues decrease or oper-
ating costs increase, KIET will require continued Government financial support
beyond 1982 as compared to the financial self-sufficiency of KIET projected
in the Base case. These changes in revenues and costs need not reflect lower
performance, but could result from a change in the mix and nature of services
and RD&E operations that are necessitated by the electronics industry growth
pattern. This uncertainty, which is inherent in a rapidly growing and
changing electronics industry, underlines the need for an annual review by
Government of KIET's financial position to ensure that KIET not only has ade-
quate resources to undertake the optimum mix of services and RD&E, but also
has the capabilities to maintain KIET's technological leadership in the Korean
electronics industry.
H.   Major Risks
6.21      The major risks faced by the project are technological and manage-
rial. First, the substantial amounts of funds and effort being spent by
industry and Government in advanced countries to remain competitive in the
electronics industry can be expected to lead to continued rapid technological
change.  Such change could substantially curtail the useful life of processes



- 50 -
and technologies acquired by KIET.  This is an ever present risk in the indus-
try, and one which KIET, like others in the field, must face continuously.
KIET's planned focus on a limited number of relatively mature technologies and
their application to upgrading existing product capabilities, which is the
strategy followed by a number of consumer electronics companies, is expected
to alleviate the risk significantly. KIET will be less vulnerable to this
risk of "backing the wrong horse" than semi-conductor industry leaders who
are engaged in developing new products and processes at the cutting edge of
technology. Further, despite the limited number of technologies that KIET
plans to pursue, these are the dominant technologies (presently accounting
for over half the world's IC consumption), and adequately cover the present
needs of Korea's electronics industry. Their acquisition is expected to go
a long way towards establishing a domestic technological base for development
in the eighties.
6.22      Second, KIET may be unable to attract the talents and obtain the
capabilities required to absorb and adapt complex technologies. To counter
this risk, the project provides for extensive recruitment, local and overseas
training, technology purchase agreements, inputs from foreign technical
experts, and installation of sophisticated equipment which increasingly
incorporates a large proportion of the required technology. KIET has thus far
not encountered any difficulty in attracting qualified Korean staff, locally
and from abroad; also, the other inputs are readily available from a number
of sources, and in view of the extensive cooperation received by KIET, from
within Korea and abroad, few problems are anticipated. In the long run,
however, there is a risk that KIET may be unable to attract and retain the
necessary high calibre managerial and technical staff. Though KIET's present
compensation structure is roughly comparable to that in industry, as a Govern-
ment institution, its compensation could be eroded relative to the rapidly
rising pay scales in industry. While modest turnover is desirable to accel-
erate technology diffusion, a high turnover, particularly in KIET's core
staff could jeopardize the project. Accordingly, the Government has agreed to
review KIET's compensation structure from time to time to maintain competi-
tiveness, and to allow KIET to introduce an incentive system to motivate and
reward performance (para 4.14).
6.23      Third, there is the potential risk of lack of suitable focus in
KIET's RD&E activities. This could result from either spreading its resources
over a large number of relatively insignificant and unrelated projects with
little impact on the industry, or on a few large projects which might stretch
its own and industry's capabilities unduly; both possibilities would lead to
a low probability of commercial success. This risk, however, is considerably
lower in the case of KIET than in a conventional isolated research institute,
in view of KIET's close links with industry and the fact that a major propor-
tion of its RD&E is required to have an industry sponsor (who will share the
cost of research with KIET). To further reduce this risk and assure proper
focus and balance, detailed guidelines for RD&E operations (Annex 4-5) have
been jointly prepared and agreed to by industry and KIET. As part of these
guidelines, KIET will each year prepare an indicative 4-year work program for
Bank review and consultation, and as an additional guide to the direction of



- 51 -
KIET's operations, Bank financing will emphasize RD&E projects which impact
a large segment of the industry and promote cooperative arrangements among
Korean firms. The selected projects will also be reviewed by KIET's technical
advisor to ensure that the research goals are realistic and within KIET's and
the sponsoring firms' capabilities. Finally, to supplement its manpower
resources, KIET will, as necessary, use foreign training and employ experts
to achieve RD&E results efficiently, and thereafter work closely with industry
in the transfer and commercialization stages of technology, processes and
products.
6.24      Despite all the above provisions, the risk inherent in this complex
project operating in a rapidly changing technological environment is higher
than that in projects in most other industries. But the potential benefits
of the project and at the same time the potential cost of inaction in the two
critical areas of electronics -- i.e. semiconductors and digital systems
which are now widely acknowledged as becoming the technologies of the future--
considerably outweigh this risk. Like other countries, Korea has concluded
that the creation of a domestic technological capability in these two areas
is an essential prerequisite to the further growth and development of its
electronics industry. Both the Government and local industry strongly support
the project. Local firms in the industry already have well defined plans for
commencement of semiconductor manufacture, and recognize that their ability
to obtain needed technologies and to rapidly achieve satisfactory volumes and
productivity levels will to a considerable degree depend on the effectiveness
of KIET in assisting them with the necessary services and RD&E support. In
addition, a number of foreign firms are considering setting up joint venture
operations in Korea and KIET's role as a service facility to industry will
act as a catalyst to further foreign investment in this field.
VII. ECONOMIC ANALYSIS
7.01      As discussed earlier, Korea's impressive record of economic growth
over the past decade has been led by rapid increases in output and exports by
the manufacturing sector. In recent years, however, Korea has been facing
increasing competition from other, lower-wage, developing countries where pro-
duction of relatively low technology manufactures is becoming more economic
than in Korea. A major focal point of the Fourth Five Year Plan is, therefore,
to shift investment and growth towards more skill-intensive products such as:
metals, chemicals, machinery and electronics, which take advantage of Korea's
relative endowments of skilled labor and trained engineers.
7.02      Within the electronics industry, rapid technological development is
progressively replacing labor-intensive assembly operations (on which much of
Korea's present output is based) with LSI circuits. Many of these devices
represent relatively mature technologies which can be adopted by countries
such as Korea where skilled labor and engineering costs are relatively low.
Indeed, if Korea is to continue to effectively compete in electronics pro-
duction a significant and focused effort to develop a technological base in
the semiconductor and systems areas will be required.  KIET will be the lead



- 52 -
effort in this endeavor and will provide the infrastructure and services
support on which the development of the industry will depend. Through its
RD&E activities, KIET will also help create an environment conducive to pro-
ductive risk taking by industry in the area of ongoing technology development.
7.03      The economic rate of return for the project's direct revenues and
costs, like the financial rate of return, provides only a partial measure of
its wide ranging benefits and is necessarily low, since KIET's primary objec-
tive is not to be a financial success, other than from the point of view of
reasonably balancing its revenues and expenses. Instead, the success of KIET
will be measured by its impact on building up a local semiconductor and
systems industry and the effect this will have on reducing costs and improving
the quality and reliability of the products produced by the electronics
industry generally.
7.04      Between 1977-82, local production of semi-conductors for domestic
use is forecast to increase from US$16 to 210 million per year (Annex 6-1)
and that of systems from US$5 to 50 million. Production in these two areas
is expected to further increase to US$600-800 million by 1987. Less than 10%
of this increase (the benefits of which are measured in terms of Korea's
estimated comparative advantage in production costs after returns to all
factors of production, including capital, are considered) would have to be
attributed to the project in order to yield an economic rate of return of
15%. This estimate is conservative since the services provided by KIET
will act as a major catalyst in attracting new firms to enter the semi-
conductor and systems industries in Korea. Indeed, without the project,
it is unlikely that any more than half the projected increase in industry
production could, in fact, be achieved.
7.05      Assuming that such is the case, the foreign exchange savings
implied by the increase in industry production of semiconductors and systems
attributable to the project is estimated to be about US$50 million annually
by 1982 (in real 1978 prices). This is about fourfold the US$13 million in
estimated direct foreign exchange savings from the project itself by 1982.
7.06      In addition, the impact of the development in the semiconductor
field on the competitiveness of the electronics industry and its capability
to reach the ambitious growth targets under the Fourth Five Year Plan is
likely to be considerably larger than the above figures. If we conservatively
assume that the increase in semiconductor content will reduce electronics
product costs by 2-3%, the net savings to Korea would be of the order of
US$60 million annually by 1982 (in real 1978 prices). The impact would be
even greater, if the effect of expected improvements in product reliability on
market growth were taken into account.
7.07      Direct employment generated by the project would amount to about
700 persons in the 1982 steady state. The indirect employment effect of
KIET, through the attraction of new firms to the semiconductor and systems
estate at Gumi, assuming that without KIET only one half of the projected
increase in new firms could be achieved, is expected to reach 3,000 by 1982.
Even greater will be KIET's impact on sustaining the future growth of Korea's



-53 -
electronics industry, where current employment is in excess of 140,000 persons.
While some of this additional employment may eventually be ccunterbalanced
by increased labor productivities in other fields of the economy, as noted
previously recent studies suggest that the overall employment effect will
still be positive (para 2.03). In the case of Korea, most of the growth in
electronics will be concentrated in the manufacture of comporLents, consumer
products and telecommunications equipment, and will not extend into areas that
could lead to labor displacement in other fields of the economy.
7.08      Finally, KIET will play an important regional role by promoting
the growth of the semiconductor and systems industries in Gumi. The project
location thus contributes to the Government's goal of more balanced regional
development and relieving population pressures in the major urban centers.
VIII. AGRE2EMENTS
8.01      The following agreements were reached:
A.   With the Government that it will:
(i)  develop with KIET suitable procedures to permit KIET's
US liaison office to procure goods and services quickly
and efficiently (para 3.10);
(ii)  provide physical infrastructure facilities for the Gumi
semi-conductor-systems estate (para 4.07);
(iii)  review KIET's compensation structure from time to time to
maintain competitiveness with industry, and allow KIET to
set up an employee incentive system (para 4.14);
(iv) provide KIET with sufficient annual grants to meet
project expenditures, including overruns (para 5.07);
(v)  bear debt service costs on the Bank funds channeled to
KIET (para 5.07);
(vi) provide KIET with foreign exchange as necessary to meet
project expenditures (para 5.10);
(vii)  provide KIET with a US$500,000 advance to pay for Bank
financed items prior to seeking reimbursement (para 5.10);
(viii)  meet KIET's annual operating, working capital and
capital expenditure requirements (para 6.13); and
B.   With KIET that it will:
(i) retain a technical advisor (para 3.08);



- 54 -
(ii)  establish a separate financial department (para. 3.09);
(iii)  not deviate from agreed facility designs (para 4.04);
(iv)  appoint and retain a semiconductor facility expert until
one year after start-up of the semiconductor building
(para 4.04).
(v) not undertake any investment exceeding US$2 million
annually (paras 4.09 and 6.15);
(vi)  comply with environmental designs and standards (para 4.10);
(vii)  submit an annual technology acquisition program for review
by the Bank and consultation, and meet other reporting
requirements (paras 4.13 and 6.18);
(viii) set up an employee incentive system (para 4.14);
(ix)  finalize its initial 4-year RD&E program, and submit
it to the Bank for review and consultation by June 30,
1979 (para 4.17);
(x) review any substantive changes in RD&E guidelines with the
Bank (para 4.23);
(xi)  until the Bank loan is fully disbursed submit annually
to the Bank for its review KIET's 4-year RD&E programs,
and quarterly reports on actual implementation
(para 4.25);
(xii)  agree on criteria for selection of RD&E projects for Bank
financing (para 4.26);
(xiii) review with the Bank any substantive changes in its Pricing
Policy, which inter alia stipulates that in costing its
services KIET will apply a notional cost (10% interest)
on that portion of the Bank loan that is applicable to such
service activities (para 5.09 and 6.06);
(xiv)  maintain a current ratio of at least 3.0 (para 6.15);
(xv)  develop an appropriate cost accounting system (para 6.16);
(xvi)  submit annual audit reports and quarterly financial and
progress reports (paras 6.17 and 6.18); and
(xvii) prepare a comprehensive completion report after project
completion (para 6.18).



- 55 -
8.02      With the above mentioned agreements, the project provides a sound
basis for a Bank loan of US$29 million to the Government of Korea for 15 years
including 4 years of grace to be channeled to KIET with the debt service
obligations to be borne by the Government.
Industrial Projects Department
February 1979



- 56  -                                       ANNEX I
Page 1
KOREA
ELECTRONICS TECHNOLOGY PROJECT
GLOSSARY OF TECENICAL TERMS
TERM                          DEFINITION                             PRINCIPAL USE/FUNCTION
Chip             A piece of semiconductor material, usually a   The base circuit, which is then
(Also Dice,      section of a silicon wafer, upon which a           packaged through lead wires etc. into
Bar or Pellet)  component or an integrated circuit is               a functioning device; usually 3 mm x 3 mm.
is fabricated.                                     The operation of a simple calculator,
for example, is based on the use of a
single chip assembled and packaged with
keys, displays, etc.
Compiler         A program that prepares machine language           Used to enable computer users to program
program from a computer program written            in computer languages such as FORTRAN, BASIC
in a higher-level language.                        and be able to communicate with the computer,
which is programmed in a different language.
Diffusion        Diffusion in integrated circuits refers to         One of the basic processes by means of
solid-state diffusion.  It is a process by        which a wafer is fabricated, i.e.
means of which diffusants are caused to enter  circuit properties introduced into
a regular crystalline structure in controlled  base material.
quantities. Their presence tends to change
the semiconductor material's electrical
characteristics. Solid-state diffusions are
characteristically conducted at relatively
high temperatures under extremely carefully
controlled conditions.
Discrete         Electronic circuits built of separate,             Discretes substitute for conventional
Circuits         individually manufactured, tested, and             non-semiconductor components and
asembled diodes, resistors, transistors,           perform basic electrical functions
capacitors, and other specific electronic          such as switching, regulating current
components.                                        and voltage, and storing charge.
DI Water         Water from which ions and minerals have            Used to clean wafers; ions are removed
been removed.                                      to avoid possible reactions.
Digital          Systems based on digital operation, i.e.           In the report, the term is used to
Systems          where operation is constrained between             describe an entire segment of the
two levels 0 and 1.                                electronics industry which is
premised on digital systems and includes
computers, minicomputers, microprocessors
and their applications, and supporting
software.
Electron         A recent advance in photolithography and           Increasingly being used to fabricate
Beam             wafer-fabrication technology which permits         advanced computer memories, potentially
Lithrography    fabrication of sub-micron (millionth of a           the 64K Random Access Memory (RAM),
meter) circuit dimensions by using an              where small circuit dimensions are
electron-beam (which has an extremely low          essential to achieve required minia-
wage-lenth) to replace conventional light          turization.
(with a much longer wave-length).
Etch             A chemical process of dissolving material.         One of the stages in wafer fabrication.
Selective      Etching which is done so that certain material
Etching        is dissolved, but other materials are not
affected by the etchant.



ANNEX I
- 5 7 -                                   Page 2
TERM                          DEFINITION                              PRINCIPAL USE/FUNCTION
Integrated       The term "integrated circuit" has been              An IC is the base element in most
Circuit (IC)    applied both to a class of very small circuit  electronics equipment.  A TV, for
structures and to a specific circuit               example, might contain 4-6 ICs to
structure (monolithic).                            perform various functions.  A
microprocessor can be, and normally
is a single IC.
Digital        An integrated circuit in which the operation   Used in timekeeping, computing
is constrained between two levels.  The "O"    instrumentation (digital readouts) and
and "I" levels.                                    frequency control.
Linear         An integrated circuit capable of performing a  Most commonly used for amplification
linear function.                                   of electrical signals, such as in
radios.
Monolithic    An electronic circuit fabricated in one piece  Another term to describe an ID fabri-
of material (it may contain numerous elec-         cated on a single price of material
tronic elements such as resistors and tran-    as distinct from hybrids, where more
sistors, etc.).                                    than one material might be used.
Ion              An atom that has lost an electron from its
outer valance bond.
Ion              A method of doping or modifying the charac-    A step in the fabrication of
Implantation    teristics of semiconductor material by bom-    wafers.
bardment with charged particles to enhance
or change the characteristics of semi-
conductor material from P- and N-type
characteristics.
Large-Scale      A form of integrated circuit containing a           Used to fabricate complex circuits
Integration      large number of logic elements on one chip          on a small scale, such as advanced
(LSI)            frequently requiring several layers for            memories on a 3 mm x 3 mm chip.
metallization. It is higher in complexity
than Medium-Scale Integration by a factor
of 10.
Linear Bipolar  The dominant process in the fabricatton of           This technology has found wide appli-
non-digital circuits.                              cation in consumer applications such as
audio-and video-systems. It accounts for
over 20% of worldwide integrated circuit
consumption.
Linear Circuit  A circuit whose output is an amplified               Most commonly used for amplification
version of its input or whose output is a          of electrical signals, such as in
predetermined variation of its input.              radios.
Mask             Usually a glass plate in the photographic-         Used as the "master" in the wafer
ally produced pattern used to controL the          fabrication process, much as a
location of material deposited or removed          negative in photographic develop-
during a wafer fabrication process.                ment.
Metal-Oxide-    Metal-oxide-silicon devices employ a                 Used in digital applications.
Silicon          structure which is composed of a metal
(MOS)            layer usually deposited over a silicon
dioxide layer which is used to control
the conductivity of the underlying silicon
by varying the potential of the metal.
Microprocessor  Formerly a microprogrammed central processing  Used for a number of function such
unit.  More recently, a central processing         as ignition control in autonomobiles,
unit (micro-programmed or not) characterized   or as the processing unit in a micro-
by low cost through implementation with one    computer, and is used for fabricating
or a few LSI integrated circuits.                  microprocessors and memories, etc.



ANNEX I
-  58                                    Page 3
TERM                          DEFINITION                             PRINCIPAL USE/FUNCTION
Medium-Scale    Medium Scale Integration includes that area
Integration    of complexity less than LSI, but consider-
(MSI)           ably more than the simple electronic
functions.
NMOS             N-channel MOS, a variation of MOS (see MOS),   The technology is estimated to presently
the dominant technology applied to the fabri-  account for around 25% of world wide
cation of digital devices.                        integrated circuit consumption.
Photolitho-      The technology of using photosensitive films   Used for fabricating wafers through
graphy           for masking, patterning and thus controlling   the use of masks.
integrated circuit processing techniques.
Reliability      The ability of an item to perform a required   A term used to define product quality,
function under a given condition for a            particularly its ability to withstand
stated period of time.                            extreme environmental conditions
such as high temperatures and
vibrations.
RAM              Random Access Memory - Memory that may have    Used in computers and other appli-
date written into or read out of any address.  cations requiring ready retrieval
of stored data.
Semiconductors  Solid-State devices with desirable electrical  Following the invention of the transistor
properties.  Semiconductors can                    (the first significant solid-state
either be single discrete devices such as         device) in 1947, these have rapidly
transistors and capacitors or integrated          replaced vacuum tubes and other
circuits (ICs) which combine several devices   conventional electrical devices.
on a single silicon chip.
Silicon          Glass passivating layer grown at high temper-  Used in wafer fabrication.
Dioxide (Si0)  atures by combining oxygen and silicon.
Substrate        A substrate is the starting material into or   Another term used to describe the
on which circuit components are placed.           base on which ICs are fabricated.
Wafer            A single slice cut from a silicon ingot            A completed wafer normally contains
forming a thin substrate, usually 75-100 mm    hundreds of individual ICs.
in diameter, and 0.25-0.30 mm thick.
Yield            Yield is the ratio of the number of accept-    Used in the industry to describe
able units to the maximum number possible.        the ratio of functioning or "good"
chips in a wafer to the total number
of chips possible. It is the most
dominant factor in determining
technological capability and
cost competitiveness.
TECHNICAL ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
IC                             Integrated Circuit
LSI                            Large-Scale Integration
MOS                            Metal-Oxide-Silicon
MSI                            Medium-Scale Integration
NMOS                           N-Channel Metal-Oxide-Silicon
PCB                            Printed Circuit Board
RD&E                           Research, Development, and Engineering
SSI                            Small-Scale Integration
VLSI                           Very Large Scale Integration
TV                             Television
Industrial Projects Department
February 1979



KOREA
ELECTRONICS TECHNOLOGY PROJECT
KIET LAYOUT
LEGEND
1 .Semiconductor Building
1 A. Mechsanical Annex
2. Administration/Systems
Building
3. Training Center
4. Utility Building
5. Power Plant
6 Dormitory
7. Guest House
413-
X
MAIN ROAD TO INDUSTRIAL ESTATE
Industrial Projects Department
February   1979                                                                                                                                                                                                       World Bank - 19756



- 60 -
ANNEX 4-2
KOREA
ELECTRONICS TECHNOLOGY PROJECT
KIET: TECHNOLOGY ACQUISITION ARRANGEMENTS
Activity/Technology                          Arrangements/Remarks
Semiconductor Processes            KIET has been thus far focused on recruiting
Korean staff with industrial experience in
Linear Bipolar Process           the selected technologies, process training
NMOS Process                     at Hewlett-Packard (US) and some direct
Special Processes                purchase of inexpensive proprietary process
information. KIET is also investigating
training possibilities at the University of
Arizona and at Western Digital Corp. (US).
Once the KIET facility is operational, one
of the major sources of technologies is
expected to be "contract manufacturing"
agreements with foreign companies who have
the selected technologies and are willing to
provide them in return for a competitive
source of supply. The other major source
would be direct purchase agreements, which
are expected to be available at reasonable
cost from a number of sources. Adequate
funds for this purpose have been provided
under the project.
Design                              In this area KIET has tentatively arranged
an extensive program at AMI (US) for over 10
LSI design, MOS product design  KIET staff (for 4 months - 1 year) to train
Mask-layout and digitizing        in selected areas.  The trainees will be
productively engaged in developing product
designs and layouts for AMI in this period.
AMI also expects these trainees to be of use
in servicing the needs of its joint venture
in Korea. Similar arrangements in this area
are being discussed with Siemens (Germany),
Phillips (Netherlands), and Fairchild (US).



- 61 -
ANNEX 4-2
Mask-Making                          Training in conventional mask-making tech-
nology has already been completed at IMR
Conventional Technology            (US) under the UNDP project.  The training
Electron-beam or other             in advanced technology is expected to be
advanced technology              provided by the vendor of the electron-
beam or other selected equipment.
Testing                              Contract testing arrangements, under which
KIET would receive testing know-how, have
Electrical Testing                been arranged with RCA (Taiwan and Malaysia).
Environmental Testing             Other such arrangements are expected with
foreign firms that maintain assembly oper-
ations in Korea, such as Fairchild (US).
Quality Control and Assurance       As an activity with potentially a significant
ancd wide ranging impact on industry, quality
control and assurance know-how (manuals,
programs, aids) are expected to be purchased
and offered to industry through training
programs.
Systems                             Training is underway at Fairchild (US) in
software and hardware design. Hewlett-
Software Design                   Packard (US) has also agreed to train Korean
Hardware Design                   systems and testing engineers.  Discussions
havre been initiated with a number of comr-
parnies active in the systems area: Phillips
(Netherlands), Siemens (Germany), Terradyne,
Data General Corp., Digital Equipment Corp.,
andl Fairchild (US).
Double-Sided Printed Circuit    Contact initiated with Thermatronics (Japan)
Board (PCB) Technology           and DEA (Division of Phillip Hunt Chemicals
(US)) as a source of this technology.
Industrial Projects Department
February 1979



- 62                                                   ANNEX 4-3
KOREA
ELECTRONICS TECR2NLOGY PROJECT
ItET:  MAZ"POWER DEVELOPMENT/TRAINING PROGRAM
1978                 1979                 1980                 1981                 1982
MANPOWER DEVELOPMENT
Semiconductor Processes
Principal                                            1                    6                    6                    6                     8
Senior                                               2                    7                    9                   17                   21
Junior                                               9                   10                   10                   15                   21
Technicians/Operators                                6                   12                   50                  100                  154
Sub-total                                     18                   3575                                     124
DesixplMask/Test
Principal                                            1                    3                    4                    6                    6
Senior                                               2                    7                   10                   13                   13
Junior                                              11                   19                   28                   36                   36
Technicians/Operators                                5                   45                   67                   95                   95
Sub-total                                      I74J ii
Systems
Principal                                            1                    5                    7                   10                   10
Senior                                               2                   12                   15                   18                   18
Junior                                              15                   13                   17                   27                   27
Technicians/Operators                                4                   17                   25                   30                   30
Sub-total                                     21                    1                   64
RD&E 
Principal                                           -                     5                    8                   10                   12
Senior                                              -                    10                   17                   22                   25
Junior                                              -                    15                   25                   34                   39
Technicians/Operators                               -                    20                   33                   44                   52
Sub-total                                    _                     50                   83                  uQ                   128
Administration/Support
Principal                                            3                    5                    6                    9                   10
Senior                                               4                    5                   10                   14                   16
Junior                                              11                   12                   18                   27                   30
Technicians/Operators                               22                   25                   40                   60                   65
Sub-total                                     40                   47                                       110                  121
TOTAL                                         99                  253                  405                  593                  688
TRAINING   (Costs in US$'000)                          1979                 1980                 1981                           Total
O srainees          Trainees             Trainees               Tie                   Coat-/
overseas
Semiconductor Processas                             7                     6                   5                      18        108     216
Design/Mask/Test                                    12                   10                   10                     32        192     384
Systems                                            23                   24                   23                      70       420      840
Quality Control/Assurance                            5                    7                    3                     15         90     180
Marketing                                            I                    I                    -                      2         12      24
Management                                           2                    2                    2                      6         36      72
Sub-total                                     50                   50                   43                    143        858   1,716
Local Outside KIET
Semiconductor Processes                            17                   15                   23                     55        291       44
Design/Mask/Test                                   -                    -                    -                      -          -        -
Systems                                            18                   L5                   30                     63        249       44
General                                              1                    1                    1                     3         72       12
Sub-total                                     36                   31                   54                    121        612     100
Attendance at Conferences                         Attendees            Attendees            Attendses              Attendees            Cost'/
Overall tKET                                         8                   9                    8                     25                  50
FORlEIGN EXPERT INVITATION                          Exrerts                                   Experts                Experts      M-MŽ/ Cost_c/
SeminDnductor Processes                             4                    5                    4                     13         13      104
Design/Mask/Test                                     6                   5                    5                     16         16      128
Systems                                             10                  16                    6                     32         32      256
Quality Control/Assurance                            1                    1                   1                      3          3       24
Management/Marketing                                 -                   11                   6                     17         17      136
Technical Advisor                                    1                    1                   1                      1         20      160
Pacilities                                          .                    2                    -                      3          3       24
Sub-total                                     23                   41                   23                    85        104      832
a/ Reflects staff clearly identified with RD&E activities; these activities will also rely quite heavily on manpower included in
the operating divisions.
b/ M-M: man-months; average overseas training program 6 months; average expert (excluding technical advisor) appointnent 1 month.
c/ Cost basis: overseas training US$12,000/6 I-M period; local training cost varies with program;
conference attendance US$2,000/attendee; expert cost US$8,000/M-H period.
Industrial Projects Department
February 1979



-- 63 -                         ANNEX 4-4
KOREA
ELECTRONICS TECHNOLOGY PROJECT
KIET: DENVELOPMENT PROGRAM
Development Activities              1979     1980      1981     1982
Product Development
Linear ICs - Consumer Applications
Advanced Color TV - IC set
ICs for Digital Applications
ICs for Communication Applications
ICs for Industrial Applications
Traffic Control System for Seoul
Intelligent Terminal/Key Entry System
Peripheral Controllers
Microcomputer Board Set
Applications, Operating Software
and Compilers
Process Development
Linear Bipolar (Consumer Applications)
NMOS (Digital Applications)
Process for Telecommunication
Applications
HMOS (Microprocessors, Memory)
Process for Advanced Memory
Applications
Double-side Printed Circuit Board
Production Technology
Industrial Projects Department
February 1979



- 64 -                          ANNEX 4-5
KOREA
ELECTRONICS TECHNOLOGY PROJECT
RD&E OPERATIONS
I.   Introduction
This Annex outlines the objectives and guidelines for KIET's RD&E oper-
ations. These will be reviewed from time to time by KIET and the Bank, and
may be amended as needed.
2.   Purpose of KIET's RD&E Activities
a)   To finance research projects for the development of
products, processes and systems in the electronics
industry.
b)   KIET would only finance research costs for work
conducted within KIET's facilities; it would not
finance costs of research conducted by industry
in-house. (The Government plans to establish a
Technology Development Corporation to provide funds
for such use.)
c)   Costs to be financed would include:  personnel
(including external consultants), purchase of
foreign know-how (where such is cheaper than
developing in-house), materials, overheads, and
equipment. Specialized equipment purchased by KIET
could be sold (at fair market value) on completion
of the RD&E project for which it was purchased.
In most cases, such equipment would be sold to the
sponsoring company. If this is to be done, terms of
the sale would be specified in advance at the time
of signing of the research contract.
d)   KIET may finance projects sponsored both by industry,
and by itself without an industry sponsor. On KIET
sponsored projects, however, there should be broad
industry interest in the end result of the project.
This will ensure that research work undertaken by KIET
is closely tied to industry goals. Research results
of KIET-sponsored projects could either be: licensed
externally, or used internally by KIET in the production
of products for its service activities. KIET-sponsored
projects, however, should not exceed 30% of the cost of



6 65 -                            ANNEX 4-5
Page 2
the RD&E program in a single year. This percentage may be
varied from time to time as agreed between KIET and the Bank.
It is expected that the percentage of KIET-sponsored proj-
ects will decline over time as industry support for KIET
increases with demonstrated results.
3.   Financing of RD&E
a)   The Bank will cover the for(eign exchange costs of selected
RD&E projects up to a total of US$5 million (See 5(d)).
The Government, local industry, and KIET (from royalties and
internal cash flow generation) will cover all local costs,
and all foreign costs after Bank funds have been disbursed.
b)   In order to ensure that KIET is able to procure required
foreign goods and services for research as quickly as
possible, the Government will provide an advance to KIET
of US$0.5 million in two equal installments (June 30, 1979,
and January 1, 1980). These funds would be used to finance
the procurement of initial foreign research expenditures,
which would then be re-imbursed by the Bank.
c)   Bank funds would be disbursed to KIET on submission of
suppliers' invoices and evidence that procurement had
followed international shopping procedures. Invoices
should be submitted to the Bank periodically--e.g. once
accumulated invoices to be reimbursed by the Bank total
US$0.25 million. For large packages (in excess of
US$0.1 million) KIET may request the Bank to make direct
payment to suppliers.
d)   Government support of RD&E will be obtained through
the general funding arrangements by the Government
for KIET's operations overall. That is, in the form
of annual Government contributions to cover KIET's
deficits (i.e. the excess of KIET's annual capital,
operating, and RD&E expenditures over its revenues).
e)   Industry funding of RD&E is discussed in (6).
4.   Management of RD&E
a)   An RD&E Review Committees will be formed from KIET's
management comprising: the president of KIET, the
three operational vice-presidents, the financial
director, and the director of project development.
b)   The RD&E Review Committee in consultation with KIET's
technical advisor will be responsible for: approval of



- 66 -                            ANNEX 4-5
Page 3
a four year research program (to be updated and reviewed at
least quarterly); approval of individual research projects;
approval of royalty arrangements on projects; and periodic
review of ongoing research projects with authority to
discontinue funding.
c)   In carrying out its functions under b) the RD&E Review
Committee may request the advice of: foreign consultants,
financial advisors, and other qualified personnel as necessary.
d)   KIET's three operational vice-presidents will be responsible
for management and supervision of RD&E projects in their areas.
e)   The director of project development will be responsible for
assisting the operational vice-presidents in identifying and
developing new projects with industry. In addition, he will
be responsible for carrying out the economic/financial analysis
of new projects (See 5(c)) submitted to the RD&E review committee.
f)   The financial director of KIET will be responsible for disburse-
ment of funds for RD&E, project costing, collection of royalties,
and maintaining a proper system of accounts and reporting system
to management.
5.   Approval of the RD&E Program
a)   Before the beginning of each fiscal year, KIET will
prepare a proposed RD&E budget for the following four
years. This budget will be based on the overall budget
for KIET which will identify funds available for research
each year--i.e. forecast revenues plus Bank and Government
contributions less operating and capital expenditures.
The budget will also identify available manpower to carry
out RD&E activities each year.
b)   On the basis of (a), KIET will, at the same time, prepare
a four year research program consisting of a detailed
research program for the following year and an indicative
program for the three subsequent years. The program will,
in particular, highlight a core group of projects (defined
as those for which the total budget is in excess of US$250,000
per project) and provide information for each such project on:
annual budgets (including sources of funds: the Bank, indus-
try, KIET); annual manpower requirements; identification of
industry sponsors, and project justification (See (c) below).
For non-core projects, the four year research program will
include similar information, but in less detail. Overall,
the manpower and funds requirements of the research program
should match the availability of these resources identified
in (a).



-- 67 -                         ANNEX 4-5
Page 4
c)   Criteria for selection of research projects will include:
(i) priority of the project in relation to national
economic goals and the deve'Lopment of the semiconductor
and systems industries in Korea; (ii) the potential of the
project to promote cooperative RD&E efforts among firms
in the industry; (iii) the technical capability of the
sponsoring firm to absorb and implement the research results
and to produce and market a successful product; (iv) technical
merits of the project -- likelihood of success, ability of
KIET to carry out from a technical standpoint; (v) alter-
natives sources of technology (make-buy decision); (vi)
relevance of the project in relation to KIET's overall
direction and thrust; (vii) ability of the project to
integrate the work of KIET's three operating departments;
(viii) economic/financial merits of the project (including
a rate of return analysis); (ix) commercial viability of
the end result -- assessment of the market for the project,
estimated sales volume; and (x) financial capability of the
sponsoring firm to bear its share of research costs and to
bring the final product to commercial fruition.
d)   The Bank will review and coimment on the overall four year
research program annually and monitor its implementation on
a quarterly basis. The Ban'k, however, will not necessarily
finance all projects in the program, but will select only
those projects which best meet the criteria established in
(c) and, particularly, those which promote a cooperative
effort among firms.
e)   For projects involving the use of Bank funds in excess of
US$50,000 per project, KIET will submit a research proposal
covering the areas mentioned in (c); a project budget; key
information from the research contract including: the rights,
obligations, and financial contributions of KIET and the
industry sponsor; and a written recommendation of the RD&E
Review Committee and KIET's technical advisor.
f)   In order to ensure maximum impact on industry development,
KIET will emphasize sponsoring of small, quick-maturing
projects so that its early success can be demonstrated. Except
for projects involving a cooperative effort between two or more
firms, KIET will not contribute more than US$0.5 million to a
single research project without consulting with the Bank. In
addition, KIET will not contribute more than US$0.5 million
annually to RD&E work of any one company without consulting
with the Bank.



- 68 -                            ANNEX 4-5
Page 5
6.   Sharing of Research Costs by KIET and Industry
a)   In order to ensure industry commitment to projects
proposed by it, each sponsoring company would be
required to finance a reasonable portion of the costs
of research performed on its behalf. The percentage
of costs to be borne by industry will be decided on
a case-by-case basis and will be defined in the research
contract for each project. However, in any one year,
it is expected that industry would contribute, on average,
at least 35% of the cost of industry-sponsored projects
in that year. As the success of KIET in carrying out
research projects is demonstrated, it is expected that
industry would be willing to fund a progressively greater
proportion of research costs.
b)   For the purpose of (a) research costs include personnel
costs (including salaries and benefits), consultant costs,
purchase of foreign know-how, direct and indirect overheads
on the facilities used by the project, purchase of specialized
equipment, materials and all other costs directly related to
the project.
c)   In addition to cash contributions, industry may contribute
its share of research costs in the form of materials and
equipment. Cost of materials should be set by invoice value,
and equipment by agreed usage rates.
7.   Monitoring of the Program and On-going Research Projects
a)   In order to control and monitor research work, each
project will include a clear statement of objectives,
expected results, and a time schedule for achieving
such. In addition, a project budget will be prepared.
Actual cost data will be recorded for each project
separately in order to provide a basis for budgetary
cost control (comparison of actual costs versus budget).
b)   The RD&E Review Committee, KIET's technical advisor,
and other advisors as necessary will review the progress
of the four year program and individual research projects
on a quarterly basis. It will have the authority to dis-
continue funding of individual research projects if objectives
are not likely to be met on a cost-efficient basis. Prior
approval of the Bank will required before funding is dis-
continued on Bank-financed projects.
c)   For each industry-sponsored project, a representative
from the sponsoring firm will be assigned to monitor



- 69 -                            ANNEX 4-5
Page 6
the progress of the project. The industry monitor will
submit quarterly reports oni the progress of the project
to the RD&E review committee. These will be reviewed
by the Bank for Bank-financed projects.
d)   If a sponsoring company should fail to perform its
obligations under the contract with KIET it will
automatically waive all its rights to the results
of the research under the project.
e)   As part of the quarterly review of ongoing projects,
a statement showing actual costs, original budgeted
costs, and estimated costs to complete the project
will be prepared. For Bankc-financed projects, requests
for additional funding above 25% of the budgeted amount
will require Bank approval.
8.   Royalty Mechanisms
a)   Royalty rates will be designed to:  (i) induce industry
to sponsor research projects at KIET; (ii) to spread
technology to as wide a spectrum of industry as possible;
and (iii) to recover research costs on an overall basis.
Therefore, successful projects should return royalties
sufficient to recover, in real terms, the costs of both
successful and unsuccessfu:L projects (i.e. royalties
should recover costs plus inflation).
b)   Royalty rates and the period over which royalties
will be paid will be negotiated at the time of signing
a research contract with the sponsoring company. Arrange-
ments will vary from project to project and may take the
following forms: (i) percentage of sales (sales should
be defined as either sales of the specific component or
the final product of which it will form a part); (ii) unit
royalties -- i.e. royalties paid by unit sold; (iii) fixed
fees regardless of sales level; (iv) a combination of
minimum fees and a royalty based on sales. Royalty rates
should reflect industry participation in research project
costs -- i.e. if a sponsoring company contributes 50% of
research costs, its royalty rate should be lower than if
it contributed only 35%.
c)   In the research contract between KIET and the sponsoring
company, the latter will be given a specified period of
time, after completion of the project, in which to elect
to use the results of the project. If the sponsoring
company elects to use the research results it is liable
for royalty payments under the terms of the research contract.
If both KIET and the sponsoring company agree the project



- 70 -                            ANNEX 4-5
Page 7
is a failure, both parties retain rights (in proportion
to their research cost contribution) to the research
results if these are ever sold to a third party (the
sponsoring company would retain the rights, however, if
a royalty is payable regardless of the successful outcome
of the project). In the event of a disagreement as to
the success of the project, KIET may "buy-out" the sponsor-
ing company at a negotiated price (not to exceed the cost
of the sponsoring company's contribution) and may thereafter
license the product to another company and collect royalties
(payable to KIET) thereon. Alternatively, after "buy-out",
the research result may be used internally by KIET for
development of products by it.
d)   Research contracts may grant the sponsoring company an
exclusive or non-exclusive license at the company's
option. Royalty rates for exclusive licenses should be
higher than those for non-exclusive licenses. On an
exclusive license, the sponsoring company may sub-license
the research results to a third party (or parties).
KIET will have the right to approve such sub-licensing
arrangements, and if its royalty income from the original
license is likely to be materially reduced, KIET may
renegotiate the original royalty arrangement and/or share
in the royalties with the sub-licensees.
9.   Special Treatment of Small and Medium-Sized Companies
a)   A firm operating policy of KIET will be to encourage
technological development of small and medium-sized
companies.
b)   In order to achieve (a), KIET will use its best
efforts to support research projects sponsored by
small and medium-sized firms. KIET will endeavor
to allocate at least 25% of its annual RD&E funds
to such companies.
c)   In addition, since small firms are unlikely to have
the same financial resources or risk capital of
larger enterprises to support research projects, a
more liveral research cost sharing arrangement for
small companies would be allowed. Therefore, for
the purposes of section 6 of this Annex, small firms
might contribute a smaller percentage of research
costs -- this might be combined with a somewhat
higher royalty rate. Alternatively, all or part of
the research cost contribution by small firms could
be deferred until project completion.



- 71 -                           ANNEX 4-5
Page 8
d)   For the purposes of this section, small- and medium-
sized firms would be defined in the same manner as that
under appropriate existing regulations (e.g. tax laws,
commercial code, etc.).
10. Reporting Requirements to the Bank on RD&E Operations
a)   before the beginning of each year, KIET will prepare
a four year research program and a budget for carrying
out the proposed program for Bank review and comment.
b)   KIET will also submit quarterly reports to the Bank out-
lining the progress of implementation of the program
(and any changes thereto) in the quarter. These reports
will include: (i) a brief evaluation of the outcome of
research projects complete!d in the quarter; (ii) a summary
of the progress of ongoing projects; and (iii) an outline
of new projects approved.
c)   Quarterly financial reports will also be required for
the RD&E program including: (i) a statement showing
actual costs for the year to date compared to the budget;
and (ii) a statement of estimated costs to complete the
program compared to budget.
d)   For Bank-financed projects, the data required in (c)
should be provided on a project-by-project basis.
Industrial Projects Department
February 1979



KORiA
ELECTRONlCS TECIINOLOGY PROJECT
PROJECT COST ESTIMATE
(US$ 0O0s)
1977                        1978                        1979                        1980                        1981                       Total
Local  Foreign  Total    Local  Foreign  Total    Local  Foreign  Total    Local  Foreign  Total    Local  Foreign  Total  Local  Foreign  Total
Development of KIET
Civil Works
Land                                              -                 -        136               136       243               243       253               253        825               825    1,457              1,457
Site Preparation                                  -                 -        167               167       323      70       393        33                 33         -                 -       523       70      593
Semiconductor Building                            -                 -        617               617    1,819    600    2,419             -                 -         -                 -    2,436       600   3,036
Systems/Ad.isn. Building                          -                 -        189               189       210      50       260       688        250    938          -                 -    1,087       300   1,387
Training Center                                   -                 -          -                  -         -                -       706        160    866          -                 -       706      160      866
Apartments                                        -                 -           I                 -      613    100        713       605        440  1,045          -                  -    1,218      540   1,758
Dormitories                                       -                 -        142               142       128      60       188          -                 -         -                 -       270       60      330
Guest House                                       -                 -           -                 -         -                 -       177        50    227          -                 -       177       50      227
Utility Building                                  -                 -           -                 -      229               229          -                 -         -                  -      229         -     229
Power Plant                                       -                 -        170               170          -                 -         -                 -         -                 -       170        -      170
Design etc.                                      56                56        126               126        89                89       107        __     -107         -               ___       378      ..       378
Sub-total                                    66                56       1,547              147    3,654    880    4,534    2,569            900  3,469        825                825    8,651   1,780  10,431
Sopport Systems
Furnishings                                      51                51        134        -      134       159      40       199       198        160    358        272               272       814      200   1,014
General Utilities                                 -                 -           -        _        -      833    220    1,053            5                 5         -                  -      838      220   1,058
Semiconductor Support                             -                 _          _      300      300         -  2,279    2,279            -                 -         -                 -         -   2,579   2,579
Systems Support-- -                                                                     -        -         -    500        500          ----                                                    -      SN  50u   50
Process Utilities                                 -                            _        - _         _       -  1.864     1.864          -                                                            1.864   1.864
Sub-total                                    51                 51        134      300      434       992  4,903    5,895         203       160    363         272               272    1,652   5,363   7,015
Eqluipment
Semiconductor Process                                                                                          1,505    1,505                1,713  1,713--   3,218   3,218
Mask/CAD/Test                                                                                                  2,138     2,138                1,975  1,975                                       -   4,113   4,113
Systems                                                                                                        1,552    1,552                   810    810                            -- 2,362   2,362
Advanced Equipment                                                                                                  -         -                   -       -              2,000   2,000               2,000   2,000
Books/Journals                                                                                                                                                                                     ----------- - - -- 
Sub-total                                                                                                             5,0_5               4,598  4,598               2,000   2,000               11,693  11,693
Erection and Installation                                                                                  503               503        250               250       100                100       853               853          N
Duties and Taxes                                                                                            200               200       100               100        41                 41       341               341,9
Sub-total                                                                                             703               703       350               350        141               141    1,194              1,194
T-chno logY
Training                                                                              150      150         30    616       646         30       618    648         40      532      572        100   1,916   2,016
Books, Journals                                                                         -         -         -     70         70         -        50      50        -        30        30         -      1.50     150
Expert Invitation                                                                     150      150        60    180        240         96       288    384         52      156      208       208       774     982
Technology Acquisition                                                                100    -100         -01   500        500          -       835    835        -9       225      225       308   1.660    1.660
Sob-total                                                                          400      400        90  16          ,5         126    1.791  1.917           92      943   1.035        308   4.500   4.608
Base Cost for
Development of KIET                             107               107      1.681      700   2.381    5.439 12.244   17,683    3.248    7.449 10.697             1.330   2.943   4.272    11,805  23.336  35.141
Contingencies
Physical Contingency                                                                                     268  1,204    1,472          339       707  1,046          9      289      298       616   2,200   2,816            >
Allowance for Price Escalation                                                                            187    702        889       922       703  1.625         19      476      495    1.128   1,881   3.2 [09
lob-total                                                                                             455  1.906    2.361    1.261    I141Q   6,71              28      765      793    1.744   4.081   5.825             Lni
Total           a/                                107               107      1.681       700   2.381    5.894 14.150   20044    4.509    8.859 13368              1357   3.708   5.065    13,549  27,417  40.966
Workin  Caial-                                                                                              394      23       417    1,538        272  1.810    3,954         697   4.651    5 886        992   6.878
Working Capital-
Total Cost for Development of KIET                107               107      1.681       700   2.381    6.288 14,173   20,461    6,047          9.131 15.178    5.311   4.405   9.716   19,435  28,409  47.844
RD3&E Program-
Equipment                                                                                                   -       -         -                 200    200           -     700       700         -      900      900
Training/Technology                                                                                         -    250       250          -       400    400           -   1,400   1,400           -   2,050   2,050
Materials                                                                                                   -     250       250         -       400    400           -   1,400   1,400           -   2,050   2,050
Labor and Overheads t                                                                                    00 o-           1.000    2 000               2000    7000                7 .000   10.000         -  10000
lob-Total Cost of RDbE Program                                                                      1.000    500    1 500    2 000    1.000  3200Q          7 000   jJ590  4fl,500   1Q,.Q9    5.000  15J222
TOTAL PROJECT COST                              107               107      1,681      700   2,381    7,288 14,673   21,961    8,047   10,131 18,178   12,311    7,905  20,216    29,435  33.409  62,844
a/  Working Capital and Rl&E program  costs for 1982 (US$2.2 and 6.0 million respectively)
are shown jointly with costs for 1981 (US$2.4 and 4.5 million respectively).
Industrial Projects Department
February 1979



- 73 -
ANNEX 5-2
KCREA
ELECTRONICS TECHNOLOGY PROJECT
ALLOCATION OF BANK FUNDS
(US$ Millions)
Foreign
Exchange
Category                                                    Amount
Process Support Systems                                      4.9
Equipment and Spares
Semiconductor Processes                                   3.5
Design/Mask/Test                                          4.5
Systems                                                   2.5
Advanced Equipment                                        2.3
Total Equipment                                         12.8
Training and Technology
Training-/                                                2.0
Expert Invitation                                         0.7
Technology Acquisition                                    1.7
Total Training and Technology                             4.4
RD & E Program                                               5.0
Unallocated (Contingencieshb/                                1.9
Total                                                    29.0
a/ includes US$0.1 million for foreign exchange for books and iournals.
b/ Physical contingencies only; price contingencies have been included in the
relevant categories.
Industrial Projects Department
February 1979



- 74 -
ANNEX 5-3
KOREA
ELECTRONICS TECHNOLOGY PROJECT
ESTIMATED DISBURSEMENT SCHEDULE
(US$ Millions)
Bank
Calendar               Fiscal                                               Cumulative
Year   and Quarter  .Year  and Quarter    Disbursement                    Disbursement
1979            III      1980          I            1.0                        1.0
IV                  II           12.3                        13.3
1980              I                  III            4.0                       17.3
II                  IV            0.7                        18.0
III     1981          I            1.3                        19.3
IV                  II            2.6                        21.9
1981              I                  III            0.7                       22.6
II                  IV            0.7                        23.3
III     1982           I           1.3                       24.6
IV                  II            2.4                       27.0
1982              I                  III            0.8                       27.8
II                  IV            0.5                       28.3
III     1983           I           0.4                       28.7
IV                  II            0.3                       29.0
Industrial Projects Department
February 1979



ANNEX 6-1
- 75 -
KOREA
ELECTRONICS TECHNOLOGY PROJECT
BASIS FOR REVENUE PROJECTIONS
A.   Overall Service Revenues
1.        In the 1982 steady state, 90% of KIET's service revenues will derive
from the provision of: wafers (66%) masks (5%), IC designs (5%), testing (6%),
and systems contract work (8%). 1/ The local requirements for these services
which provide the basis for the revenue projections are discussed in detail
in this annex. A summary table showing KIET's projected service revenues,
1979-82, is given below:
KIET: Projected Service Revenues
(US$000' s)
1979          1980            1981           1982
Amount  ,'   Amount   %    Amount         %  Amount      %
Principal Services
Wafers                    -        --   3,450   47      8,700    56   15,300    66
Masks                    140      12      680    9         950     6    1,200       5
IC Design                100       '3     425    6      1,135      7    1,250      5
Testing                  100       '3     640    9      1,190      8    1,300      6
Systems Contracts        700     61    1,155   16       1,695    11    1,865       8
1,040     91    6,350   87    13,670    88   20,915    90
Ancillary Services
Printed Circuit
Boards                  -                165    2        655      4      720      3
Peripheral
Controllers              50      4       210    3        350      2      385      2
Utilities (H2 Gas)       -        -       330    5        570      4      630      3
Education & Other
Services                50       5       230    3        375      2      410      2
10       9       935   13      19        12    2,145    10
Total Service Revenues 1,140    100    72285  100    15,620   100   23,060   100
1/   On a value added basis, the importance of water services, which include a
relatively high proportion of material costs, would be somewhat less than
that indicated by the revenue figures.



- 76 -                           ANNEX 6-1
Page 2
B.   Wafers
2.        Demand for wafers is directly related to semiconductor production,
the industry rule of thumb being that one wafer is required for every US$200
in semiconductor production. Moreover, demand for semiconductors is expected
to increase faster than that of the electronics industry overall. This is so
because of the increasing semiconductor content of existing electronics
products and the progressive introduction of new electronics products based
on continuing developments in semiconductor technology.
3.        For the purpose of analysis, it is assumed that Korean electronics
production will increase from US$1.8 billion in 1977 to US$4.7 billion in
1982. This is somewhat below the Fourth Five Year Plan target under which
the US$4.7 billion figure would be reached in 1981. At the same time, the
semiconductor content of Korean electronics is expected to increase from
4% in 1977 to 7% in 1982 (about the level attained in the U.S. industry
in 1977). This would result in domestic demand for semiconductors in 1982
of US$334 million, which translates into a requirement for about 1.7 million
wafers. Based on present use patterns, this requirement is expected to be
divided among the various types of semiconductor devices as follows: dis-
cretes (40%), bipolar (20%), NMOS (20%), and other processes (20%).
4.        At present, there are two companies in Korea engaged in the manu-
facture of wafers--Samsung Semiconductor and Toshiba Electric, with annual
capacities of 250,000 and 100,000 wafers respectively. Two other companies
(Golstar and Taihan Electric) are, however, planning wafer fabrication facil-
ities with the capacity to produce 100,000 wafers annually each, such plants
to be on stream by 1980. A number of other companies are in the process of
making plans in this area, and it is likely that additional operational capa-
city of 300,000 wafers annually could be in place by 1982. On this basis,
industry production in that year would amount to 850,000 units. Most of this
production will be geared to providing wafers for discrete devices and the
simpler forms of bipolar and NMOS technology. KIET will service industry
requirements for the more complex bipolar and NMOS devices with its planned
output of 200,000 wafers annually by 1982. About 70% of this would repre-
sent process and product development on products that will be transferred to
industry once yields have been built up to acceptable levels. As industry
develops its own process and engineering capabilities, the percentage of
KIET's wafer services in this area is expected to decline to around 40 to 50%
by 1987. The remainder of KIET's wafer supply will be directed to smaller
firms which cannot obtain their relatively small requirements at competitive
prices elsewhere. The overall demand/supply projections for wafers in Korea
is illustrated in the following table:



- 77 -
ANNEX 6-1
Page 3
Demand/Supply for Wafers in Korea
Demand                       1977   1978   1979    1980    1981   1982    1985
Korean Electronics
Production
(US$ Millions) a/ b/   1,758  2,300   2,760   3,312   3,974  4,769   8,241
Semiconductor Content
(US$ Millions) a/          70    106      144     192      254    334     725
(Percentage)            (4.0%) (4.6%)  (5.2%)  (5.8%)  (6.4%)  (7.0%)  (8.8%)
Wafer Requirement if all
Semiconductors Mfd.
Locally (000's
Wafers) c/               350    530      720     960   1,270  1,670  3,_625
Supply
Local Wafer Production
('000 Wafers)             80    200     300      510     775  1,050   2,300
KIET Production
Included Above
(000's Wafers) c/           -      -        -       60      125    200     200
KIET as a % of Local
Production                 -      -        -       12%      16%    19%       9%
a/   1977 figures from MCI:  Fine Instruments Centre.
b/   Projections for electronics production based on 30% growth in 1978,
and 20% annually thereafter.
c/   Calculated based on the assumption that one wafer is required for every
US$200 in semiconductor production.
5.        In addition to servicing local industry's requirements, KIET has the
capability to service the foreign-owned semiconductor assembly plants located
in Korea, which in 1977 assembled and exported US$316 million in semiconductor
devices, the wafers for such (about 1.5 million) being imported from parent
company plants offshore. Further, a small amount of wafer exports could arise,
where as a source of technology, KIET enters into contract production arrange-
ments with foreign firms. In light of the uncertainty of these additional
revenue sources, and the large domestic requirements for KIET's wafer services,
potential service revenues in these areas have not been included in the pro-
jections.



- 78-                             ANNEX 6-1
Page 4
C.   Masks
6.        The local requirement for masks is directly tied to the volume of
wafer production--one mask is required for every two wafers produced. In 1979,
KIET will produce a small number of masks from the existing equipment at the
KIST semiconductor facility. Once the Gumi plant becomes operational in 1980,
however, KIET is expected to become the central source of masks for domestic
wafer manufacturers, providing most of their requirements in this area. This
is illustrated in the following table:
Mask Requirements
(in 000's)
1977  1978   1979   1980   1981   1982
Local Wafer Production       80    200   300    510    775   1,050
Masks Required               40    100   150    255    387        525
Projected KIET
Mask Production             -      -      35    200    300      400
Internal Consumption
of Masks by KIET's
Water Fabrication
Facility                   -      -      -      30      62     100
Masks Supplied by KIET
to Local Industry         -       -     35    170    238       300
D.   IC Design
7.        In terms of trained staff and specialized equipment, KIET will
have the only capability in Korea to carry out IC design work. Accordingly,
it can be expected to carry out a major share of local industry's requirements
in this area. A portion, however, involving particularly complex circuits,
will still be provided by overseas firms with specialized expertise.
8.        Industry design work requirements are directly related to the fore-
cast for local semiconductor production, with approximately one design required
for each US$3 million in device sales. Each design can be expected to have an
average product life of about 3 years. Therefore one design will be needed
for each US$1 million in annual semiconductor production. Using the table in
para. 4 as a base, results in the design requirements, 1977-82, shown in the
table below. Overall, it is expected that KIET will be able to produce about
75 designs per year by 1981, which would represent about half of the design
requirements for semiconductors produced in Korea in that year.



- 790
- 79 -                       ANNEX 6-1
Page 5
IC Design Requirements
1977    1978   1979   1980   1981   1982
Local Semiconductor Production
(US$ Million) a/                   16       40    60      102    155   210
No. of Designs Required               16      40    60      102    155   210
No. of Designs Provided by KIET       -        -      8      31      75    75
a/   From the table in para 4.  One wafer generates US$200 in finished
semiconductor devices.
E.   Testing
9.        At present, there is no Local facility for carrying out electrical
and environmental testing of semiconductor devices and systems hardware.
These services must thus be obtained abroad, at considerable expense, or
omitted entirely with consequent implications for quality control. KIET's
testing facility will thus, in the short-term, be the sole source of testing
services for local semiconductor manufacturers. Since testing fees run
between 4 and 5% of the price of the finished device, the local market for
these services can be defined as follows:
Testing Requirements
1977    1978      1979      1980     1981      1982
Local Semiconductor
Production
(US$O00's)              16,000   30,000   40,000   820,000  125,000  170,000
Testing Requirements
(4% of above)             640    1,200    1,600       3,280    5,000    6,800
Testing Performed by
KIET
(US$000's)                 -         -        100       640    1,190    1,300
10.       Over the longer term, it is expected that local semiconductor
manufacturers will develop their own in-house testing capabilities, although
in light of the large annual testing requirements involved, KIET's services
will still be required in this area. In addition, KIET also has the potential
to provide testing services to the foreign semiconductor assembly houses
based in Korea which, with a 1977 output of US$316 million, have testing
requirements in excess of US$12 million annually, all of which are now pro-
vided from abroad.



- 80 -
ANNEX 6-1
Page 6
F.   Contract Systems Work
11.       KIET, with its pool of trained scientists, engineers and technicians,
will have substantial capability for the design and development of a wide
range of microprocessors, minicomputers, and other digital systems for use
in Korea. At present, KIET in partnership with the Korean firm, Oriental
Precision Co. (OPC), is negotiating a contract with the city of Seoul for
development of a traffic control system. KIET's share of the contract, which
would split the software and hardware components between KIET and OPC respec-
tively, would amount to about US$700,000 for work to be performed in 1979.
Over the longer term, if the present project is a success, KIET could develop
traffic control systems for other cities and further potential exists in a vast
array of computerized systems work for government, business, hospitals, schools,
and other institutions. For projection purposes, it is assumed that by 1981,
KIET will be handling two projects a year comparable in size to the traffic
system.
Industrial Projects Department
February 1979



- 81 -                            ANNEX 6-2
KOREA
ELECTRONICS TECHNOLOGY PROJECT
ASSUMPTIONS FOR FINANCIAL PROJECTIONS
A.   Income Statement:  Service Operations
1.        Service Revenues:  These are based on the assessment of local
requirements presented in Annex 6-1. Projected volumes in each major service
area are as follows:
KIET: Service Volumes
(Units)
Wafers                          1979          1980         1981          1982
3" Wafers                    -          60,000        85,000       100,000
4" Wafers                                    -        40,000       100,000
-         60,000       125,000       200,000
Masks
Total Production        35,000         200,000       300,000       400,000
Less: Used Internally
by KIET a/            -          30,000        62,500      100,000
Supplied to Industry   35,000          170,000       237,500       300,000
IC Design
No. of Designs               8              31            75            75
Testing
Value in US$000 b/          100            640         1,190         1,300
Systems Contract Work
No. of Contracts           1.0             1.5           2.0           2.0
a/   One mask is required for every two wafers produced.
b/   Based on detailed calculations of volumes and prices for the various
types of semiconductor devices to be tested.



- 82 -                            ANNEX 6-2
Page 2
2.        In view of the competitive nature of the electronics industry
worldwide, the prices for KIET's services are expected to be set at levels
equal to those for similar services in the U.S. industry so as not to place at
a disadvantage the Korean industry which is still at a very early stage of
development. At the same time, KIET will, to the extent consistent with its
role as an organizations designed to stimulate development of the electronics
industry, recover through its prices the cost of carrying out its service
operations, including a notional interest charge of 10% on that portion of
Bank funds being provided for such services. A statement of KIET's service
pricing policy is contained in Annex 6-3.
3.        Prices for wafers and masks are forecast to remain constant (in
current terms), 1979-82, reflecting the normal learning experience in the
industry where improved manufacturing technology has allowed semiconductor
firms to maintain production costs and prices at fairly constant levels from
year to year. Beyond 1982, it is assumed that increasing product complexity
will result in an increase in mask and wafer prices of 10% annually. For IC
design, testing, and systems contract work, where the bulk of costs are labor,
prices are projected to increase by 10% annually over the 1979-87 forecast
period. Assumed prices for services in the base year, 1979, are shown below:
Assumed Prices for Services Per Unit
(current US$)
Wafers
1979     1980      1981      1982
3" Wafers                -         55        55       55
4" Wafers                -         -         95       95
Masks                           4         4        4         4
IC Design                  12,500   13,750   15,125   16,638
Systems Contract Work   700,000  770,000  847,000  932,000
4.        Labor:  Manpower requirements are based on a detailed analysis of
direct labor inputs required in each service area. The manpower plan for KIET
overall, 1979-82, is given in Annex 4-3. Labor costs are based on KIET's
actual 1978 wage and salary levels including fringe benefits and annual
bonuses (normally four months salary). Compensation is assumed to increase by
20% annually in 1979 and 1980, 15% annually in 1981 and 1982, and 10% annually
thereafter. This is shown in the table below:



- 83 -
ANNEX 6-2
Page 3
Average Annual Salaries and Wages
(current US$000's)
1979          1980          1981          1982
Principals           21.5          25.8          29.7           34.2
Seniors              15.1          18.1          20.8           23.9
Juniors               9.1          10.9           12.5          14.4
Technicians           5.6           6.8            7.8           9.0
Operators             4.0           4.8            5.5           6.3
5.        Materials:  Material costs are based on international prices for
imported materials plus costs of delivery to Korea (KIET is exempt from
customs duties) and local prices for domestic materials. A detailed analysis
of the required material inputs in each service area has been conducted,
resulting in the average material costs per unit, 1979-82, given below.
Beyond 1982, all material costs are assumed to inflate by 10% annually.
Material Costs Per Unit
(current US$000's)
1979          1980          1981          1982
Wafers a/ b/ c/
3" Wafers        -            18.22        18.22         18.22
4" Wafers        -              -          32.78         25.33
Masks b/             1.34           1.34         1.34          1.34
IC Design            ------------- No material costs -----------
Testing              ------------- 10% of sales ----------------
Systems Contract
Work               ------------- 20% of sales ---------------
a!   Material costs for wafers exclude the costs of masks.  This has been
accounted for under the cost of mask services.
b/   3" wafer and mask material costs per unit are assumed to remain
constant, 1979-82, as moderate increases in material costs are
absorbed by offsetting improvements in yield.
c/   Material costs for 4" wafers decline sharply in 1982, reflecting
major yield improvements once this technology has been assimilated
by KIET.



-    --                       A,tL). (-
Page 4
6.        Overheads:  These consist of miscellaneous operating supplies,
fuel oil, water, heat, light, etc. and are forecast at 25% of labor costs
each year.
7.        Services R&D:  This represents the on-going costs to KIET of develop-
ment improved production processes to enable it to keep pace with the latest
process developments in the industry and thereby to maintain its costs at
competitive levels. This has been forecast at 5% of annual revenues, which is
somewhat lower than the 8-10% of revenues spent by the industry leaders. The
difference is explained by lower wage costs in Korea, as well as the fact that
KIET will be concentrating in proven products and processes where production
research requirements are lower than in less mature products.
8.        Power:  Power costs in Korea are presently US$0.066 per KWh. This
rate is expected to increase by 10% annually over the forecast period, 1979-87.
Power consumption by KIET's facilities each year are projected as follows:
1979       1980       1981       1982
KIET Power              3,000      17,000    25,000    30,000
Consumption
(000's KWh)
9.        Maintenance:  Maintenance costs are projected at 4% of annual
revenues. This is in line with industry experience internationally.
10.       US Liaison Office:  US liaison office costs are based on projected
US-based staff requirements 1979-82, plus an allowance for overheads of 100%
over and above basic salaries. US costs are inflated 7% annually 1979-82.
11.       General and Administration:  These costs are based on the adminis-
trative staff requirements detailed in Annex 4-3, costed at the salary and
wage rates given in para 3 of this annex. Other administration costs (travel,
insurance, office supplies, transportation, communication, entertainment,
etc.) are projected at 100% of annual administrative salaries and wages. This
is in line with KIET's experience for these costs in 1977 and 1978.
12.       Training, Technology Acquisition, and Expert Invitation:  Costs in
this area, 1979-81, are considered part of KIET's cost of start-up and are
included in the project cost table in Annex 5-1. For income calculation
purposes, they are treated as a deferred expense and amortized over five years
as described in para 13 below. Costs in 1982 are projected at US$1 million
(80% of their 1981 level), and inflated 10% annually thereafter.
13.       Depreciation and Amortization:  These have been calculated on a
straight-line basis using the average of beginning and end of year amounts in
each asset category. Rates used are as follows: buildings (5%); equipment



- 85 -
ANNEX 6-2
Page 5
(10%); and deferred expenses (20%). Depreciation and amortization is charged
for six months in 1979 to reflect the fact that facilities in that year will
only be partially utilized.
14.       Indirect Expenses Charged to RD&E:  A portion of KIET's overheads
representing: depreciation and amortization, general and administrative
costs, power and maintenance charges on facilities which are shared by both
service and RD&E operations have been allocated to RD&E. This allocation is
necessary in order to properly reflect income from service operations and to
account for RD&E project costs for the purpose of calculating industry's
contribution (para 21) as well as royalties to recover KIET's share of RD&E
costs. In order to be conservative, however, overheads charged to RD&E are
limited to 75% of annual RD&E manpower costs. This percentage is in line
with the practice used by other Korea,n research institutes, such as KIST, to
allocate overhead costs to contract research carried out by it for industry.
It is unlikely that KIET, therefore, will be able to pass overheads onto
industry in excess of this percentage, even though a greater charge might be
warranted on the basis of the resources devoted to RD&E each year.
15.       Interest Income:  Interest income has been calculated at 15% of
year-end cash balances. This is reasonable in light of current interest rates
in Korea which are in excess of 20% annually for bank deposit accounts.
16.       Income Taxes:  As a Government institute KIET is not liable for
income taxes.
B.   Sources and Application of Funds:  RD&E Operations
17.       Royalties:  Royalties from successful RD&E projects are expected to
be set at a sufficient level to enabLe KIET to recover the costs of both its
successful and unsuccessful RD&E work. For the purpose of analysis, it is
assumed that one half of the projects undertaken by KEIT will be successful.
This will mean that royalties on successful projects will amount to twice their
cost. Because of low labor and engineering costs in Korea, such royalty
charges would still be competitive when compared to the cost of purchasing
technology directly from offshore sources. For projections purposes, royalties
are calculated in equal installments over five years to return to KIET its net
RD&E costs in each year plus an allowance for inflation of 10% annually over
the forecast period, 1979-87.
18.       Sale of Equipment:  After completion of RD&E projects, specialized
equipment purchased for such is assumed to be transferred to industry.
19.       RD&E Expenses:  Annual RD&E expenses (manpower, materials, equipment,
training and technology purchase, and overheads) are based on cost estimates
for representative RD&E projects which KIET is likely to undertake over the
1979-82 period. Research expenditures are expected to increase from US$1.5
million in 1979 to US$6.0 million in 1982. Thereafter, RD&E expenditures are
forecast to increase, in real terms, by 10% annually. In current terms, this



ANNEX 6-2
Page 6
results in an increase of 21% annually.  By 1987, total RD&E expenditures are
projected to reach US$15.5 million representing about 40% of KIET's total
activities in that year.
20.       Financing of RD&E Expenditures:  KIET will bear 100% of the cost of
RD&E projects sponsored solely by it (assumed to be 30% of the total). On
industry sponsored projects (70% of the total), cost sharing between KIET and
industry is expected to be done on a 65:35 basis respectvely. Provision of
Bank funds for RD&E is based on the foreign exchange costs of annual RD&E
expenditures (materials, equipment, and training and technology purchase)
until the US$5 million allocated for this purpose is expended in 1982.
Government financing will also be required to meet deficits on RD&E operations
until cash generation from KIET's service operations is sufficient to cover
these. This is expected to occur in 1982.
C.   Balance Sheets
21.       Working Capital:  Assumptions used in the calculation of working
capital are as follows:
Cash: 15 days' service revenues; plus one month's total
direct RD&E expenditures
Accounts Receivable: Two months' service and royalty
revenues
Other Receivables: two months' industry contributions
to RD&E costs plus two months' revenues from the
sale of equipment
Raw Materials Inventory: three months' material costs.
Work in Process and Finished Goods: one month's direct
cost of services, including power and maintenance
costs.
Other Current Assets: 1% of service revenues plus
direct RD&E expenditures.
Accounts Payable: two months' direct cost of services,
general and administrative costs, power, and
maintenance less labor costs in these areas;
plus two months' direct RD&E expenditures less
labor and indirect overhead costs.
Other Current Liabilities: 2% of service revenues plus
direct RD&E expenditures.
Industrial Projects Department
February 1979



- 87 -                            ANNEX 6-3
KOREA
ELECTRONICS TECHNOLOGY PROJECT
KIET: SERVICE PRICING POLICY
1.   Introduction
This Annex outlines the poLicy and principles for establishing
prices for the services to be provided by KIET.  The services covered herein
include: design of integrated circuits and systems; supply of wafers, masks,
and special gases, testing of components and systems; and equipment main-
tenance services where such are not undertaken as part of an RD&E effort.
The policy and principles will be reviewed from time to time by KIET and may
be amended as needed in consultation with the Bank.
2.   Policy and Principles
In pricing its service operations, KIET will take into account
its primary role as an organization designed to stimulate the development
of the electronics industry in Korea, while recognizing the desirability,
to the extent consistent with this objective, of recovering the cost of
carrying out these service operations and generate from December 30, 1983
onwards funds sufficient to cover both its cash deficit from its RD&E oper-
ations and the funds required to maintain and develop its technological
capabilities consistent with the industry's needs. For the purpose of
costing KIET's services, a notional interest of 10% will be applied to the
portion of World Bank funds used in providing such services.
In providing services, KIET will emphasize the diffusion of know-
how aimed at building the technological capabilities of a broad segment of
the Korean electronics industry. Given the present stage of development of
Korean industry, KIET will thus undertake as part of its service function the
education and training of industry personnel, which has proved to be an effec-
tive method of technology transfer. Further, it will provide a continuously
advancing mix of services leading the pace of industry's development. In
many instances, KIET will provide specific services in low volumes for short
periods of time and be unable to take full advantage of learning curve and
volume efficiencies. In view of this development and technological paceset-
ting role, KIET's cost of providing the services may be higher than for an
organization providing such services on a purely commercial basis. In setting
prices in such cases, KIET will balance its objective of cost recovery against
the likely impact of the electronics industry worldwide, the prices for KIET's
services are expected to be set in line with prices for such services elsewhere
so as not to place at a disadvantage an industry which is still at a very
early stage of development. This is not only important to attract domestic
and joint venture investment in this sector but also vital for the small and
medium sized firms which will have to rely on KIET for the bulk of their basic
technological and technical needs.
Industrial Projects Department
February 1979



KOREA
ELECTRONICS TECHNOLOGY PROJECT
PROJECTED INCOME STATEMENTS (SERVICES)
(IN MILl ION WON)
1977        1978         1979         1980          1981          1982          1983         1984          1985          1986          198?7
lOTAL SERVICE REVENUES                       -          92          554        3,533         7,575        11185        12,303       13,534        14.887        16,374        18,006
DIRECT COST OF SERVICES
LtEOR                                      -          20          469        1,000         1,643         2,105         2,317        2,547         2,803         3,081         3,391
MAIERIALS                                  -          41          120           871        1,958         2,787         3,066         3,373        3,709         4,080         4,486
OVFRHEADS                                  -          20          116           251          410           528           560           637          702           772           848
DIRECT COST OF SERVICES                    -          81          705        2,122         4,011         5,420        5,963         6,557         7,214         7,933         8,725
GROSS PROFIT                               -          11         (151)       1,411         3,564         5,76S        6,340         6,9,7         7,673         8,441         9,281
INDIRECT EXPENSES
FRODUCTIONi RtD                            -           -           28           177          379           559           olS           677          744           819           900
POWER                                      -           -           97          603           976         1,287         1,415         1,557        1,713         1,884         2,072
MAINTENANCE                                -           -           22           141          303           447,          492           541          595           655           720
U.S LIASON OFFICE                          -          19           97           182          261           279           307           337          371           408           449   Co
GENERAL & A01111.4                       186         483          412          689         1,174         1,567         1,723        1,896        2,085          2,293        2,522
TRA1141NG I IECH, ACoUISITION              -           -            -             -            -           485           534           587          646           710           781 t
DEPRECIATION & AIIORTIZATION               3          12          279        1,335         1,785         1,919         1,919        1,992        1,852         1,787         1,972
- - - - - -  - - - - - - - - -  - - - - - - - - -  _ _ _ _-- - - -_- - - --_- - - - - - - - - - - ------- -   - - - - -  - - - - - -  - - - - -- - - - -
TOTAL INDIRECT EXPENSES                  189         514          935        3,127         4.878         6,543        7,005         7,587        8,006         8,556         9,416
INDTREC EXF. CHARGED TO RDtE               -           -          182          364           546           728           880        1,065        1,288         1,559         1,886
NET INDIRECT EXPENSES                    189         514          753        2,763         4,332         5,815        6,125         6,522        6,718         6,997         7,530
_ _ __ __  - - - - - - - - -  - - - - - - - - -  - - - - - - - - - --_- - - - - - ------  - - - - - -   -- - - - -  - - - - - - -  - - - - -- - - - -
OFERAT114G INCOME                       (189)       (503)        (904)      (1,352)         (768)          (50)          215           455        .955         1,444         1,751
INTEREST INC,                            26           74           12           39            73           103           1a8          134          154           176           202
______ ---------     ---------    ----------    - -- - - -   ------   --   --  - - ---   --  - -- -     -- - -- -   ---  -- -- _ _ _ _ _ - --
TOTAL 114COME                          (163)        (429)       (892)       (1,313)         (695)           53           333          589        1,109         1,620         1,953
Industrial Projects  Department
February  1979                                                                                                                                                                         m
1'1



KOREA
ELECTRONICS TECHNOLOGY PROJECT
PROJECTED SOURCES AND APPLICATIONS OF FUNDS (RDSE)
----------------------------------------     ---   _---   _-
(IN HILLION WON)
1977         1978        1979         1990         1981         1982         1983          1984          1985         1986         1997
SOURCES                                                          ----         ----         ----         ----         ----         ----~~ ~ ----               ----         ----
R.D.IE OFERATIONS
ROYALTY REVENUES                           -            -            -          121          375          764       tP307         2.001         2.687        3.391        4.161
SALE OF EOUIPHENT                          -            -            -            -           49           73           97           118          143           173          209
FUNDS FROM R.D.&E OPERATIONS                 -            -            -          121          424          037        1,404         2#119        20830        3P564        4,370
CONTRIIiUTIONS
ROn  GOVT - IBfi                           -            _         242           485          728          970            -      -                    -            -
RO' 8GVT - OUN                                          -         326           533          567            -            -             -             -            -            -
TOTAL CONTRIBUTIONS                          -                      568         1.018        1,295          970            -             -                    -       -
lOTAL SOUkCES                                -            -         568         1,139        1.719        1t807        1,404         2,119       27,30         3.564         4070
_ = ===c  x=c====  =;=W===  =c=u=_=    ==;==z   sc===g==  s=es===    _====....=c....--.=------o
RDAE EXF'ENSES
MANPOWER                                   _            _         243           485          728          970       1,174          1,420         1.718       2,079         2.515
MATERIALS                                  -            -         121           194          291          398          469           568           687          831        1,006
EOIJIPMENT                                 _-                                    97          146          194          235           284           344          416          503
TRAINING & TECHNOLOGY                      -            -         121           194          291          388          469           568           687          831        1.006
DIRFCT OVERHEAD                            -            -          61           121          182          243          293           355           429          520          629
INDIRECT OVERHEAD                          -            -         182           364          546         728          880         1,065         1,288        1,559         1,886
lOTAL RDOE EXPENSES                          -                      728         1.455        2.184       2,911        3.520          4,260        5.153       8,236          7,545
LESS: INDUSTRY PARTICIPATION               -            -         178           354          535          713          G62         1.044         1,262        1,52S       1-49
NET RDYE EXFENSES                            _            _         550         1vO99        1.649       2t199        2.658          3v216         3,891        4,708        5,6Y6
INCREASE IN WORKING CAPITAL                  -            -          1a            40           70           88          110           140           143          150          170
TOTAL USES                  _                       _               568         1.139        1.719       2,286        2,768          3.356         4,034        4,851S       5.866    z
____c__u_=- . = c====  =                                                        __=_c=_=_=_== _=== ==c=_                                .__ ___-"__=_  _________.__,-  I X7
DEFICIT TO BE COVERED
BY  SERVICE  OPERATIONS                                                             -            -        (479)      (1,36b4)      (1237)        (1,204)      (1,294)      (^1396)
Industrial Projects Department
February 1979



:&A~tX 6-6
KOREA
ELECTRONICS TECNNOLOGY PROJECT
PROJECTED SOURCES AND APPLICATIONS OF FUNDS
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ = _ _ _ _ _ _ --- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
SERVICE AND RDIE OPERATIONS
(IN MILLION WON)
SOURCES                               1977   1978       1979      1980     1981      1982        1993        1984        19R5         19RM       1987
NET INCOME                            (163)  (429)    (892)  (1,313)    h695)          53         333         589       1,109       1,620       1,953
DEPRECIATION S AMORT.                    3      12      279    1,335    1,785    1.919          1.919       1.992       1,H52       1,787       1,972
FUNDS FROM SERVICE OPERATIONS         (160)  (417)    (613)        22    1,090    1,972         2,252       2,581       2,961       3,407       3,925
R.D.SE OPERATIONS
ROYALTY REVENUES                       -      -         -       121       375       764       1,307       2,001      2,687        3.39t       4.161
SALE OF EQUIPMENT                      -      -         -         -        49        73          97         119         143         173         209
FUNDS FROM R.D.IE OPERATIONS             -       -         -      121       424       837       1,404       2.119       2,930       3,564       4,370
CONTRIBUTIONS
ROK GOVT - IBRD                        -      -    6,445    4.141    2,509          970           -           -           -           -
ROK GOVT - OWN                A/    524  1.81S    3,402    4,176    1,290             -           -           -           -           -
ROK GOVT - FOR DEBT SERVICE -          -      -       480    3,150    3,523    4,039         6,907       9,247       R.MAA       R.495        ti4c
INDUSTRY                            364    317          -         -         -         -           -           - _                     -
TOTAL CONTRIBUTIONS                    B8R  2,135   10,327   11,467    7.321    5,009          6,907        9.247       R.R6A       8.48,       S.10R
TOTAL SOURCES                          728  1,718    9,714   11,610    8.835    7,818          10,563     13,947       14,657      1F.4S6      1h.403
USES
FIXED ASSETS EXPENDITURES               52    960    8,964    5,421    1,843            -           -       1.455       .600        2.761       1.936
DEFERkED EXPENDITURES                    -    194       758    1,062        615         -           -           -           -           -           -
TOTAL CAPITAL EXPENDITURES              52  1,154    9,722    6,483    2,458            -           -      1,459        1,600       1,761       1,936
RDLE EXPENSES
MANPOWER                               -      -       243       485       728       970      t.174       t,420        ;.718      2.079        2,515
MATERIALS                              -      -       121       194       291      388         469         969         687         t331       1,006
EOUIPMENT         ,                    -       _        -        97       146       194         235         284       .344          416         503
TRAINING S TECHNOLOGY                  -      -       121       194       291      388         469         ¶68         6H7         831        1,006
DIRECT OVERHEAD                        -       -       61       121       192      243         293         355         479         S20          629
INDIRECT OVERHEAD                      -      -       182       364       546      728         8N0       1,065       1,288       (.559        1,886
TOTAL RDIE EXPENSES                      -       -      728    1,455    2,184    2,911         31520       4.260       5,153       6,236        7,545
LESS: INDUSTRY PARTICIPATION           -      -       179       356       535      713         867       1,044       1,262       1,528        1,849
____    -----   --- -- --   -------   -------   -------   ---- - ----   ----- --- -   - -- ------   -- ---- -_   ------ ---
NET RDSE EXPENSF.                        -       -      550    1,099    1,649    2,198         2,658       3,216       3.891       4,70M        5,696
DEBT SERVICE                             -       -      480    3,150    3,523    4,039         6,907       9,24.       8.86n       9,485       8,108
INCREASE IN WORKING CAPITAL            676    564   (1,038)       878    1,205    1,049          424         4H0          270         ,6,         625
TOTAL USES                             728  1,718    9,714   11,610    8,835    7,286          9,989      14,.398     14.877       9. 199     16,365
===; ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~..      ......    ..$=S  ... == =  ---= _XI  =======   ---=am ... ===  =- -==     .J:   .........
ADDITIONAL 5URPLUS CASH                  -       -        -         -         -      532         574        (4511       (2201        (631          38
DEPT SERVICE OBLIGATIONS ON THE BANK FUNDS
ARE BORNE BY THE GOVERNMENT THROIJ8H ANNUAL
BUDGETARY ALLOCATIONS TO KRET
Industrial Projects Department
February 1979



- 91 -                                             ANNEX 6-7
KOREA
ELECTRONICS TECHNOLOGY PROJECT
PROJECTED BALANCE SHEETS
(IN MILLION WON)
1977   1978      1979     1920      1981      1922       1983        1984        198.        1986      1t87
ASSETS
CURRENT ASSETS:
CASH                             664  1,105        67       232      439       629         712        807         917       1,045      1,191
ACCOUNTS RECEIVABLES               -      -        93       610    1,328    1,996       2,273       2,594       2,935       3,300      3,702
OTHER RECEIVABLES                 34    177        30        59       98       131         160        194         235         284        s,4
INVE14TORY
RAW MATERIALS                      -      -        30      218       490       697         767        843         927       1,020      1,122
WORIK IN PROCESS                   -      -        69      239       441       596         656         721        793         872        959
FINISHED GOODS                     -      -        69      239       441       596         656        721         .93         872        959
TUTAL INVENTORY                      -      -       168       696    1,372    1.S89       2,079       2,285       2,213       2,764      3,040
OTHER CURRENr ASSETS              12     44        11       46        92       134         149        167         188         211        237
____    ----  _ _ __     ___- -- - -- - -- -   --- --   __-- _     ----- - - -- -   --- ------   ---- ---   --- -- --   -- -_ _  . _
rOTAL CURHENT ASSETS               710  1,326       369    1,643    3,329    4,779        5,373       6,047       6,788       7,6-4      8,514
SURPLUS CASH                         -      -         -         -        -       532       1,106        655         435         372        I1O
FIXED ASSETS
GROSS FIXEDl ASSETS                 52  1,012    9,976   15,397   17,240   17,240         17,240     18,695      20,295      22,056     23,992
ACCUIIULATED DEPRECIATION            3      15      237    1,276    2,597    3,990        5,383       6,849       8,467      10,254     12,225
_---    -----   -------   -------   ------   -------  --- ---- -  -_- ------  --__ - -  ---- ---   --------- _ 
NET FIXED ASSETS                    49    997    9,739   14,121   14,643   13,250         11,857     11,846      11,828      11,802     11,767
GROsS DErERRED EXP.                  -    194       952    2,014    2,629    2,629        2,629       2,629       2,629       2,629      2,629
ACCUMULAlED AMORT.                   -      -        57       354      81    1,344        1,870      2,392       2,629       2,629      2,629
NET ['EFERRED EXFENSES               -    194       895    1,660    1,811    1,215           759        234           -           -          -
GRULS INVESTMENT IN RDIE             -      -       550    1,64?    3,299    5,496        8,154      11,370      15,261      19,969     25,66S
LESS rSETURN ON INVESTMENT           -      -         -       121      545    1,382       2,786       4,905       7,735      11,299      5,6ey
NET INVESTMENT IN RDUE               -      -       550    1,529    2,753    4,114        5,368       6,465       7,526       8,670      9,996
____    -----   -------   -------   --__--- -   -------   ------ _---   ---------   -- -- --   ---- ---   --  -_ _  - ..   _
TOTAL ASSFrS                       729  2,517   11,553   18,952   22,536   23,960        24,463      25,247     26,577      28,448     30.687
LIABILITIES AND CAFIrAL
CURRENT LIABILITIES
ACCOUNTS PAYABLE                   3     62       145      470       829    1,177       1,316       1.474       1,655      1,860      2,093
OTHER CURRENT LIABILITIES         31     24        22       93       185       268        299         335         375        421         473
rOTAL CURRENT LIABILITIES           34     86       167      563    1,044    1,445        1,615       1,809      2,030       2,281      2,566
CAF'ITAL
CONTRIBUTIONS
RON GOVT - IBRD                    -      -    6,445   10,586   13,094   14,064        14,064      14,064     14,064      14,064     14,064
ROR GOVT - OWN                   524  2,342    5,744    9,920   11,210   11,210        11,210      11,210     11,210      11,210     11.210
INDUSTRY                        364    681       691       681       681      681         691         681        681         681        681
rOTAL CONTRIBUTIONS                888  3,023   12,870   21,187   24,985   25,952        25,952     2;,9225    22,9         22, 925    25,955
RETAINED EARNINGS               (163)  (592)  (1,484)  (2.798)  (3,493)  (3,440)    (3,107)    (2,517)    (1,406)            212      2,t66
TOTAL CAPITAL                     722  2,431   11 386   18,389   21,492   22,215         22,84e     23,438      24,547      26,167    28,121
TOTAL LIABILITIES AND CAPITAL    759  2,517   11,553   18,922   22,536   23,960          24,463      25,247     26.577      28,44a     30,687
Industrial Projects Department
February 1979






____________________________                                                                                                     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IBRD 14
.-, _,i' U.S.S.R                  .- s                                                    ,2 12r 7'8,      128'                                       DECEMBER e97
C H I N A  7-^tf  >'    ,; "'  N O  R T H    K CREA
Jost  Sea 
(---¾ (NKOREA
'I C::rart mlfo ' 0 &, ¢ A j , L e tS~~~~~~~~~~u.cheon
Sea
/  PanmunJunr~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~/    R~~ren
(N~~ Pac  ftct                                                                                                              b       S
East                 Oce an                                               Eienb
)C/,ina Sea,Mkho
-36  Yellow   S e a   tunssn  >0   t    0nGImcheor  < )                                                  e           f         i               36~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~heo
A*5b1a Obetite                    a
[.A.                                                                                                                     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~37.-
------j                                          nseong~~~~~~Gtagt
i  2                XCMoQP
-36'~~~~~a
^X3 ' t< =r  r    ''Q ELECTONISTECHNOLOGY PROJECT
eon u                      'ae    Lauotron of Korno Instoute ol Electroncs Technology
>   U                                                   =~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ pamtrty Rroads            (KI0IT)
Zi n h oes
-3J-               r;;                                                       .         :            r     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Special1 Cities
:~~~~~~~~~ .- -   lolesaton rntol Boandanres
,~~~~~~A                                                                                                                                                            35-4 
W                                Y.0                        unc~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~frtnsee.e  000.  tfetd re0~tl&kO  o,ltt
oORet$sst  es  KOe REAt
N-                                                               ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~riLmaETRoa$(IT
O   20           40           60          80            00wy
SOgtpe                                       MILES~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4
125  /28'                               27                                 lOB'                                129~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Rw



