FILIE  COPY                    RESTRICTED    (A
Report No. PI- 3a
This report was prepared for use within the Bank and its affiliated organizations.
They do not accept responsibilily for its accuracy or completeness. The report may
not be published nor may it be quoted as representing their views.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
INTERNATIONA1. DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
AP PRAISAL OF THE
PUSRI FERTILIZER PLANT EXPANSION
AND
GAS CONSERVATION AND TRANSMISSION PROJECT
INDONESIA
April ZO, 1970
Industrial Projects Department



Currency Equivalents
BE (Bonus Export) Rate"
US $1                      =  .Rp. 326
1 Rupiah                   -    US$0.003
1 million Rupiahs          X    US$3,067
1/ Applicable to about 85% of international trans-
actions. A DP rate (currently Rp. 379 = US$1)
applies mainly to imports of less essential
consumer goods and to some invisible and capital
transactions. No par value has been established
with the IMF.
Principal Abbreviations Used
PUSRI       -  P.N. Pupuk Sriwidjaja
PERTAMINA   -  P.N. Pertamina
GOVERNMENT  -  Government of Indonesia
USAID       -  United States Agency for Inter-
national Development
ADB         -  Asian Development Bank
STANVAC     -  N.V. Standard Vacuum Petroleum
Matschappij
BIMAS)      -  Government programs to stimulate
INMAS)           improved agricultural practices
Conversion Units
All tons are metric tons
1 gr.        - (1 gram) = 0.0022 lb.
1 kg.        - (1 kilogram) = 2.205 lbs.
1 km.        - (1 kilometer) = 0.621 mile
1 ton-km.    - (1 tonkilometer) = 0.611 longton-mile
1 SCF        - (1 standard cubic foot) = 0.0283 cubic meters
1 ha         - (1 hectare) = 2.471 acres



INDONESIA-EUSRI FERTILIZER PROJECT
SPECIAL NOTICE
After this appraisal report was completed, the Government of
Indonesia adopted an exchange reform which substantially unified its
exchange rate system and resulted in some reduction in the dollar equiv-
alent of the rupiah, in so far as most foreign trade transactions are
concerned. Effective April 17, 1970, the two exchange markets - the BE
(Bonus Export) and the DP (Devrisa Pelengkap or Complementary Fbreign
Exchange) markets - were merged at Rp 378 per U.S. dollar, the rate
recently prevailing in the DP market.  This rate will now apply to all
foreign trade and exchange tramsactions except for sales of aid funds
provided by foreign governmen-.s for program imports and related services
which, for the time being, wi:Ll remain at the BE rate of Rp 326 per U.S.
dollar. Since the reform also involves a simplification of export tax
arrangements and the eliminatiLon of the export overprice system, the
extent of the exchange rate adjustment will differ for different export
and import commodities. Sinct the DP rate had been applied to non-trade
receipts and to payments for 'Less essential imports, the exchange reform
will not affect these items.
Inasmuch as the calculations in the attached Appraisal Report
were based on the old BE exchange rate of Rp 326 to a dollar, a study
was made of the potential effect of the exchange reform on the economic
viability of the project. The capital cost estimates of the project
were derived from comparable projects in other developing countries, with
the local currency portion being translated from the dollar value at
Rp 326 per U.S. dollar. On this basis the total project cost was esti-
mated at $8h.4 million, of which $68.0 million was foreign exchange
and Rp 5,346 million local currency. The former, of course, will not
be affected by the exchange reform though its rupiah equivalent will
increase by 16 percent. The capital cost in local currency should not be
immediately affected by the exchange rate adjustment. Over the longer term
it is reasonable to assume some general increase in prices, including the
price of fertilizer, as a result of the exchange rate change. Moreover,
the Government has given positive assurances to the lenders that it will
implement the measures necessary to promote fertilizer usage and will
permit PUSRI to sell its fertilizers at realistic commercial prices; the
latter would reflect the higher cost, in terms of rupiah, of the foreign
exchange component of the project, as well as any increase in operating
costs, resulting from the exchange rate reform. Based on these assurances,
the overall return on the investment is expected to remain substantially
as stated in the appraisal report.
Industrial Project Department
April 20, 1970






INDONESIA
APPRAISAL OF PUSRI FEWTILIZER PLANT EXPANSION PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
SUWARY AND' CONCLUSIONS     ......................           i-iii
I.  INTRODUCTION ...... . .                                          1
II.    THE FERTILIZER MARKET IN INDONESIA ...................        2
A.  Agriculture in Indoaesia ..................... .       2
B. Past Consumption of Fertilizer       . . .              2
C.  Present and Future Rice Production     ...             3
D.  Future Demand for Fertilizer          ..               4
E.  Domestic Production of Nitrogenous Fertilizer .        7
III.   PUSRI's EXISTING OPERATIONS...                                8
A.  Outline of Existing Operations. .                      8
B.  Past Financial Results .     . ......................  9
C.  Organization and Management  ........... ....         10
IV.    GAS CONSERVATION AND SUPPLY ....                .......      11
A.  The Indonesian Petzoleum Sector and PERTAMINA .       11
B. Gas Reserves, Production and Use in South
Sumatra .12
C.  The Future Supply &nd Requirements of GAS from
PERTAMINA ..    ... . . .. ................. ..     13
D.  Gas Conservation ar,d Transmission ............ .     14
E.  Organization, Gas Conservation and Transmission
and the Price of Gas ....    ....................   15
V.     PROPOSED NEW FERTILIZER FA.CILITIES .....    ..............  16
A. Size       ......................................      16
B.  Outline ....... o.............................        17
C.  Ecology .....................'o  ................     17
D.  Management and Projlect Execution ...  ...........    18
E.  Procurement and Construction Schedule    .........    18
VI.    CAPITAL COST - FINANCIAL PLAN - PRODUCTION COST ......       21
A.  Capital Cost Estimatte ........................       21
B.  Financial Plan  . .         .........................  22
C.  Production Cost Est:imate ... o ..................    24



Table of Contents (continued)
Page No.
VII.   MARKETING, PRICES AND COMPETITION FROM IMPORTS .......       25
A.    Marketing   .... ................ ... ..............  25
B. Prices and Competition from Imports ......... ..       27
VIII.  PROFITABILITY AND FINANCIAL POSITION ............... ..      28
IX.    ECONOMIC JUSTIFICATION ......     .........................  31
X.     RECOMMENDATIONS .......     ...............................  31
Annexes
1. Rice Production - Definition of Terms
2. BIMAS, INMAS Program
3.  PUSRI - Summary of Earnings from Inception to June 30, 1969
4. Effect of Revaluations and Currency Devaluation on PUSRI's
Fixed Assets
5. PUSRI - Balance Sheets as of Dec. 31, 1968, June 30, 1969
and Jan. 3, 1970
6. Organization Chart of PUSRI
7.  PUSRI - Tentative Project Schedule
8.  PUSRI - Project Cost Estimates for the Fertilizer Plant Expansion
9. PUSRI - Major Assumptions Used in Financial Projections
10. PUSRI - Projected Income Statements for Expansion Project
11.  PUSRI - Projected Income Statements for Combined Operations
12. PUSRI - Projected Balance Sheets for Combined Operations
13.  PUSRI - Projected Cash Flow Statements for Combined Operations
14. PUSRI - Sensitivity Analysis of Financial Projections
14a. PUSRI versus Tjirebon
15.  Diagrams on the Gas Conservation and Transmission Project
16. Tables on the Gas Conservation and Transmission Project
Maps
1.   Map of Indonesia - Existing and Proposed Fertilizer Production
Facilities
2.   Map of South Sumatra - Oil and Gas Fields and Major Pipelines
3.   Map of South Palembang District - Gas Conservation Pipeline
System



SUMMARY jAND CONCLUSIONS
i.        The Government of Indonesia has asked for assistance i1n financing
a new fertilizer plant of the sl:ate-owned PUSRI company to be erected Pear
Palembang in South Sumatra. ThiD new plant would produce 380,000 tons of
urea per year and would be built adjacent to PUSRI's existing urea plant
of 100,000 tons annual capacity, thus increasing the company's overall
urea capacity to 480,000 tons pier year. Related conservation and trans-
mission facilities for the suppLy of natural gas to be used as feedstock
ar.d fuel would also form part of the project. Total troject costs are es-
timated at $84.4 million lncluding provisions for pnysical and price con-
tingencies and assistance in initial operations.  The foreign exchange
component would be $68.0 million.
ii.       The proposed plant would be the first of two large nitrogenous
fertilizer plants, the construction of which is included in Indonesia's
Five Year Plan (1969-1974).  The second plant will be built at Tjirebon,
on the north coast of Western Java, provided that in addition. to presently
proven gas reserves the balance necessary to sustain an economically sized
plant is found.
iii.      Following a feasibility study by consultants employed by the
United States Agency for International Development (USAID), the project
has been jointly appraised by the Association (IDA) and the Asian Develop-
ment Bank (ADB). IDA would be making a credit of $30 million and ADB and
USAID loans of $10 million and $20 million respectively. The Government
of Japan would lend $8 million from its 1969 Japanese aid pledge. All
these foreign exchange funds would be made available to the Government
at concessional terms. The Government would transfer the proceeds to
PUSRI in the form of loans at commercial rates and equity investments,
and to PERTAMINA, the Government-owned oil company, in the form of a loan
r the execution of the related gas conservation and transmission schemes.
PERTAMINA will establish a separate accounting entity for the operation
of these schemes. Rupiah finan,cing would be provided by the Government
and by internal cash generatior, from the existing operation of PUSRI.
This would be the Bank Group's first loan to the industrial sector in
Indonesia.
iv.       Indonesia's agricultutre, which occupies roughly 80% of the popu-
lation and accounts for almost half of the national income, has a low
productivity. The country's fcoodgrain requirements have not been fully
met through domestic production. The Government gives highest priority
to a program to achieve self-sufficiency in foodgrains by 1973/74. Im-
plementation of such a plan wiil require massive injections of various
agricultural inputs of which adlequate supplies of fertilizers are the
most important. The existing plant of PUSRI is presently the only manu-
facturer of nitrogenous fertilizer and a large quantity of fertilizers
is imported to cover deficienc:Les in supply. While another small nitro-
genous fertilizer plant (of some 117,000 tons per year in urea equivalents)
is expected to come on stream by the end of 1970, the combined capacity of
these two plants would meet on:Ly about 80% of current requirements.



- ii -
v.        Nitrogenous fertilizer consumption during the 1960's has been
stagnant. Reasons for such performance are varied and complex; they include
inadequate financial incentives for farmers to use fertilizers and an in-
efficient system for distribution of fertilizer. Achievement of the pro-
jected increases in fertilizer use will require concerted action on the
part of the Gcvernment and PUSRI to eliminate various constraints on con-
sumption.  Under the proposed loans and credlts, assurances have been ob-
tained from the Government on measures to br'ing about orderly growth in
fertilizer usage.  The Association and ADB have received specific assurance
that recommendations to be made by a National Fertilizer Study will be
implemented as agreed between the Government and the lenders. The Govern-
ment is not, inttiating the study, which should be completed in the latter
part of 1971.
vi.       The existing plant of PUSRI is satisfactorily operated and
maintained. However, financial performance has been unsatisfactory, main-
ly due to the plant's inherently high cost structure compared to those
employIng modern technology as well as a urea pricing policy which, until
recently, was geared to the maintenance of rice prices at low levels. The
present State enterprise is now being converted into a limited liability
compeany which, though still State-owned, will operate on a commercial basis,
with its management having more clear-cut lines of authority and a large
degree of autonomy in its operations. The corporate charter has been
drafted so as not to preclude future private participation.
vii.      The full gas requirements of the existing and the expanded fer-
tilizer plant would be supplied from oil and gas fields operated by PERTAMINA
and STANVAC. There are sufficient gas reserves in place to meet the re-
quirements of PUSRI's combined operation plus other usage over a period of
20 years after the present flaring of gas by PERTAMINA is eliminated by the
proposed gas conservation scheme. However, additional investments would be
needed from time to time to ensure continued deliverability. No gas con-
servation is presently planned for the STANVAC fields since no economic
use for that gas is 4n sight.
viii.     The cost estimates for the fertilizer plant are based on a single
train ammonia plant with a capacity of 660 tons per day and a dual train
urea plant with a capacity of 580 tons per day in each of two trains. Two
single train urea plants in the 1,000 ton per day range have recently
started production while several others are under construction in various
parts of the world. Some of these contain duplicate units of essential
equipment. If operations of such units prove to be dependable by the time
the design of the PUSRI facilities need to be frozen, then the dual train
design of the PUSRI urea plant can be modified, with savings in capital
cost of as much as $2 million if a straight single train design is adopted.
ix.       The experience of PUSRI's management is necessarily limited to
the operation of a plant of smaller size and lower technical complexity
than the propoced installation. PUSRI has, therefore, agreed to engage
outside assistance to handle the execution of the fertilizer project and
its initial operation and is now actively soliciting proposals for such
assistance.



- iii -
x.        Procurement procedures will ensure the maximum degree of inter-
national competitive bidding consistent with the fact that funds from the
lenders other than IDA are v    to procurement from specific sources,
primarily the U.S. and Japan.   While it is planned that the urea plant in
its entirety will be procured through competitive bidding limited to
Japanese sources, and that the services of the General Contractor, includ-
ing the license for the ataonia plant, will be procured through competitive
bidding within the United States, it is expected that mcst of t;he other
import requirements #"except for the urea plant) can be awarded through
international vomlap-itive bidding.  The project is schseduled to be com-
pleted by June, 1973.
xi.       The econom'ic rate of return on the investment covering the
fertilizer plant and the gas conservation and transmission schemes is
14% based on a future import price of urea of $67.50 per ton (compared
to a present price of $78-81 per ton). This rate of return is satis-
factory. If import prices were to drop to $60 per ton the economic rate
of return would be 12;. Net foreign exchange savings are estimated at
$13 million per year at capacity operation.
xii.      Recent economic performance in Indonesia has been satisfactory,
but much of the physical and institutional damage caused by mismanagement
and hyper-inflation during the previous regime has still to be repaired.
In agriculture, as in other sectors, many of the policies and programs
for rehabilitatioa and development are still in their early stages. Under
these circumstances past perfor-mance is no guide and projection of future
trends is difficult. The uncertainties most directly involving the PUSRI
project concern the effects of Indonesian agricultural policies, in parti-
cular the adequacy of the incentives for increased fertilizer use, and the
,-ganizational problems of marketing and distributing the far larger out-
put of fertilizer which will result from the project.
xiii.     To take into account possible differences between plans and per-
formance, assumptions on fertilizer market growth made in Indonesia's Five-
Year Plan have been substantially discounted, the plant size has been ad-
justed to such lower sales expectations and projections of capital, operating
cost and sales build-up have been made on a conservative basis. On the other
hand it should be noted that fertilizer consumption levels in Indonesia are
still among the lowest in the world and must grow rapidly if reasonable food
production targets are to be aliproached; furthermore, the Indonesian Govern-
ment has successfully implemented difficult economic policy decisions leading
to a successful stabilization effort and is making an all-out effort to acce-
lerate economic growth which irnitially is centered on agriculture. Even if
additional adverse factors should occur, such as construction delays or an
even slower build-up of production and sales than assumed, the risk on ba-
lance is not excessive and should therefore be accepted.
xiv.      The project would prcovide a suitable basis for an IDA credit of
$30 million and an ADB Special Funds Loan of $10 million to the Government
of Indonesia if other lenders lirovide the balance of the $68 million total
foreign exchange required.






I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The Government of Indo'nesia (the Government) has asked for assist-
ance in financing a new fertilizer plant of P.T. Pupuk Sriwidjaja (PUSRI) to
produce 380,000 tons of urea -ar year. The new plant would increase PUSRI's
urea capacity from presently 100,000 to 480,000 tons per year and would be
built adjacent to the existing plant near Palembang in South Sumatra (Map
1).  PUSRI is a State enterprise wholly owned by the Government.  The
existing plant consists of an ammnonia and urea unit.  It is situated on
the bank of the Musi river permitting coastal and inter-island shipments
of its output.  Apart from some start-up help it has been operating largely
without outside assistrauce ard, over the past few years, at near capacity,
except for the first half of 19(9 when production was reduced due to tech-
nical difficulties.
1.02      The Association therefore agreed to the Government's request that
the Bank group take the lead in project preparation and appraisal and in
firming up the financing:  to tris end the Association, the Asian Develop-
ment Bank (ARB) and the U.S. Agency for International Development (USAID)
have worked closely together.  In May 1968, an IFC mission visited Indonesia
mainly to make a preliminary assiessment of the availability of natural gas
for the project. In June 1968, under contract with USAID, the Government
commissioned John van der Valk and Associates, a U.S. consulting firm, to
make a feasibility study of the project. This study 1/ was completed in
April 1969. Subsequently a jointt IDA/ADB mission made an appraisal of the
project in the field, followed tip by another mission in August/September
1969. Also, in July, the Associ.ation reviewed in the field the feasibility
of the gas conservation and transmission project. A Japanese mission exa-
r,ined the project in October/Novrember 1969.
1.03      The proposed expansion project consists of new ammonia-urea facili-
a with daily capacities of 660 tons of ammonia and 1,150 tons of urea re-
spectively, and is to be built adjacent to the existing plant. This plant
size was chosen among various alternatives that had been considered as the
most appropriate in the light of the relevant technical, marketing and fi-
nancial considerations. Natural gas from oil and gas fields some 115 km. to
the southwest will serve, as for the present plant, as feedstock for ammonia
production and as fuel. The gal will be made available by P.N. Pertamina
(PERTAMINA), a Government-owned oil company and N.V. Standard Vacuum Petro-
leum Maatschappij (STANVAC), a joint venture of Standard Oil Company of New
Jersey and Mobil Oil. Both PERT'AMINA and STANVAC own and operate extensive
oil and gas fields in the area. The Association, and ADB, from the begin-
ning of their involvement in the project, have recognized the urgent need
to preserve for future use gas which is presently flared on the PERTAMINA
and STANVAC fields to the extent: that an economic use could be found for
it. The project includes, therefore, not only the necessary transmission
facilities to bring the additional gas to the fertilizer plant but also a
gas conservation scheme.
1/   Hereinafter referred to as the van der Valk report.



- 2 -
1.04      This report was prepared by Messrs. Hori and Cottrell (Interna-
tional Finance Corporation) Messrs. Kulkarni, Katsume and Evans (Asian
Development Bank) and Messrs. Bain, Pigossi and Kaupisch (International
Development Association), assisted by Mr. Sonney as consultant for gas
conservation and transmission.
II. THE FERTILIZER MARKET IN INDONESIA
A. Agriculture in Indonesia
2.01      Indonesia is an archipelago of more than 13,000 islands stretching
along the equator. Some 1,000 of these islands are inhabited, the rest being
too small or too barren to support a population. Of a total land area of
about 180 million hectares (ha), about 18 million ha are under cultivation;
the rest is covered by forests or jungle, is mountainous or built-up. With
the exception of a relatively few large estates of, together, about one
million ha, most of the cultivated land is extensively subdivided with
most farmers working less than one ha.
2.02      The country's population is approximately 118 million and has
been growing at a rate of 2.4% per annum. About two-thirds of the people
are crowded upon the island of Java, which contains only 7% of the land
area, making it one of the most densely populated areas in the world with
almost six persons per ha.
2.03      Agriculture occupies perhaps 80% of the population.  Reliable
statistics are few in Indonesia, but available data indicate that in 1968
agriculture contributed almost half of the national income, while manufac-
turing and trade contributed slightly more than a quarter. The principal
crops are rice, maize, cassava, groundnuts, soya beans, sweet potatoes,
tobacco, coffee, rubber, cinchona, pepper, kapok, fibers, coconut products,
palm oil, tea, sugar and indigo. Rice is by far the most important crop.
Its cultivation occupies about 55% of the total area in food crops. Close
to 60% of the country's rice is grown on Java, where practically every hec-
tare of usable land is already under cultivation and where any immediate
increase in agricultural output will have to be obtained largely by more
intensive farming.
B. Past Consumption of Fertilizer
2.04      Statistics of past consumption in Indonesia of nitrogen, phosphate
and potash are not precise, but it is evident that there was no significant
or consistent increase during the 1960's at least up to 1967/68. The van
der Valk report has estimated that, over the seven-year period April 1961
to March 1968 1/, yearly consumption of the three fertilizer nutrients has
averaged:
1/   Fertilizer year:  April I through March 31.



-3-
Nitrogen as N             91,000 tons
Phosphate as P205         36,000 tons
Potashi as K20             5,000 tons
2.05      Roughly half of the foregoing amounts of nitrogen, mostly in the
form of urea with 46% of N, may have been applied to rice. Since most of
Indonesia's rice is grown without benefit of chemical fertilizer, rice yields
are low and average only about 1.3 tons of milled rice per ha (see Annex 1
for definition of terms).  Statistical information on this point is inade-
quate so that the amount of fertilizer actually applied to rice is not known.
Such information as has been collected indicates that over the past few
years some 45,000 tons of fertilizer nitrogen (N) has been applied annually
to rice.  On the assumption that under the conditions then existing including
the use of traditional varieties of rice, one ton of fertilizer nitrogen pro-
duced an additional 10 tons of milled rice (or one ton of urea produced
5 tons of milled rice), rice production attributable to fertilizer usage
was only about half a million tons out of the approximately 10 million
tons of milled rice produced. Thus a very low proportion of the potential
increase in rice production through the use of fertilizer has been realized.
2.06      Under the impetus of Government programs described in later para-
graphs, apparent fertilizer nitrogen consumption is gradually increasing,
and is reported to have been about 100,000 tons in 1967/68 and 120,000 tons
in 1968/69. 1/ However, not all of the fertilizer nitrogen was in the form
of urea. Some ammonium sulfate and other fertilizer were used. Furthermore,
present stocks of urea are reported to be in excess of 300,000 tons, an in-
dication that part of the apparent consumption went into inventory. Actual
urea consumption for 1968/69 is therefore estimated to have been between
180,000 and 200,000 tons. Data for the crop year 1969/70 are not yet avail-
able, but consumption is expected to be approximately 240,000 tons. Phos-
pl'ate consumption continues at about one-third that of nitrogen. Potash con-
sumption, mostly restricted to crops other than rice, has not increased.
There seems to be little need for potash application at present in the pre-
dominantly volcanic soils of Indonesia.
C. Present and Future Rice Production
2.07      The level and quality of food nutrients in Indonesia is low by
world standards. Average per capita daily intake is estimated at only 1,980
calories including 40 grams of protein. The Government, in its current
Five-Year Plan (1969/70-1973/74) plans to increase the average per capita
calorie intake to 2,300 calories per day, to improve the nutritional balance
by increasing the share of protein and to make the nation self-sufficient in
food.
2.08      The Plan stipulates two major targets:  one for the production
of rice and the other for over-all food supply. The following table com-
pares these targets with actual achievements in 1968:
1/   "Current Economic Position and Prospects of Indonesia" (EAP-lOa)
dated Nov. 14, 1969.



-4-
Actual      Target
1968       1973/74
Milled rice (in million tons)
Production                                    10.3          15.4
Imports                                        0.6
Total milled rice                             10.9          15.4
Over-all food supply (kg per capita expressed
in rice equivalent)                            142           178
The Bank's latest Economic Report expresses doubt that this rice target is
either necessary or feasible. A more realistic rice production target con-
sistent with an annual per capita income growth of 2%, an income elasticity
of demand for rice of 0.6 and a population increase of 2.4% per year would
be 13.5 million tons of milled rice in 1973/74, or an increase of 3.2 mil-
lion tons over the 1968/69 output.
2.09      To attain this level of rice production within the time envisaged
will require the use of high yielding rice varieties which need good irri-
gation and substantial amounts of fertilizer. Such varieties are already
being introduced under the BIMAS and INHAS programs, described in Annex 2.
2.10      About two-thirds of the rice land is irrigated.  Many of the
irrigation works have fallen into disrepair. Their rehabilitation is
among the important tasks in raising rice production. Access roads, also,
have deteriorated substantially in many areas. The Department of Public
Works intends, during the current Five-Year Plan, to upgrade some 6,120 km
of roads and to recondition another 11,280 km. The Association and ADB
have so far lent $54 million (including the proposed $20 million IDA credit
for Djatiluhur irrigation) for the rehabilitation of roads and irrigation
facilities and further projects are in preparation.
D.  Future Demand for Fertilizer
2.11      Fertilizer usage in Indonesia is very low comparod to usage in
some other rice producing countries.
Fortilixer Consumption in Some Rice Growing Countries
Averaze Usage-Kg/ha of Arable Land - 1966/67 11
N Expressed in
Country             N         P205       K20         Equivalent Urea
Burma /2            0.4          0.1      -                  0.9
Japan             146          146                         308
Korea             104           54       25                226
Pakistan           60           11        5                131
Philippines         8            3        2                  17
Taiwan            178           42       58                387
Thailand            3            2        0.7                 7
Indonesia           5            1.7      -                 11
Ll   Data from FAO: Fertilizers 1968.  Data is for 1966/67.
/2   Questionable figures, but quoted in several sources.



- 5 -
Even if it is assumied that all of the nitrogen used in Indonesia
was applied only to the wet 3.and (4.6 million ha irrigated plus 1.2 million
ha rain fed) the average consLumption would have been approximately 16 Kg of
nitrogen per ha, equivalent t;o 35 Kg of urea per ha. Under the BIMAS and
INMAS programs the Governmenta is aiming at urea applications of 100 Kg to
200 Kg of urea per ha on the new rice varieties. Even these applications
are reasonable when compared to the usage in some other rice producing
countries.
2.12      The projected increi&ae of 3.2 million tons of rice is expected to
be achieved in two ways. First, irrigated crop acreage is expected to in-
crease by 600,000 ha during the next four years. If planted in rice this
would produce close to 800,000 tons per year without fertilizer. For the
remaining 2.4 million tons of rice the farmers will have to resort to the
use of the BIMAS type inputs, roads and irrigation systems will have to be
improved and extended and agricultural extension work will have to be step-
ped up. Under these conditions it is safe to forecast that one ton of urea
will produce an incremental increase of 7 tons of milled rice (instead of
the 5 tons estimated in para. 2.05) 1/. Hence about 340,000 tons of urea
would be needed for added rice production.  This would be in addition to
the 200,000 tons now being used. Another 40-50,000 tons would be needed
for crops other than rice, so that total urea needs in 1973/74 might
come to 600,000 tons at the outside.
2.13      Additional phosphat:e fertilizer will also be needed in order to
assure the continued effectiveness of such a substantial increase in nitro-
gen application.  Ultimately phosphate (P205) tonnage is expected to be
about half of the nitrogen (N1) tonnage. A phosphate fertilizer plant is
now being built near Tjilitjetp on Java and is designod to produce some 20,000
tons/year of P 205 - far belor what is expected to be required within the
next five years or so.  Since Indonesia has no commercially exploitable
phosphate deposits, additionail P 205 must be imported either AS raw mate-
rial or as finished fertilizer.
2.14      If the urea demand shown in 2.12 above is to be realized in
1973/74 actions will have to be taken to overcome a number of constraints
to the growth in fertilizer consumption. Among these actions are the
rehabilitation of the irrigation system, and its extension to unirrigated
crop land, the provision of hligh-yielding seed varieties and plant protec-
tion materials, the educationL of the farmer in improved practices, the
provision of the necessary di.stribution system for fertilizer, the mar-
keting of the crop, the estabilishment of an improved credit system for rice
and improved processing, storage and marketing facilities.
1/   This ratio is based on recent experience under BIMAS programs where
urea was part of a packiLge which ranged from 100 Kg urea and 35 Kg
triple superphosphate (TSP) to 200 Kg urea and 50 Kg TSP plus in-
secticides and trace elements and includes ample irrigation.



-6-
2.15      Of prime importance among the various constraints to increased use
of fertilizers is the fact that rice prices have been fluctuating widely in
the past, thus making it difficult for the farmer to know what he can rea-
sonably expect to receive for his crop. Also the differential between the
price of fertilizer and the receipt. for his crop has been lower than in
other fertilizer projects in which the Bank Group has participated.
2.16      The Government is aware of these obstacles and a number of policy
decisions have been taken leading to a concentrated program designed to
overcome them. The major components of this program described in more de-
tail in the Bank's latest Economic Report 1/ are the establishment of
support prices for rice and the implementation of a purchasing program at
these prices; improvement in the fertilizer distribution apparatus; the
provision of better credit facilities and institutions; an intensified
research program for the development of satisfactory high-yielding seed
and a program for large scale production and distribution of these seeds;
improvement of extension services; and the rehabilitation, improvement
and expansion of irrigation, transport, processing and storage facilities.
While these policy decisions have been taken, implementation of them has
just started and most of the work yet remains to be done.
2.17      The Government and the Association have agreed that a National
Fertilizer Study is needed to provide more data on market growth potential
and make recommendations on distribution and marketing of fertilizers, and
most importantly, on implementation of policies to provide the farmer with
the means of obtaining fertilizer and an incentive to use it. The Study
will be financed from IDA's Technical Assistance Credit of $2.0 million
equivalent made in December, 1968. The Government has obtained offers from
suitable consulting firms and the study is expected to be completed in the
latter part of 1971. During negotiations a commitment from the Government
was obtained to undertake and complete the National Fertilizer Study and to
implement its recommendations as agreed between the Government and the
lenders.
2.18      Obviously any realistic forecast of future urea consumption in
Indonesia must take into account present constraints and the time required
to overcome them. It is very difficult to quantify with any degree of
certainty their effect on fertilizer requirements of 600,000 tons of urea
estimated for 1973-74 (2.12). An over-estimate draws penalties due to an
initial under-use of capacity of too large a plant. An under-estimate would
simply advance the date at which the next fertilizer plant (for which the
Government has received several offers of collaboration), would have to be
built.  The Association and ADB therefore concluded that a conservative
approach in estimating sales should be chosen as a least risk solution for
the economy of Indonesia and have assumed urea consumption to develop as
follows.
1/   Ibid, page 60-63.



- 7 -
Estimated Consumption of Urea
(ir '000 tons)
Year         1969/70  1970/71  1971/72  1972/73  1973/74  1974/75  1975/76
Consumption     240       275       315      360       410      470       540
The forecast corresponds to an average annual growth rate of 14%. While
this is a vigorous growth rate, countries such as Pakistan have achieved
sustained rates of close to 20 per year; hence, and since Indonesia at
present consumes very little nitrogen (as an example less than 10% of
nitrogen consumption in Pakistan per unit of arable land), the above rate
forecast for Indonesia is expected to be obtainable.
E.   Domestic Production of Nitrogenous Fertilizer
2.19      PUSRI is presently imaplementing a program to improve the operating
efficiency of its existing plait. The program is expected to bring annual
output from the current 95,000 tons of urea to the rated capacity of 100,000
tons by 1971/72.
2.20      A second Govermnent-owned nitrogenous fertilizer plant, known as
the "PETROKIMIA Project", for the production of urea and amtonium sulfate
is under construction near Surabaya on Java and is due for completion by
August/September 1970. Construction was started in 1964 but lack of local
currency caused an interruptioii. Work has been resumed and progress sug-
gests that the plant will commence commercial production in early 1971.
2.21      The PETROKIMIA plant, which uses the Shell partial oxidation
process on heavy fuel oil feediptock, is designed for an ammonia capacity
of 220 tons/day. Assuming that the urea plant will be operated on partial
recycle to obtain maximum nitrogen output, annual production of the plant
from 1971/72 would be 55,000 tons of urea and 123,000 tons of ammonium
sulfate (equivalent to 57,000 tons of urea in terms of N). On these
assumptions the domestic production of urea could be expected to develop
as shown in the following table. The table also compares domestic out-
put with the consumption estimate given in 2.18 above. For purposes of
this comparison ammonium sulfate has been converted into urea equivalents.



-8-
Production and Sales of Urea
(in 'ooo tons)
Rated
plant
Year                           69/70 70/71 71/72 72/73 73/74 74/75 75/76 capac.
Consumption                     240   275   315   360   410   470   540
Production
PETROKIMIA
Urea                          -      14    55    55    55    55    55    60
Ammonium Sulfate expressed
in urea equivalent                  14    57    57    57    57    57    57
PUSRI
Existing Plant                95    95   100   100   100   100   100   100
Expansion                     -      -     _     -    194   336   366   380
Total                            95   123   212   212   406   548   578   597
Surplus (deficiency)           (145) (152) (103) (148)  (4)    78    38
The table indicates that up to 1972/73 there will be a substantial deficit.
In 1973/74 - the year in which PUSRI's new plant is to come on stream -
supply and demand is expected to be about in balance.  Surpluses shown for
the following years would be used to rebuild stocks which will have been
drawn down from the substantial level presently available to cover part of
the deficit.  Restriction in fertilizer consumption over the next three
coming years 1970/71-1972/73 would adversely affect the market build-up on
which the project relies and assurances were received from the Government
during negotiations that fertilizers will be imported as required by the
market, including seeding programs that are presently being developed by
the various distributors.
2.22      The timing of additional nitrogenous fertilizer manufacturing
capacity for which proposals have been made by various parties will depend
on market growth. Assurances have been received that the Government will
consult with the lenders before commitments are made in regard to addition-
al plant capacity.
III. PUSRI'S EXISTING OPERATIONS
A. Outline of Existing Operations
3.01      PUSRI was established in 1959 as a Government-owned limited
liability company (P.T.G.) governed under the Commercial Code to manufacture
nitrogenous fertilizer. Commercial operations started in January 1964 with
daily capacities of 180 tons of ammonia and 300 tons of urea. In accordance



- 9 -
with the Government's general policy PUSRI, in 1964, was converted to P.N.
status (State enterprise governed under special regulations). The Government
initially contributed Rp 17t731 million as equity, which included the pro-
ceeds of a $33.2 million loan from the Export-Import Bank of Washington.
While the cost of the plant cannot precisely be established, it is believed
to have been on the order of $40 million based on the rates of exchange pre-
vailing at the time of completion. The plant was engineered by H.K. Ferguson
Company, a subsidiary of Morrison-Knudsen (U.S.), with Girdler Corporation
(U.S.) providing thr ammonia process and Toyo Engineering (Japan) the uzrea
process.
3.02      For start-up and for commercial operations the Company had the
assistance of Morrison-Knudsen through March 1965 but thereafter it has
been operating largely under Indonesian management. Despite the difficult-
ies experienced in the stupply of spare parts, the plant has been producing
at high rates of utilization (at 95% of design capacity) except in the
first half of 1969 when mechanical problems in the urea section interrupted
production for a few weeks. Plant maintenance is good and plant management
has been effective. Urea is packed in multi-wall paper bags and shipped
mostly to Java from PUSRI's pier on the Musi River in small coastal vessels
or barges of normally less than 2,000 tons carrying capacity.
3.03      The plant is small by present day standards and uses reciprocating
compressors in its two ammonia trains and gas engines to generate power and
as compressor drives. These design concepts and the relatively small size
make the plant inherently a high-cost producer compared to modern large
scale plants employing centrifugal compressors and other modern technology.
.s was mentioned before, the Company is now implementing, with outside
assistance, a program to further improve operations and increase output to
!e rated capacity of 100,000 tons per year.
B.   Past Financial Results
3.04      The inflation in Indonesia which reduced the value of the Rupiah
by more than one thousand times since PUSRI started operations, and which
necessitated a number of revaluations of the company's assets, makes a
meaningful analysis of PUSRI's financial statements impossible. However,
an approximation of its historical performance has been attempted in Annex
3. Annex 4 summarizes the approximate effect of revaluations and currency
devaluation on the book value of the company's fixed assets and the related
provisions for depreciation and amortization from the plant's inception to
June 30, 1969. In view of the;me complexities and the fact that the finan-
cial statements of PUSRI were never audited by independent auditors, the
firm of Peat, Marwick, MitchelL & Company was requested to review the
accounts.
3.05      Their review revealed among other things that, although PUSRI's
income statements indicate profits in recent years, these are overstated
due to inadequate depreciation charges. Whereas PUSRI has been depreciat-
ing plant and equipment on a straightline basis over an assumed service life
of 25 years, the normal accounting practice for this type plant would be to



- 10 -
depreciate over a period of 8 to 12 years. If PUSRI's accounts were to be
adjusted on the basis of a 10 year depreciation period, PUSRI would, in
fact, have shown losses in recent years. Primarily responsible for unsatis-
factory operations is PUSRI's urea pricing policy under which urea is sold
at a price as low as Rp. 22,000 ($67.50) per ton f.o.b. Palembang. In
comparison, prices for imported urea c.i.f. Djakarta have recently been
ranging between $78 and $81 per ton and average ex-plant prices in Europe
and the U.S. are being quoted at between $75 and $80. While such a policy
±8 mainly motivated by the Government's desire to keep rice prices at low
levels, it is at variance with the high cost structure inherent in the
present operation and has thus been depressing PUSRI's profitability.
3.06.          The comparative balance sheets as of December 31, 1968,
June 30, 1969 and January 3, 1970 shown in Annex S reveal that the company
has maintained a liquid financial position. However, included in the
June 30, 1969 balance sheet were materials and spare parts which contained
non-current and obsolete items. Also, the net plant was overstated on the
books due to the inadequate depreciation charges. PUSRI has accordingly
adjusted these items downward at the year end to place them on a more
realistic basis and has also charged off deferred start-up expenses. The
comoany now proposes to charge depreciation at a rate to fully write off
the plant by the end of 1975.
3.07      As Annex 5 indicates, the Government's initial contribution of
Rp. 17.7 billion had been revised by June 30, 1969 to Rp. 17.7 million to
reflect changes in currency denomination. In adjusting its assets as
above, PUSRI capitalized the remaining portion of its revaluation surplus
so that the capital account at January 3, 1970 stood at Rp. 7 billion. As
of that date, PUSRI had no long-term debt outstanding; the foreign exchange
loan from the Export-Import Bank is a direct obligation of the Government
and all payments of principal and interest have been made by the Govern-
ment. There have never been any distributions of earnings on equity.
C. Organization and Management
3.08      The organization chart of PUSRI is attached as Annex 6.  PUSRI
presently employs approximately 1,500 people of whom some 800 are engaged
in production. About 50 members of staff have been trained abroad. PUSRI
is generally considered as one of the few industrial enterprises in Indo-
nesia that is well managed. It is expected that a major portion of the
staff requirements of the new plant can be met out of the existing labor
force. The company does not anticipate any difficulties in obtaining the
supplemental labor as required. Certain measures to assist PUSRI manage-
ment in carrying out the expansion project are discussed in paragraphs
5.11 to 5.14.
3.09      Managerial responsibility for PUSRI's operations is now vested
in a three-man management board, consisting of a President Director and
two Directors, all of whom were appointed by the Government. The President
Director reports directly to the Minister of Industry who has the authority
to approve the budgets and annual accounts of PUSRI.



- 11 -
3.10      In order to improve :the efficiency of the existing operation and
to put it on a sounder basis, 6he Government decided in 1969 to convert
PUSRI into a limited lia .;  company (P.TG.) to be regulated under the
commercial code of Indonzsia. The conversion took place in January 1970.
While the new company wt?.1 cou:inue to be owned fully by the state, the
charter has been generally drafted so as to be conducive to efficiency and
sound corporate structure and iaot to preclude future private participation.
However, there still remain two classes of common shares with unequal rights
and, to remedy this, it was ag.reed during negotiations to remove from the
charter of PUSRI the prevlsioras relating to priority shares and to convert
the present priority shares into common shares having the same characteris-
tics as the existing common shares of PUSRI.
3.11      The proposed manageriLal structure of the new company follows
Dutch Corporate practice and provides for a management board and a super-
visory board. Responsibility for day-to-day operation will be vested in
the management bvard (Direksi) which will be subject to review by the
supervisory board, (Dewan Komiaaria). The management board consists of
a President Director and three directors, whereas the supervisory board
will comprise a chairman and four members. The respective board chairmen
will be appointed by the Minister of Finance upon consultation with the
Minister of Industry.  Other immbers of the board will be elected by the
shareholders to whom both boards are jointly responsible.
3.12      Presently the management board comprises General H. Hasan Kasim,
a retired military officer, as President Director. He has been the Presi-
dent Director of the company sLnce May 1966. There are two other Directors
working under his supervision; Mr. Dalil Hasin, Financial Director, in
charge of finance, accounting, sales, purchases, and administration, and
.. Kotan Pasaman, Director in charge of technical operations.  As the new
organization expands the third member of the management board will be
appointed.  Appointments for tlhe supervisory board are expected to be made
shortly. Assurance has been olbtained from the Government that appointments
to both the boards would be made in consultation with IDA and ADB.
IV. GAS cO0:SERVATION AND SUPPLY
A.  The Indonesian Petroleum Sector and PERTAMINA
4.01      The Indonesian petroleum sector is operated under the supervision
of the Directorate-General of 'Dil and Gas in the Ministry of Mines. PERTA-
MINA is a state enterprise and is involved in exploration, production, re-
fining, sea transportation, local marketing and exporting. PERTAMINA
operates in all major areas of the country and runs the former installa-
tions of Shell which were takeni over by purchase in 1965. It operates
six refineries which provide all of Indonesia's refined output. Shell
continues to supply technical assistance and participates in international
marketing. In 1968 PERTAMINA',3 output of crude oil amounted to some 15%
of total Indonesian production and it provided 10% of gross oil exports.
Gross revenues from oil were a.out $80 million.



- 12 -
4.02      PERTAMINA is also the intermediary between the Government and
foreign oil companies. Two of the latter, CALTEX 1/ and STANVAC work
under so-called profit-sharing contracts, or under cost-sharing arrange-
ments. Other companies, of which about 30 have started exploration in
Indonesia since that time, are operating on a production-sharing basis.
All arrangements between foreign oil companies and the Government are made
through PERTAMINA including the payment of the Government's share in pro-
fits or production from foreign companies' operations. PERTAMINA there-
fore has its own accounts in foreign exchange both in and outside Indonesia,
although it needs the approval of the foreign exchange authorities for
its foreign exchange expenditures.
B. Gas Reserves, Production and Use in South Sumatra
4.03      Oil and natural gas have been found in South Sumatra since
prior to the turn of the century. While ample data on known oil reserves
have been accumulated, little has been done to estimate gas reserves as
few uses for gas other than for fuel and gas lift 2/ have existed until
recently. Two oil and gas producers are active in the South Sumatra fields
(Map 2). One, STANVAC, has large leases based on fields discovered and
developed in the 1920's and 1930's. Additional leases in South Sumatra
were granted to STANVAC in 1969. In late 1969, STANVAC's refinery at
Pladju, near Palembang, was sold to PERTAMINA, which already owns a refinery
there. Gas from STANVAC fields will continue to be piped to the refinery
and to PUSRI's fertilizer plant at Palembang (see para 4.07).
4.04      PERTAMINA and STANVAC together produced over 80 billion Standard
Cubic Feet (SCF) of gas in 1968, of which 60 billion SCF -- over 70 per-
cent of the total -- was either flared immediately or used in gas lift
operations and subsequently flared. PERTAMINA's flared gas and its
reserves are a potential source of supply for the enlarged fertilizer
plant of PUSRI. No gas conservation is presently planned for STANVAC's
field because no economic use for the gas is in sight.
4.05      As of January 1, 1968, net proven reserves of PERTAMINA and
STANVAC amounted to almost 760 billion SCF of gas of which PERTAMINA held
540 billion SCF. In addition, PERTAMINA has another 132 billion SCF of
discounted probable and possible reserves. The requirements to be met by
PERTAMINA's reserves are discussed in paras 4.07 to 4.09 below.
1/   CALTEX is a joint venture of Standard Oil Company of California
and Texaco.
2/   Gas lift is an operation in which high pressure gas is injected into
the tubing-casing annulus of a well for the purpose of aiding the flow
of fluid through the tubing. The gas enters the tubing through one or
more check valves and helps to lift oil by decreasing its density and
thus the weight of the fluid column in the tubing.



- 13 -
4.06      STANVAC has contractaBd to supply the requirements of the exist-
ing plant to 1983, i.e. its 20th year of operations, with up to 7.5
billion SCF per year. Current PUSRI use is about 4.9 billion SCF per
year and may be expected to increase to 5.2 billion SCF when the existing
plant operates at its full annial capacity of 100,000 tons of urea. It
is assumed that PUSRI's existiiig plant will cease operations in 1983 after
20 years, and STANVAC should hive no difficulties in meeting its obligation
to supply the required gas until that date.
C.  The Future Supply and ReLuirements of Gas From PERTAMINA
4.07      In addition to the gis for the fertilizer plant, PERTAMINA will
have to provide gas to one of :Lts two refineries at Pladju and for field
uses. An allowance must also be made for new uses, such as for electric
power, cement, and refinery expansion, although most of these are not yet
evident.
4.08      The following table ,iummarizes the raw gas demands on PERTAMINA
over the 20-year life of the proposed project as estimated by Bank staff:
Summary - Raw Gas Requirements (PERTAMINA)
(Billion SCF)
Annual                                       Total
Required for               rate      1969-72   1973-83   1984-92      1969-92
Pladju Refinery            4.33        17.3      47.6       39.0        103.9
Other use                  5.94        23.8      65.3       53.5       142.6
Compressor fuel            1.14         2.0      12.6       10.2         24.8
New customers (1)             -         1.7      18.5       41.8         62.0
Sub Total                        44.8      144.0      144.5       333.3
PUSRI expansion
(380,000 tons)          11.8            -     129.8      106.2       236.0
Totals                           44.8      273.8      250.7       569.3
(1) Based on 0.50 billion SCF per year in 1970 increased by 15% per
year through 1983 and 10% per year thereafter.
4.09      As can be seen, tota:L gas requirements from PERTAMINA for the
period 1969-1992 amount to 570 billion SCF of raw gas. The figure con-
servatively assumes that PUSRI's expansion will operate at full capacity
from the outset, which is unlikely. The estimates also assume the elimi-
nation of gas flaring by PERTAI INA through the operation of a conservation
system. The present proven resserves of 540 billion SCF plus discounted



- 14 -
probable and possible reserves of 132 billion SCF are therefore deemed
adequate to support the project during its assumed economic life.
4.10      Additional drilling required to deliver 1/ the reserves of gas
will provide added basic data about the formation of the deposit and its
characteristics. Although drilling results in the area have demonstrated
a very favorable discovery experience, continued deliverability will require
additional drilling and PERTAMINA will secure adequate consulting advice
in connection with the development and operation of its gas fields. Assur-
ances to this effect were secured during negotiations. With this assist-
ance, PERTAMINA will be competent to operate the gas project.
D. Gas Conservation and Transmission
4.11      PERTAMINA gas fields produce high, medium and low pressure gas.
High pressure gas is now used, in part, for gas lift prior to being flared;
medium pressure gas is used for some of the "in field" requirements;
while nearly all of the low pressure production is flared immediately. The
conservation (and compression) project will end PERTAMINA flare and thus
the waste to the economy resulting from the flaring of gas.
4.12      The whole conservation project can be visualized schematically
as a ring of gas lines connecting the existing wells and with four com-
pressor stations appropriately located on the pipeline ring (Map 3): Low
pressure gas and gas exhausted from gas lift operations, all of which now
go to the flare stacks, would be compressed to 700-900 lbs/sq. in. (pounds
per square inch) and discharged partly back to the oil wells for lifting
more oil and partly to the transmission line for use at the Pladju refine-
ries and at PUSRI. The transmission line is 12-inch pipe operating at 705
lbs/sq. in. inlet pressure and would be more than adequate to supply PUSRI's
annual requirements of 11.8 billion SCF. With added compression the line
would have an ultimate capacity of nearly 60 million SCF/day against PUSRI's
maximum requirements of approximately 35 million SCF/day, so that it will
also be able to handle the refinery requirements and probable new users.
Diagrams showing the operating of the compression and distribution system
are given in Annex 15.
4.13      The project will confer a benefit on PERTAMINA because the need
to drill in order to find high pressure gas for use in the production of
oil will be deferred. Without the conservation scheme and further drilling,
PERTAMINA's high pressure gas reserves will be exhausted in 1981. It is
therefore the purpose of this part of the project to conserve and to
regulate the flow of high pressure gas into pipelines for use in the fer-
tilizer plant and to recapture the gas produced with oil as low pressure
gas. This gas will be recompressed for gas lift. Annex 16 describes the
system and provides detailed capital and operating cost estimates.
1/   Deliverability is the capacity of reservoir to deliver gas through
drilled wells to meet day to day needs.



- 15 -
4.14      A reasonable timing of construction indicates that the complete
system of 13,000 horsepower ancl 172 km. of piping can be put in place
in 30 months from the time a decision is made to proceed with the scheme.
It should be noted, however, that conservation can begin after about 2,000
horsepower is installed and tha.t gas flare will be reduced as the system
is built and will end when the system is completed.
E. Organization, Ga9 Conservation and Transmission, and the Price of Gas
4.15      The principle that the full cost of gas should be paid by users
of gas in proportion to their reeds is a fundamental approach in the or-
ganization of this project. The lenders have therefore proposed, and
PERTAMINA has accepted, the creation of a new entity within PERTAMINA
which would be responsible for all project gas operations. PUSRI and
other users of gas handled by the project will sign take or pay contracts
for the gas they receive through the proposed pipeline. Agreement was
reached on this point and on a pricing formula during negotations. The
conclusion of a suitable gas purchase contract is a condition of loan
effectivness.
4.16      The entity will operate its own set of books, segregating
the assets, revenues, expenses and loan service repayment accounts
related to gas operations of the project. This gas compression and
transmission department will have its own balance sheet, revenue and
expenditure accounts. Revenue and expenditure pertaining to compression
and transmission will be recorded in separate sets of accounts in order
to segregate the appropriate charges to PERrAMINA and PUSRI and to permit
a proper audit. The financial forecasts are given in Annex 16.
Z 17    The gas supply project as a whole will operate so as to earn at
least a 12% return on investment. Little or no taxable profit will arise
from the proceeds payable under the agreed gas pricing formula. Since the
proposed investment is entirely financed by loan funds with equal annual
repayment of principal, and since the terms of the loan and the period of
depreciation (at straight line) coincide, all depreciation is used to repay
debt. The price of gas is set at a level to cover interest as well as
full operating costs (including depreciation). The price of gas will thus
decline as interest payments on debt decline. Because it is not possible
to determine accurately in advaace the amount of further investment in
drilling to maintain gas deliverability (para 4.10), this pricing system
allows such investment to be amortized by an increase in the then ruling
price of gas, and quite probably, without exceeding the initial gas price.
If additional gas consumers are found, PUSRI's price will decline since a
portion of depreciation and operating costs are to be borne by the new
consumers. As the gas price to new users may exceed the price to PUSRI,
PERTAMINA will in this event, shiow larger profits.
4.18      Assuming a schedule of drilling cost as is indicated in Annex
16, the price of gas to PUSRI under the proposal would average 18.2¢ US



- 16 -
per Mcft 1/, during the assumed 20 years of operation of the expanded
plant. The price would decline from an initial 20C US/Mcft to about
12¢US/Mcft. If a level price for gas to PUSRI were used, it would be
somewhat above 18.2¢ US Mcft due to the effect on earnings of a 60%
corporate profit tax in the later years.
4.19      During negotiations the lenders reached agreements with the
Government of Indonesia and PERTAMINA concerning the construction, organi-
zation, and financing of the gas compression and transmission project; the
provision of technical and consulting services to PERTAMINA; procurement
procedures; and the items and principles to be included in a gas purchase
contract.
V. PROPOSED NEW FERTILIZER FACILITIES
A.   Size
5.01      The minimum size of modern ammonia - urea plants is approximately
500 tons of ammonia and 860 tons of urea. Such a plant would produce about
280,000 tons of urea annually.
5.02      Economies of scale among plants employing the same modern tech-
nology and within the range of 500 to 800 tons of ammonia per day 2/ are
relatively small and are only realized if the plants operate at full capacity.
The reason for this is that plants of this kind are highly capital intensive,
and therefore the costs related to capital, such as depreciation, interest
on debt, maintenance and insurance are usually much higher than the variable
operating costs (see also para 6.16). Hence, the cost per ton of product
rises rapidly if the facilities are not fully utilized, and an 800 ton am-
monia plant and related urea plant operating only a little below rated
capacity may well have per ton costs exceeding those of a 500-ton plant fully
utilized.
5.03      Based on the sales forecast given in para. 2.18 a plant size
for the expansion with a daily capacity of 660 tons of ammonia and 1,150
tons of urea (380,000 tons of urea per year) was chosen. Such a plant
combines reasonable prospects of early full utilization of capacity with
a minimum of operating costs. It would be the maximum size of an ammonia-
urea plant which could use, at the present state of technology, a single
urea train. Furthermore, with presently proven gas reserves it would also
be the largest ammonia plant addition that could be built on an all-gas
basis.
1/   One Mcft - 1,000 cubic feet.  Quantities and prices are based on
gas with a heating value of 1,000 BTU per cubic foot. These will be
adjusted in proportion to the actual heading values as delivered.
2/   Equivalent to 280,000 to 460,000 tons of urea per year.



- 17 -
5.04      An alternative cost estimate has been made for a larger plant
producing 800 tons of ammonia daily and 460,000 tons of urea annually. The
capital cost of such a plant would have to provide for a dual train urea
plant and (because of limited gas supply) more heat recovery equipment. It
would also have to provide for the use of oil as fuel with more costly oil-
fired steam/power generating equipment. At full capacity, production costs
in such a plant would be only 5% lower than the costs in a 380,000 ton
plant. If the switch to oil as fuel became necessary the margin would shrink
still more and there would remain the risk of heavy losses if the plant
should operate initially at less than full capacity. A 380,000 ton per
year urea plant has therefore been recommended.
B.   Outline
5.05      The plan: would consist of a single train 660 ton per day ammonia
plant utilizing centrifugal compressors and other modern technology, and
a urea plant of 1,150 tons daily capacity, also of modern design. While
the capital cost estimate is based upon a dual train urea plant, several
single train plants in this range of capacity will have commenced opera-
tion before design of the PUSRI plant need be frozen. On the basis of
operating experience at these plants a decision will be taken in three or
four months on the advisability of a single train plant for PUSRI.
5.06      Natural gas will be used for both feedstock and fuel.  Annual
requirements at capacity utilization of the new plant are estimated at 11.8
billion SCF 1/ and will be obtained from the existing oil and gas fields
operated by PERTAMINA as indicated in Chapter IV.
5.07      A new power plant will be provided to serve the existing plant
and the proposed new plant. Capacity will be about 15,000 KW. The exist-
ing generators will be retained for standby and emergency service.
5.08      The proposed project is planned to make maximum use of the
present plant site and will be adjacent to the existing plant. There
is adequate space. Soil conditions will necessitate piling and provision
for this has been made in the capital cost estimates. The necessary en-
largements in shipping facilities, warehouse for urea, ship loader and
dock will be made to accommodate the additional production. Currently
PUSRI uses multiwall paper bags for its urea but has been experiencing
excessive breakage. The company has therefore initiated a study to sel-
ect the most economic durable and weather resistant substitute and to im-
prove the method of handling such bags in transit. Pending the outcome
of the study, equipment for the manufacture of plastic bags has been in-
cluded in the cost estimates.
C.  Ecology
5.09      Properly designed ammonia-urea plants make a very small contri -
bution to noticeable atmospheric pollution. There will, of course, be
stack gases from auxiliary boilers and from any gas turbine drives but
1/   With not heating value of 1,000 BTU per SCF.



- 18 -
these can be controlled so that they do not cause smoke. There is usually
a slight odor of ammonia within such plants but, barring accidents, it is
not noticeable in the surrounding community. Aside from company housing,
which includes the residences of the President Manager and other senior
staff, there are no residential areas nearby, and the plant is located in
an industrial area including oil refineries. Liquid effluents can be a
problem if not properly handled but pollution control will be outlined in
the design criteria for the new facilities. The existing facilities are
causing no problems.
D.   Management and Project Execution
5.10      The experience of PUSRI management and technical staff is largely
limited to its present operation. The new technology and enlarged size of
operation will pose new problems not so far encountered. PUSRI has agreed
to engage expert assistance as described in the following paragraphs.
5.11      A consulting firm particularly skilled in accounting and financial
management will be employed. The Association will assist PUSRI in drawing
up Terms of Reference for this work.  One of the assignments will be to
help improve the operation of PUSRI's accounting section, where meticulous
record keeping is now practiced but where application of the information
is not fully exploited. PUSRI is also sending two of its accountants to
the U.S. for further training. In addition, the consulting firm will be
expected to aid in management development and planning.
5.12      During project execution, PUSRI will employ an engineering or
operating firm experienced in modern ammonia and urea technology to act as
Technical Adviser and to serve, in effect, as an extension of PUSRI's own
technical staff. The Technical Adviser would be responsible for issuing
adequate design criteria for the new facilities and would assist PUSRI in
the selection of a general contractor and process vendors and would monitor
the design, engineering, procurement, construction and initial operation of
the new facilities. The Terms of Reference for the Technical Adviser have
been completed and PUSRI has invited proposals from an international list
of qualified firms.
5.13      PUSRI will also employ a fertilizer marketing consultant to
assist it in planning and carrying out an effective seeding program before
the new plant is completed and in the initial years of operation. The
-` -e-oll will assist IB.^I in drawing up Terms of Pr:&:rence for such
assistance
E.   Procurement and Construction Schedule
5.14      While IDA funds proposed for the project can be used for procure-
ment in any of the Bank's member countries, the ADB's Special Funds are
tied to procurement in countries 1/ which are contributors to those Funde,
1/   Presently Japan, Canada, Netherlands and Denmark.



- 19 -
and the U.S. and Japanese corLtributions are tied to procurement in those
countries respectively. In order to obtain most favorable prices and to
implement the project at the lowest possible cost, procurement procedures
will be based on internationtl competitive bidding to the maximum extent
consistent with the fact that, about 56% of the foreign exchange financing
is tied. Suitable procedures on project execution and procurement have
been agreed among PUSRI and the lenders and are briefly as follows.
5.15      A General Contractcr will have overall responsibility for provid-
ing the complete fertilizer plant which will be divided into two major
parts:
(a) the urea plant, which will be supplied as a package (the
Urea Plant Contract) delivered to the plant site ready for
erection by the General Contractor; and
(b) the balance of the fertilizer facilities, including the
ammonia plant and all off-sites and auxiliaries, which
will be designed, and procured by the General Contractor
who will perform all construction and erection, including
the erection of the urea plant.
5.16      The Urea Plant Contractor will be selected from pre-qualified
Japanese firms on the basis of competitive bidding within Japan. The
contract will be awarded on a lump sum basis, and its terms and conditions
will be such that payments under the contract will be eligible for financ-
ing out of the Japanese and ADB loans. Bids will be evaluated in ac-
cordance with criteria established by PUSRI on the recommendation of the
Technical Adviser and with the concurrence of IDA and ADB acting in con-
sultation with the Japanese Government. In the event the lowest lump sum
bid seems to PUSRI to be unreasonably high, PUSRI, with the concurrence
of the lenders, may call for new bids on a cost plus fixed fee basis. The
Urea Plant Contractor would provide to PUSRI and to the General Contractor
adequate guarantees of plant performance, equipment performance, and stand-
ards of materials and construction to be used in the urea plant. The Urea
Plant Contractor would also supervise the erection of the urea plant under
the general coordination of the General Contractor.
5.17      The General Contractor will be selected from prequalified United
States firms on the basis of competitive bidding within the United States.
The Contract would be carried out on a cost plus fixed fee basis, the fee
covering all services to be rendered by the General Contractor as described
in paragraphs 5.18 through 5.21. The terms and conditions of the contract
will be such that PUSRI's payments to the Contractor for his services will
be eligible for financing out of the AID loan. All prequalification and
tender documents for the General Contract, evaluation of bids, and proposals
for award will require the concurrence of IDA acting in consultation with
AID and ADB.



- 20 -
5.18      The General Contractor will act as Engineering Manager for the
ammonia plant and for all off-sites and facilities required for the com-
plete fertilizer plant, and as Construction Manager for the entire fertilizer
plant, including the urea portion, and will bear overall responsibility for
the completion of the fertilizer plant meeting suitable production and per-
formance requirements as specified in the tender documents.
5.19      The final scope of the General Contractor's services will be
determined on the basis of the recommendations of the Technical Adviser
but it is expected to cover all contracting services required for comple-
tion of the fertilizer plant, except those to be provided by the Urea Plant
Contractor and would include:
(a)  basic and detailed design of the ammonia plant and all
off-sites and auxiliaries;
(b)  license fees for the ammonia plant;
(c)  management and procurement for all materials and
equipment (local and imported) for the ammonia plant
and for the off-sites and auxiliaries;
(d)  management of all construction and erection of the
entire fertilizer plant, including the urea portion;
(e)  testing, start-up and initial operation of the entire
fertilizer plant, with the assistance of the Urea Plant
Contractor for the urea plant, through the completion
of satisfactory acceptance tests;
(f)  arranging for suitable training for PUSRI maintenance and
operating personnel.
5.20      Equipment, materials and supplles required for the fertilizer
plant, and to be financed by any of the lenders, other than those to be
furnished by the Urea Plant Contractor, and other than certain critical
items peculiar to the ammonia process which must be obtained frog specified
sources, will be procured by the General Contractor on the basis of inter-
national competitive bidding in accordance with IDA "Guidelines for Pro-
curement", to the extent that unt4^d funds are available.  All IDA funds
;4` Wea pent on the basi.b of international .ompetitioLvtL  If the untied
funds are exhausted or if IDA considers that procurement of certain items
could 'x1hout prejudice to the principles of economy and efficiency be
restricted to one or more countries which are eligible sources for financ-
ing under one or more of the other loans, then IDA may, in consultation
with such other lenders which still have funds available under their loans,
restrict procurement of such items to such country or countries as may be
appropriate.



- 21 -
5.21      Construction of the plant is estimated to be completed 30 months
after the General Contract is awarded. The present Project Schedule, given
in Annex 7 assumes that the General Contract will be awarded in January,
1971 and that construction will be completed in June, 1973.
VI. CAPITAL COST - FINANCIAL PLAN - PRODUCTION COST
A.   Capital Cost Estimate
6.01      Since detailed engiaeering has not been done, only preliminary
estimates of capital cost can be presented. Details of project cost esti-
mates for the fertilizer facilities will be found in Annex 8.  A summary
of project cost estimates for both the fertilizer and gas facilities, is
given in the following table.
SUMMARY OF PROJECT COST
(in millions)
l:adonesian Rupiahs            U. S. Dollars
Foreign   Local   Total    Foreign   Local   Total
Fertilizer Plant
Imported Equipment           8,215       -      8,215       25.2      -       25.2
Construction Cost            2,413   2,216      4,629        7.4    6.8      14.2
Services                     2,901       -      2,901        8.9      -        8.9
License Fees                   652       -        652        2.0      -        2.0
Pre-operating Expenses         945      457     1,402        2.9    1.4        4.3
Contingency & Escalation   2,369        522     3,391        8.8    1.6       10.4
Working Capital                489      619     1,108        1.5    1.9        3.4
Total                 18,484   3,814    22,298         56.7   11.7      68.4
Gas Project
Conservation & Compression 2,L52        945     3,097        6.6    2.9        9.5
Transmission                ,L010       457     1,467        3.1    1.4        4.5
Total                   3,L62   1,402      4,564        9.7    4.3      14.0
Total Cost                  21,646   5,216    26,862        66.4   16.0       82.4
Management Assistance
During Initial
Operations                   522      130       652        1.6    0.4        2.0
Total Project Cost          22,L68   5,346    27,514        68.0   16.4       84.4
The above does not include inl:erest during construction of Rp. 1,729 million
($5.3 million) for the fertili.zer plant, and Rp. 358 million ($1.1 million)
for the gas project, which brings total financial requirements to $90.8
million ($73.7 for the fertilizer plant, $15.1 for the gas project, and
$2.0 for management assistance.



- 22 -
6.02      The fertilizer plant estimates make allowance for a dual train
urea plant of 580 tons per day capacity in each train. Should a single
train plant prove feasible, there would be a saving of about $2 million.
The estimates are also based upon the installation of minimum heat recovery
equipment (at the expense of slightly higher fuel consumption) and include
the cost of equipment for removing excess C02 from the natural gas feed
stream.
6.03      Finally, the capital cost estimates for the fertilizer project
as shown in Annex 8 include allowances for interest during construction,
initial working capital, pro-operating expenses and for contingencies and
price escalation. A relatively high provision of $8.8 million has been
made to cover foreign exchange contingencies and escalation as a safeguard
against a cost overrun, which the Government would otherwise have to cover
from its scarce foreign exchange resources.
6.04      For the fertilizer plant, project cost estimates were prepared
on the basis of costs for an analogous plant obtained from trade sources.
Association staff has compared these estimates with those of similar plants
recently financed or under consideration by the Bank Group, and considers
them reasonable.
6.05      The estimates of project cost for the gas conservation and
transmission facilities as described in Annex 16 were prepared by Mr. K.
Sonney, consultant to the Association, and are based on recent experience
in the Bolivia-Gulf Project and in the Sui Northern Project in Pakistan.
They contain foreign exchange contingencies of 2Z on the compressors and
9% on pipe which are considered reasonable.
B.   Financial Plan
6.06      It is envisaged that the total foreign exchange requirements of
$68 million would be met through direct loans to the Government on conces-
sionary terms from the following sources:
Source                             Amount
$ million equivalent
ADB                                   10
USAID                                 20
Gcvo menmc   of Japan                  8
IDA                                   30
68
It is expected that all above funds will be committed by July 1970.



- 23 -
6.07      Except for a modest contribution from cash generated from PUSRI's
existing operation, the Government would provide all the local currency
required and assume responsibility for any project cost overruns that
might occur.
6.08      The financial plan for the fertilizer plant expansion project
works out as follows:
PUSRI
Rp. million   $ million
Government financing:
Proceeds of foreign financing       18,484          56.7
Cash contribution                     1,825          5.6
Interest during construction
capitalized                       1,728           5.3
Sub-total                22,037          67.6
PUSRI cash generation                   1,989           6.1
Total financing          24,026          73.7
6.09      The Government would make available to PUSRI for the fertilizer
project the $67.6 million needed (other than the $6.1 generated internally
by PUSRI) as follows:
$ million      Percent of
New Financing
Equity investment                        6.1              9.0
Senior loan (Class A)                   48.3             71.5
Subordinated loan (ClaEs B)             13.2             19.5
Total new firnancing         67.6            100.0
6.10      The senior loan from the Government to PUSRI would be for 16-1/2
years including a grace period of 4-1/2 years and bear interest of 12% per
annum. Repayment would be nade on the basis of constant annuities of
principal and interest. Interest during construction would be capitalized.
6.11      The subordinated l.oan would also be for 16-1/2 years but repay-
ment would be over 10 years with the first payment to be made two years
after the first installment of the senior loan. It would bear no interest
during the three years of construction and startup, but thereafter interest
would accrue at 12%. PaymerLt of interest and principal can only be made
if, after such payments, PUSRI's quick assets exceed its current liabilities.



- 24 -
6.12      Principal and interest payments on both loans would be tied to
the currency in which the Government has received the foreign exchange loans.
The proposed interest rate of 12% is the Government's present relending rate
to industry.
6.13      The financing of the gas project would be in the form of a loan
from the Government to PERTAMINA for 23 years including a grace period of
three years and at 12% interest. Interest during construction would be
capitalized. Repayment of the loan would be made in equal installments
of principal and interest.
6.14      The Government loan to PERTAMINA would come to Rp. 4,923 million
($15.1 million) which is broken down as follows:
PERTAMINA
Rp. million       $ million
Proceeds of foreign financing          3,162              9.7
Cash contribution by Government        1,402              4.3
Interest during construction
capitalized                            359              1.1
Total              4 923             15.1
C.   Production Cost Estimates
6.15      Since specific processes for ammonia and urea have not yet been
selected, fertilizer production costs have been based on average consump-
tion rates for the processes known to be applicable to single train ammonia
plants and dual train urea plants.
6.16      Detailed production costs per ton of prilled and bagged urea at
capacity operation (380,000 tons/year) together with the major underlying
assumptions are shown in Annex 9. Trhese are summarized below:
Unit Cost
$/ton Urea
Variable costs (natural gas, catalysts
and chemicals, bagging costs)                            11.76
Fixed costs (including depreciation,
interest and sales expenses)                             45.66
Total costs (including financial charges)                   57.42



- 25 -
At the projected ex-plant piice of Rp. 22,000 ($67.50) per Von of urea,
pre-tax earnings per ton would be Rp. 3,281 ($10.08) or 14.9% of the
selling price. The estimetQs given above indicate production costs (before
interest and sales expenses) of $42.71 per ton when operating at capacity.
The assumptions underlying the estimates are considered realistic.
VII. MARXETINC. PRICES AND COMPETITION FROM IMPORTS
A.   Mrei2
7.01      The organization cf fertilizer distribution in Indonesia has
undergone changes during the past ,ew years and is still in the process
of further transformation. Up to 1967, P.N. PERTANI a State agency, was
the sole distributor of both imported and indigenous fertilizers. In
1968, private contractors and dealers were allowed to sell Lertilizers.
It is estimated that, at present, approximately 70-80% of total imported
fertilizers are handled by FERTANI with the balance being distributed by
other groups, including foreign contractors for the BIMAS scheme (Annex 2).
7.02      Presently, PERTANI has more than 1,000 retailers and 600 owned
godowns plus about an equal number of rented godowns in Java where about
80% of fertilizers are consumed. PERTANI has however so far tended to be
concerned mainly with the physical distribution work and has made little
effort to promote sales.
7.03      To avoid total dependence on PERTANI, PUSRI initially built up
in 1967 its own distributior. machinery, but decided in October 1968 to use
private companies and existing distribution networks of State trading
firms. PUSRI has so far appointed as its major distributors six private
companies and four State enterprises including PERTANI. The private com-
panies presently have more than 600 retail outlets. PUSRI sells a substan-
tial portion of its present production through these private distributors.
7.04      The present sellin.g price of urea to the farmer is approximately
Rp 28,000 ($85.9) per ton. Actual prices vary both above and below this
figure. PUSRI presently sells its urea at Rp 22,000 ($67.5) per ton f.o.b.
Palembang payable on sight cf shipping documents. Until recently PUSRI
extended to its distributors a three-month credit at a credit sales price
of Rp 24,000 ($73.6) per tori of which 30% plus freight and unloading
charges had to be paid upon receipt of urea at first line godowns, 40%
one month and the remaining 30% two months after delivery. The price
difference between cash and credit sales represents interest cost calcu-
lated at 3% per month. PUSPI is switching all its sales to a cash-and-
carry basis by asking major distributors to utilize distribution credit
made available for up to six months at 1% per month from State banks. The
new credit arrangements, if successfully implemented, would enable distrib-
utors to refinance credit requirements of sub-distributors and retailers
to whom credit has not so far been available at reasonable terms.



- 26 -
7.05      Distribution costs for fertilizer are high and reflect Indonesia's
geography and the characteristics of its transport network. In 1968 road
transport is estimated to have carried 11 billion ton-km closely followed
by sea transport (inter-island and coastal) with 9 billion ton-km. The
railways carried 740 million ton-km. However, road transport costs at
about 2.8 cents per ton-km restrict distribution by truck to a radius of
200 km, and rail transport at 0.9 cents per ton-km would be competitive
with sea transport at 0.5 cents per ton-km up to distances of 400 km for
destinations along the line. Shipments to destinations beyond that dis-
tance and, of course, those to other islands would have to rely on sea
transport, for which PUSRI's location on the Musi River with its own jetty
is ideally suited. So far the physical means of distribution, port facil-
ities, storage and shipping space, rail and road transport, have not con-
stituted a bottleneck per se; fertilizer is being moved but at the fairly
high cost shown in para. 7.06 below.   Bottlenecks, should they appear
with the growth of fertilizer consumption assumed for the next three years,
would have to be dealt with in the framework of the Government's plans and
programs for the rehabilitation of the country's transport facilities. The
study of distribution costs and recommendations on how they could be low-
ered are included in the Terms of Reference of the National Fertilizer
Study.
7.06      Distribution costs from factory to farmer vary depending on
destination. The following typical figures explain the distribution cost
per ton at points 250 km away from Djakarta:
f.o.b. Palembang                          Rp 22,000 ($67.5) price to
distributor)
Sales tax and insurance                         275 ( 0.8)
Ocean freight                                 1,352 ( 4.2)
c.i.f. Djakarta                              23,627 ($72.5)
Handling charges, etc., from      )
the harbor to village           )
Interest charges                  )           4,373 ( 13.4)
Distributors' overhead and        )
margin (wholesaler and retailer)
Total              28,000 ($85.9)
7.07      Total nitrogen fertilizer to be marketed after the expansion
project of PUSRI and PETROKIMIA have been completed and are operating at
full capacity will be:
PUSRI's existing plant         100,000 tons
PUSRI's expansion              380,000
PETROKIMIA                     177,000
657,000 tons



- 27 -
Adding the small tonnage of phosphate fertilizers brings the total to about
750,000 tons.  This is apprcximately three times the tonnage now being
marketed. Marketing such a tonnage will require extensive improvements in
the transportation and distribution system (warehouses, roads, vehicles)
and a complete reorganizatien and strengthening of the marketing organiza-
tion and the rural credit system.
7.08      By the time the expansion project comes fully on stream, PUSRI's
distribution system will be handling five times the tonnage now being sold
by tne company. PUSRI plans to set up extension sales offices in major
cities in Java and to build regional warehouses to handle off-season in-
ventory build-up in market areas. Marketing such a tonnage will require
an extensive seeding program under which imported fertilizer would be
channeled through PUSRI's distributors, enabling them to build-up adequate
facilities to handle increased tonnages. The mission was assured by the
Ministry of Trade that PUSRI's distributors would be given access to im-
ported fertilizer for their seeding programs. This assurance was confirmed
during negotiations.
7.09      Developing an adequate seeding program, coordinating the various
plans for distribution and training an effective marketing staff will im-
pose on PUSRI a burden which will be very difficult to handle without out-
side assistance.  PUSRI therefore will hire    in consultation with the
lenders and not later than the end of 1970 -- an experienced marketing man
to head up these activities during construction of the proposed plant and
its first two or three years of operations.
7.10      Adequate agricultural credit facilities are a prerequisite to
orderly growth in fertilizer consumption. At present, institutional
credit is channeled through itate banks and village banks. Experience
of Bank Rakjat Indonesia (BRI), a State bank specializing in agricultural
credit, shows that credit schiemes designed to meet requirements of in-
dividual farmers are difficu;Lt to administer. A substantial amount of
BRI's funds is also tied up Ln unsold stocks of fertilizer caused through
uncoordinated fertilizer importation and distribution. It is apparent
that no credit scheme would relieve this situation unless efficient fertil-
izer distribution is ensured..
7.11      The proposed National Fertilizer Study will review inter alia
the existing system for the mtarketing of fertilizers and agricultural
credit and make recommendations on measures required for establishing
an effective distribution system capable of handling the increased tonnage.
During negotiations it was agreed that the recommendations of the study
acceptable to the Government and the lenders will be implemented.
B.   Prices and Competition lrom Imports
7.12      PUSRI is now selling its urea at Rp. 22,000 f.o.b. Palembang, the
equivalent of $67.50/ton. Inmport prices c.i.f. Djakarta are presently bet-
ween $78 and $81/ton c.i.f. aLlthough occasionally shipments have been



- 28 -
offered at less than $65/ton, while a good deal of other shipments are vell
above $100/ton. Ex-plant prices in Europe and in the U.S.A. for domstic
consu ption are quoted at between $75 and $80/ton, to which sea freight and
insurance alone would add $15 to $20/ton.
7.13      PUSRI has a transport cost advantage vis-a-via Imports in shipping
i£,e uren to smaller ports, using coastal vessels for ports on which ocean-
go;ing freigetcre cannot call. This advantage is expected to about offset
the cost advantage, shown in para. 7.06, which imports offloaded in a few
muajo  ports for use in their vicinity on Java have over PUSRI's fertilizer.
T'herefore, in order to  0omipare import prices with those of PUSRI, c.i.f.
import prices at Djiakart can be equated with PUSRI's price ex-Palembang.
7.14     ETe present selling price ex-plant Palembang of $67.5 per ton is
ex,ected to be competitive with c.i.f. prices of imports, when the new gen-
eration of urea plants, using the same technology as proposed for the ex-
panosion of PUSRI, comes on stream in various parts of the world.  However,
since world market prices often reflect marginal cost prtcing, import prices
mright fall further, psrhaps to between $62 and $65 excluding, of course,
distressed or dumped shipments. This judgment by Bank Group staff is in
line with recent evaluations made in connection with Bank Group urea proj-
ects in India and ?akistan.
7 15      There is no import duty on 'imported fertilizers and there are
no plans fot its introduction.  If sufficient financial incentives for
loca'. fertilizer production are to be provided so as to attract future
:rivat5e Investnent, the present selling price of PUSRI will have to be
at  eeast maintained. The Government has agreed that PUSRI will be permitted
to 712ov commercial practice in setting ,ts prices.
LAb1      The present selling price thus can be expected to meet the
criteris of competitiveness with imports financial viability of the
Project and conistency with the Government's pricing policies and has
therefore been used in the financial projections of the report. If im-
port prices should in fact fall below that level some modest degree of
protection would be required. Such protection would be justified since,
as shwn in Chapter IX the rate of return of the project to the economy
vould atill11  be 12% even if the c.i.f. import price was is low as $60
pe r Otlo.
.JII.  PROFITABILITY AND FINANCIAL POSITION
8.01      The gas conservation and transmission project is set up as a
separate accounting entity of PERTAMINA operating at about a breakeven
level, including a 12% return on investment. This rate is predicated upon
revenue being guaranteed by take-or-pay contracts. The results will be
that the price of gas will decline from 19.7 cents per Mcft in the first
full year of operation to 12.2 cents per Mcft in 1994. Details of the
accounting are set out in Annex 16.



- 29 -
8.02      Attached as Annexes 10 to 13 are projected income statements for
the fertilizer expansiou praject, and projected income statements, balance
sheets and cash flow statem4nts for the combined operation of PUSRI.
8.03      Projections for thae existing fertilizer operation have been pre-
pared on the basia of PTUSRI's financial position as of January 3, 1970,
shown in Annex 5 aud described in Section 3.06.  They assume fuL write-
off of PUSRI's existing depreciable assets by the end of 1975 with the
result that the existing plsant will make only a marginal profit during
the period throug>. 1975.  Whilie the existing plant is a high-cost producer,
it will be financially self-sufficient and will be able to contribute to
the financing of the new plant through its internal cash generation. No
credit is taken for the antLcipated increase in the output of the existing
plant to rated capacity.
8.04      The fertilizer expansion project is scheduled to be commissioned
by late l373 after a three-year construction and startup period.  Production
build-up is conservatively estimated to rise gradually from 50% of the rated
capacity in the first quarter of operation to full capacity in 1977. For
the purpose of profitabilityr projections, the present selling price is used.
Other major assumptions made in the projectioas are summarized in Annex 9.
8.05      On the above basis, the fertilizer expansion project will show
nominal pre-tax earnings in 1976, the fourth year of operation, and there-
after the profit picture will improve as sales rise. While combined pre-
tax earnings will follow the same pattern, net earnings for the integrated
operation will decline in 1978 when a five-year tax holiday for income
taxes on the operations of the proposed new plant comes to an end. Senior
debt service coverage, as shlown in Annex 11 rises from 1.6 times in 1974
to 1.8 times in the followinig three years. Thereafter, as taxes come into
full effect, debt service coverage declines gradually to level off at 1.5
times in 1980 through 1984. At that point the new plant is fully depre-
ciated and the impact of shirply increased taxes reduces coverage to 1.3
times in the last two years of debt service. This is considered adequate.
The projections indicate that PUSRI will be in a position to pay dividends
in 1977, four years after startup of the new plant.
8.06      The fertilizer expansion project will meet its fixed cash costs
excluding service of the suiordinated loan at capacity operations as long
as sales prices do not drop below Rp 14,900 ($45.70) per ton of urea or as
long as sales volume does not decline below 258,000 tons (or 68% of capacity)
at the assumed price level of Rp 22,000 ($67.50) per ton.
8.07      The initial full clebt/equity ratio for the combined operation of
PUSRI will be 70:30, as shmrn in Annex 12, and 55:45 if the subordinated
loan is considered quasi-equity. These ratios will tend to rise slightly
in the first year of operation of the new plant. Except for 1974 the
critical first year of full production when the projected cash balance
is relatively low, PUSRI shc'uld maintain a fairly liquid position throughout
the project life. In the event that the company's net cash position is be-
low that projected, a substsntial cushion exists in the company's ability
to defer payments of principal and interest on the subordinated loan.



- 30 -
8.08      A sensitivity analysis has been prepared to assess the financial
impact on the project of certain unfavorable assumptions superimposed on
the financial forecasts which are shown in Annexes 10 through 13 and which
are considered realistic. The following table compares the financial
return (net of taxes) of 11.4% of the "base project" with five alternative
assumptions which are described in greater detail in Annex 14.
Financial Return
(Net of Taxes)
Base Project                                     11.4%
Alternatives superimposed on Base Project:
1)   Reduction of urea ex-plant price from $67.5/ton
to $60.0/ton                                           9.2%
2)   Reduction of urea ex-plant price from $67.5/ton
to $55.0/ton                                           7.5%
3)   One year construction delay assumed to increase
project cost by $11 million                            9.0%
4)   Startup troubles, coupled with a slower production
build-up over a period of 5.5 years                   10.0%
5)   Combination of one year construction delay,
startup troubles and slower production build-
up (alternatives 3 and 4)                              8.1%
As explained in Section VII of this report, the probability of alternative
2 occurring is low. The probability of alternative 5 occurring is also low;
in addition, efforts will be made to obtain suitable guarantee provisions
on plant completion and production in the contractual arrangements for
plant construction.
8.09      The foreign exchange component in the operating costs per ton of
urea at capacity operation is estimated at $33.29 as compared with the
local currency component of $17.95, assuming a 15-year economic life for
the project and the payment of external debt on commercial terms. 1/ On
the basis of landed costs of imported urea at $67.50, total foreign exchange
savings at capac'ty operation would work out to $13 million annually.  This
saving of $34.41 per ton foreign exchange costs is obtained at a cost of
$17.95 per ton local currency expenditures and is indicative of a highly
efficient import substitution.
1/   Costs per ton of urea on the above assumptions are as follows:
Variable costs      Fixed costs      Total
(W/ton)
Local currency            1.78              15.72         17.50
Foreign exchange          9.48              23.70         33.29
Total               11.76              39.48         50.68
This breakdown differs from that shown in Annex 13 as follows:
(i) Depreciation calculated on a 15-year basis
(ii) Interest worked out at 10% p.a.



- 31 -
Er. ECONOMIC JUSTIFICATION
9.01      The fertilizer and gas parts of the project are inter-dependent
and investment in one Wo01ld make no sense without investment in the other.
A joint rate of return has therefore been calculated by discounting the
streams of costs and benefits obtained if PUSRI had to sell ex-plant at
the c.i.f. price for imported urea. The present rate of exchange of Rp.
326 per US dollar has been used. At a c.i.f. import price of $67.5 per
ton, equal to the sales price assumed, the rate of return to the economy
would be 14%. If the imlport price were to drop to $65 per ton, the rate
of return would be 13%. If imported urea could be offered at $60 per ton,
c.i.f. the rate of return would be 12%.
9.02      The decision to proceed with the PUSRI project at this time was
made after study of an alternative site at Tjirebon on Java, where the only
other usable gas deposit is located. There are not at this time sufficient
proven gas reserves at T'irebon to support an economically-sized fertilizer
project and a suitable gas investigation would take perhaps a year to com-
plete. While Tjirebon iEi located near the major market and would thus have
an advantage in transport: costs of urea, this site lacks the infrastructure
facilities available at I'alembang. In addition, if Tjirebon produced first,
the gas now planned for uLse at PUSRI would have to be flared (which is un-
economic and would reduce reserves below that required to support the PUSRI
project) or, alternatively, conserved for future use. This latter course
would likely entail considerable expense and there may be technical diffi-
culties involved in the tnderground storage of such a gas quantity. Thus,
while two new plants will, ultimately be needed in Indonesia, the decision
to proceed with the PUSR]. plant at Palembang first is the proper one at
this time and will result in a substantial foreign exchange benefit due to
the many months saved in reaching initial production. Further details on
this are provided in Annex 14a.
X. RECOMMENDATIONS
10.01     The project is of high priority in the context of the Government's
policy to attain self-sufficiency in food and to increase agricultural out-
put and exports. It shows a satisfactory economic rate of return, is fi-
nancially viable and competitive with imports, even if present world mar-
ket prices for urea should substantially decline. It puts to profitable
use a valuable national asset, natural gas, that is presently going to
waste.
10.02     Assumptions on fertilizer market growth made in Indonesia's Five-
Year Plan have been substantially discounted, the plant size has been ad-
justed to such lower sales expectations and projections of capital, operat-
ing cost and sales build-up have been made on a conservative basis. How-



- 32 -
ever, market projections in Indonesia are particularly difficult to make
as the past cannot serve as a guide for the future. The project, therefore,
has a more than normal share of risk. However, fertilizer consumption in
Indonesia is still among the lowest in the world and the Government is mak-
ing an all-out effort to accelerate economic growth which initially is
centered on agriculture. Therefore, even if additional adverse factors
should occur, such as construction delays or an even slower built-up of
production and sales than assumed in this report, the risk on balance is
not excessive.
10.03     Agreements were reached with the Government, PUSRI, and PERTAMINA
on the following points during negotiations:
(a) The Government, recognizing the importance of elimin-
ating the existing constraints to orderly growth in
urea consumption, would take the necessary steps to
assure adequate incentives to the farmer to purchase
and use fertilizer. The Government also agreed
to take satisfactory steps to strengthen the existing
distribution system, provide credits,, and to encourage
the balanced application of plant nutrients. (Paras
2.16, 2.21 and 7.07);
(b) After the proposed national Fertilizer Study is
completed, the Government would implement recommenda-
tions of the Study which the Government and the
lenders agree as appropriate (paras 2.17 and 7.11);
(c) The Government would consult with lenders before set-
ting up or agreeing to set up the next nitrogenous
fertilizer plant in the country (para 2.22);
(d) The Government would permit PUSRI to follow commercial
practice in setting fertilizer prices (para 7.15);
(e) The Government would allocate urea to PUSRI's dis-
tributors, in accordance with their requirements, for
PUSRI's seeding program to enable the build-up of
adequate distribution facilities prior to the start-
up of the fertilizer expansion plant (para 7.08);
(f) The present management of PUSRI would be strengthened
and appointments to the new management and Board
of Directors of PUSRI would be made after consultation
with lenders (paras 3.02-3.12, 5.11-5.14, 7.09);
(g) The charter of PUSRI would be amended to ensure that the
two classes of shares have the same characteristics and
rights (para 3.10).



- 33 -
(h) PUSRI would obtaini outside marketing assistance and
make, well in advance, adequate arrangements to
move the anticipated larger quantities of fertilizers
to front line godi4wns (paras 7.05 and 7.08);
(i)  PUSRI would obtain outside assistance to improve its
accounting procedures and financial information (para
5.11);
(j) The Government wouild take full responsibility for seeing
to it that necessaLry local currency financing is provided,
and for covering any pro4ect cost overruns that might occur,
either in foreign exchange or local currenty (para 6.07);
(k)  The Government would relend the proceeds of the loans to
PUSRI and PERTAMIINA in the form of loans with suitable
terms and conditions (paras 6.08 to 6.11);
(1) The appointment, the scope of work and the terms of
contract of Technical Advisors as owner's representative
would be subject t:o the approval of lenders (para 5.12);
(m)  With regard to the General Contractor, procedure for
pre-qualifying firms, the list of firms selected for
consideration, anc. the choice of a firm to be appointed
as general contractor, as well as the terms and condi-
tions of his contract, would be subject to the prior
approval of lenders (para 5.15);
(n)  PUSRI would impleuent the findings of its study on the
selection of the nrost economic, durable and weather-
resistant substitute for the bags in use at present
and the improvement of handling such bags in transit
(para 5.08);
(o) PUSRI and PERTAMINA would enter into a gas supply contract
which is subject to the approval of the lenders (para 4.15);
(p) The Government would ensure that PERTAMINA would con-
tinue with its regular drilling program and take neces-
sary steps to ensure a continuous gas supply for the
fertilizer expansion project during its service life
and would carry out the project with the assistance
of consultants acceptable to the lenders (para 4.10);



- 34 -
(q) PERTAMINA would establish a separate accounting entity
for the implementation and operation of the gas
conservation and transmission scheme (para 4.15);
10.04     The project would form a suitable basis for an IDA credit of
$30 million and an ADB loan of $10 million from its Special Funds.
Industrial Projects Department
April 20, 1970



ANNEX 1
INDONESIA - PUSRI FERTILIZER PROJECT
Rice Production
Definition of Terms
Dry Stalk Paddy (or Padi)
The harvested rice plant with grains of rice still attached to
tne stalk, the whole having been air dried but not threshed.
PAddy (or Padi, gabah, rough, raw, unhulled)
Harvested rice grains which have been separated from the stalk
by threshing but before any cther treatment.
Brown (or Cargo)
Paddy with the hulls removed.
Milled (or cleaned, white, bera)
Brown rice which has been put through a milling process.
Yield from Paddy
This varies in different countries and in different regions of
the same country. It also varies with the care used in threshing and
nilling.
In Indonesia the following yields are typical and will be used
in this report:
100 tons of dry stalk Paddy  -  80 tons of Paddy
62  "   "  Brown
52  "   " Milled
100 tons of Paddy              -  77  "   "  Brown
65  "      Milled



ANNEX 2
INDONESIA - PUSRI FERTILIZER PROJECT
The BIMAS and INMAS Programs
In 1963 the Government of Indonesia began the BIMAS 1/ Program
under which selected blocks of farmers were offered a package of inputs on
the basis of a group credit against collective collateral security. These
block credits were tied to the use of subsidized inputs of fertilizers, in-
secticides and sprayers and included also a cost of living allowance for
the participating farmers. A variant of this scheme (BIMAS BARU) also in-
cluded seeds of the high-yielding PB variety, and to reflect the higher fer-
tilizer response potential of these rice varieties, the fertilizer applica-
tions prescribed under this scheme were adjusted accordingly. It was further
envisaged that after the provision of BIMAS-type credits for one or two sea-
sons, the farmer would be able and willing to take advantage of a follow-up
program (INMAS) under which the same type of package would be available, but
without block credit and without the intensive extension advice supposedly
attached to the provision of the BIMAS package. After a successful, small
beginning in 1963 the area covered by BIMAS schemes increased rapidly from
172,000 ha in the wet season of 1965/66 to 489,000 ha in 1967/68. In addi-
tion, the INMAS Program is said to have covered an additional 568,000 ha in
1967/68.
Intent upon a still larger coverage of the wet rice area by BIMAS-
type programs and increasingly aware of some of the logistical inefficiencies
of the ongoing programs, the Government of Indonesia embarked in 1968/69 upon
an alternative form of implementing mass guidance programs (BIMAS GOTONG RO-
JONG). Under a contract with the Government, first one and in the next sea-
son several foreign companies undertook to supply, distribute and finance
BIMAS-type inputs. In close parallel to the BIMAS program the foreign com-
panies each provide a designated block of farmers with fertilizer, insecti-
cide, spraying services, cost of living allowances and extension advice.
Farmers within these program areas receive the generally prescribed inputs
in kind, without having to provide collective collateral security, and pay-
ment is provided for by the delivery of one-sixth of the respective paddy
crop to the Government rice procurement agency (BULOG). In the coming crop
year the farmer will have to pay for the input package received either in
cash or in rice converted at a price equivalent to Rp. 26 per kg. of milled
rice. Recent experience has led to a reshaping of the program for food
self-sufficiency as described in more detail in the Bank's Economic Report.
1/   Abbreviation for "Bimbingan Massal Swa Sembada Bahan Makanan"
literally means "guidance for self-sufficiency in foodstuffs".



P.T. PUPUK SRIWIDJAJA
Sunmary of Earnings from Inception to June 30, 1969 - (unaudited)
(Rp million)
Inception                                            Six months
to                Year ended December 31             ended
Dec .31/65       1966      1967       1965           June 30/69
Production (tons)                                 207,391         93,015    93,337    95,528             37,955
Volume of sales (tons)                            202,013         89,881    88,822    82,447             440353
Sales                                              11,171            166       839      1. 74o            1,105
Cost of sales                                       6,297             83        4,101                     978
Gross profit                                   4,874             83       296       639                127
Selling expenses                                        -             _         -          -                 97
pnet ing                                       1. Ar7ofi"A.                9        A6                  Rn
Other income and expenses                              33              6       111        ()                124
Pre-tax earnings                               4,907             89       407       573                151
Provision for income tax                                -             -         -        344                 92
Net earnings                                    4,907            89       407        229                 62
Currency devaluation                                (4,902)           -         -          -                 -
Contribution to Indonesian Development Fund             (l)           -         -         _                  _
Retained earnings                                  4             89       407        229                62
Depreciation and amortization:
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment        915            45       180        408                206
Amortization of start-up cost                        430            16        75        104                55
1,345            61        25_5    -512                261        s
Less currency devaluation                          16345                                5
-             61        E        512                261
Operating earnings/Net sales %                      43.6%          50.0%     35.3%      36.7%               2.7%
Net earnings/Net sales %                              0.0%         53.6%     48.5%      13.2%
NOTE: frepared by Peat, Marwick



ANNEX 4
P.T. PUPUK SRIWIDJAJA
Effect of Revaluations and Currency Devaluation on
PUSRI's Fixed Assets
(in Rp million)
Deferred
Fixed       start-up
assets      expenses    Total
Original Cost                                13,243         2,305      15,548
Revaluations                                  9,831         1,182      11,013
Less currency devaluation                    (13,074)      (2,303)   (15,377)
Adjusted original cost (A)                10,000         1,184      11,184
Nominal value of cumulative depreciation/
amortization                                1,755           681       2,436
Adjustment for revaluations                    1,674           332      2,006
Less adjustment for currency devaluation        (915)         (430)    (1,345)
Adjusted depreciation/amortization (B)   2,514             583       3,097
Net book value as of June 30, 1969 (A)-(B)  7,486             600       8,086
Note: Prepared by Peat, Marwick



ANNEX 5
P.T. PUPUK SRIWIDJAJA
Balance Sheets as of December 31, 1968 (audited), June 30, 1969 and
January 3,  1970 (unAudited) - (Rp million).
Dec. 31/68   June 30/69   Jan. 3/70
Current Assets
Cash                                                     320           262           312
Accounts receivable:
Trade                                            231           563           937
Other                                            176           164          249
Inventories:
Finished products                                781           655           124
Import Fertilizer                               -             -               26
Materials and spare parts                      1,497         1,882        1,238
Prepaid expenses                                             26            6             6
Total current assets                           3,031         3,532         2,892
Current Liabilities
Accounts payable                                          443          383           138
Other                                                      36           28            11
Total current liabilities                        479           411           149
Net working capital                            2,552         3,121         2,743
Fixed Assets
Property, plant and equipment                           9,369       10,000         3,881
Less allowance for depreciation                        2,173         2,514          -
Net property, plant and equipment              7,196         7,486         3,881
Deferred Start-up Expenses                                1,093        1,183          -
less provision for amortization                             484          583
Net start-up expenses                            609           600          -
Other Assets                                                315          488           399
Less pension fund etc.                                                   -              17
Total capitalization                          10,672        11,695         7,006
Equity
Contributed capital                                   17,731        17,731         7,000
Less currency devaluation                             17,713        17,713          -
Net contributed capital                           18            18         7,000
Surplus arisen from Revaluation of Assets              9,923        10,885          -
Retained earning                                          731           792            6
Total net worth                               10,672        11,695         7,006
Quick ratio                                              1.5:1        2.3:1          10:1
Current ratio                                           6.3:1         8.6:1        19.4:1
NOTE: Fixed Assets Reduced from Itp 7,486 million as of June 30, 1969 to Rp 3,881 millior
as of January 3, 1970, on account of assets written off and depreciation changes.
Industrial Projects
April 20, 1970






INDONESIA
ORGANIZATION CHART OF P.N. PUPUK SRIWIDJAJA
(AS OF JULY 31, 1969)
--   -  -   -  -   -  -   -  -  -   --   -  -   -  -   -  -  -  -   -  -  --   -  -   -  -  -  -   -  -  -  -
I                                       |  PRESIDENT  DIRECTOR
Hason Katim,
I                                                                                                             i
iI    I _-1                                                                                                   I __ XL T i1 
N WAKE Er TM NT ~~~ENGINEERINGoAND                     RE. .SEA^.  RCHs AND                                               MTRASAND             GEsN                  COMMUNITY
IA.AMSIN UTENANKIC  F2 OUKt    CTKIII     I.ONLI IKEIG          I      SI  FNANaK                                MAllOTING           PROI5AlCKCUREMEN       SERtAK   /            S'SOTT
3.         DEPA TMEN          CONSTlCINKV                                                                                                       N  ES  3l2.
DEPAlRTMCuENT:      s                    DEPAR:MElwNT            DO oEv:                4.CNIA  DECA  DIIIPARET                     CONTROL                                     SEICTCION
b~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I                                              ENP..s oil                                                               Ho.o1
04,17, S-d;  Z.;~; MEhiMo                                          M.DEPARTMENT  DEPARDEPARTTEMITENTPARTmENT                                             T-F.-ily V .. 
N.-,n SESOST 5SsNdji    b       ~       ~       M  N~                    o   oo            EARTEN WI               -DEPRMN            Tnp,riyVa
3.  3:                                                                                                        3,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~. E~A~SADr
3. TtuE  E   3UV,ITISSZT±t.  .SSEaICA.  EGSERIS                           SLES57050LEOLOOSO                                             ZOMMUMT
4. Mrs.. MO  E..GISEMRI..O  2. i.osno~~~~o  2. oocs.mrw.  2. SALES SOOTOO        2.1   MTPLE          2. EASPITEC~8
4. rSaE 5~0557  &MC .,cnoo j. ..sen.,csu  s.m.,rn,.rswco  snnrcs  '              AC00575CC      ~       TASAON






INDONESIA
P T. PUPUK SRIWIDJAJA
TENTATIVE PROJECT SCHEDULE
1970             1971                 1972                  1973
TASKS_
TASKS__________ __ AM J JA S O N D J FM AMM J J AIS ON D J FM A MJ IJ ASOND iF MA M J J ASON|D
PREPARE DESIGN CRITERIA
PRE-QUALIFICATION CONDITIONS
AND NOTICE TO CONTRACTORS
SELECTION OF CONTRACTORS
NEGOTIATIION                            I
PREPARATION                      APPAD OF C
OFCONSTRUCTIONSIS          
BOMIDSVAUAIONINGI 
NEGOTIATION~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~OEATO 
AND AWARD OF CONTRACT~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
I   I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
ENGINEERING AND DESIGN  I  111111 1111111 III~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1






P.T. PUPUK SRIWIDJAJA
Project Cost Estimates for the Fertilizer Plant Expansion
Indonesia rupiahs                      U.S. dollars
Foreign      Local                  Foreign      Local                  % of total
exchange   currency    Total        exchange   currency   Total         expenditures
(in millions)                       (in millions)
Imported Equipment
Ammonia plant                               2,576        -       2,576           7.9         -         7.9             10.7
Urea Plant                                  1,956        -       1,956           6.o          -        6.o              8.1
Utilities, including C02 removal            2,347        -       2,347           7.2         -         7.2              9.8
Spare partsV                                  717                  717           2.2         -         2.2              3.0
Other                                         619        -         619           1.9         -        1.9               2.6
Sub-total                           8,215        -       8,215          25.2         -       25.2              34.2
Construction Cost
Civil works                                 1,141        978     2,11.9          3.5        3.0        6.5              8.8
Plant installation                            782        652     1,434           2.4        2.0        4.4              6.0
rinarf extension                              iy6        ijU       3O6           u.6        U.4        1.U              1.4
Construction equipment                        261        196       457           0.8        0.6        1.4              1.9
Housing colony                                 33        261       294           0.1         0.8       0.9              1.2
Sub-total                           2,413      2,217     4,630           7.4        6.8      14.2              19.3
Services
Engineering                                 1,793        -       1,793           5.5          -        5.5              7.5
Procurement                                   391        -         391           1.2          -        1.2              1.6
Project management                            717        -         717           2.2         -         2.2              3.0
Sub-total                           2,901        -       2,901           8.9         -         8.9             12.1
License Fees                                    652        -         652           2.0          -        2.0              2.7
Total                              1h,181      2,217    16,398          43.5        6.8       50.3             68.3
Contingency 10%                               1,402        288     1,630           4.3         0.7       5.0              6.8
Escalation            2/                      1,467        293     1,760           4.5         0.9       5.4              7.3
Pre-operating expenses-                         945        456     1,401           2.9         1.4       4.3              5.8
Total                              17,995      3,194    21,189          55.2         9.8      65.0             88,2
Interest during consruction                    -         1,729     1,729            -          5.3       5.3               7.2
Net working capital -                           489        619     1,108           1.5         1.9       3.4              4.6
Grand Total                        18,484      5,542    24,026          56.7        17.0      73.7            100.0
1/ Includes a two-year supply of imported parts.
2/ Includes a provision for capital expenditures of $1.5 million for sales
promotion and market development prior to commercial operation.
3/ Covers one-third of the total amount of (a) a one-year supply of catalyst
and chemicals, and bagging materials (b) a four-month stock of urea at cost and (c) two months'
receivables.
Industrial Projects    April 20, 1970






ANNEX 9
P.T. PUPUK SRIWIDJAJA
Major Assumptions Used in Financial Projections
1.        Sales Price
A price of Rp. 22,000 ($67.50) per ton of urea FOB Palembang has
been assumed throughout the projections.
2.        Sales Volume and Production Build-up
The following sales volume and production build-up have been as-
sumed for the expansion project.
Period      Produced        % of rated       Stored        Sold
_(tcns)          capacity        (tons)      (tons)
1973       47,000            50%           20,000       27,000
(last quarter)
1974      308,000            81%           70,000      238,000
1975      335,000            93%           27,000      328,000
1976      3761,000           99%           10,000      366,000
Onwards     380,,000          100%              -         380,000
Existing operations are asasuued to produce and sell 95,000 tons per annum
until 1978.
3.        Inventories and Receivables
For existing operations, inventories and receivables are assumed
to stay constant on December 31, 1969 level. A one-year supply of catalyst
and chemicals and bagging materials, a four-month stock of urea at cost and
two months' receivables are assumed for the expansion project.
4.        Production Cost Estimates for the Existing Plant
Production cost of other expenses of the existing plant for the
manufacture of 95,000 tons of urea p.a. are broken down as follows:



ANNEX 9
Page 2
Annual     Unit
cost       cost
($ -666j    s$/t-on)
(a)  Variable Costs
Natural gas 51 MSCF/ton @ 2Ot/MSCF          969       10.20
Catalyst and chemicals                      126        1.33
Bagging cost (materials only)               437        4.60
1,532      16.13
(b)  Fixed Costs
Maintenance materials                       650        6.84
Labor (including benefits)                1,041       10.96
Insurance                                    52        0.55
Supplies and Expenses                       212        2.23
Depreciation                              1,929       20.31
3,884      40.89
(c)  Indirect expenses                            702       7.39
(d)  Total costs                               6,118       64.41
(rupiah equivalent)                  (Rp. 1,994   (Rp. 20,994)
million)
5.        Production Cost Estimates for the Expansion Project
a)   Assuming no a-monia losses between the ammonia and urea
plant, the unit consumptions per metric ton of prilled urea are taken as
follows:
AvAmonia /1   Urea    Total
Gaseous carbon dioxide (tons)                0.76      0.76
Steam (lbs)                                 3,000    3,000
Power (Kwh)                         58         170      228 /2
Boiler feed water (lbs)          2,300      4,300    6,600
Natural gas (SCF)               21,000               21,000 /3
/1   Ammonia consumption per ton of prilled urea is
assumed at 0.58 tons.
/2   Excluding power for cooling water, peak demand
283 Kwh.
/3   Process only.



ANNEX 9
Page 3
b)   Over-all gas consumption per ton of urea would be 31,000 SCF
including additional requiremnents of 10,000 SCF for power and steam gene-
ration and offaites. The average thermal value of the gas is assumed at
1,000 BTU per SCF. Gas prices are assumed to gradually decline from 19.7¢
per 1,000 SCF in the first fuill year of operation to 18.8¢ per 1,000 SCF in
the fourteenth year of operai:ion as detailed in Annex 16.
c)   On the above basis, annual total costs per ton of prilled
and bagged urea at capacity operation (380,000 tons p.a.) are estimated as
follows:
Annual      Unit
cost        cost
($'000)     ($/ton)
(a) Variable costs
Natural gas 31. MSCF/ton /1              2,215       5.83
Catalyst and chemicals                     505       1.33
Bagging cost (materials only)                        4.60
4,468     11.76
(b) Fixed costs
Maintenance 4.5% on $60.7 million        2,732       7.19
Labor (including benefits)
800 men @ $1,000/man/year                800      2.10
Overhead @ 150% of labor                 1,200       3.16
Depreciation 10% on $70.3 million        7,030      18.50
Indirect expenses                        1,900       5.00
Interest 12% on 50% of $61.5 mil-
lion loan                              3,690       9.71
17,152     45.66
(c)  Total costs                             21,820      57.42
(rupiah equivalent)                  (Rp 7,113  (Rp 18,719)
million)
/1   Calculated at 18.8c per 1,000 SCF representing the 14-year
weighted average.
6.        Loan
Government financin;j would consist of an equity investment of
Rp. 1,988 million ($6.1 million), a subordinated loan (Class B) of Rp 4,303
million ($13.2 million) havinlg a 6-1/2 year grace period with maturity of



ANNEX 9
Page 4
10 years thereafter at an interest rate of 12%, and a senior loan (Class A)
of Rp. 1.5,744 ($48.3 million), including capitalized interest during con-
struction of Rp. 1,729 million ($5.3 million), having a 4-1/2 year grace
period with maturity of 12 years thereafter at an interest rate of 12%. Re-
payment of the senior loan would be in 24 equal semi-annual instalments com-
mencing on May 1, 1975 and ending on November 1, 1986, on the basis of con-
stant annuities of principal and interest. The first interest payment would
be on May 1, 1974. Repayment of the subordinated loan would be in 20 equal
semi-annual repayments on a straight-line basis commencing May 1, 1977. No
interest would accrue until May 1, 1974 and the first interest payment
would be due on November 1, 1975.
7.        Income Taxes
The expansion project is assumed to have a five-year tax holiday
and 45% income tax will be paid after that. The existing operation will pay
45% throughout operation.
8.        Dividends
A 100% payout is assumed after the accumulated deficit has been
covered.  First dividends will be paid out in 1977.
Industrial Projects Department
April 20, 1970



P.T. FPFUl SIIdIDJAJA
PROJECTED INCGi3 STATE24SEm  FOR EXPANSION PIDJXCT
(Rp Killion)
Financial year ending December 31,                1973         1974        1975       1976        1977       1978      1979      1980      1981      1982      1983      1984      1985       1986
Total production (tons)                          47,000      308,000     355,00o     376,00o    380,000   380,000   380,000   380,000   380,000   380,000   380,000   380,000   380,000   380,030
% of rated capacity                                 50%          81%        93%         99%        100%      100%      100%      100%      100%      100%      100%      100%      100%      100%
Increase in inventories (tone)                   20,000       70,000      27,000      10,000       -          -         -         -         -                   -         -          -         -
Sales voluse (tons)                              27,000      238,000     328,000     366,000    380,000   380,o0o   380,000   380,000   380,000   380,000   380,000   380,000   380,000   380,000
Net Sales (at hp 22/kilo)                           594        5,236       7,216       8,052      8,360     8,360     8,360     8,360     8,360     8,360     8,360      8,360     8,360     8,360
Cost of production xclus ive of interest
mid depreciation                                  615        2,819       2,937       2,987      2,989     2,981     2,985     2,985     2,973      2,958    3,012      3,019     3,000     3,0o4
Depreciation                                        478        1,910       1,910       1,910      1,910     1,910     1,910     1,910     1,910      1,910     1,910     1,910     1,432
increae in invenmory                                          " "-S74                    13c-      -          -         -         -         -          -         -         -         - 
Cost of sales                                       628        3,655       4,479       4,767      4,899     4,891     4,895     4,895     4,883     4,868      4,922     4,929     4,432     3,004
Oross Earnings                                   (  34)        1,581       2,737       3,285      3,461     3,469     3,465     3,465     3,477     3,492     3,438      3,431     3,928     5,356
Indirect expenses                                   155          619         619         619        619       619       619       619       619       619       619        619       619       619
Operating lEnings                                ( 189)          962       2,118       2,666      2,842     2,850     2,846     2,846     2,858     2,873     2,819      2,812     3,309     4,737
Interest On long-ter, debt                          315        2,233       2,374       2,293       2,198    2,058     1,893     1,713     1,53l      1,287     1,069       814       532       222
arnngs before taxes                              ( 504)       (1,271)    ( 256)          373        644       792       953     1,133     1,347      1,586     1,750     1,998     2,777     4,515
Incme tax                                         -------------------Tax holiday----------------------        356       429       510       606        714       t88       899     1,250     2,032
Net amrnings                                     t 504)       (1,271)     ( 256)         373        64h       436       524       623       741        872       962     1,099     1,527     2,481   °
Industrial Projects
April 20, 1970






P.T. PUPUK SRIWIDJAJA
Projected Income Statements for Combined Operations
(Ihp million)
Financial Tear ending December 31,      1970       1971       1972      1973      1974      1975      1976      1977      1978      1979       1980      1981      1982      1983      1984      1985      v86
Total production (tons)                  95,000    95,000     95,ooo   142,000   403,000  450,ODO   471,000   475,ooo   475,000   380,000   380,000   380,000   380,000   380,000   380,000   380,000   380,000
Inereae in inventory (tons)               -           -         -       20,000    70,000    27,000    10,000      -         -         -          -         -         -         -         -         -         -
Sales volume (tons)                      95,000     95,000    95,000   122,000   333,000  b23,000   461,000  475,000   475,000   380,000   380,000   380,000   380,000   380,000   380,000   380,000   380,000
Net Sales                                2,090      2,090      2,090     2,684     7,326     9,306    10,142    10,450    10,450     8,360      8,360     8,360     8,360     8,360     8,360     8,360     8,360
Cost of production exclusive of
interest and depreciation              1,136      1,136      1,136     1,751     3,955     4,073    4,123      4,125     4,117     2,985      2,985     2,973     2,958     3,012     3,019     3,000     3,004
Depreciation                               629        629        629     1,107     2 539    2,539      1,910     1,910     1,910     1,910      1,910     1,910     1,910     1,910     1,910     1,432
Increase in inventories                                      _             4                          ( 130)      -         -         -          -         -         -         -         -         -
Cost of sales                        1,765     1,765      1,765     2,393     5,420    6,244      5,903     6,035    6,027       4,895     4,895     4,883     4,868     4,922     4,929     4,432      3,UU4
Gross harnings                         325        325        325       291    1,906     3,062     4,239    4,415      4,423      3,465     3,465     3,477     3,492     3,438     3,431     3,928      5,356
Indirect expenses                          229        229         229      384       8448      818       8         818       848       619        619       619       619       619       619       619        619
Operating Earnings                     96         96         96    (  93)   1,058       2,214     3,391     3,567     3,575     2,846      2,846     2,858     2,873     2,819     2,812     3,309     4,737
Interest on long-ters debt                -          _          _          315     2,233     2,374     2,293     2,198     2,058      1,893     1,713     1,511     1,287     1,069       814       532        222
Earnings before taxes                   96        96         96    ( 408)   (1,175)  (  160)   1,098        1,369     1,517        953     1,133     1,347     1,585     1,750     1,998     2,777      4,515
Income tax                                   43         43        43         43        43       42        326      326        712       429       510       606       714       788        899     1,250     2,032
Net Earnings                           53         53         53    (  451)  (1,218)   (  202)        772    1,043       805        524       623       741       872       962     1,099     1,527      2,483
Operating earnings/Net sales            4.5%       4.5%       4.5%       -         14.4%    23.8%      33.4%     34.1%     34.2%     34.0%     34.0%     34,2%     34.4%     33.7%      33.6%     39.6%     56.7$
Pre-tax earningsA'hare capital          4.5%       4.5%       4.5%        -          -         -       10.8%     13.1%     14.5%     11.4%     13.6%     16.1%     19.0%     20.9%     24.0%      33.2%     54.0%
Pre-tax earnings/Share capital           1.4%      1.2%       1.1%        -          -         -       12.2%     15.2%    16.9%      10.6%     12.6%     15.0%     17.6%     19.5%      22.2%     30.9%     50.2%    !
Times all debt service covered            -          -          -        3.1        1.5       1.6       1.6       1.5       1.4       1.3       1.3       1.3       1.3       1.2        1.2       1.1       1.1      '
Times senior debt service covered         -          -          -        3.1        1.6       1.7       1.8       1.8       1.7       1.6       1.5       1.5       1.5       1.5        i.5       1.3       1.3 ~
Industrial Projects
April 20, 1970






P.T. FPPU7T SRTITIDJAJA
Projected Balance Sheets for Combined Operations
(Rp million)
As of D.cenber 31,                   1969      1970      1971       1972      1973      1974       1975      1976      1977       1978      1979      1980       1981      1982       1983      1984       1985      1986
Current Assets
Cash                                      312       896       989      1,083     1,587       572      1,488     3,066     4,600      5,156     5,598     5,912      6,081     6,089      5,914     5,535      4,448     2,160
Accounts receivable                     1,186     1,186     1,186      1,186     1,285     2,058      2,388     2,527     2,579      2,579     2,579      2,579     2,579     2,579      2,579     2,579      2,579      2;579
Inventories                             1,394     1,394     1,394      1,394     1,929     3,389      3,827     3,988     3,994     3,994      3,994     3,994      3,994     3,994      3,994     3,994      3,994      3,994
Total Current Assets                 2,892     3,476     3,569      3,663     4,801     6,019      7,703     9,581    11,173    11,729    12,171    12,485    12,654    12,662    12,487    12,108    11,021         8,733
Current Liabilities
Accounts payable                          1149      1149      149        149       149        149       149       1149      149 149               149       149       1k9       114     9  149        149        149       149
Current ..rtion of los1 -term debt       -         -         -          -          103       651        804     1.252     1.354      1.468     1,596     1,741      1,902     2,085      2,289     2,519      2,288       -
Total Current Liabilities              149       149       149        149       252       800        953     1,401     1,503      1,617     1,745      1,890     2,051     2,234      2,438     2,668      2,437        149
Net Working Capital                  2,743     3,327     3,420      3,514     4,549     5,219      6,750     8,180     9,670    10,112    10,426    10,595    10,603    10,428    10,049        9,440      8,584      8,584
Net Fixed Assets
Bxisting Operations                     3,791     3,162     2,533      1,904     1,275       646         17        17        17         17        17         17        17         17        17         17        17         17
Expansion project                          90     1,315     8,676    16,032    22,440    20,530    18,622    16,712    14,802    12,892    10,982         9,072     7,162      5,252     3,342      1,432      -
Total Net Fixed Assets               3,881     4,477    11,209    17,936    23,715    21,176    18,639    16,729    14,819    12,909    10,999         9,089     7,179      5,269     3,359      1,449      - 17         17
Other Assets                                382       382       382        382       382       382        382       382       382        382       382        382       382        382       382        382       382        382
less Long-term debt                        -         -        5,911    12,679    19,944    19,293    18,489    17,237    15,883    14,415    12,819    11,078         9,176     7,091      4,802     2,283       (  5)11       Oll
SharehlodersE:qit
hare capltti                            7,000     8,127     8,988      8,988     8,988     8,988      8,988     8,988     8,988      8,988     8,988      8,988     8,988      8,988     8,988      8,988     8,988      8,988
Surplus or deficit                          6        59       112        165    ( 286)   (1,504)   (1,706)   ( 934)        -          -         -          -         -          -         -          -         -          -
Total Net Worth                      7,006     8,186     9,100      9,153     8,702     7,484      7,282     8,054     8,988      8,988     8,988      8,988     8,988      8,988     8,988      8,988     8,988      8,988
Quick ratio                              10.1:1    14.0:1    14.6:1    15.2:1    1.,4:1      3.3:1      4.1:1     4.0:1     4.8:1      4.8:1      4.7:1     4.5:1     4.2:1      3.91l     3.5:1      3.0:1     2.9:1    31.8:1
Total Long-term debt/Equity                -         -        39:61      58:42     70:30     73:27      72:28     70:30     66:34      64:36     62:38      59:41     55:145     51:49     44:56      35t65     21:79      0:300
V/ The difference results from rounding.
Tndustrial Projects
April 20, 1970






P.T. PUPUR SRIWIDJAJA
Projected Cash Flow Statemnts for Ccmbined Operations
(Rp million)
Financial year ending Decmber 31,              1970       1971      1972      1973       1974      1975      1976      1977      1978      1979      1980       1981      1982      1983       1984      1985      1986
Sources of Funds:
Earnings before taxes and interest              96         96        96    (  93)    1,058       2,212     3,391     3,567     3,575     2,846     2,846      2,858     2,873     2,819      2,812     3,309     4,737
Depreci-tion                                   629        629       629     1,107     2,5395     39 39     1,910     1,910     1,910     1,910     1,910      1,910     1,91910 110          1,910     1,432
Total funds generated froml operations         725        725       725     1,014     3,597      4,751     5,301     5,477     5,485     4,756     4,756      4,768     4,783     4,729      4,722     4,741     4,737
Share capital                                1,127        861      -         -          -         -         -         -         -         -          -         -         -         -          -         -         -
Class B loan                                  -         4,303      -         -
Class A loan                                  -         1,608     6,768     7,368                      -              -         -         -          -         -              -         -               -         -
Total Funds Available                      1,852      7,497     7,493     8,382     3,597      4,751     5,301     5,477     5,485     4,756     4,756      4,768     4,783     4,729      4,722     4,741     4,737
Use of Funds
Investment in fized assets                   1,225      7,361     7,356     6,886                 -         -         -         -         -          -         -              -          -         -              -
Increase in current assets other than cash    -          -         -          634      2,233       768       300        58           -         -          -         -         -          -         -              -
Repayment of Class A loan                     -                    -         -          103        651       732       822       924     1,038     1,166      1,311     1,472     1,655      1,859     2,089     1,929
interest on Class A loan                      -          -         -          315     1,889      1,858     1,777     1,687     1,585     1,471     1,343      1,198     1,037       854        650       420       162
Repayment of Class B loan                     -          -         -         -          -         -           72       430       430       430       430        430       430       430        430       430       359
Interest on Class B loan                      -          -         -         -           344       516       516       511       473       422        370       313       250       215        164       112        60
Taxes                                           43         O         43        43        43         42       326       326       712       429        510       606       714        788       899     1,250     2,032
Dividends                                     -          -         -          -         -         -         -          109       805       524       623        741       872        962     1,099     1,527     2,483
Total Funds Used                           1,268      7,404     7,399      7,878     4,612     3,835     3,723     3,943     4,929     4,314      4,442     4,599     4,775     4,904      5,101     5,828      7,025
Cash increase or decrease                        584         93        94        504    (1,015)      916     1,578     1,534       556       442        314       169         8    ( 175)   ( 379)   (1,087)   (2,288)
Cash balance                                     896        989     1,083     1,587        572     1,488     3,066     4,600     5,156     5,598      5,912     6,081     6,o89      5,914     5,535     4,448     2,160
Cash Revenue to Government
Interest                                      -          _         -          315      2,233     2,374     2,293     2,198     2,058     1,893      1,713     1,511     1,287      1,069       814       532        222
Taxes                                           43         43        43         43        43        42       326       326       712       429        510       606       714        788       899     1,250      2,032
Dividends                                                                               -         -         -          109       805       524        623       741       872        962     1,099     1,527      2,483
Principal repayments                          -          -         -          -          103       651       804     1,252     1,354     1,468      1,596     1,741     1,902      2,085     2,289     2,519      2,288
Total Revenue                                 43         43        43        358     2,379     2,519     3,423     2,881     4,929      4,314     4,442     4,599     4,775      4,904     5,101     5,828      7,025
Industrial Projects
April 20, 1970






ANNEX 14
P.T. PUPUK SRIWIDJAJA
Sensitivity Analysis of Financial Projections
Assumptions common to all cases
1.   15-year operation iEi assumed for the new fertilizer plant.
2.   Capital input includles the total project costs minus interest
during construction.
3.   Capital output includes after-tax earnings and interest on
long-term debt plus depreciation.
4.   The residual value of the plant at the end of the fifteenth
year of operation ii estimated at Rp. 10,771 million.
5.   All the returns are worked out by computer and details of
calculation are not attached hereto.
Case A
1.   Assumptions as detailed in Annex 13.
2.   The case yields an 11.4% return.
Case B
1.   A selling price of $60 per ton is assumed.  All the other
assumptions are the same as Case A.
2.   The case yields a 9.2% return.
Case C
1.   A selling price of $55 per ton is assumed.  All the other
assumptions are the! same as Case B.
2.   The case yields a 7.5% return.



ANNEX 14
Page 2
Case D
1.   The case assumes on-time completion but technical difficulties
during the first six-month operation. Gas consumption is pro-
jected at 41 million BTU per ton instead of 31 million BTU.
Chemicals and catalysts are taken at full costs when operating
at capacity.
2. Total gas costs are assumed to be the same as in Case A except
for 1973.
3.   Production and sales build-up is assumed as follows (in tons):
% of rated
Period              Production   capacity    Stored         Sold
1973 (Oct.- Dec.)      46,000        50        13,000    33,000
1974                  258,000        68        28,000   230,000
1975                  296,000        78        35,000   261,000
1976                  334,000        88        38,000   296,000
1977                  357,000        94         6,000   351,000
1978                  376,000        99         7,000   369,000
1979                  380,000       100           -      380,000
4.   The case yields a 10.0% return.
Case E
1.   A one-year delay in construction is assumed.  Delay would
likely be caused by non-receipts of equipment or by labor
disputes.  The worst case would be a uniform delay in receipt
of all equipment.  Additional capital costs resulting from
such delays are assumed to be financed through a loan on the
same terms and conditions as Case A and are estimated as fol-
lows (in $ million):
Increase in construction costs       1.4
Increase in services                 1.0
Overheads (pre-operating
expenses and interest)             5.8
Gas charges capitalized              2.5
Additional interest                  0.3
Total                               11.0



ANNEX 14
Page 3
2.   From 1975 on, total gas costs are assumed to be the same as
in Case A.
3.   Production and saLes build-up is assumed as follows (in tons):
% of rated
Period             Production   capacity      Stored       Sold
1974 (Oct.-Dec.)      47,000        50        20,000    27,000
1975                 308,000        81        70,000   238,000
1976                 355,000        93        27,000   328,000
1977                 376,000        99        10,000   366,000
1978                 380,000       100            -     380,000
4.   The case yields a 9.0% return.
Industrial Projects Department
April 20, 1970






ANNEX 14a
PUSRI vs. TJIREBON
1.        While, in the absence of sufficient proven gas reserves at Tjir-
ebon, the proposed expansion of PUSRI offers the only opportunity for Indo-
nesia to replace quickly the imports of urea by local production, the Asso-
ciation and ADB have also considered as part of their evaluation of the
project, whether the Government's decision to proceed with PUSRI could be
justified if sufficient gas reserves were discovered at or near Tjirebon
before commitments had been, made for PUSRI.
2.        Since Indonesia will need, in the foreseeable future, two large
nitrogenous fertilizer plants, and since no other usable gas deposits are
known, a decision between FUSRI and Tjirebon becomes a matter of the se-
quence in which the two plants are to be built.
3.        If Tjirebon were built first, gas presently flared in Sumatra
in connection with crude oil production could be conserved only if it could
be stored underground by re-pressuring abandoned deposits. Underground stor-
age is necessary because nc other viable gas deposits are in sight and con-
tinuation of flaring would reduce reserves below the level necessary for
operations over the econond.c life of the plant and therefore leave Indonesia
with only one plant. It in by no means clear that underground storage is
technically feasible; engineering studies and exploration by drilling would
be required to established the feasibility. Substantial costs would be in-
curred for such studies, as would the additional expense involved in carry-
ing out such underground storage. In the most favorable case, i.e. that
such underground storage ia found technically feasible and that nothing more
than the cost of the presently proposed gas conservation project and its
operation would be involvecl, the additional cost to the economy would come
to $4 to $5 per ton of ureaL, depending on the length of time the conserva-
tion scheme would have to operate without earnings.l/ This would effective-
ly increase the cost of prcduction at PUSRI by roughly 10%. The more likely
case is one which would so raise costs at PUSRI as to make it uncompetitive
with imported fertilizer at: the world market prices expected in the mid-
1970's.
4.        Tjirebon is located on the island of Java, where about two-thirds
of all fertilizer used in Indonesia is consumed, and would therefore have a
definite transport cost advantage.  While sufficient data are available to
quantify this the transport cost advantage which Tjirebon has would probab-
ly not offset the minimum cost of gas storage at PUSRI. There are no com-
pression and storage costs involved in Tjirebon, since the gas so far found
1/   In the absence of earnings, compound interest and the cost of opera-
tion would have to be capitalized until PUSRI's expanded plant goes
into operation and wouild have to be reflected in the gas price PUSRI
would have to pay.



ANINEX 14a
Page 2
is high pressure non-associated gas not connected vith oil production. Ex-
ploration wells so far drilled are capped; production drilling would be taken
in hand as and when gas is needed. To sum up: the transport cost advantage
which Tjirebon has over PUSRI appears insufficient to justify the expease
and the risk involved in the underground gas storage, that would be neces-
sary if Tjirebon were built first.
5.        It is obvious that Tjirebon as a grass roots plant would require
a considerable amount of infrastructure investment (roads, port, water sup-
ply, site preparation, housing) which PUSRI does not require because it al-
ready exists. Present offsite facilities of PUSRI can partly be used for
the expansion. PUSRI therefore has a clear advantage in capital cost if one
assumes that the cost of production facilities for the same plant capacity
in both locations would be about the same. Without reliable estimates of
the cost of infrastructure investments neoded at Tjirebon and of gas under-
ground storage at PUSRI the comparative cost advantage inherent in the se-
quence - PUSRI first and Tjirebon, if sufficient gas is found, thereafter,
cannot be quantified. However, it is in any event large enough to justify
the Government's decision to proceed now with the expansion of PUSRI.
6.        Finally and most importantly the foregoing is based on the assump-
tion that a plant at Tjirebon could be proceeded with imuediately. In fact,
even if adequate gas reserves were discovered at Tjirebon tomorrow, conrid-
erable time would be required for feasibility study of a specific project,
for appraisal by lenders and completion of financing arrangements. This
would require perhaps one-and-a-half years   Moreover the Government's sched-
ule calls for completion of gas investigations in West Java, to determine
whether adequate reserves exist, only by the end of 1970. Thus if a deci-
sion were made to proceed with Tkirebon first, the benefits of the PUSRI
expansion - including foreign exchange savings of $15 million per year -
would be lost to the economy for the period of the delay.
Industrial Projects Department
April 20, 1970



ANNEX 15
T_BLE OF CONTENTS
DIAGRAMS
15-1         Approximate Daily Gas Flow, 1973
15-2         Approximate Daily Gas Flow, 1983
15-3         Approximate Daily Gas Flow, 1984
15-4         Flow Diagram - Gas Conservation System - 1973 Conditions
15-5         Construction and Expenditure Schedule






APPROXIMATE GAS FLOW CONDITIONS 1973
I
FROM HIGH PRESSURE
GAS WELLS                                                                  ESTIMATED MAXIMUM
32 ,400                                                                   COINCIDECT DELIVERIES
t                                                    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~MCF PER DAY
4'tMMMMMM  -1                                                                     Refinery    Others 21 ,400
TO GAS LIFT        TO MARKET
TO GAS LIFT    FROM WELLS
I, 400               *         31,000      56,100
|  *   '           '       _                        b   Pusri Fertilizer   ~~~~~~~~~~~~32,300
TO MARKET                                      Now CusFtomr       23,400
FROM COMPRESSORS                                          Total
25,100                                                        56,100
FIELD SALES
23,800     48,900                                 EkL0§SES           6,100
,    _ s1                         t
Compressor                      48 900                        6,100
13,000 H P                      F          COMPRESSOR
I             ~     ~~~~Capacity  ~  ~          -'r'        FUEL   3,100
S LIFT                   49,700 Mcfd                     48,900          4
25,200                   at OIbs Bk 100F Suction         48,9000
58,100 to 750 lbs. Discharge 58,100      t   9,aoo          6,100
f                                            _
GAS LIFT    25,200              FROM  LOW a
ASSOCIATED                 MEDIUM PRESSURE GAS WELLS                                                  >
GASt    32,900                   -0-                                                              °
TO          FROM                         FROM
OIL WELLS  OIL WELLS                       GAS WELLS
IBRD - 4723(R)






APPROXIMATE GAS FLOW IF CURTAILMENT OF NON-PROCESS USES
IS REQUIRED IN 1983
I                                    CURTAILASLE
FROM HIGH PRESSURE                    REFINERY            11,900
GAS WELLS                        NEW CUSTOMERS    9,800                   ESTIMATED MAXIMUM
34,000 (12,300)                        TOTAL           21 ,700             COINCIDECT DELIVERIES
MCF PER DAY
f-i---,                                                                         Refinery S Others 21 400
TO GS LIFT        FROM WELLS  (12,300)*   (41,800)*
34,000     63,500
l            _                        "   Pusri Fertilizer    32,300
tOMRE                                       New Customers       9, 800
TO MARKET
FROM COMPRESSORS                                         Total       63,500
29,500
CURTAILABLE                21,700
l                                 MINIMUM REQUIREMENT   (41 ,800)*
FIELD SALES
11,000             11,000       40,500                               S LOSS              6,tO0
-      1~~~~~~ 
Compressor                     40 500                        6,100
13,000 HP                                 COMPRESSOR  3,100
TO GAS LIFT                49,700 Mcfd                     40,500         4 
11tO G                  at Olbs a IOOOFSuction                        3,100
32,100 to 750 lbs. Discharge                 9,200
GAS LIFT      11,000           FROM  LOW a0
ASSOCIATED                 MEDIUM PRESSURE GAS WELLS
GAS      21,100                17,600                                                                  G)
* REQUIREMENTS WITH         >
T "00                                      CURTAILMENT IN EFFECT     x
TO         FROM                         FROM                                                                    ,
OIL WELLS  OIL WELLS                      GAS WELLS                                                                I






APPROXIMATE GAS FLOW IN 1984 WITH NO STANVAC SUPPLY AND BOTH FERTILIZER PLANTS
OPERATING WITH CURTAILMENT OF NON-PROCESS USES
I
FROM HIGH PRESSURE                                 CURTAILABLE
GAS WELLS                              REFINERY            11 ,900         ESTIMATED MAXIMUM
61,800 (18,500)                        PUSRI I             13,900          COINCIDECT DELIVERIES
t                               NEW CUSTOMER    10,700              MCF PER DAY
fl~                   1                             TOTAL        36,500           Refine  8 Others  21 ,400
TO GAS LIFT        TO MARKET
-0-            FROM WELLS   (15,8oo)*   (42,800)*
52,300     79,300
_ Pusri Fertilizer    47,200
TO MARKET                                     Ci 7w G0'0,.u       ,,uv
FROM COMPRESSORS                                          Total      79,300
27,000
CURTAILABLE                  36,500
MINIMUM REQUIREMENT          (42,800)*
FIELD SALES
10,100          37,100                              a L0§SES           6,100
,  - ,                            t
Compressor                      37 100                        6,100
13,000 HP                                  COMPRESSOR 3 100
Capacity                     ].FUEL
TO GAS LIFT                49,700 Mcfd                     37,100          4
10,100                  at OIbs   . 100DF Suction                      3,100
30,100 to 750 lbs. Discharge 46,300           9,200          6,100
GAS LIFT     10,100             FROM  LOW a 
ASSOCIATED                 MEDIUM PRESSURE GAS WELLS                                                    >
GASt    20,000                  16,200
* REQUIREMENTS WITH CURTAILMENT
TO          FROM                         FRM                                       IN EFFECT.
OIL WELLS  OIL WELLS                       GAS WELLS                                                            w
IBRD - 4724(R)






FLOW DIAGRAM - GAS CONSERVATION SYSTEM
REFLECTING 1973 CONUIT(ONS
LOCAnON                                                   rAUNUNL9 HEMAA        t^9IMIULIH WEST           PR4BeMUIH             TALAI6 DJI MWI         T49  I     Tl A tII    TAN kN       Z TIG(2       PIIL L2MAU 0
Poeo.  Psig                                                719d1                                         7206P                                                                                          72nra                   730DU
Q Ot Mfd                                                   (605                     O                     21p1d
69P                                                                 3403- -                                                                                                                                        570
High, Iressur       Le-gth Miles                                               IT        rt32            1        1___- ___ __I    7_fi1    _
Li... -         Diomes Iooh-.                                                        6250                     6293          r                            _        _                                                                 9s.
Q fItiAq MM Ifd                                                                                                                                                                                                     752 ______    I_T
Q Iops. Mofd                                                                                              20s23 (9979. 167441
C09,9r0Sto29        HOrsenpowr Isst.11ed                                                                                       XIX
Horne.nnor R9.69(2nd
QO 1t   0 H.P. sy.Itn  Mcfd                                                                               sr-
tTo Pre1 & Une Mcfd WM                                                                     .     ..t
Lon PrIsr           reW-th Mlle-                                                             -------                 -------_____  ____    lli____   _      42_______ __----l ----.................... --------__ f           '-_------___
Li ..  ......  DJ.-tC, tncIh ats                                                                               37ll 1                 225                    W9                                                                     t
Q Ltp.t Mold                                               2553                    i239                                           644                     114S                   675                      0 
AFt                                                                   I13 F75                                       6ao                    820                     la(
5,0.0   1.1                                                ~3zn                                            Zti                                                                  3jo 
LOQATtONl                                                    (7 LIMAuMu             MCLIUAU*ST            CETIFAL L2U              LIMAU 'P'               LUAIJ 1                 LMAI 0S K2 1AR~                            T010G  mlu
P-755. P.M                                                 75091i                                                                                        7390. r
lOot tdcfd                                                                                                                                                                                              I 30 T  20  m422  I °  7  t7°  p d  ap2r
Ntgh P, ... le      Length MA1e9                                                T         T*-                                                                                                                                         IthIq
Q Prnivg Mcfd                                                I                                   u                                        .20M.                   __ _ m                                  1
Q Inp0t Mcfd                                               (530o                                                                                          2
Hoolporer Reloslred
ot(T. H.P.Sy.tJe  Mcfd                         *                                                                                                        i9
(T. NOe & U.0. Mold
GowP  n-----.  LonfL thtrdlo                                    03173_-----5                                   - 1---- ll____ _ -------  -----._ __ ----   -----              ------                                         _W_____-------                >
Llne Q ------   Dlornejeg Mold        5       " 31           T        s25                     10.31                 1031                    12.25                   12.25                  62 Zs
Q Lep.t  Mold                        3967                   6033                   5243                   So4"                    8548                    6200                   am                      1343                    264
'IO p                                          100                    7n0                      220                   400                     (500                    750                   112O                     4_
1,490. POIg                         33sPS.                 20P.                                           32-99P,                                         2 11                                                                   3291   u






PUSRI FERTILIZ 7R PLANT EXPANSION - 660 TON AMMONIA CAPACITY
SCHEDULING OF CONSTRUCTION AND EXPENDITURES                               PDIAGRAM  15-5
GAS CONSERVATION, TRANSMISSION AND TREATING SYSTEM
-ore igo  6,U
Local   $30 000                                                                           Design Structure
Foreign $503,000                                       ~~~~~~~Supervise In.t.1IOtiU'
Local   $202,000
I   12  3 [4'  5  61 7  |81         II | 21 13                                         Horsepower x IOO0
Pompressing                               LForeign $2,9)2,000                                                                Build Compressors
Stations                                             I L I  I    I   I 1 1 1 1 1
Foreign $100,000en  'eih
Local       -0-OcnFeih
Foreign   -0-                                                         Local Freight
Local   $45 ,000                                                      L      Freit
Eqimn   l - Foreign   1482, 0-P Installation
Local 4200    $1,4gn82,000t
$42000        i
loreigo $1232,000                                                    Supervise In'talIutiu5
Iocal1    $ 27,000
Lines & Other                                   Foreign $1,369,130                                                            Pipe FUrchus- 1 DecIi--r
Equipment                                     Local        -0-
Loc!al   $520,830                                                      Other Intlatrions uch
For,-ign $1,566,240                                                     Other Materinl5 P,lrch se
Locil     $  517,080                                                       &Installpti-n
Local   $ 96,000                                                                               Design & Locate~
Foreig        ,6
Local    ; 64,830                                                              Supervise Constrrctio
Forelgo $l,tl 2,400Pieurhs
Transmission                                       Loca.         0-IPpePrhs
System                             Foreign $1,272,000                                                                      Pipe lstalti
Local     $1,054,450                                                                   PieIsaIt'
Freign  $9OO                                                                    iivei Crossing
ca       3) 000b                                                                   Inst allation
X~~~~~~~~~~oa 0                        L  1<                        
Foreign $'309,200                                                              Othier Materials &
Local   $130,060                                                               Installation
-5 33 3231 30 n22 27 2623 7 23 2? 21 20   17 16 5 14 A3 ,2 H 10 9 8 T 6 5 4 3 2 -1 . 2 3 4 5 6 7 *   10,
MONTHS






ANNEX 16
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Table No.
16-1      PERTAM.IA Proven Reserves
16-2      Classif:Lcation of Reserves
16-3      Summary of Costs - Gas Conservation and Transmission
Project
16-4      Cost of Gas Compressing Stations
16-5      Assumptions Underlying the Financial Projections for
the Gas Conservation and Transmission Project
16-6      Income Statement and Sources and Uses of Funds, Gas
Conservation and Transmission Project
16-7      Gas Conservation and Transmission Project, Consoli-
dated Ealance Sheets
16-8      Amortization of Drilling Costs and Effect on Delivered
Gas EPrices






TAUBLC 16-1
PROVEN RESERVES PERTAMINA
(In Billions of standard cubic feet above 441 pounds)
Reserve 12131,167            Reserve  /L1/69
vander Valk                 Perttamina
Field                       Non-Asso,      Asso.       Non-Asso.       Asso.
Prabumulih West                    18.205        5.792        9.978         L.059
Gunung Kemala                     46.983       127.L70       32.697        95.1l62
Tandjung Tiga                        -          18.329         -             .056
Talang DJimar                       3.429       49.370        3.340        43.311
Tandjung Miring                      -           7.275         -            1.328
Limau Niru                          1.960       10.559        2,146        25,632
Limau (Middle & West)              31.568       41.460       23.502        43.509
Limrau East "P"                   54.593        14.833       56.824         4,986
Limau East "Q"                     23.262       97.541       60.41.8       59.882
Karangan                            3.422         -           3.421         2.811
Benuang                             9,044         -           9.042          -
Benekat East                       23.216         -          23.212
Betung                             21.948         -          24.476          _
Belimbing                           1.794         -           2.312        11.038
Kuang                               5.403         -          59.804         5.130
Subtotal               244.827                   311.172
East Tandiung Tiga                   -                       53.700          -
Pagerdewa                            __       _              17.000          -
Total                  244.827      372.329      381.872       293.904
Total Associated
Plus Non-Associated          617.156                      675.776
Transportation Projects
April 20, 1970






TABLE 16-':,
CLASSIFICATION OF RESERVES
Proven (A)    Gas reserves where :
The gas is praven to be unassociated with an economical
oil column.
Gas production has been proved by either D.S.T. or prod.
testing.
The sand thickness is more than 1 m.
(i)   The gas is readily available without further s4b-
surface expenditure.
(ii) The gas is only available after minor expenditure.
(iii) The gas is only available after major expenditure.
Proven (B)    Gas reserves where
The gas is aEsociated with a probably uneconomical oil
column, or where t:he presence of an oil column has not been
disproved.
Gas production has been proved by either D.S.T. or prod.
testing.
The net sand thickness, is more than 1 m.
(i)   The gas is readily available without further sub_
surface  expenditure.
(ii) The gai; is only available after minor expenditure.
(iii) The ga'i is only available after major expenditure.
Probable (B)
to be discounted
50%             Gas reserves where
The presence of gas has been proved by D.S.T. or prod.
testing, but where the net sand thickness is less than 1 m.
The presence of gas has been indicated by log initerpreta-
tion, and side wall sample evidence.
(i)   Unassociated with an economical oil column.
(ii) Associated with a proven but probably uneconomical
oil column, or where the presence of an oil cplumn
has not been disproved.



TABLE 16-2
Fa-ge 2
Possible
to be discounted
75%            Gas reserves where
The presence of gas has been indicated by log and struc-
tural interpretation only.
(1)   Unassociated with an economical oil column.
(ii) Associated with 8 proven but probably uneconomical
oil column, or where the presence of an oil column
has not been disproved.
Associated and Non Associated Gas
Gas is found "associated" with oil and in "non-associated" fields.
Associated gas is free gas produced from a gas cap overlying an oil pool
or is gas dissolved in and produced in solution with oil. As oil has
greater value than gas, associated reserves are usually identified as a
by-product of oil discovery and the recovery of such gas reserves is
governed mainly by the rate of oil production. Non associated gas is
free gas not in contact with oil or produced independently of oil in such
a way as not to affect the ultimate crude oil recovery. Such gas reserves
can be measured with acceptable accuracy. Through pressure differential
calculationa, recoverability can also be estimated.
Transportation Projects
April 20, 1970



TABLE 16-3
SUMMARY OF COSTS AND CAPACITY
GAS CONSERVATION AND TRANSKISSION PROJECT
000's U. S. Dollars
Total      Foreign      Local
Gas Conservation           $ 9,500     $6,665      $2,835
Pipeline                     4,50       3,125        1,375
$14,000     $9,790      $4,210
Line Size - 12"l diarneter
Pressure  - PrabuMuLih   720 psig
- Puari        575 psig
Working Capacity       34,000 Mcft/day
Compressor Capacity about 50,000 Mcft/day
Transportation Projects
April 20, 1970



TABLE 164
PERTAMINA GAS CONSERVATION PROJECT
COST OF GAS COMPRESSING STATIONS
3,000 Horsepower Station         4,000 Horsepower Station
Cost - Thousand U.S.$            Cost - Thousand U.S.$
Total    Foreign    Local        Total   Foreign   Local
Materials
Compressors                      450        450t        -          600       600        -
Spare parts                        30        30         -           40        40        -
Scrubbers Coolers)                105       105         -          140       140        -
Valves etc.       )
Station Services                  45         45         -           60        60        _
Auxiliaries                       42         42         -           56        56        -
Buildings                         45         -          45          60        -         60
Freight to Site                   30         20         10          40        25        15
747       692         55         996       921        75
Construction
Civil Works                      312         -         312         416        -        416
Site Supervision                 102         50         52         136        60        76
Testing and    )                   12        12         _           14        14        -
Commissioning)
Engineering                       63         63         -           84        84        -
Administration )                   30        -          30          40        -         40
and Overheads)
519        125       394         690       158       532
Contingency
Compressors                         5         5         -            6         6        -
Other Materials                     7          7        -            9         9        -
Construction                      26         -          26          35        -         35
38        12         26          50        15        35
Total Each Station               1,304        829        475       1,736    1,094        642
Summary:
3-3,000 Horsepower Stations    3,912        2,487      1,425
1-4,000 Horsepower Station       1.736      1.094        642
Total Cost 13,000 Horsepower  $5,648    $3,581    $2,067
Transportation Projects
April 20, 1970



TABLE 16-5
INDONESIA
PUSRI GAS UONIRVATION AND TRANSMISSION PROJECT
Ass umtions- UneIi     b   igailPoot
1.   Gas ComsvatIot
It is Lsumed that:
(a) one compressor will be put into operation in 1971; another
five in 1972 and another seven in 1973 with a total of 13
compressors;
(b) gas transmission pipeline will not come into service until
the 4th Quarter of 1973;
(c) PERTAMINA will take a maximum of 6.16 B cft of 8as from
the couprssion and conservation system in 1973, but
will reduce its requirement to 4.96 B cf by 1977 in
order to accommodate the increasing demand of the trans-
mission pipeline system from 1.70 B cf in 1973, rising
to 11.80 B cft in 1977 and thereafter;
(d) depreciation is chargod on the basis of 20-year service
life and straight-line method;
(o) the depreciation on conservation assets accrued *ach year
is assumed to be entirely used to repay the loan principal;
(f) the Government loan covering compression and conservation
will be a loan of 23 years, including a grace period of
three years, at 12% literest per annum, to be repaid in
40 semi-annual Installments of equal principal paymouts,
with the first installment being due on November 1, 1974;



TABLE 16-5
Page 2
(g) the Operating costs before depreciation starting from
1974, the first year in full operation, include labor
$69,000, field equipment $39,800, station oil $113,900,
other materials $130,000, Insurance $14.000 (about 05%
on 1/2 of compressor's cost) and other expenses (right-
of-way, etc.) $5,000. Operating costs for years before
1974 are reduced in proportion to gas compressed. Con-
sultant's costs of $250,000 were treted as additions to
the construction loan.
2.   Ga  Transmission
It is ssumed that:
(a)  the gas taken from the compression and conservation system
will incres"e from 1.70 B cf in 1973 to 11.8 B cf for 1977
and thereafter;
(b)  depreciation is charged on the bais of 20-year service
life and straight-line method;
(c) the depreciation accrued each year will be entiroly used
to repay the loan principal with the exception that the
depreciation to be accrued on both conservation end trans-
mission assets in 1972 to 1974 will be held as working cap-
ital until the last three years of the loan period when it
will be used to pay debt service;
(d) the Government loan covering compression and conservation
will be a loan of 23 years, including a grace period of
three years, at 12% intorest per annum, to be repaid in



TABLE 16-5
Page 3
40 semi-annual installments of equal principal payments,
with the first installment coming due on November 1, 1974;
(e) the Operating costs before depreciation strating from
1974, the first year in full operation, include approxi-
mately $8,000 fcr labor, $10,000 for fuel, materials,
repairs and supplies, and $5,000 for other expenses.
Operating costs in prior years are reduced in propor-
tion to gas throughput.
Transportation Projects Department
April 20, 1970






1DIN)RONTA
GAS CONSERVATION AND TRANMISSION PROJECT
Estiated Inooe State-ents and Sources and AppIloatioo of Funds
Years Ending Deserter 31, 1 971 - 1993
(In Thoosands of Dollars)
1971    1972    1973      1974    1975    1976    1977    1978    1979    1 980   1981          1 982   1983    1984   1985    1986   1 987   1988   1989    1990       1 991    1992     1993     1994
INSTALLED CAPACITY                         0.3222   8.7008  16.7600  16,7600  16,7600 16.7600  16.7600 16.7600 16.7600 16.7600 16.7600  16.7600 16.7600 16.7600 16.7600 16.76         00 16.7600 16.7600 16.7600 16.7600  16.76o0  16.7600  16.76oo 16.7600
Sales to:Perta,ina    (Boft)               0.3222   6.1600   6.1600   6.1600   5.5600   5.1100  4.9600  4.9600  4.9600   h.9600  4.9600   4.9600  4.9600 4.9600  4.9600  4.9600  4.9600  4.9600  4.9600  4.9600   4.9600   4.96oo  4.9600   4.9600
lldsri      (Boft)                  -        -     1.7000  10.6000  11.2000  11.6500  11.8000  1i.8000  11.8000  11.8000 11.8000  11.8000 11.8000 11.8000 11.8000 11.8000 11.8000 11.8000 11.8000 11.8000  11.8000  11.8000  11.8000  11.8000
Total Salss (Beft)        0.3222   6.1600   7.8600  16.7600  16.7600  16.7600  16.7600  16.7600  16.7600  16.7600 16.7600  16.7600 16.7600 16.7600 16.7600 16.7600 16.7600 16.7600 16.7600 16.7600. 16.7600  16.7600  16.7600  16.7600
INCOO  STATEYNTS
Conureesion Section
Ocrutig Costs                            47     373      446    707        707      707      707     707      707      707    707       707    707    707    707        707     707    707    707       707      707      707      707      707
Deprewatio                               -       186     232    499        499      499      499      49R9 499         499    499        99    499    499       499    499    499    199        499    499       499      313      267      1914
Transmission Section
upam%ew u-                                      -          A      2D        21       23       23      23       23       23      23       23      23      23      23     23       23      23      23      23       23       23       23       23
Depsesition                             -       -         64          257 25        257      257      257     257      257    257       257    257      257    257    257       257     25?    g1       257 257           257      193      ±12
Total Oprating Costs (Inealiw
Dspreslation)       47      559      750   1,186     1,486    1,486    1,486    1,486    1,486    1,486   1,486    1,486   1,486   1,486   1,486   1,486   1,486   1,486  1,486   1,486    1,486    1,300    1,190    1,117
Interest cost                                 11      510   1.220   1.813    l.767    1.677    1.86   1.495    1.405    1.314   1.223    1.132   1,042        951     860    770      679    5        498    4077      316      226      135       22
Total Cast (- Resamsu frm sales)               58   i,o69    1,970   3,299     3,253    3,163    3,072    2,981    2,891    2,800   2,709    2,618   2,528   2,437    2,346 2,256   2,165   2,075   1,989   1,893    1,802    1,526    1,325    1,139
Of which Paid by, PERTAICI                  58   1,069   1,544   1,213      1,280      965      909      882      856     829    802       775    748    721       6094   668      641     614    587    560        533      452      392      337
PVUSR                    -        -       426   2,086    2,173    2,198    2,163    2,099    2,035    1,971   1,907    1,843   1,780   1,716    1,652  1,588   1,524   1,461   1,397   1,333    1,269    1,074     933      802
Unit Price (- Unit Cset)(tUS/Ttft)           18.0    17.4    25.1   19.7        19.4    18.9    18.3    17.8    17.2    16.7   16.2    15.6   15.1    14.5   14.0   13.5   12.9   12.4   11.8   11.3    io.8                    9.1      7.9      6.8
S28CES AND AFFLT I0NS F FN3115
Scurea of Fmids
Depreeiation                             -      186      296    756        756      756      756      756      756      756    756      756    756    756    756    756         756    756    756    756         156      570      460
Intereot                                 11     510   1,220   1,813      1,767    1,677    1,586    1,495    1,4C5    1,314   1,223    1,132   1,042    951     860    770      679    589    498       407      316      226      135       22
Las fro. Gowernewt                      724    9,755   3,519     -         -        -        -        -
Istereet dorirg  Cosnt.                  25     591      194     -         _        -        _        _        _       -       _        _       _       _       -       -       -       _       _       _        _        -        _        _
Decrese in Working Capital               _         _-             _- _              _                                           -       -                                                                                 186      296      376
Total Sources         760  11,042    5,529   2,569      2,523    2,433    2,342    2,251    2,161    2,070   1,979    1,888   1,798   1,707   1,616   1,526   1,435  1,345    1,254   1,163    1,072     982      891      400
AP'LICATIDMG CIF FUIDS
Prsje,t Cointrnotins
Compreesios SectIon                     724   6,701    1,992
Transsi dion Sectiso                    -      3,654   1,527
Interest Daring   Coretooction              25      591      494
Debt Ser-i-c: Repaymeot of Loans           -      -        -        378       750      75h      756    756      756      756      756      756    756   756        756    756    756    756    756        756     756        756      756      378
IDte-rot on Loans             11      510   1,220   1,813     1,767    1,677    1,586   1,595    1,505    1,314    1,223    1,132   1,042    Y51     860     770    679    589    498       407      316        226      135       22
Increase in Woriog Copital                1_         6      29R2)6    3b7
Total Applicationo    7Sd   11,032   5,529  1-,0b9      7,3 13  2,413    2,342   1,211    2,161    2,070    1,97     1,'lbbo   1, 7lb  1,707   1,o16   1,526   1,435  1,345   1,254   1,163   1,072      982      891      400
Transportation Projooto
April 20, 1970






INCONESIA
GAS CONSERVATION AND TRANSMISSION PROJECT
Estisuted Balarce Shtets
YTars Enxim DecehrAr 31, 1971 - 1933
(In Tho.eand. of Doll0rs)
1971    1 972    1973    1974    1975    1976    1 977    1 978    1 979    1980    1981    1982    1983    1 984    1985    1986    1987    1988    1989    1990    1991    1 992    1 993    1994
A S S E T S
Fixed As.et.                                       749   7,858  15,108  15,108  15,108  15,108  15,108  15,108  15,108  15,108  15,108  15,108  15,108  15,108  15,108  15,108  15,108  15,108  15,108  15,108  15,108  15,108  15,108             0
Lema:  Depreciation                                _       186     482   1,238   1,994   2,750   3,506   4,262   5 018   5 774   6,530   7,286   8 042   8 798   9,554  10 310  11,066  11,822  12.578  13 334  14 090  14,660  15 120             0
Net Fixed A..et.           .            .Y   (,oiz  i2I 1" I '                     '      2,a5f  11 An9  1n846  10.090   9.334   8,578   7,822   7,066   6,310   5,554   4,798  41,42   3,286   2,530   1,774   1,018           448      (12)11    0
Construction-in-Progreas                           -     3,237
Total Fixed AsSets                              749  10,909
C.-s.t A-.to
cla)                                           -       186     242     430      430     430     430     430    430       430     430     130     430      430     430     430      430     430      430     430     430      337     378        0
Stoee a                                         -               2400                              304300         430 40 430  430  430     430     430                       43 0430  4430           430      430     430      33       _          0
Tot.l Oor-nt A..ete              -       186      482     860     860     860      860     860     860     860      860    860      860     860      860     860      860     860     860      860     860     674      378        0
Total Asset.                                       749  11,095  15,108  14,352  13,974  13,218  12,462  11,706  10,950  10,194   9,438   8,682   7,926   7,170   6,414   5j658   4,9C2   4,146   3,390   2,634   1,878   1,122           378_/       0
L I A B I L I T I E S
Long-term Debt
Gomern,e,t Loon,                               749   11,095  15,108  14,352  13,974  13,218  12,162  11,706 10,950  10,1914  9,438   8,682   7,926   7,170  6,414   5,658    4,902   4,146   3.390   2,634   1,878   1,122            378         0
-  -    -      -    -             -                -       -        -      -       -         -       -        -       -       --         -        -I
1/   The difference results fron rsunded depr-ciation
J    To be wed for te last 100n reparcewt in 1994
Trensportation Projects
April 20, 1970






ANNEX 16-8
AMORTIZATION OF DRILIING COSTS AND EFFECT ON DELIVERED GAS PRICES
Assume:
(i)   Well drilling cost is $160,000
(ii)   No. of wells as in schedule provided by PERTAMINA
(iii)   11.8 Bscf taken by PUSRI
(iv)   Amortization 12%, 10 years, 10 to 15 years at 12% over remaining contract,
15-20 years at 12% over 10 years due to renegotiation and extension in the 15th year.
Add to Base
Annual Cost          Gas Price           Base Price       Total Est. Price
Year         Wells drilled        Cum No.          ($'000)              (¢ MCF)            (     )                 MCF)
1973                -                _                                                       25.1                 25.1
1974                                  -                                   -                  19.7                 19.7
1975                                                                                         19.4                 19.4
1976                -                -                 -                  -                  18.9                 18.9
1977                1                1                28                  .24                18.3                 18.5
1978                1                2                56                  .47                17.8                 18.3
1979                1                3               140                 1.18                17.2                 18.4
1980                2                5               196                 1.66                16.7                 18.4
1981                2                7               224                 1.89                16.2                 18.1
1982                1                8               252                 2.13                15.6                 17.7
1983                1                9               476                 4.03                 15.1                19.1
1984                8               17               566                 4.79                14.5                 19.3
1985                3               20               566                 4.79                14.0                 18.8
1986                _               20               636                 5.38                 13.5                18.9
1987                2               22               692                 5.86                12.9                 18.8
1988                2               24               748                 6.33                 12.4                18.7
1989                2               26               804                 6.80                 11.8                18.6
1990                2    ,          28               860                 7.28                 11.3                18.6
1991                2               30               916                 7.75                 10.8                18.6
1992                2               32               972                 7.68                  9.1                 16.8
1993                -                                972                 7.68                  7.9                 15.6
1994                                                 972                 7.68                  4.5                12.2
April 20, 1970
Transportation Projects






s,THA ILANDJ°D
¢4\C,>,   s o IJ r F« c H I N A S E A              <                a  2            tINDONESIA
)~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~C  9- < 2) 6_E  SLAD
MALAX                                                   BRUNEI2 SABAH A PR2L0PP S   ISLANDS                                  EXISTING  AND  PROPOSED  FERTILIZER
PRODUCTION   FACILITIES
X  Mad X   \   I    A  L
a  V#+SINGA P00F     j      J   \ -                   /              9                               A            g          ,0   100    200   300       400      500
Ammonoa 10         B OSG NAPtRO  -  4                                                                                                                      T T o0
E~~~~~~~~ 0  f            E   -B.St  N  9  0,
Urea  I0.    T                                              ikpap
S~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                                                                                            ~ ~~~~ D A  8.nv   
S u              tr)li  DIogi                                                                              ,  v  q    
0u000             Tji1it$n1~~~~~4            Surabaj
TJILITJAP                                                                                                                    do,~a.ot
(partially BUilt)                                                        
Ordinary Superphosphate    RIA
100.000 pfy             A.-,ai. 200   D                                       FORE
Urea 45.000 MTY
Am. Sulfate 150.000 MTY                       ,    S                     TIMOR
ICTOOER 19.9                                                                                                                                                                                         IFC-2360RI






,THAICAND~~~  PHILIPPINES~J
; 8ENAKAT                                              TANDJUN                              R3    PERTAMINA OIL AND GAS FIELDS~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AMBOl,V ENA
PAL EMBANG
GERONGN. BORNEO
. +^ L; F} -TALA\G DJIMAR ? /~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~R ... .. . PERTAMINA PIPELINE~~~~Il                    ALAA         P..
~    ALAYSIA
PROJECT        l0Ns 
E-.                                                                                             ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AREASA
IANG~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~7                                               TNVCOLADGSFED
BETUN~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AJA4N ~
PENDOPO~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ETMNAPPLN
NAKAT               LMARC)                                                     TANGD JJUNGOGANRADJA                 '        PERTAMINA PROPOSED PIPELINE
N / X                                                                                         MIDDLE LIEMAASUTRS  X7KARANGAN /  ~O C t STANVAC PIPELINE
(D   t /   Tombangrombong                                  )             )           z   C  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~R IVERS
WUX~~~~                   ~       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 5 10  20  30 40                                           5
S?ETUNGENIM   ,          EMA7 LA<                                          X               g                     KILOMETERS
i    4. 4  9             <    /   /   j   /                                          ~~~~~~SOUTH SUMATRA
0    t    /  5 <_ f         X             /    /   ;   X                                          ~~~~~~~~~INDONESIA
0  .    ' ;,  vX                           X               |    8                   ~~~~~~OIL & GAS FIELDS
------'bAND
RABUMULIH                                                        PERTAMMAJORPIPELINES
DECEMBER I1969                                                                                                                                                  IBRD 2780






<-C-
_
13
*                                 9
4               4             C    zZ9
8
4           4?p  0
hi
V "13
r    
to
I                         d
VI    <
C
I    j           'rfl
IA                                      /     II  ,/
/                P1
I.                                        K     /A
/              8                                          1
P     -   -  A                                             /
F         *7  -                                          I
/                     -ak
/   I     
#1,
ft    C
2
1                                     /1
V
/         'N         -"A
.4                     /
/            4
4
i/I   U      /              C-.
/          /  /         -     <U
/      -I                  V      N
/ jut 4 /
¾->                         F          4
i9c
13¾ -
<-- <1;
*V             $ /                 \ /            C
-'----V                                I
/    44
1/     \4 i..J   -J,r                 /     \

/      /1
my
/      K                                     N-
/             A                               -'-I--     3-'
/
/
8
/)
    9         pp                   (4
9    \                #t4      '
---if> --- Ct -7
1,1                                                              4
43 .- --



