RESTRICTED
FILE      COPY                     Report No. P - 8 0 3
This report was prepared for use within the Bank and its affiliated organizations.
They do not accept responsibility for its accuracy or completeness. The report may
not be published nor may it be quoted as representing their views.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
TO
THE REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
FOR A
PUSRI FERTILIZER EXPANSION PROJECT
April 30, 1970



INTMRMAT OIEAL D]YZLOPMIENT ASSOCTIATION
REPORT AM1D RECO01.IENATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXBIUTIVE DIR:TORS ON A PROPOSED D,:VELOPX:JT CREDIT
TO THE REPUBLIC OE INDONESIA FOR A FJSRI FERTILIZER EXPANSION PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
credit to the Republic of Indonesia in an amount in various currencies
equivalent to US$30 million.
PART I - HISTORICAL
2.        In 1968, the Government of Indonesia asked the Association,
together with the Asian Development Bank (A3B), to arrange the financing
of the foreign exchange cost of expanding the capacity of a urea fertilizer
plant, operated by PMN. PUpuk Sriwidjaja (PUSRI), a wholly Government-owned
undertahcing, and located at Palembang, South Sumatra, from 100,000 to
480,000 m/tons per annum. The expansion would use natural gas for feedstock
and fuel which P.N. Pertambangan Minjak Dan Gas Bumi Nasional (PERTAMINA),
the Government oil corporation, would supply frorn nearby fields, after
installing a gas conservation and transmission system. Total foreign ex-
change costs for the fertilizer plant expansion and the gas supply system
are estimated at $68 million. Besides the Association's and ADB's propose,
contributions of $30 million and $10 million, respectively, the United
States Agency for International Development (USAID) has agreed to provide
a loan of $20 million. Japan has agreed to finance the urea unit, estimatce
to cost about P8 million, on terms more fully explained in paragraph 12c
below. If approved, this would be the Bank Group's first lending operation
for industry in Indonesia.
3.        The Association, ADB, and USAID worked closely together
throughout the stages of project preparation and appraisal which took from
I'ay 1968 till the end of 1969.  The appraisal or the project was carried
out jointly by the Bank Group and ADB, based on a USAID-financed feasibility
study. A Japanese Government mission reviewed the project in the autumn of
1969.
4.       \Negotiations were held jointly by the Association and the ADB in
lTashington from March 23 tlhrough Apri'l 8, 1970.  Representing the
Government were Dr. Emil Salim, Deputy Director, National Planning Agency
(BAPPENTAS), EIr. Atmono Surjo, Minister Counselor, aibossy of Indonesia,
Messrs. Notosoewarso and Anwar Ibrahim of the Ifinistry of Industry, and
Drs. Joesoef Soejoed, Director, Government Accounting Office.  PUSRI was
represented by its Technical Director Ir. Kotan Pasaman, and Pertamina
by Mv%r. Trisulo. Also present, as observers, were representatives of
USAID and the Japanese Government.



- 2 -
5.               If approved, this wotild be the sixth credit to Indonesia.
The following is a summary of the status of earlier credits, as of
March 31, 1970.
Credit No. Year Borrower     Purpose                     Amount            )
IDA    Undisburl -
127         1968  Indoresia  Irrigation Rehabilitation   5.0        2.9
135         1968  Indonesia  Technical Assistance        2.0        1.8
154         1969  Indonesia  Highway Rehabilitation     28.0       28.0
155         1969  Indonesia  Estates Rehabilitation     16.0       16.0
165*        1969  Indonesia  Electricity Distribution   15.0       15.0
* Not yet effective                                    $66.0      $63.7
Disbursements for Credit No. 127-IND have been proceeding satisfactorily,
despite certain problems in project execution. Credit No. 135-IND, a
technical assistance credit, has so far been used to finance consulting
engineering services for a second irrigation rehabilitation project, as
well as consultants' studies of rice seeds production and the rehabilitat-il
of two sugar mill projects, involving a total allocatinn of approximately
$478,000. Tentative arrangements have been made for further commitments
in the near future which will amount to approximately $1,250,000, including
a national fertilizer study referred to in paragraph 18 below. Credit No.,
154-IND was declared effective on October 2, 1969. Procurement of equip-
ment had been deferred pending conpletion by the Government of certain
basic works and procedures which were pre-requisites to the proper use of
project equipment; progress on these matters is now such that invitations
to bid for equipment are expected to be issued early next month. A contr;c±c.
for consultants' services has already been agreed on, and disbursements on
it are expected to begin next month. Proposals for consultants' services
to be financed under Credit No. 155-IND, which became effective on Decem-
ber 10, 19699 have been invited; the procurement of equipment will be unde.-
taken after a review of budgetary procedures by outside consultants which
should be completed in about three months.
6.               During the next few months I intend to present to the
Executive Directors proposals    for credits for a second irrigation
rehabilitation project, a fisheries development project, and a telecom-
munications project.



PiRT II  - DESCRIPTION OF T E PROPOSED CREDIT AND
TELRMS OF FINANCING PROVIDED BY CO-LENDERS
7.
Borrower:                    Republic of Indonesia
Bcneficiaries:               P.T. Pupuk Sriwidjaja (PUSRI) and
P.N. Pertambangan Minjak Dan Gas Bumi
Nasional (PERTAMINA)
Amount:                      Various currencies equivalent to US$30 million
Purpose:                     Expansion of PUSRI's existing fertilizer planrt
near Palembang, Sumatra, and construction of a
related gas conservation and transmission sys-
tem to be operated by PERTAMINA
Amortization:                In 50 years, including a 10 year period of graso,
through semi-annual installments of ½-2 of 1%
from October 1, 1968 through April 1, 19903 a>:?
lV- from October 1, 1969 through April 1, 2020.
Service Charge:              3/4 of 1% per annum
Relending Terms:             This credit would form part of the total finan-
cing required for the project (apart from
PUSRI's internal cash generation), consisting
of $68 million equivalent of foreign exchange
loans and credits; $10.3 million equivalent
of Government contributions in local currency,
and $6.4 million equivalent of interest capiteli-
zed during construction. Of this amount, $2.O
million would be set aside for management assi!S-
tance during the initial start-up period, and
the balance of $82.7 million would be made
available to the beneficiaries as follows:
To PUSRI:          (i)  $6.1 million equivalent in the form of
equity;
(ii)  $48.3 million equivalent in the form of
a senior loan at 12% interest per annum
for 162 years including ½-L years of grac._
and
(iii)  $13.2 million equivalent, in the form of
a subordinated loan, for 16½- years at 12%
interest per annum, with interest to ac-
crue after May 1, 1974 and repayments to
begin three years later.
To PERTAMINA:           $15.1 million equivalent, including $9.7
million of the foreign exchange, in thie
form of a loan for 23 years, `J-.--uding 3
years of gra-e, at 12% int &esL at l a  'ur.



The foregoing loans are repayable to the Govornment in rupiahs and provtc.4e
for maintenance of value in terms of U.S. dollars.
Terms of Co-
Lenders
The co-lenders will make available funds to the
Government of Indonesia on the following terms:
(1)  ADB -         A loan of $10 million equivalent
for 30 years, including 8 years
grace period, at 2!4o' per annum,
useable only in countries which
have contributed to its Special
Funds.
(2)  USAID -       A loan of $20 million equivalent
for 40 years, including 10 years
of grace, with1 interest at 2% per
annum during the grace period, and
3% per annum thereafter, tied to
procurement in the United States.
(3)  OECF -        (Overseas Economic Cooperation Fund,
an agency of the Government of Japan).
. loan of approximately $8 million
equivalent tied to procurement of the
urea plant in Japan. A term of 20
years, including 7 years of grace, at
3125 per annum is contemplated.
PART III  - THE PROJECT
8.        A detailed description of the project is given in the attached
Appraisal Report entitled "Appraisal of the PUSRI Fertilizer Plant Expansion
Gas Conservation and Transmission Project - Indonesia" (PI-3a), dated April 2i,
1970. Since the completion of the Appraisal Report, which was prepared
jointly with the ADB, the Government of Indonesia adopted an exchange reform
on April 17 under which the two former exchange rates, the BE rate (Rp 326
to US$1) and the DP rate (ranging between Rp 375 and Rp 382 to US$1) were
laerged into one, at Rp 378 per US$1.  As explained in more detail in a speci.
note to the Appraisal Report, it is not expected that this change in the ex--
change rate will substantially affect either the financial or the economic
rates of return of the project.
9.        PUSRI's existing plant is now the only manufacturer of nitrogenolip
fertilizer in Indonesia.  It was originally established in 1959 and began co:;-
mercial operation in 196h. Apart from some start-up help, PUSRI has been
operated since 1965 largely without outside assistance in an efficient and
productive manner.  The plant is, however, small by present day standards,
capable of a production of 100,000 metric tons of urea per annum. It also
uses outdated design concepts, and is therefore a high cost producer. comp".-d
to large modern plants.  Large quantities of fertilizer are being irpoit-
to make up for deficicncies i- s'r)ly   Aniother sm3ll nitrogen,r  ' :



-.ant is expected to begin production later in 1970; further, if g-:
serves prove sufficient and market conditions warrant, and subject to p ri 5
consultation by the Indonesian Government with the PUSRI lenders, a plant
comparable in size to that presently being proposed nay be built later at
Tjirobon in West Java.
10.              The project consists of two major parts.
PART I comprises the detailed engineering, construction and start-up
of a fertilizer plant at Palembang (Sumatra), to manufacture about
380,000 metric tons of urea annually. It includes the following
facilities: a single train ammonia unit; a urea unit; supporting
off-site and auxiliary facilities; and related technical services.
PART II consists of the detailed engineering and construction of a
gas conservation and transmission system, and related technical services,
11.              The total project cost would amount to approximately
$84.4 million, comprising $6800 million in foreign exchange costs, and
$16.4 million in local costs. The foreign exchanige costs would be made
available as follows:  $30 million from the Association; $10 million
from ADB; $23 million from USALID;  and $8 million (approximately)
from the Japanese Government to cover the cost of the urea plant
package.     Local currency costs equivalent to $13.3 r,iillion -'ould
be provided by the Indonesian Government, with the balance to be met
from cash generated by PUSRI's existing operations. The Government would
also be resDonsible for any cost overruns in foreign or local currencies
that might occur.
12.              So as to utilize most economically and effectively the
various funds available  (a part of which wculd be on a '"tied'H basis)
while at the same time reconciling, to the extent possible, the various
requirements of the lenders involved, a plan of project execution and
procurement has been devised and adopted by all the parties concerned. A
more detailed outline of this plan appears in the attached Appraisal
Report (Pages 18-2i).
(a)              For Part I of the project, a qualified consulting firm
(the "Technical Adviser") experienced in both ammonia and urea plant
technology, would assist PUSRI in the implementation of the project,
acting, in effect, as an extension of PUSHI's own technical staff and
representing PUSRI's interests. The Technical Adviser, the cost
of Twhose contract is included in the proposed fipancing, would be
appointed following the Association's usual procedures for the selection
and appointment of consultan.ts, subject to the concurrence of the other
lenders. He, in turn, would be generally responsible for assisting in the
selection-of the contractors who would bid on the basis outlined below.
(b)              A General Contractor would have overall responsibility
for Part I of the project, as well as specific responsibility for
the design and procurement of the armonia plant and all utilities and off-
site facilities, and for all site erection and construction wfork, includidnr
that on the urea portion of the project.  The General Contractcr's servi. ;
would be financed out of tho r-roceeds ozf the USAID loarn and bi;JH 1: h;ucl'' te



- 6 -
restricted to pre-qualified American firms on the basis of competitive
bidding within the United States, and in accordance with USAID rules and
regulations.  The contract would be drawn up on a cost-plus-fixed fee
basis.
(c)       A Urea Plant Contractor would be responsible for supplying the
components of the urea plant on a package basis.  The Urea Plant Contractor
iwould be employed from among pre-qualified Japanese firms on the basis of
competitive bidding in Japan.  The contract would be awiarded on a lump-sum
basis, designed so as to make payments thereunder eligible for financing
by the Overseas Economic Cooperation Fund and if needed by ADB from the
Japanese contribution to its Special Funds. If the low lump-sum bid seems
too high, the contractor's fee may be placed on a fixed-fee basis with the
equipment subject to competitive bidding within Japan.
(d)       All other foreign exchange expenditures for equipment and ser-,
vices would be financed either by the Association, by ADB under contracts
awarded to suppliers in countries which have contributed to its Special
Sunds, or out of the remaining funds provided by the AID loan.  The latter
will not be used to finance procurement for Part II of the Project. In
cases where it was considered that a more economic pattern of procurement
would result, specific items could be put up for national competitive
bidding under bilateral financing, with IDA and ADB funds being held avail-
able to be used in case bids received under such procedures were unreasonal
high. U,Jhile ADB funds are usable only in countries which have contributed
to its Special Funds, no difficulty is anticipated in utilizing the ADB
loan funds for contracts awarded on the basis of international competition.
(e)       Part II of the project would be implemented by separate technical
advisers and construction firms. Procurement would be financed out of IDA
and ADB funds and would be conducted according to the Association's guide-
lines, administered in consultation with ADB.
(f)       IDA, in consultation with ADB, would ensure co-ordination of the
implementation of the Project as set forth in the Memorandum of Agreement
regarding Project Execution, Procurement and Use of Loan Funds distributed
with the Loan Documents.
13,       Disbursement is expected to begin in the fall of 1970, after the
major servize contracts are awarded, and should reach its peak in the first
half' of 1972, when the major part of the equipment should be on order. As
the project is scheduled to be completed by June 1973, disbursements shoull
be largely completed by the end of that year, except for guarantee and
retention monies which should be disbursed by the end of 1974.
1l.       In I-arch 1970 PUSRI's status was changed from a state-owned enter-
prise governed under special regulations to that of a state-owned limited
liability company governed by the Commercial Code. PUSRI's newi charter
has been designed so as to ensure that the company will have more autonomy
to conduct its affairs along commercial lines, and that, should shares
be sold in the future, they will be attractive to private



- 7 -
investors. Further revisions of the Charter to that end are expected
to be made, subject to the approval of the Association, after the revision
of the Cor,mercial Code, now under way, is completed. The company is run
by a Board of Management (Direksi) headed by a President Director, assistGd
by three Directors. The present President Director, appointed in May 1966.
is General H. Hasan Kasim, a retired military officer. The Board of
Management oversees an organization of some nine departments, staffed
by over 1,500 employees; some 800 of the latter are engaged in production.
About 50 members of the staff have been trained abroad.   The existing op-
eration of -JSRI is considered to be well managed.   7Tith the assist-nce in
management, marketing,.and technical matters. provJJded in the project plan,
FUSIRI management should be able to carry oUt the expansion prQjeqt in a
satisfactory manner.
PUSRI's Management is in turn subject to review by a Supervisory Board
(Dewan Komisaris), composed of a chairman and four members. This Board
will be appointed, in consultation with the Association, before this
project is considered by the Executive Directors.
15.            PERTAMINA, the state-owned petroleum corporation, operates
under the supervision of the Directorate-General of Oil and Gas in the
Ministry of Mines. The company is involved in exploration, production,
refining, sea transportation, local marketing, and exporting. PERTAIkNA
operates in all major areas of the country, and runs the former instal-
lations of Shell which were taken over by purchase in 1965. The company's
six refineries provide all of Indonesia's refined output. In 1968
PERTAMINA's output of crude oil amounted to some 15% of Indonesia's
total production, and provided 10% of gross oil exports. PERTAMINA also
acts as the intermediary between the Government and foreign oil companies,
working under profit/or cost-sharing arrangements with over thirty such
firms.
16.            PERTAMINA would supply gas to PUSRI in accordance with
a take-or-pay contract drawn up in consultation with the lenders. The gas
conservation and. transmission sc%erne *i-ould be financed iiholly by the Gover-n-
ment loan, and the price of gas voLould be set at a level so as to cover the
loan service as iiell as full operating costs.  All accolints relevant to t.r.
gas corservation, and transmission scheme wauld bd segregated frcm the
ccmpany's other accounts so as to permit a proper audit of this part of
P~T , T1h1 Is,  olperftion.
17.            The Indonesian Government attaches high priority to
a program to achieve self-sufficiency in foodgrains, particularly rice,
by 1973/74.  An ample supply of rice is an important factor in the
Government's price stabilization effort, and an expansion of rice
production lies at the core of the Government's development program
in the agricultural sector. Agriculture currently occupies about 80
percent of the population, and accounts for almost half of Indonesia's
national income. The proposed expansion of PUSRI's present facilities,
providing for increased supplies of fertilizer, would play a strategic
role in agricultural development.



- 8 -
Domestic demand for urea fertilizer is currently rising at a slow rate,
due to the absence of adequate incentives. However, a rice price support
policy has already been promulgated to provide farmers with the incentive
to increase their usage of fertilizer considerably, and further measures
to promote the efficient distribution and application of fertilizer will
be the subject of an extensive nation-wide fertilizer study scheduled to
begin shortly. Pending completion of that study, which will be financed
under Credit 135-IND, the Government is taking steps to promote sales of
urea fertilizer and to improve the relevant distribution, marketing and
credit facilities. It seems reasonable to assume that the full output
of the urea plant can be marketed in Indonesia by the fourth year of opera-
tion, i.e. 1976.
18.       It is the intention of the Government that PUSRI should sell
its products at prices competitive with imports (which are duty-free), in
accordance with sound commercial practices, Imports are now being made
at an average price of around $80 per ton but for purposes of the finan-
cial forecasts it has been assumed that by the time the new plant comes
into production, imports will be available at the price at which PUSI
has been selling its present production, namely the equivalent of $67.50
per ton. As set forth more fully in the Appraisai Reoort, assuming full
production, and a sellMng price of $67.50 per ton, debt service coverage
on the Company's senior debt would rise to 1.8 times in the mid-1970's,
thereafter declining to 1.3 times by the end of the period of amortiza-
tion of the senior Government loan. Pre-tax earnings, as a percentage
of equity would vary from a low of 10.6, in 1975 to more than 50% in the
last year of debt service. On the assumptions stated above, the economic
rate of return on the combined investment in the gas and fertilizer parts
of the project would be about 14%.



- 9 -
PART IV - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
19.       (a)  The draft Development Credit Agreement between the
Association and the Republic of Indonesia; (b) two draft Project
Agreements, between the Association and PUSRI and PERTAI4INA, respective-
ly; (c) drafts of two letters from the Republic of Indonesia to the
Association on agricultural policies and on distribution and marketing,
related to this project; (d) a draft Nemorandum of Agreement regarding
Project Execution, Procurement and Use of Loan Funds; (e) the recommenda-
tion of the Committee provided for in Article V, Section l(d) of the
Articles of Agreement of the Association and (f) the text of a Resolution
approving the proposed credit, are being distributed to the Executive
Directors separately.
20.       The effectiveness of the Agreements would be conditional, inter
alia, upon the signature of satisfactory agreements (i) between the
Goverment and PUSRI and PERTAMINA, respectively, for the provision of
funds for the Project, including the proceeds of the Credit, and (ii)
between PUSRI and PERTAIINA for the supply of natural gas for the
fertilizer plant (Section 6.01 (b) and (d) of the Development Credit
Agreement). The terms and conditions of those agreements were agreed
during negotiations. The substance of those agreements would not be mod-
ified without the Association's approval (Section 4.02 and 4.03 of the
Development Credit Agreement, Sections 2.03 of the two Project Agreements,
Section 2.13 of the PUSRI Project Agreement and Section 2.10 (a) of the
PERTAITNA Project Agreement).
21.       The effectiveness of the Agreements would also be conditional
upon the Government obtaining the proposed loans from ADB, U.S. AID and
the Government of Japan in an aggregate amount of not less than U.S.
$37 million. equivalent (Section 6.01 (c) of the Development Credit
Agreement). Suspension or acceleration of any of these loans would be
an event of suspension or acceleration of the proposed Credit (Sections
5.02 (d) and 5.03 (a) of the Development Credit Agreement).
22.       The PUSRI Project Agreement would contain restrictions on add`tioa!a
investments (Section 2.08), incurrence of additional debt in excess of
PUSRI's equity (Section 2.09) and dividend payments (Section 2.11).
The PERTAM4A Project Agreement would contain the usual covenants con-
cerning the operation and maintenance of a plant by the beneficiary of
a Credit, but limited to the gas conservation and transmission scheme
which forms part of the Project.



- 10 -
23.       Section 3.02 of the Development Credit Agreement would provide
that the procedures for procurement of goods and services for the Project
wTould be agreed between the Borrower and the various Lenders. The draft
ITemoranclum of Agreement regarding Project Execution, Procurement and
Allocation of Loan Funds sets forth the procedures which have been agreed
in principle with the representatives of the various Lenders and the
Government. Each Lender w,ould confirm its concurrence with these proced-
ures at the time its loan agreement with the Borrower is signed.
PART V - TI-IS CON0M4Y
^4.       The last full report on the econornic position and prospects of
Indonesia (EAP-lOa) was issued on November 11, 1969. That report noted
that recent economic performance has been satisfactory. Measures were
taken from 1966 through 1968 to remove controls, establish a more realisti
exchange rate system and open the economy to market forces. A vigorously
administered stabilization program had virtually halted inflation by mid-
1969. The Government has made a substantial start on programs for econcmii.
rehabilitation and development. There has been an impressive effort to
expand the hitherto very low levels of public saving and foreign and
domestic private investment.
25.       Nevertheless, the process of repairing the damiage, physical and
institutional, caused by past mismanager'ient and hyper-inflation is still
in its early stages. A recent special report, "Current Investment Activity
in Indonesia" (EAP-lha of March 27, 1970) records significant progress
within the framework of the first comprehensive annual program for
rehabilitation and development (1969/70). Dramatic results should not of
course be expected in this initial phase. Project aid has been committed
in substantial amounts but is only now beginning to arrive and be utilized.
Private foreign investment has been modest so far in terms of actual
capital inflow, although the rate of inflowJ is rising and several promising
investigations are undenray. Provided that sound economic policies are
maintained, administrative capacity improves, and the necessary amount of
financial resources, both foreign and domestic, can be obtained, the rate
of growth of about 5% per annum implicit in the Five-Year Plan (1969-74)
appears feasible.
26.       Export income increased in 1969 by over 11 percent, mainly be-
cause of larger oil exports and more favorable prices for some of the
rain export cormodities.  The Inter-Governmental Group for Indonesia,
which has endorsed an aid request for 1970/71 of $600 million ($340 million
in program aid and $260 million in project aid) met on April 20-22, 1970.
At this meeting commitments were received from several member governments
which wjill provide most of the aid requests, and there are encouraging
prospects that additional commitments will shortly be made by other govern-
ments. Indonesia's total request of $600 million ;nay be met, although there



may be some problems over the balance between project and food and non-
food program aid. Proposals for a settlement of Indonesia's pre-1967
debt were accepted by the "Paris Club" of Western creditors and Japan,
which hold 37 percent of the debt, at a meeting on April 23-24, 1970.
The settlement provides for payments of principal amounts ($1,645 million)
in thirty equal annual installments of $55 million, beginning in 1970 and
paymnent of contractua2 interest ($445 rnillion) in fifteen equal annual
installments beginning in 1985. In addition, the Government of Indonesia
may defer part of the liabilities due during each of the first eight
years to the last eight years of the schedule.
27.      Because Indonesia's net foreign exchange reserve position is
still negative, and more of its overseas earnings will be needed in future
to service old and new external debts, balance-of-payments constraints
on the development program are likely to remain serious. In addition,
until domestic food production expands there is likely to be need for
continuing some rice imports not provided under the aid program. Total
rice imports approached 900,000 tons in 1969/70, with about 45h obtained
on commercial terms and the rest under aid arrangements.
28.      Our economic reports on Indonesia have referred to the desira-
bility of a unification of the effective foreign exchange rate at the
earliest possible date. Effective April 17, 1970, the two exchange
markets - the BE (Bonus Export) and the DP (Devisa Pelengkap or Com-
plementary Foreign Exchange) markets - were merged at Rp 378 per U.S.
dollar, the rate recently prevailing in the DP market. This rate will
now apply to all foreign trade and exchange transactions except for
sales of aid funds provided by foreign governments for program imports
and related services, which f6r thie tiine being will remaLn at the previous
3. rate of f9p 326 per U,S,. dollar.  Since the reform'also involvres a
sinplification of export tax arrangements and the elnmination of the e>--
port overprice system, the extent of the exchange rate adjustment zTill
diff er for different export and import commodities.  Since the :JP rate had
been'ap'lied to non-trade receipts and to payments for less essential im-
ports, the eo:change reforn tiill not affect these items.
29.      The Five-Year Plan gives highest priority to agriculture, both
for domestic and food production and export crops, with secondary emphasi3
on the rehabilitation of infrastructure and industry. The main target is
a large increase in rice production. The performance of the economy con-
tinues to depend to a considerable extent on policies and administrative
arrangements relating to this one major commodity. Thus an effective
rice price policy that wqill encourage domestic production and distributicn
and the establishment and support of effective programs to increase output,
could be the largest single achievement of the development program.



- 12 -
30.      The 1970/71 development program will be larger than last year's
and more of it will be financed from Indonesiats own resources. An
increase of 36% in domestic revenues is planned, following a similar
expansion in 1969/70. If achieved, this will raise revenues to close
to 10i%, of estimated GNP, or more than double the percentage of 1966.
However, large claims on the budget for deferred maintenance, basic
adjustments to salaries and foreign debt service compete with the
rising requirements for development finance. So far, program aid has
generated a substantial amount of counterpart funds, but as it can-
not be expected to increase significantly there will be increasing
pressure on rupiah resources as the development program expands.
PART VI - COMPLIANCE IWITH ARTICLES
OF AGREEMENT
31.      I am satisfied that the proposed development credit would
comply with the Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VII  - REC OMMENDATION
32.      I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
Development Credit.
Washington, D.C.                                   Robert S. McNamara
President
April 30, 1970



