CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 193 IND
Development Credit
Agreement
(Pusri Fertilizer Project)
BETWEEN
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED JUNE 15, 1970


﻿CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 193 IND
Development Credit
Agreement
(Pusri Fertilizer Project)
BETWEEN
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED JUNE 15, 1970


﻿DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated June 15, 1970, between REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
(hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT
ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association).
WHEREAS the Borrower, as part of its agricultural development policy, has
undertaken, with the financial assistance of the Association, to carry out a study
of future national fertilizer demand, supply and marketing requirements for
fertilizer and incentives to farmers to buy fertilizer in the territories of the Borrower
(hereinafter called the National Fertilizer Study);
WHEREAS the Borrower, in order to increase the supply of fertilizer within
its territories, intends to construct a fertilizer plant near Palembang, Sumatra, and
a gas conservation and transmission system to supply such plant and has requested
assistance for the financing of the foreign exchange cost of such plant and system
and related technical services;
WHEREAS the Government of Japan (acting through the Overseas Economic
Cooperation Fund) and the Government of the United States of America (acting
through the Agency for International Development), the Asian Development Bank,
and the Association (hereinafter collectively called the Lenders) are willing to grant
such assistance to the Borrower in various currencies in an aggregate principal
amount equivalent to not less than sixty-seven million dollars ($67,000,000),
representing the estimated foreign exchange component of the total cost of the
above-mentioned construction and technical services;
WHEREAS the construction of the fertilizer plant will be carried out by
P. T. Pupuk Sriwidjaja (hereinafter called PUSRI), a state enterprise limited by shares
("PERSERO") established and operating under the laws of the Borrower, and the
Borrower will make available to PUSRI the funds required for the carrying out
of such construction and for related technical services, including proceeds of the
Credit, in accordance with the terms and conditions of a financing agreement to
be entered into between the Borrower and PUSRI;
WHEREAS the operation of said fertilizer plant will depend on gas to be
supplied by P.N. PERTAMBANGAN MINJAK DAN GAS BUMI NASIONAL
(hereinafter called PERTAMINA), a state enterprise ("Perum") established and
operating under the laws of the Borrower, to PUSRI, in accordance with a gas


﻿4
purchase agreement to be entered into between PERTAMINA and PUSRI and
therefore the construction of the gas conservation and transmission system as well
as additional investments required to ensure continued gas supply will be carried
out by PERTAMINA, and the Borrower will make available or cause to be made
available to PERTAMINA the funds, including proceeds of the Credit, required
to carry out such construction and additional investments in accordance with the
terms and conditions of a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into between
the Borrower and PERTAMINA; and
WHEREAS the Association, inter alia on the basis of the foregoing, has agreed
to grant the Credit to the Borrower for the above-mentioned purposes and upon
the terms and conditions set forth in this Development Credit Agreement, in the
Project Agreement of even date herewith between the Association and PUSRI and
in the Project Agreement of even date herewith between the Association and
PERTAMINA;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Development Credit Agreement accept all
the provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit
Agreements of the Association, dated January 31, 1969, with the same force and
effect as if they were fully set forth herein, subject, however, to the following
modifications thereof (said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit
Agreements of the Association, as so modified, being hereinafter called the General
Conditions):
(a)  The following sub-paragraph is added to Section 2.01 of the General
Conditions:
"13. The term 'Project Agreement' has the meaning set forth in the
Development Credit Agreement."
(b)   Section 6.06 of the General Conditions is modified by inserting the
words ", the Project Agreements" after the words "the Development
Credit Agreement".
(c)   Section 8.02 of the General Conditions is modified by inserting the
words "or either Project Agreement" after the words "the Development
Credit Agreement".


﻿5
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Development Credit Agreement, unless
the context otherwise requirei, the several terms defined in the General Conditions
have the respective meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms
have the following meanings:
(a)  the term  "Project Agreement" means the agreement of even date
herewith between the Association and PUSRI or the agreement of even
date herewith between the Association and PERTAMINA, as the
context may require, as such Agreement may be amended from time
to time, and such term includes all agreements supplemental to, and
all schedules to, such Agreement;
(b)  the term   "PUSRI Financing Agreement" means the agreement
concluded between the Borrower and PUSRI in accordance with
Section 6.01 (b) of this Agreement;
(c)  the term  "PERTAMINA Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the
agreement concluded between the Borrower and PERTAMINA in
accordance with Section 6.01 (b) of this Agreement;
(d)  the term "Co-Lending Agreement" means any agreement entered into
by the Borrower and/or PUSRI and/or PERTAMINA on the one side
and any of the Lenders other than the Association on the other side,
for the purpose of financing or carrying out the Project;
(e)  the term "Joint Loan" means any loan or other financing extended
under any of the Co-Lending Agreements;
(f)  the term "Gas Purchase Agreement" means the agreement concluded
between PUSRI and PERTAMINA for the supply of gas by
PERTAMINA to PUSRI, in accordance with Section 6.01 (d) of this
Agreement;
(g)  the term "Gas Assets" means all gas well-heads, pipelines, compressor
stations, equipment, and related facilities and assets of PERTAMINA,
which are required or shall be required to be used in whole or in
part for the conservation and supply to PUSRI of natural gas in
accordance with the Gas Purchase Agreement; and
(h)  the term "Gas Operations" means the management, administration and
operation by PERTAMINA of the Gas Assets and all other activities
of PERTAMINA incidental thereto.


﻿6
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms
and conditions in this Development Credit Agreement set forth or referred to,
an amount in various currencies equivalent to thirty million dollars ($30,000,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The Association shall open a Credit Account on its books
in the name of the Borrower and shall credit to such Account the amount of
the Credit.
(b)   Subject to the rights of cancellation and suspension set forth in this
Development Credit Agreement, the Borrower shall be entitled to withdraw from
the Credit Account in respect of the reasonable cost of such goods or services
required for the Project, as shall have been allocated for financing under the Credit
by agreement between the Borrower and the Lenders:
(i)         such amounts as shall have been paid (or, if the Association
shall so agree, shall be required to meet payments to be made)
in a currency other than the currency of the Borrower for goods
produced, or services supplied from, outside the territories of
the Borrower; and
(ii)       the equivalent of such percentage as the Association shall
determine to represent the foreign exchange component of such
amounts as shall have been paid for goods produced in, or
services supplied from, the territories of the Borrower.
Section 2.03. The currency of the United States of America is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge
at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal
amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.05. Service charges shall be payable semi-annually on April 1 and
October 1 in each year.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit
withdrawn from the Credit Account ;n semi-annual installments payable on each
April 1 and October 1 commencing October 1, 1980 and ending April 1, 2020,


﻿7
each installment to and including the installment payable on April 1, 1990 to
be one-half of one per cent (1/2 of 1%) of such principal amount, and each
installment thereafter to be one and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal
amount.
ARTICLE III
Use of Proceeds of the Credit
Section 3.01. The Borrower shall cause the proceeds of the Credit to be
applied in accordance with the provisions of this Development Credit Agreement
and the Project Agreements to expenditures on the Project, described in Schedule
1 to this Agreement.
Section 3.02. The goods and services to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit and the Joint Loans shall be procured in accordance with such
procedures as shall be agreed between the Borrower and the Lenders.
Section 3.03. Except as the Association may otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit to
be used exclusively in carrying out the Project.
ARTICLE IV
Particular Covenants
Section 4.01. The Borrower shall cause PUSRI to carry out Part A of the
Project and PERTAMINA to carry out Part B of the Project in accordance with
the provisions of the respective Project Agreements, and shall, promptly as needed,
provide the funds, facilities, services and other resources and take all other action
required for the purpose.
Section 4.02. (a) The Borrower shall make available to PUSRI the funds
required to carry out Part A of the Project, iuciuding such proceeds of the Credit
as shall be used to finance goods and services for Part A of the Project, in accordance
with the terms and conditions of the PUSRI Financing Agreement.
(b)  Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall
not take or concur in any action the effect of which would be to modify the
financial obligations of the parties under the PUSRI Financing Agreement.


﻿8
Section 4.03. (a) The Borrower shall lend to PERTAMINA all funds required
to carry out Part B of the Project, including such proceeds of the Credit as shall
be used to finance goods or services required for Part B of the Project, in accordance
with the terms and conditions of the PERTAMINA Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
(b)   The Borrower shall make arrangements satisfactory to the Association
to provide PERTAMINA with such funds as shall be necessary to finance the cost
of additional investments required to supply gas to PUSRI in accordance with the
Gas Purchase Agreement.
(c)   Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall
not take or concur in any action the effect of which would be to modify the
financial obligations of the parties tinder the PERTAMINA Subsidiary Loan
Agreement.
Section 4.04. The Borrower (i) shall enable the Association's representatives
to inspect the Project, the goods financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and
the Joint Loans, as well as all plants, sites, works, property and equipn,ent of
PUSRI, the Gas Assets and any relevant records and documents; and (ii) shall furnish
or cause to be furnished to the Association all such information as the Association
shall reasonably request concerning the Project, the National Fertilizer Study, the
Credit, the Joint Loans, and the maintenance of the service thereof, the PUSRI
Financing Agreement or the PERTAMINA        Subsidiary Loan Agreement, the
expenditure of the proceeds of the Credit and the Joint Loans, the goods and
services financed out of such proceeds, and the administration, operations and
financial condition of PUSRI and, with respect to the Gas Operations, of
PERTAMINA.
Section 4.05. (a) The Borrower and the Association shall cooperate fully
to ensure that the purposes of the Credit and the Joint Loans will be accomplished.
To that end, each of them shall furnish to the other all such information as it
shall reasonably request with regard to the general status of the Credit and the
Joint Loans. On the part of the Borrower, such information shall include
information with respect to financial and economic conditions in the territories
of the Borrower, the policies of the Borrower concerning the supply, marketing
and consumption of fertilizers in its territories and the international balance of
payments position of the Borrower.
(b)   The Borrower and the Association shall from time to time exchange
views through their representatives with regard to matters relating to the purposes
of the Credit and the Joint Loans, the maintenance of the service thereof, the
PUSRI Financing Agreement or the PERTAMINA Subsidiary Loan Agreement, and


﻿9
the policies of the Borrower concerning the supply, marketing and consumption
of fertilizer in the territories of the Borrower. The Borrower shall promptly inform
the Association of -ny condition which interferes with, or threatens to interfere
with, the accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit and the Joint Loans, or
the maintenance of the service thereof, or with the performance by PUSRI or
PERTAMINA of its obligations under its Project Agreement.
(c)   The Borrower shall afford all reasonable opportunity for accredited
representatives of the Association to visit any part of the territories of the Borrower
for purposes related to the Credit or any Joint Loan.
Section 4.06. (a) The principal of, and service charges on, the Credit shall
be paid without deduction for, and free from, any taxes, and free from all
restrictions, imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws in effect in its
territories.
(b)   This Development Credit Agreement and the Project Agreements shall
be free from any taxes that shall be imposed under the laws of the Borrower
or laws in effect in its territories on or in connection with the execution, delivery
or registration thereof.
Section 4.07. The Borrower shall cause the National Fertilizer Study to be
carried out with due diligence and efficiency and to be completed not later than
fifteen months after the execution of the contract with the consultants to carry
out such Study. Upon completion thereof the Borrower shall as soon as practicable
consult with the Lenders regarding the findings and recommendations arising from
the Study and shall take such action required to implement such recommendations
as shall be agreed upon between the Borrower and the Lenders.
Section 4.08. So long as the Borrower shall own or control the majority
of the voting rights in the meetings of shareholders of PUSRI, the Borrower, before
nominating or voting for the election of any member of the Board of Management
(Direksi) or the Board of Directors (Dewan Komisaris) of PUSRI, shall inform
the Association of the names and qualifications of the persons it intends to
nominate or for whose election it intends to vote and shall afford the Association
a reasonable opportunity to express its views on the qualifications of such persons.
Section 4.09. The Borrower shall promptly take or cause to be taken all
reasonable action which shall be necessary on its part or on the part of its agencies
or instrumentalities to enable PUSRI and PERTAMINA to perform all the covenants
and agreements set forth in PUSRI's Project Agreement and PERTAMINIA's Project
Agreement, respectively, as well as the Gas Purchase Agreement, and shall not take


﻿10
or permit any of its agencies or instrumentalities to take any action which would
materially interfere with the efficient conduct by PUSRI of its business or by
PERTAMINA of the Gas Operations.
Section 4.10. The Borrower shall reserve or cause PERTAMINA to reserve
the gas resources required for the supply of gas to PUSRI pursuant to the Gas
Purchase Agreement.
Section 4.11. (a) The Borrower shall, promptly as needed, take all measures
which may be necessary or desirable to assist PUSRI to build up and maintain
an effective and economic marketing organization for its fertilizer products and
to stimulate the sale of such products at competitive prices in accordance with
sound commercial practices. Such measures shall include (i) a rice price support
program or other programs which will encourage farmers to make optimum use
of nitrogenous fertilizer at such prices and (ii) the provision to PUSRI's distributors,
in the period preceding completion of the Project, of supplies of imported
nitrogenous fertilizer sufficient to enable PUSRI to carry out its marketing
expansion program.
(b)   The Borrower shall consult with the Association before undertaking,
or approving the undertaking by others of, any other nitrogenous fertilizer project
in its territories.
ARTICLE V                                         0
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. If any event specified in Section 7.01 of the General Conditions
or in Section 5.02 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for the period,
if any, therein set forth, then at any subsequent time during the continuance
thereof, the Association, at its option, may by notice to the Borrower declare
the principal of the Credit then outstanding to be due and payable immediately
together with the service charges thereon and upon any such declaration such
principal, together with such charges, shall become due and payable immediately,
anything in this Development Credit Agreement to the contrary notwithstanding.
Section 5.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General Conditions,
the following additional events are specified:
(a)   A default shall occur in the performance of any obligation on the
part of PUSRI under its Project Agreement, and such default shall
continue for a period of sixty days after notice thereof shall (lave
been given by the Association to the Borrower and to PUSRI;


﻿*                                11
(b)   -k default shall occur in the performance of any obligation on the
part of PERTAMINA under its Project Agreement, and such default
shall continue for a period of sixty days after notice thereof shall
have been given by the Association to the Borrower and to
PERTAMINA;
(c)  Any provision of PUSRI's charter dated January 3, 1970, as amended
on May 2, 1970, shall have been amended or abrogated without the
prior approval of the Association;
(d)  The principal amount of any Joint Loan shall, in accordance with its
terms, have become due and payable prior to the agreed maturity
thereof;
(e)  PUSRI or PERTAMINA shall have been unable to pay its debts as
they mature or any action or proceeding shall have been taken by
PUSRI or PERTAMINA or by others whereby any of the property
of PUSRI or any of the Gas Assets shall or may be distributed among
its creditors;
(f)  The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction shall have
taken any action for the dissolution or disestablishment of PUSRI or
PERTAMINA or for the suspension of PUSRI's operations or the Gas
Operations;
(g)  Any of the Gas Assets or the responsibility for their operation shall
have been transferred to an entity other than PERTAMINA without
the prior consent of the Association.
Section 5.03. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions,
the following additional events are specified:
(a)  The right of the Borrower to withdraw or otherwise use the proceeds
of any Joint Loan shall have been suspended prior to the completion
of the Project;
(b)  The right of the Borrower to withdraw for the purpose of financing
of the National Fertilizer Study the proceeds of the development credit
granted to the Borrower by the Association under the development
credit   agreement   (Technical   Assistance   Project)  dated
December 27, 1968, shall have been suspended by the Association
before the completion of such Study.


﻿12
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to
the effectiveness of this Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of
Section 10.01 (b) of the General Conditions:
(a)   the execution and delivery of the Project Agreements on behalf of
PUSRI and PERTAMINA, respectively, shall have been duly authorized
or ratified by all necessary corporate and governmental action;
(b)   the PUSRI Financing Agreement and the PERTAMINA Subsidiary
Loan Agreement, in form and substance satisfactory to the Association,
shall have been executed and delivered and shall have become fully
effective and binding on the parties thereto in accordance with their
terms, subject only to the effectiveness of the Co-Lending Agreement
and this Development Credit Agreement;
(c)   the Co-Lending Agreements providing for an aggregate amount of not
less than thirty-seven million dollars for the purpose of financing the
Project shall have been executed and delivered and all conditions
precedent to the effectiveness of each such Co-Lending Agreement or
the right to make withdrawals thereunder, except only the effectiveness
of the other Co-Lending Agreements and this Development Credit
Agreement or the right to make withdrawals thereunder, shall have
been fulfilled;
(d)   the Gas Purchase Agreement, in form and substance satisfactory to
the Association, shall have been executed and delivered and shall have
become fully effective and binding on the parties thereto in accordance
with its terms, subject only to the effectiveness of this Development
Credit Agreement;
(e)   PUSRI shall have retained the services of consultants in accordance
with paragraph (b) of Section 2.01 of its Project Agreement;
(f)   PERTAMINA     shall have retained the services of consultants in
accordance with paragraph (b) of Section 2.01 of its Project
Agreement; and


﻿13
(g)  the Borrower shall have retained the services of consultants, acceptable
to the Association, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Association, for the carrying out of the National Fertilizer Study.
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional matters, within the
meaning of Section 10.02 (b) of the General Conditions, to be included in the
opinion or opinions to be furnished to the Association:
(a)  that the Project Agreements have been duly authorized or ratified by,
and executed and delivered on behalf of, PUSRI and PERTAMINA,
respectively, and constitute valid and binding obligations of PUSRI
and PERTAMINA, respectively, in accordance with their terms;
(b)   that the PUSRI Financing Agreement has been duly authorized or
ratified by, and executed and delivered on behalf of, the parties thereto
and constitutes valid and binding obligations of the parties thereto
in accordance with its terms;
(c)  that the PERTAMINA Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly
authorized or ratified by, and executed and delivered on behalf of,
the parties thereto and constitutes valid and binding obligations of
the parties thereto in accordance with its terms; and
(d)  that the Gas Purchase Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified
by, and executed and delivered on behalf of, PUSRI and PERTAMINA
and constitutes a valid and binding obligation of PUSRI and
PERTAMINA in accordance with its terms.
Section 6.03. The date of October 15, 1970 is hereby specified for the
purposes of Section 10.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.04. The obligations of the Borrower under Sections 4.07, 4.08,
4.09, 4.10 and 4.11 of this Agreement shall terminate on the date on which this
Development Credit Agreement shall terminate or on a date seventeen years after
the date of this Development Credit Agreement, whichever shall be the earlier.
ARTICLE VII
Miscellaneous
Section 7.01. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1975, or such other
date as shall be agreed between the Borrower and the Association.


﻿14
Section 7.02. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 9.03 of the General
Conditions.
Section 7.03. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of
Section 9.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
Post Office Box 21
Djakarta, Indonesia
Alternative address for cables:
Ministry Finance
Djakarta
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Alternative address for cables:
Indevas
Washington, D.C.
IN  WITNESS    WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Development Credit
Agreement to be signed in their respective names and to be delivered in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
By /s / Soedjatmoko
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Simon Aldewereld
Vice President


﻿15
SCHEDULE 1
Description of the Project
The Project consists of the following Parts:
Part A.     (1)   The detailed engineering, construction and start-up of a fertilizer
plant at Palembang (Sumatra) to manufacture about 380,000
metric tons of urea annually. The plant's facilities will include:
(a)   a single train ammonia unit, employing centrifugal compressors,
with a daily capacity of about 660 metric tons;
(b)   a urea unit with a daily capacity of about 1,150 metric tons;
(c)   a gas scrubbing unit; and
(d)   the usual off-sites and auxiliaries required to support such plant,
including inter alia power and steam generation, shipping
facilities and a housing colony.
(2)   Technical services for   the purpose    of assisting PUSRI's
management in the carrying out of Part A (1) of the Project,
the training of local personnel, the marketing of PUSRI's
products, and in management planning, financial control,
accounting and executive staff training.
Part B.     (1)   The detailed engineering and construction of a gas conservation
system, including inter alia a gas pipeline network of about 110
miles connecting PERTAMINA's existing wells and four
compressor stations producing in the aggregate about 13,000
horse power and a 12-inch gas transmission pipeline of about
65 miles connecting the gas conservation system with PUSRI's
plant;
(2)   Technical services for the purpose of assisting PERTAMINA's
management in carrying out Part B (1) of the Project, and during
start-up and intermittently thereafter for the ensuing two years,
in training of local personnel, and in the planning of gas
operations, accounting and executive staff training.
Part A (1) and Part B (1) of the Project are expected to be completed by
the end of 1973.


