CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 193 IND
Project Agreement
(Pusri Fertilizer Project)
BETWEEN
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
AND
P.N. PERTAMBANGAN MINJAK
DAN GAS BUMI NASIONAL
DATED JUNE 15, 1970


﻿CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 193 IND
Project Agreement
(Pusri Fertilizer Project)
BETWEEN
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
AND
P.N. PERTAMBANGAN MINJAK
DAN GAS BUMI NASIONAL
DATED JUNE 15, 1970


﻿PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated June 15, 1970, between INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association) and P.N.
PERTAMBANGAN MINJAK DAN GAS BUMI NASIONAL, a corporation
established under Law No. 19 of 1960 of the Republic of Indonesia, (hereinafter
called PERTAMINA).
WHEREAS by a development credit agreement of even date herewith
(hereinafter called the Development Credit Agreement) between Republic of
Indonesia (hereinafter called the Borrower) and the Association, the Association
has agreed to make available to the Borrower a development credit in various
currencies equivalent to thirty million dollars ($30,000,000), on terms and
conditions set forth in the Development Credit Agreement, for the purpose of
assisting in the financing of a project (described in Schedule 1 to the Development
Credit Agreement), a part of which will be carried out by PERTAMINA, but only
on condition inter alia that PERTAMINA agree to undertake certain obligations
toward the Association as hereinafter provided; and
WHEREAS PERTAMINA, in consideration of the Association's entering into
the Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake
the obligations hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Project Agreement, unless the context
shall otherwise require, the several terms defined in the Development Credit
Agreement and in the General Conditions, as so defined, shall have the respective
meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Particular Covenants
Section 2.01. (a) PERTAMINA shall carry out Part B of the Project with
due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with sound administrative, financial,
engineering and industrial practices.


﻿4
(b)  PERTAMINA shall employ qualified and experienced consultants
acceptable to the Association, upon terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Association, for the purpose of assisting PERTAMINA's management in the design,
engineering and supervision of the construction and start-up of Part B (1) of the
Project and in carrying out the Gas Operations to meet the requirements of the
Gas Purchase Agreement.
(c)  PERTAMINA shall employ qualified and experienced contractors
acceptable to the Association, upon terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Association, to construct all work included in Part B of the Project.
(d)   PERTAMINA shall furnish to the Association, promptly upon their
preparation, the plans, specifications and the construction and procurement
schedules for Part B of the Project, and any material modifications subsequently
made therein, in such detail as the Association shall reasonably request.
Section 2.02. (a) The goods and services to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit and tho Toint Loans shall be procured in accordance with the
provisions set forth or referred to in Section 3.02 of the Development Credit
Agreement.
(b)   Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, PERTAMINA shall
cause all goods and services procured by, or for the account of, PERTAMINA
and financed out of the proceeds of the Credit to be used exclusively in carrying
out Part B of the Project.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, PERTAMINA
shall duly perform all its obligations under the PERTAMINA Subsidiary Loan
Agreement and shall not take, or concur in, any action which would have the
effect of modifying the financial obligations of the parties under the PERTAMINA
Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
Section 2.04. (a) PERTAMINA shall take out and maintain with responsible
insurers, or make other provisions satisfactory to the Association for, insurance
of the Gas Assets against such risks and in such amounts as shall be consistent
with sound industrial practices.
(b)  Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, PERTAMINA
undertakes to insure the imported goods financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
against marine, transit and other hazards incident to the acquisition, transportation
and delivery thereof to the place of use or installation, and for such insurance
any indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by PERTAMINA to
replace or repair such goods.


﻿5
Section 2.05. PERTAMINA shall (i) maintain or cause to be maintained
records adequate to identify the goods and services financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit or the Joint Loans, to disclose the use thereof in Part B of the
Project, to record the progress of Part B of the Project (including the cost thereof)
and to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained sound accounting
principles and practices the Gas Operations; (ii) enable the Association's
representatives to inspect the Gas Assets, the goods financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit or the Joint Loans, all other plants, sites, works, property and
equipment of PERTAMINA related to the Gas Operations and any relevant records
and documents; and (iii) furnish to the Association all such information as the
Association shall reasonably request concerning the expenditure of the proceeds
of the Credit and the Joint Loans made available to PERTAMINA, the goods and
services financed out of such proceeds, the Gas Assets and the Gas Operations.
Section 2.06. (a) PERTAMINA shall, prior to completion of Part B (1) of
the Project, establish and shall thereafter maintain in accordance with sound
industrial principles and practices separate administrative, accounting and
engineering records covering the Gas Operations (including the Gas Assets)
satisfactory to the Association.
(b)   PERTAMINA shall prepare, in accordance with principles and practices
satisfactory to the Association, consolidated statements of (1) all fixed Gas Assets
in service, and (ii) operating revenues, operating expenses and operating income,
if any, on a pro forma basis, all in accordance with consistently maintained sound
accounting principles.
(c)   PERTAMINA shall: (i) have the before-mentioned accounting records
and consolidated statements for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with sound
auditing principles consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the
Association; (ii) furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case
not later than four months after the end of each such year, (1) certified copies
of such records and statements for such year as so audited and (2) the report
of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such form and detail as the
Association shall have reasonably requested; and (iii) furnish to the Association
such other information concerning such records and statements and the audit
thereof as the Association shall from time to time reasonably request.
Section 2.07. (a) PERTAMINA shall, promptly as required, take all action
within its powers to maintain its corporate existence and right to carry on the
Gas Operations and to retain such land, interests in land and properties, and to
acquire, maintain and renew such licenses, powers, franchises and other rights, as
may be necessary or useful in the carrying out of the Project, the conduct of
the Gas Operations or the fulfillment of its obligations under the Gas Purchase
Agreement.


﻿6
(b)   PERTAMINA shall at all times operate and maintain the Gas Assets,
and from time to time, promptly as needed, make all necessary repairs and renewals
thereof, all in accordance with sound engineering and financial practices and with
the standards set forth in the Gas Purchase Agreement.
(c)   Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, PERTAMINA shall
not sell, lease, transfer or otherwise dispose of any of the Gas Assets, except in
the normal course of the Gas Operations.
Section 2.08. PERTAMINA shall carry on the Gas Operations and conduct
its affairs related thereto in accordance with sound business, industrial and financial
practices under the supervision of experienced and competent management.
Section 2.09. (a) The Association and PERTAMINA shall cooperate fully
to ensure that the purposes of the Credit and the Joint Loans will be accomplished.
To that end, each of them shall furnish to the other all such information as it
shall reasonably request.
(b)   The Association and PERTAMINA shall from time to time, at the
request of either party, exchange views through their representatives with regard
to matters relating to the purposes of the Credit and the Joint Loans and the
performance by PERTAMINA of its obligations under this Agreement, the
Co-Lending Agreements, the PERTAMINA Subsidiary Loan Agreement and the Gas
Purchase Agreement, and with regard to the Gas Operations.
(c)   PERTAMINA shall promptly inform the Association of any condition
which interferes with, or threatens to interfere with, the accomplishment of the
purposes of the Credit and the Joint Loans or the maintenance of the service
thereof or of the PERTAMINA Subsidiary Loan Agreement, or the performance
by PERTAMINA of its obligations under this Agreement, the Co-Lending
Agreements, the PERTAMINA Subsidiary Loan Agreement or the Gas Purchase
Agreement.
Section 2.10. (a) PERTAMINA shall take all action necessary to ensure that,
at all times after PUSRI's plant included in Part A of the Project will have been
placed into service, PUSRI's gas requirements are fully met, all in accordance with
the Gas Purchase Agreement.
(b)   PERTAMINA shall duly perform    all its obligations under the Gas
Purchase Agreement and, except as the Association shall otherwise agree, shall not
take, or concur in, any action which would have the effect of amending, abrogating,
assigning or waiving the Gas Purchase Agreement or any provision thereof.


﻿7
ARTICLE III
Effective Date; Termination
Section 3.01. This Project Agreement shall come into force and effect on
the Effective Date.
Section 3.02. This Project Agreement and all of the obligations of the parties
hereunder shall forthwith terminate on a date seventeen years from the date of
this Agreement or upon termination of the Development Credit Agreement,
whichever is earlier.
ARTICLE IV
Miscellaneous
Section 4.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or
made under this Project Agreement and any agreement between the parties
contemplated by this Project Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or request
shall be deemed to have been duly given or made when it shall be delivered by
hand or by mail, telegram, cable, telex, or radiogram to the party to which it
is required or permitted to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter
specified, or at such other address as such party shall have designated by notice
to the party giving such notice or making such request. The addresses so specified
are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Alternative address for cables:
Indevas
Washington, D.C.
For PERTAMINA:
P.N. Pertamina
2.6 Djl. Perwira
(Post Office Box 12)
Djakarta, Indonesia


﻿8
Alternative address for cables:
PERTAMINA
Djakarta
Section 4.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any
documents required or permitted to be executed, under this Project Agreement
on behalf of PERTAMINA, may be taken or executed by the President Director
of PERTAMINA or such other person or persons as PERTAMINA shall designate
in writing.
Section 4.03. PERTAMINA shall furnish to the Association sufficient
evidence of the authority of the person or persons who will, on behalf of
PERTAMINA, take any action or execute any documents required or permitted
to be executed by PERTAMINA pursuant to any of the provisions of this Project
Agreement, and the authenticated specimen signature of each such person.
Section 4.04. No delay in exercising, or omission to exercise, any right, power
or remedy accruing to either party under this Project Agreement upon any default
shall impair any such right, power or remedy or be construed to be a waiver thereof
or an acquiescence in such default; nor shall the action of such party in respect
of any default, or acquiescence in such default, affect or impair any right, power
or remedy of such party in respect of any other or subsequent default.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Project Agreement to
be signed in their respective names and delivered in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s / R.J. Goodman
Director, East Asia and Pacific Department
P.N. PERTAMBANGAN MINJAK
DAN GAS BUMI NASIONAL
By /s / I. Sutowo
Authorized Representative


