CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 193 IND
Project Agreement
(Pusri Fertilizer Project)
BETWEEN
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
AND
P.T. PUPUK SRIWIDJAJA
DATED JUNE 15, 1970


﻿CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 193 IND
Project Agreement
(Pusri Fertilizer Project)
BETWEEN
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
AND
P.T. PUPUK SRIWIDJAJA
DATED JUNE 15, 1970


﻿PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated June 15, 1970, between INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association) and P.T.
PUPUK SRIWIDJAJA (hereinafter called PUSRI).
WHEREAS by a development credit agreement of even date herewith
(hereinafter called the Development Credit Agreement) between Republic of
Indonesia (hereinafter called the Borrower) and the Association, the Association
has agreed to make available to the Borrower a development credit in various
currencies equivalent to thirty million dollars ($30,000,000), on the terms and
conditions set forth in the Development Credit Agreement, for the purpose of
assisting in the financing of a project (described in Schedule I to the Development
Credit Agreement) a part of which will be carried out by PUSRI, but only on
condition inter alia that PUSRI agree to undertake certain obligations toward
the Association as hereinafter provided; and
WHEREAS PUSRI, in consideration of the Association's entering into the
Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the
obligations hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Project Agreement, unless the context
shall otherwise require, the several terms defined in the Development Credit
Agreement and in the General Conditions, as so defined, shall have the respective
meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Particular Covenants
Section 2.01. (a) PUSRI shall carry out Part A of the Project with due
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with sound administrative, financial,
engineering and industrial practices.


﻿4
(b)   PUSRI shall employ qualified and experienced consultants acceptable
to the Association, upon terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association, for
the purpose of assisting PUSRI's management in (i) the carrying out of Part A
(1) of the Project, (ii) the development of training programs of PUSRI's operating
personnel, (iii) in the packaging of PUSRI's products, and (iv) in the marketing
of such products.
(c)   PUSRI shall employ qualified and experienced contractors acceptable
to the Association, upon terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association, to
construct all works and perform all services included in Part A of the Project and
to arrange for training of PURSI's personnel in operating the plant and related
facilities included in Part A of the Project.
(d)   PUSRI shall furnish    to  the Association, promptly upon      their
preparation, the plans, specifications and the construction and procurement
schedules for Part A of the Project, and any material modifications subsequently
made therein, in such detail as the Association shall reasonably request.
Section 2.02. (a) The goods and services to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit and the Joint Loans shall be procured in accordance with the
provisions set forth or referred to in Section 3.02 of the Development Credit
Agreement.
(b)   Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, PUSRI shall cause all
goods and services procured by, or for the account of, PUSRI and financed out
of the proceeds of the Credit to be used exclusively in carrying out Part A of
the Project.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association and PUSRI shall otherwise agree,
PUSRI shall duly perform all its obligations under the PUSRI Financing Agreement
and shall not take, or concur in, any action which would have the effect of
modifying the financial obligations of the parties under the PUSRI Financing
Agreement.
Section 2.04. (a) PUSRI shall take out and maintain with responsible insurers,
or make other provisions satisfactory to the Association for, insurance against such
risks and in such amounts as shall be consistent with sound industrial practices.
(b)   Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, PUSRI undertakes
to insure the imported goods financed out of the proceeds of the Credit against
marine, transit and other hazards incident to the acquisition, transportation and
delivery thereof to the place of use or installation, and for such insurance any


﻿5
indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by PUSRI to replace or
repair such goods.
Section 2.05. (a) PUSRI shall maintain or cause to be maintained records
adequate to identify the goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit or the Joint Loans, to disclose the use thereof in Part A of the Project,
to record the progress of Part A of the Project (including the cost thereof) and
to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained sound accounting principles
the operations and financial condition of PUSRI. Within two months after the
end of each calendar quarter, PUSRI shall submit to the Association copies of
its financial statements (balance sheet, statement of income and expenses and
related statements) for such quarter.
(b)   PUSRI shall: (i) have its accounts and financial statements (balance
sheet, statement of income and expenses and related statements) for each fiscal
year audited, in accordance with sound auditing principles consistently applied,
by  independent auditors acceptable to     the Association; (ii) furnish to the
Association as soon as available, but in any case not later than four months after
the end of each such year, (1) certified copies of its financial statements for such
year as so audited and (2) the report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope
and in such detail as the Association shall have reasonably requested; and (iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning the accounts and
financial statements of PUSRI and the audit thereof as the Association shall from
time to time reaso dy request.
(c)   PUSRI shql.: (i) enable the Association's representatives to inspect Part
A of the Project, the goods financed out of the proceeds of the Credit or the
Joint Loans, all other plants, sites, works, property and equipment of PUSRI and
any relevant records and documents; and (ii) furnish to the Association all such
information as the Association shall reasonably request concerning the expenditure
of the proceeds of the Credit or the Joint Loans, the goods and services financed
out of such proceeds, the Project, and the administration, operations, marketing
organization and financial condition of PUSRI.
Section 2.06. (a) PUSRI shall, promptly as required, take all action within
its powers to maintain its corporate existence and right to carry on its operations
and to retain such land, interests in land and properties, and to acquire, maintain
and renew such licenses, powers, franchises and other rights, as may be necessary
or useful in the carrying out of Part A of the Project or in the conduct of its
business.


﻿6
(b)   PUSRI shall at all times operate and maintain irs plants, machinery,
equipment and other property, and from time to time, promptly as needed, make
all necessary repairs and renewals thereof, all in accordance with sound engineering
and financial practices.
(c)   Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, PUSRI shall not sell,
lease, transfer or otherwise dispose of any of its property or assets, except in the
normal course of its business.
(d)   PUSRI may create, acquire or have any subsidiary only with the prior
approval of the Association. For the purposes of this paragraph, the term
"subsidiary" means any entity of which a majority of the outstanding voting stock
shall be owned, or which shall otherwise be effectively controlled, by PUSRI or
by one or more subsidiaries of PUSRI or by PUSRI and one or more of its
subsidiaries.
Section 2.07. (a) PUSRI shall carry on its operations and conduct its affairs
in accordance with sound business, industrial and financial practices under the
supervision of experienced and competent management.
(b)   PUSRI    shall retain  the  services of qualified  and  experienced
management consultants acceptable to the Association, on terms and conditions
satisfa-tory to the Association, for the purpose of assisting its management in
management planning, financial control, accounting and executive staff training at
least during the construction, start-up and initial operation of Part A of the Project.
Section 2.08. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, PUSRI shall
not make expenditures, or commitments for expenditures, for fixed or capital assets
(including investments in or loans to other business entities) until PUSRI's plant
included in the Project shall have produced an aggregate of 300,000 metric tons
of urea during a period of twelve consecutive months, except:
(a)   expenditures, or commitments for expenditures, required for repair,
maintenance or replacement of assets;
(b)   investments in short-term marketable securities solely for the purpose
of temporarily employing its idle funds;
(c)   expenditures, or commitments for expenditures, required for the
carrying out of Part A of the Project; and
(d)   other expenditures, or commitments for expenditures, not exceeding
in the aggregate the equivalent of $500,000 in any fiscal year.


﻿7
Section 2.09. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, PUSRI shall
not incur any indebtedness, other than under the PUSRI Financing Agreement,
if, after the incurring of any such indebtedness, the indebtedness of PUSRI then
incurred and outstanding would be greater than the equity of PUSRI.
For the purposes of this Section:
(a)   The term "indebtedness" means all indebtedness incurred by PUSRI,
including indebtedness assumed or guaranteed by PUSRI but excluding
short-term debt so incurred in the ordinary course of its business.
(b)   Indebtedness shall be deemed to be incurred (i) under a contract or
loan agreement, on the date it is drawn down pursuant to such contract
or loan agreement, and (ii) under a guarantee agreement, on the date
the agreement providing for such guarantee shall have been entered
into.
(c)   The term   "equity" shall mean the aggregate of (i) the unimpaired
paid-in capital of PUSRI and (ii) the unallocated surplus and reserves
not set apart for any specific purpose.
(d)   Whenever in connection with this, Section it shall be necessary to value
in terms of currency of the Borrower debt repayable in a foreign
currency, such valuation shall be made on the basis of the prevailing
lawful rate of exchange at which such foreign currency could be
obtained by PUSRI, at the time of such valuation, for the purposes
of servicing such debt.
Section 2.10. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, PUSRI
undertakes: (i) that its present depreciable fixed assets relating to manufacturing
operations shall be fully depreciated by the end of 1975, (ii) that, of the depreciable
fixed assets included in Part A of the Project, those relating to manufacturing
operations shall be fully depreciated within a period of twelve years starting at
the close of the fiscal year during which such assets will have been placed into
service, and (iii) that all other depreciable fixed assets shall be fully depreciated
in conformity with sound financial principles.
Section 2.11. (a) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree:
(i)         PUSRI shall not declare any dividend or make any other
distribution with respect to its capital shares except out of its
accumulated net earnings;


﻿8
(ii)        PUSRI shall not pay any dividend or make any other distribution
with respect to its capital shares (other than dividends or
distributions payable solely in such capital shares) or purchase,
redeem or otherwise acquire, directly or indirectly for any
consideration, any of such capital shares if, after giving effect
to such action, the quick assets of PUSRI would be less than
the current liabilities of PUSRI; and
(iii)      PUSRI shall not pay any dividend or make any other distribution
with respect to its capital shares until PUSRI's plant included
in the Project shall have produced an aggregate of 300,000 metric
tons of urea during a period of twelve consecutive months.
(b)   For the purposes of this Section:
(i)         The  term   "quick  assets"  means cash, securities readily
convertible into cash and trade receivables realizable within one
year;
(ii)       The term  "current liabilities" reans liabilities due and payable
and all other liabilities which would be due and payable, or could
be called for payment, within one year including the portion
of long-term indebtedness falling due within one year.
Section 2.12. (a) The Association and PUSRI shall cooperate fully to ensure
that the purposes of the Credit and the Joint Loans will be accomplished. To
that end, each of them shall furnish to the other all such information as it shall
reasonably request.
(b)   The Association and PUSRI shall from time to time, at the request
of either party, exchange views through their representatives with regard to matters
relating to the purposes of the Credit and the Joint Loans and the performance
by PUSRI of its obligations under this Agreement, the Co-Lending Agreements,
the PUSRI Financing Agreement and the Gas Purchase Agreement, and with regard
to the administration, operations, marketing organization and financial condition
of PUSRI.
(c)   PUSRI shall promptly inform the Association of any condition which
interferes with, or threatens to interfere with, the accomplishment of the purposes
of the Credit and the Joint Loans or the maintenance of the service thereof or
of the PUSRI Financing Agreement, or the performance by PUSRI of its obligations
under this Agreement, the Co-Lending Agreements, the PUSRI Financing Agreement
and the Gas Purchase Agreement.


﻿0                                  9
Section 2.13. PUSRI shall duly perform all its obligations under the Gas
Purchase Agreement and, except as the Association shall otherwise agree, shall not
take, or concur in, any action which would have the effect of amending, abrogating,
assigning or waiving the Gas Purchase Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 2.14. PUSRI shall make all reasonable efforts, prior to the coming
into operation of the plant included in the Project and thereafter, to improve its
arrangements and facilities for marketing its fertilizer products and to develop and
maintain an effective and efficient marketing organization.
ARTICLE III
Effective Date; Termination
Section 3.01. This Project Agreement shall come into force and effect on
the Effective Date.
Section 3.02. This Project Agreement and all of the obligations of the parties
hercunder shall forthwith terminate on a date seventeen years from the date of
this Agreement or upon termination of the Development Credit Agreement,
whichever is earlier.
ARTICLE IV
Miscellaneous
Section 4.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or
made under this Project Agreement and any agreement between the parties
contemplated by this Project Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or request
shall be deemed to have been duly given or made when it shall be delivered by
hand or by mail, telegram, cable, telex, or radiogram to the party to which it
is required or permitted to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter
specified, or at such other address as such party shall have designated by notice
to the party giving such notice or making such request. The addresses so specified
are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America


﻿10
Alternative address for cables:
Indevas
Washington, D.C.
For PUSRI:
P.T. Pupuk Sriwidjaja
Djl. Sungai Selajur
Post Office Box 084
Palembang, Indonesia
Alternative address for cables:
PUSRI
Palembang
(Telex No. 17)
Section 4.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any
documents required or permitted to be executed, under this Project Agreement
on behalf of PUSRI, may be taken or executed by the President Director of PUSRI
or such other person or persons as PUSRI shall designate in writing.
Section 4.03. PUSRI shall furnish to the Association sufficient evidence of
the authority of the person or persons who will, on behalf of PUSRI, take any
action or execute any documents required or permitted to be taken or executed
by PUSRI pursuant to any of the provisions of this Project Agreement, and the
authenticated specimen signature of each such person.
Section 4.04. No delay in exercising, or omission to exercise, any right, power
or remedy accruing to either party under this Project Agreement upon any default
shall impair any such right, power or remedy or be construed to be a waiver thereof
or an acquiescence in such default; nor shall the action of such party in respect
of any default, or any acquiescence in such default, affect or impair any right,
power or remedy of such party in respect of any other or subsequent default.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Project Agreement to


﻿0                                 11
be signed in their respective names and delivered in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s / R.J. Goodman
Director, East Asia and Pacific Department
P.T. PUPUK SRIWIDJAJA
By /s / Soedjatmoko
Authorized Representative


