                                   Document of
                                 The World Bank




                                                              Report No: 25267

                      IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                                (IDA-28760 TF-20916)

                                       ON A

                                      CREDIT

                        IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 291.7 MILLION

                                        TO

                                      INDIA

                                      FOR A

                     DISTRICT PRIMARY EDUCATION PROJECT II




                                  December 17, 2003




Human Development Sector Unit
South Asia Region

                CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

      (Exchange Rate Effective Average over life of project)

                  Currency Unit = Rupee (Rs.)
                        Rs. 43.7 = US$ 1.00
                       US$ 1.00 = Rs. 0.23

                        FISCAL YEAR
                     April 1 -      March 31

            ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

AS                  Alternative Schools
AWPB                Annual Work Plans and Budgets
BRC                 Block Resource Center
CAS                 Country Assistance Strategy
CRC                 Cluster Resource Center
CSS                 Centrally Sponsored Scheme
DEP                 Distance Education Program
DFID                Department for International Development U.K.
DIET                District Institute of Education and Training
DISE                District Information Systems for Education
DPEP                District Primary Education Project
DPO                 District Project Office
EC                  European Commission
ECE                 Early Childhood Education
EFA                 Education for All
EMIS                Educational Management Information System
GER                 Gross Enrollment Rate
GOI                 Government of India
ICDS                Integrated Child Development Scheme
IGNOU               Indira Gandhi National Open University
JRM                 Joint Review Mission
NCERT               National Council for Education Research and Training
NEP                 National Education Policy
NFE                 Non-formal Education
NGO                 Non-Governmental Organization
NIEPA               National Institute of Education Planning and Administration
SC                  Scheduled Caste
SCERT               State Council of Educational Research and Training
SIEMT               State Institute of Educational Management and Training
SMC                 School Management Committees
SSA                 Sarva Shiksha Abhiyan
ST                  Scheduled Tribe
TSG                 Technical Support Group
VEC                 Village Education Committee


                 Vice President:       Praful Patel
              Country Director:        Michael F. Carter
       Sector Director/Manager:        Charles Griffin/Michelle Riboud
            Task Team Leader:          Susan E. Hirshberg

                                            INDIA
                    DISTRICT PRIMARY EDUCATION PROJECT II


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            5
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                            15
6. Sustainability                                                                16
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 18
8. Lessons Learned                                                               21
9. Partner Comments                                                              23
10. Additional Information                                                       26
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             27
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             28
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             32
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             36
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             39
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                40
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            41
Annex 8. Borrowers Contribution Long Version                                     43

Project ID: P035821                                                  Project Name: DISTRICT PRIMARY EDUCATION
                                                                     PROJECT II
Team Leader: Susan E. Hirshberg                                      TL Unit: SASHD
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: December 17, 2003


1. Project Data
                   Name: DISTRICT PRIMARY EDUCATION PROJECT L/C/TF Number: IDA-28760; TF-20916
                            II
   Country/Department: INDIA                                                              Region: South Asia Regional
                                                                                                     Office

        Sector/subsector: Primary education (67%); Other social services (16%); Tertiary
                            education (10%); Adult literacy/non-formal education (5%); General
                            public administration sector (2%)
                  Theme: Education for all (P); Rural services and infrastructure (P); Gender
                            (S); Other social protection and risk management (S); Social risk
                            mitigation (S)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 05/15/1995                                     Effective: 10/13/1996                10/13/1996
     Appraisal: 02/19/1996                                         MTR: 11/10/1999                  11/10/1999
      Approval: 06/06/1996                                      Closing: 06/30/2003                 06/30/2003



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          GOI/Ministry of Human Resource Development; GOI/Department of Elementary
                                           Education
                      Other Partners:      Government of The Netherlands financed the Gujarat component

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Praful Patel                                   D. Joseph Wood
Country Director:               Michael F. Carter                              Heinz Vergin
Sector Director:                Charles C. Griffin                             Richard Lee Skolnik
Team Leader at ICR:             Susan E. Hirshberg                             Adrian Verspoor
ICR Primary Author:             Susan E. Hirshberg


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        S
                      Sustainability:      L
   Institutional Development Impact:       SU
                 Bank Performance:         S
            Borrower Performance:          S


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry:                                  S
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: No
QAG Quality at Entry review not available at beginning of project. Assessment against QAG criteria made in text.

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:
At the time of independence, India's literacy rate was between 15-17 percent. Between 1951 and 1991 the
country made great strides, raising literacy rates from 18.8 percent to 52.2 percent. As impressive an
achievement as this was, India was having difficulties expanding the primary education system to keep up
with population growth, and was not able to achieve the economic growth or poverty reduction seen in
other countries where investments in education had been higher.

Education is a "concurrent" or shared responsibility of the central and state governments. In this
partnership, the central government's role is to set policy, stimulate innovation, and create a planning
framework. Up until 1986, the states were responsible for the financing and provision of primary
education. That year, a National Education Policy (NEP) was developed (revised in 1992). With the
policy came a central government commitment to finance a portion of development expenditure in the
primary education subsector. Presently, the states finance approximately ninety percent of public
expenditure in primary education, and the remaining ten percent is provided through Centrally Sponsored
Schemes (CSS). Although contributing only a fraction of public expenditure in the subsector, the central
government has significant influence over policy and programs through its constitutional mandate, and
through the design and financing of CSS, including the District Primary Education Program (DPEP).

DPEP began in 1994 after a pilot in the largest state, Uttar Pradesh, with a multi-state project in seven
states and 42 districts, with the GOI financing 85 percent of the program through donor financing, and the
states contributing 15 percent. The program grew to consist of seven Bank-funded projects totaling $1.3
billion, along with states and districts funded by the European Commission (EC), the U.K. Department for
International Development (DFID), the Royal Government of the Netherlands, and UNICEF. The broader
program has covered 271 low literacy districts in 18 states, served approximately 30 million children and
created 63,000 schools, including more than 50,000 alternative, or community schools. This
Implementation Completion Report covers DPEP II, comprised of 11 states (bifurcated to 12 in 2000),
seven of which were included in DPEP I, and 92 districts.

                                   Bank-Financed District Primary Education Projects

                                      # of States                # of Districts          Closing Date             Amount ($ million)
  DPEP I                                     7                        42                June 30, 2003                    260.3
  DPEP II                                (7) + 5                      92                June 30, 2003                    425.2
  DPEP III (Bihar and                        2                        17              September 30, 2004                 152.0
Jharkhand)
Andhra Pradesh (under                        1                        14                March 31, 2004                   137.4
APERP)
  Rajasthan DPEP I                           1                        10              December 31, 2004                   85.7
  UP DPEP III                                1                        42              September 30, 2005                 182.4
  Rajasthan DPEP II                          1                         9              December 31, 2006                   74.4
Total                                                                                                                  $1.3 billion
* In addition to these 17 states, districts in West Bengal are financed by DFID. Post DPEP I and II, remaining states and
districts in DPEP will include Bihar, Jharkhand, Andhra Pradesh, Rajasthan, Uttar Pradesh, Uttaranchal, financed by the Bank;
Gujarat financed by the Netherlands; and West Bengal and Orissa financed by DFID.


The objectives of DPEP II were to build on the experience gained in the Uttar Pradesh Basic Education
Project (UPBEP), DPEP I and sector work being conducted at the time of preparation. It sought to build
national, state, district and subdistrict capacity to plan for and manage primary education and support state



                                                                 - 2 -

 and district activities aimed at improving access to and the quality of primary education. The expected
 outcomes were improved retention, decreased dropout and increased learning achievement, particularly for
 economically and socially disadvantaged groups including girls, Scheduled Caste (SC), Scheduled Tribe
 (ST), minority children and children with mild to moderate disabilities. The program, implemented
 according to the GOI's DPEP Guidelines, embedded solid principles of decentralization and community
 participation. The project objectives, in institutional and pedagogical terms, were conceived as an
 extension of ongoing and tested strategies. One salient feature of the program was to restrict financing of
 management costs to six percent and civil works to 24 percent, raised to 33 percent when a district had
 expended half the allocation for quality inputs and processes. This cost structure assured a focus on
 schools, learning and communities.

 3.2 Revised Objective:
 NA

 3.3 Original Components:
Building State Institutional Capacity: by (i) strengthening the state program management structures through
State Implementation Societies (SIS) to carry out project management, establish Education Management
Information Systems (EMIS), plan, monitor implementation and finances, and supervise districts in
developing Annual Work Plans and Budgets (AWPB); (ii) improving instructional materials development
and production; (iii) strengthening state level institutions such as the State Councils for Educational
Research and Training (SCERT) for improving the teaching process; (iv) strengthening state institutions
such as the State Institutes of Educational Management and Training (SIEMT) for carrying out educational
planning and management; and (v) developing capacity for educational research and evaluation.

       Component                                       Appraisal estimate total cost                                             Ratings
                                                                (US$ millions)
                                         Total                        IDA                     States Share
Building State                             7.3                          6.2                           1.1                             S
Institutional Capacity
Improving quality,                       483.0                       410.5                           72.5                             S
improving efficiency
and expanding access
Distance Education                         4.3                        3.65                           0.65                             S
National Management                        1.4                          1.2                    0.20 (GOI)                             S
Total                                    496.0                       421.5                           74.5
 * This does not include a grant from the Royal Netherlands for US$25.8 million to finance DPEP II in Gujarat, which with the state share comes to a
 total program cost of US $513.9 million

 Improving the Quality of, Reducing Dropout from, and Expanding Access to Primary Education: or two
 subcomponents. The first was to improve the quality of primary education through (i) establishing district
 and subdistrict institutions to decentralize planning, managing and delivery of education, including teacher
 support and materials development through Block Resource Centers (BRC) and Cluster Resource Centers
 (CRC), strengthening the District Institutes of Education and Training (DIET), targeted interventions for
 girls, SC, ST, and children with mild to moderate disabilities, and expansion of Early Childhood Education
 (ECE). The second component was to improve student access to and retention in primary education by
 supporting school and community organizations, constructing new classrooms and improving existing
 school facilities, developing alternative and flexible schooling modalities, and carrying out awareness
 campaigns on the importance of education, especially for the special focus, vulnerable groups.

 Developing a Distance Education Program: by developing a decentralized, state-based service to support



                                                                       - 3 -

ongoing inservice teacher and other training activities. The component built on existing capacities at the
national level to develop capacity at the local levels by financing technical assistance, training, workshops,
study tours, production of distance learning materials, equipment and supplies. This component was added
in recognition of the need to provide additional support to the states, promote inter and intra state learning
and information sharing, and ensure that teacher and district officials were able to contribute their
knowledge to the broader program.

Continuing the National Management Structure Support for DPEP: integrated with the DPEP I structure
to continue and expand the national program management organization established, including the DPEP
Bureau of the Department of Education, GOI, and related governing and support bodies such as the
National Council for Education Research and Training (NCERT) and the National Institute of Education
Planning and Administration (NIEPA). The Bureau and a Technical Support Group (TSG) formed
specifically to provide support to states were responsible for supervision of program implementation,
developing planning and monitoring capacity at the state and district level, providing technical assistance as
required, establishing an Education Management Information System (EMIS), program evaluation and
research, development of teacher inservice training and programs for improved pedagogy, tribal children
education development programs, etc.

The integrated, cascading design -- national institutions supporting the project states that support the
districts which provide direct support to the schools and their communities -- is well suited to the Indian
institutional context. Although project components/subcomponents appear numerous, they form a
well-integrated whole, well linked to the project's objectives. These components/subcomponents were
designed to strengthen existing institutions in the context of ongoing and well-understood policies and
programs -- an important design factor. In this cascade design, each component serves to provide support
for the next one downstream.

3.4 Revised Components:
NA

3.5 Quality at Entry:
At the time of project preparation, no formal Quality at Entry criteria were available. However, the
program can be assessed using the QAG's standards of looking at program design, its relationship to the
overall strategies provided in the Country Assistance Strategy (CAS), and government priorities. Using
this standard, quality at entry is rated satisfactory for the following reasons: (i) solid country ownership of
the program as indicated in the national policies, increased central expenditure in the subsector, and their
role in the monitoring and supervision of the program; (ii) the firm grounding of the project design in
ongoing and well-studied national policies, programs, processes and institutions, thereby ensuring national
(GOI, state and district) ownership of the project; (iii) the focus on outcomes as attested to by (a) the
monitoring indicators and (b) the development of capacities for policy and program adjustments based on
information from educational management information systems, and the research and evaluation studies
built into the project; (iv) the focus on the quality of education viewed in terms of student learning
outcomes; and (v) the high degree of integration with other donor-funded projects supporting the same
policies and programs. As stated above, this project was built firmly upon the foundations laid by the Uttar
Pradesh Basic Education Project, DPEP I and other donor-financed programs such as Shiksha Karmi, Lok
Jumbish (Swedish International Development Association and now DFID), Basic Education Project
(UNICEF) and the Andhra Pradesh Primary Education Project (DFID). The lack of detailed district-based
educational statistics at the beginning of the project has made effective measurement of outcomes and the
ability to analyze the impact of DPEP controlling for other interventions problematic. The design
attempted to mitigate this weakness by establishing the systems for monitoring and evaluation from the



                                                        - 4 -

school to national levels in the context of DPEP.

At the country level, there was a working draft CAS, which stressed the importance of promoting growth
by investing in human development interventions that increase literacy and education achievement. In
particular, it called for stimulating the demand for schooling and increasing the quantitative (buildings and
teacher numbers) and qualitative (focus on learning outcomes and appropriate inputs) capacities to meet
this demand, with special attention to girls. The current CAS (2000) and its update of 2002 further
highlight the need for decentralization of service delivery mechanisms to reach the poorest communities,
and the need for increased beneficiary participation. Both of these strategies have been embedded in DPEP
since the beginning.

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
DPEP II has been successful having in aggregate achieved, and in some areas surpassed, its targets of
increasing access to, participation in, and the quality of primary education as measured by increased
achievement (each discussed below). The real lessons in the context of a large, multistate project are found
in the variation across districts within states, across states, and across the program. Therefore, while some
states and districts achieved or surpassed the expected outcomes, there are some which have shown
significantly weaker performance. For example, considerable progress was made in increasing enrollments
and reducing gender/social gaps in Madhya Pradesh and Karnataka, but Orissa actually witnessed a decline
in enrollment rates while at the time the primary school cohort increased. Of all DPEP I and II states, Uttar
Pradesh stands out as having the most significant increase in girls' participation. Completion rates
improved more in DPEP I than in DPEP II. The achievement data illustrates that, like enrollment data,
aggregated results reveal a highly mixed picture of DPEP strengths and weaknesses. This variability could
be seen as a limitation in the project design -- or the interpretation of the design: the DPEP Guidelines
provided for standard objectives and as such they could not perhaps account for the differences in capacity
of participating states and districts, although they provide for some flexibility in setting broad targets.
Setting differential baselines and expectations could have enhanced design.

Improving access and equity. The objective to improve access, retention and completion rates while
achieving equality among girls, SC and ST children is central to DPEP. Enrollments increased 18.9
percent, or by 2,183,000, across DPEP II districts, although the Gross Enrollment Rate (GER) data
suggest DPEP II districts witnessed more moderate gains than DPEP I. Girls' enrollment increased 24.9
percent, SC children by 19.1 percent and ST children by 20.42 percent. Of the total number of children
identified with mild to moderate disabilities, 77 percent were mainstreamed into schools. Substantial
progress has been made in increasing enrollment in the states of Karnataka and Madhya Pradesh, the latter
in large part due to the introduction of an innovative Education Guarantee Scheme (EGS) for
community-based education and which the state used DPEP funds to support. However many districts did
not achieve the goal of reducing gaps to less than five percent in the participation of SCs and STs,
particularly in the case of scheduled tribe children, where their enrollments are proportionately lower in
districts with high ST populations. There has been a slight drop in enrollments after the mid-term in some
states which needs more examination. A preliminary review by NIEPA provides a mixed picture. Some
evidence suggests that one reason for the drop in absolute numbers may be the result of slowed population
growth in states such as Tamil Nadu and Kerala. Another possible reason, albeit more difficult to quantify
at present, is greater efficiency of the system: there is a reduction in under- and over-age children in the
system, and children seem to be completing the cycle in a shorter period of time. Studies of the private
sector have revealed a large growth in enrollments of unrecognized schools, which are not included in
government statistics. Until more accurate data are available, which is likely once the 2001 National



                                                       - 5 -

Census is officially issued, the factors underlying these declines in enrollment cannot be well understood.

Emphasis on enrollment numbers rather than enrollment rates may not have created an accurate picture of
the status of primary education participation. Enrollment numbers do not capture (i) whether children are
actually attending school, (ii) private school enrollments, or (iii) provide an adequate baseline for assessing
participation since there is poor documentation of the number of out-of-school children. Furthermore,
distribution of teachers and other resources rely on enrollments, witnessed at times to distort incentives for
schools to inflate the numbers. For future programs, it would be advisable to use enrollment rates and
include all government, aided and private school information in order to capture a realistic picture of
participation. Furthermore, it is preferable to use Net Enrollment Rates (NER) than GER. The National
Family Heath Surveys in 1992/3 and 1998/9 reveal the same trends that the DPEP EMIS data generated.
The next National Family Health Survey would contain valuable information, newer data and trend
analysis over the ten years of 1993/93 - 2002/03 which would inform the all India follow-on program
Sarva Shiksha Abhiyan (Education for All or SSA).

Dropout rates were expected to decline to less than ten percent and completion rates increase to over 90
percent of all children enrolled. Available evidence reveals that gender disparities in dropout rates have
been successfully reduced in about three quarters of DPEP II districts, but the majority of districts have not
been successful in reducing dropout from primary school to less than ten percent, whether using EMIS data
calculations or the few available cohort studies. According to one study, only 16 percent of districts
achieved the DPEP target. Furthermore, while dropout has reduced in Kerala (to 1.5 percent), Tamil Nadu
(to 9.6 percent) and Himachal Pradesh (to 10.8 percent), in Assam and Uttar Pradesh it is well over 40
percent. Other states range between 10 to 40 percent, with average drop out remaining around 30 percent.
This begs the question of whether the objective of reducing dropout rates to less than ten percent across all
states and districts in six years was realistic -- particularly since the increases in enrollments were driven by
hard-to-reach children and first generation learners.

Improvements in repetition rates were more modest in DPEP I than in DPEP II where overall repetition
declined from 9 percent to 6.3 percent. However, some states showed great improvement such as Assam,
where repetition rates decreased from 33 percent to 20 percent by 2001. Completion rates were measured
towards the end of the program at the recommendation of the bi-annual Joint Review Missions (JRMs).
Although accurate measurement of completion requires more attention, the available cohort studies reveal
wide disparities in completion rates: Karnataka is about 68 percent, Tamil Nadu 53 percent, but about 15
percent of schools in the program have completion rates of less than 30 percent. As with other outcome
targets, the differing dropout and completion results across states indicate that it would be more reasonable
for future programs to set differential targets determined by adequate baselines.

Improving instruction and boosting achievement: DPEP II achieved its objectives with regards to
achievement in the aggregate. Average mathematics and language test scores increased over time for
students in both Class 1 and Class 3/4. Three years of program implementation boosted scores 40 percent
over the baseline in mathematics and 23 percent over the baseline in language for Class 1, and 18 percent
in mathematics and 15 percent in language for Class 3/4. The additional years, from 2000 to 2003,
yielded another 13 percent and 12 percent increase over the midterm in Class 1 mathematics and language,
and 23 percent and 16 percent in mathematics and language for Class 3/4 respectively. Because the
baseline and end-term test instruments were different, although significantly correlated, it is not possible to
compile these percentage increases across the full six years of the program. It is also important to note that
there is great variability and a wide ranges in scores between Class 1 gains and Class 3/4, between DPEP I
and II, and among states and districts. For example, in class 1 language only one district out of six or eight
in Assam and Chhattisgarh respectively showed significant improvement in test scores, while 17 out of 18


                                                        - 6 -

districts in Uttar Pradesh and all districts in Gujarat did. A mean score of between 75 - 85 percent on class
one mathematics was found in the majority of districts, while it is closer to 45 - 50 percent in class 3 or 4
mathematics. Raipur district in Chhattisgarh saw an overall decline in scores between the Baseline
Achievement Survey and the Terminal Achievement Survey, while some districts witnessed a more than
100 percent gain. In a few districts ST children outperformed all other groups, while in aggregate they lag
behind in overall gains. All of these could use more analysis of the cause in order to address remedies for
increasing learning for all children.

Across the program, gender differences in achievement are negligible: for girls in the general category who
attend school, their achievement is usually roughly the same, or in some cases higher, than boys.
Differences between the SC and ST children's scores and that of the general population were also reduced
in aggregate, but ST children did not benefit from program interventions as much as girls and SCs.

Building Capacity to Plan and Manage Primary Education at the National, State, District and Local
Levels: At all levels there is greater capacity to plan for and manage primary education development with
established monitoring systems, regular development of annual work plans, and focus on schools and
teachers unseen prior to DPEP. The development of data collection systems and MIS capability under
DPEP has improved access to education statistics. Information covering a broad range of indicators is now
routinely collected at the district and school level to support better planning by the state and assist in
measuring impact and results. In addition, DPEP has generated the following qualitative outcomes:

l strengthened and reinforced the commitment of the GOI to continuing involvement in the primary
    subsector, as evidenced by the follow-on program, SSA
l created a culture of monitoring, research and evaluation at national, state and district levels (including
    EMIS) which were not present on a broad scale earlier
l shifted the focus to quality through its teacher training, introduction of new pedagogy, and by
    establishing structures at the block and cluster levels to support teaching and learning
l served as a catalyst in building awareness at the grassroots level of the importance of education, broad
    involvement of community groups and parents.

Overall, less analysis has been done on the impact of DPEP on the wider education system and
teaching/learning processes than on measuring its outcomes related to access, enrollments, retention and
achievement. In fact, several JRMs, the supervision mechanism conducted with participation all DPEP
financing agencies and the GOI, have suggested more systematic monitoring of the impact of DPEP on
quality processes, institutional capacity and how sustainable the interventions will be. Anecdotal evidence
suggests that DPEP, despite its funds only being around two percent of total expenditures on primary
education, has had considerable impact on the system as a whole. For example, the concept of "joyful
learning' and changes in the pedagogy can be seen system wide in some states. Kerala, after some
controversy, decided to adopt the textbooks revised under DPEP and its teaching methodology across the
state. Gujarat established CRCs in the twelve non-DPEP districts, and Uttar Pradesh has committed to
financing BRCs and CRCs post project. Village Education Committees (VEC) and School Management
Committees (SMC) structures are also widely utilized. The broader impact of DPEP can be seen, if not
always measured, at this point in time.

4.2 Outputs by components:
A. Building state and district institutional capacity:
US$7.3 million

This component is rated satisfactory. It consisted of improving planning and management of elementary



                                                       - 7 -

education, textbook development and production, and research and evaluation.

Improved planning and management: Much of the focus of planning and management in DPEP has been
the adequate staffing of state project and district/subdistrict offices, the development and use of Annual
Work Plans and Budgets (AWPBs), establishing State Institutes for Educational Management and
Training, and the EMIS.

The semi-autonomous State Implementation Societies (Societies) that managed the program and the flow of
funds to the districts could be identified as contributing to the success of DPEP, particularly for their role
in facilitating smooth flow of funds. Although criticized for being "parallel structures" by some, they
deliberately included the Ministers and Secretaries of Education in each state in program planning,
monitoring and decision making. The Societies were by and large adequately staffed over the course of the
project, although some states witnessed frequent staff transfers which affected project activity. The
District Project Offices (DPO) efficiently managed all project activities in the districts. Their integration
with the existing District Education Office and structures varied from state to state. In the all India
follow-on program, SSA, some states have merged the DPOs into established district education offices,
whereas in other states they remain as 'parallel structures.'

DPEP implementation began with a perspective plan that covered the entire project period, updated and
revised annually through the AWPBs. Previously, such long-range plans were not commonplace in India,
especially at the district level. The quality of the plans has been uneven across the states depending on the
extent to which the national Technical Support Group (TSG) provided training, district and local
beneficiaries participated in the process and analysis of existing information, activities and indicators.
Nevertheless, DPEP has introduced at all levels the concept of reflective and deliberate planning toward
reaching specific outcomes. SSA plans to sustain and strengthen this process of local level planning.

State level technical support institutions were consistently involved in the project, although again the role
and efficacy of State Councils of Educational Research and Training (SCERTs) and the State Institutes of
Educational Management and Training (SIEMATs) vary from state to state. In all states the SCERTs have
been directly involved in training and textbook revision. SIEMATs, established in DPEP, are autonomous
in some states and part of government in others. Maharastra, Assam and Haryana have established
SIEMATs under the government umbrella and in Tamil Nadu, Karnataka and Kerala, the roles and
functions have been absorbed into the State Project Office (SPO). State level technical assistance and the
involvement of District Institutes for Educational Training (DIETs) at the district level have proven to be a
weak link in the program, mentioned in the majority of JRM Aide-Memoires, and will require concerted
capacity building and development in SSA. The increasing decentralization where states are assuming
direct responsibility for the planning and management of education suggests the need for further
strengthening of the SIEMATs in the areas of policy support and implementation analysis.

Improved textbook development and production: DPEP, which supported the textbook revision process
until the production of camera-ready copies, was responsible for a new approach to textbooks and other
learning materials. The effort by states to improve textbooks was a long and complicated process that
required policy discussions, expert input, teacher input, field trials, and mass production. These efforts
appear to have addressed some of the weaknesses in previous textbooks including appropriate levels of
difficulty and textbooks with larger type, fewer words to a page, and more illustrations. The early grades
now include school and reading readiness activities that help children enjoy school tasks without the
pressure of performance. These changes grew out of and supported the project philosophy that learning
should be child-centered, activity-based, and 'joyful.' Books have been reviewed for gender sensitivity, and
demonstrated improvement in this area. Some review of textbooks to determine the relevance of content to


                                                       - 8 -

the lives and culture of SC and ST children may perhaps be undertaken.

Improved education research and evaluation: The collection, maintenance and analysis of critical data
related to education in EMIS is an important, but yet to be perfected outcome of DPEP. EMIS is grounded
in the District Information Systems for Education (DISE), perceived by some project officials as DPEP's
major contribution. The use of DISE data has been expanded beyond DPEP districts under SSA in order
to for states to be able to provide comprehensive information on education. The numerous studies
produced at the national and state levels also demonstrate the role the project played in shifting education
planning and policy making to a more empirical base. The introduction of sample-based assessments of
student learning was carried out, though it is not clear how the results of these data and achievement tests
are being used for feedback into pedagogical renewal. Nonetheless, it is clear that a culture of collecting
and using data has permeated all levels of the education system covered by DPEP. Villages have now
begun to maintain databases in the form of Village Education Registers that are updated every year.

Despite the successes of developing capacity for research, monitoring and evaluation, concern has been
expressed that monitoring research and evaluation have been one of the weakest areas of DPEP. In
absolute terms, especially the quality of production and how it is used, this may well be the case. But if
looked at in evolutionary terms compared to pre-DPEP, it appears that (i) clear progress has been made,
but (ii) concern for the quality and usability of data and research needs to be continually addressed.

B(i). Improving access and reducing dropout in primary education; and (ii) Improving the quality of
primary education:
US$292.9 million and US$190.1 million

The project is rated satisfactory for this component. With the highest allocation, this component included
improved instruction through establishing BRCs and CRCs, facilitators and inservice teacher training,
materials development, civil works, community mobilization and the introduction of early childhood
education.

Improving instruction: Improving instruction consisted of strengthening DIETs, the setting up of BRCs
and CRCs, providing systematic inservice training, providing Rs. 500 teacher grants per teacher per year
for the development of instructional aids, and Rs. 2500 per school to the VEC or SMC for school
improvement activities. The strengthening of DIETs has been difficult in project states, in part because
financial support for these institutions did not come directly from DPEP but from the GOI through another
CSS, and in part because they are widely perceived to have less relevance and ownership by the district
authorities. Nevertheless, the functioning and involvement of DIETs have improved considerably over the
project period in a few states. More recently, the departments are now merged at the GOI level and GOI
has entered into a Memorandum of Understanding with states to develop DIETs as key educational
institutions.

All DPEP I and II states have established BRCs and CRCs to assist in pedagogical renewal in project
districts. Most have also decided to continue them beyond the project period. In addition to training
provided at DIETs and BRCs, regular teacher support was initiated at the CRCs and at the school site.
CRC coordinators organized training, usually one day each month at the center, and visited schools to
observe and help teachers internalization and implement the new instructional model.

The training of teachers is a very significant part of DPEP. Prior to DPEP, teachers had few professional
development opportunities over the course of their teaching career. The program ensured that all teachers
underwent at least one round of training per year, ranging from 3 to 20 days and including a range of topics


                                                       - 9 -

such as joyful learning, child-centered instruction, the use of instructional aids, subject content training,
gender sensitization, and multigrade instruction. As the use of parateachers -- or untrained contract
teachers -- grew across DPEP II states, they were provided 40 days of initial training and 30 days per year
afterwards. The organization of training indicates that states need to be supported in their analysis of
issues such as what would be the optimum length of teacher training and at what intervals should the
training be provided, what would be the appropriate content of the training and the practicalities of training
thousands of teacher within a short period.

The impact of the substantial investment in inservice training in the classroom is a question that needs to be
addressed. Classroom observation studies have revealed a significant shift in the teaching and learning
environment towards more comfortable classrooms with the presence of supplemental materials and
blackboards, bringing what an EC report considered a "sea change in the teaching patterns and classroom
situation." Students across DPEP classrooms are clearly less fearful accompanied by a friendlier
teacher-student relationship and reduced use of corporal punishment by the teacher. Teachers appear to
have made use of the Rs. 500 grant for constructing instructional aids. However, state evaluations of
classroom practices show that the teaching methods and new pedagogy have not necessarily been
internalized by the majority of teachers who often continue to use the traditional pattern of instruction
which emphasizes rote memorization. Some evaluations show children asking more questions, teachers
giving more positive feedback, and children receiving individual attention. Others find that traditional,
hierarchical teacher-student relationships and teachers' behaviors have changed little. Moreover, the
improvements made so far provide support to instruction in Classes 1 and 2, but teachers in Classes 3 and
above need a deeper understanding of teaching and learning higher order thinking skills. It could be said
that inservice training's heavy emphasis on the motivational dimensions and the use of instructional aids
during training did not pay sufficient attention to the development of learning over the school year.

Civil works: Provision of physical infrastructure, including new schools and classrooms, major and minor
repairs of schools, shelters for alternative schools, water supply, toilets, BRCs and CRCs was an important
contribution of DPEP. Initially it was decided that only 24 percent of program expenditure would go to
civil works to emphasize the importance of quality inputs and processes. In 1999, however, a JRM agreed
that because of the high need and demand for facilities, those districts which had spent half their allocations
for quality improvements could raise the civil works allocation 33 percent. Guided by National Cross
Sharing Workshops and the innovation fund available in the project, low cost and creative designs and
construction were introduced across all DPEP states, which the states could adapt to local needs and
available materials. The TSG played an important role in terms of sustained guidance and generation of
information on low cost and context specific technology to the states. Their effort altered the conventional
orientation and mind set of state and district officials and junior engineers. In most states, local
communities, either the VEC or SMC, were responsible for overseeing construction of schools and
classrooms, supervised regularly by junior engineers. This further brought down the unit cost of
construction and avoided complex procurement procedures which has often delayed project implementation
in Bank-financed programs.

BRCs and CRCs were constructed across all districts in DPEP II. DPEP expected to create 852,000 new
student places through the construction of approximately 21,100 classroom and repairs of 13,900 existing
classrooms. These targets were achieved. It has facilitated the design of creative child friendly classrooms,
transforming the traditional box design to include octagonal shaped classrooms, blackboards at the
students' level, smooth flooring, better lighting and ventilation, and verandahs. More thought could have
been given to ensuring that the number and size of classrooms constructed were appropriate for the school
population of a particular area, restricted due to the standardization inherent in the adoption of the national
DPEP Guidelines.


                                                      - 10 -

The project aimed to finance school water and sanitation civil works (toilets and water supply) in about
20,350 schools and has fulfilled these targets in most states. These facilities represent a doubling of the
facilities available since the project began, but the presence and use of toilets (critical for girls'
participation) and drinking water facilities remains insufficient compared to the need. Despite achieving
project targets, more remains to be done in the area of school repairs and basic physical facilities.

Developing Community Involvement: The community mobilization in DPEP originally had two
dimensions. The first dimension was building awareness of communities through the media, print materials
and mobilization activities to understand the importance of primary education and persuade them to send
their children to school. The second dimension was to establish or revive existing community level
structures. The project supported training, technical assistance, and funding to local education support
organizations (VECs and, in later years, Panchayati Raj Institutions) and user groups (SMC, Parent
Teacher Associations, and Mother Teacher Associations). Local organizations were trained to manage
school construction, and to support enrollment and student attendance in school. VECs and SMCs were
also given Rs. 2500 per schools as a grant to be used for school improvement activities.

Later in the program, communities began to play a most critical role in primary schooling: Alternative
Schooling (AS) and employing locally selected parateachers became a strong trend across India in the latter
half of the 1990s for two reasons. First, they are a key strategy in many states to provide education
opportunities to underserved villages and children. Second, they reduce the costs of education provision as
the states' systems expand rapidly. The assumptions that underpin the choice of AS are that: (i) the
schools are flexible, community owned, and closer to the children than formal schools so parents are more
likely to send their children to school; (ii) parateachers hired under performance-based contracts are more
accountable to the communities and more likely to be present and perform well; and (iii) they will be more
sustainable in a system where the salary bill consumes 95 to 97 percent of recurrent costs. Parateacher
appointments vary: some are used to fill the positions of regular teachers, some only in
community/alternative schools. Qualifications also vary from 8th grade pass to 12th grade graduate. Since
DPEP began, more than 67,000 community schools of different types have opened and several hundred
thousand parateachers have been employed across DPEP districts both in government schools and AS. In
each DPEP project, a growing percentage have been funded by the program. In DPEP II, Madhya
Pradesh, through its EGS, has been the largest employer of parateachers. The state has begun a serious
evaluation of the scheme and results are encouraging regarding teacher absenteeism, achievement, and
attendance. It is a unique model which has provided considerable support to all teachers. Other states have
not integrated parateachers in the same way. In some states, parateachers are not provided with monthly
meetings at CRCs or other inservice, onsite support.

In summary, across well-performing DPEP districts, and at its best, parents and other adults now have a
much greater awareness of the importance of primary education for all children, and local leaders express
specific goals for improvement of primary education in their area. In many states, schools now make
efforts to keep records of out-of-school and preschool children and track their enrollment and attendance
with the assistance of VECs and user groups. Many communities have developed feelings of ownership for
the schools, which has led to greater involvement of community leaders and parents, exhibited for example,
by the appropriate use of the school improvement grants, in the provision of in-kind assistance to school
construction and maintenance or, when a teacher is absent, serving as substitute teachers. These local
support networks could be strengthened and their efforts expanded to target transition and completion of
upper primary school students. Most of these local support networks have not yet focused on monitoring
teacher attendance and none that the ICR mission observed are addressing issues of student learning.




                                                      - 11 -

There is evidence, including a Comptroller Auditor General report in 2001, which found pockets where this
level of community involvement and awareness was lacking, facilities remained scattered and/or in
disrepair, and teacher absenteeism persisted. An evaluation of the root cause of the success or failure of
the districts to reach and support all communities would benefit the ability of India to reach its goals of
universal elementary education.

Early Childhood Care and Education: The strategy adopted by DPEP was to "converge" with the
Integrated Child Development scheme (ICDS), the major Centrally Sponsored program used by the project
states for early childhood development. DPEP provided funding to extend the hours at these centers so that
the timings were coordinated with school hours, which allowed girls who care for younger siblings to
attend. In addition, ICDS only functions in villages with a population of 1000 or more, so DPEP set up
ECE programs in smaller villages or hamlets by providing an instructor and instructional kits. Success of
the ECE centers has varied, and requires more evaluation. Some states and districts have observed better
retention and pass rates of children who attended an early childhood program, and better retention of girls
whose younger siblings were cared for in an ICDS or ECE center. Concerns have been raised about
whether (i) the DPEP interventions at ICDS centers would be sustained after the closing of DPEP, or (ii)
instructors received adequate training and support to meet children's developmental needs.

C. Distance Education:
US$4.3 million

The Distance Education Program (DEP) was intended to provide decentralized, state-based service
approach to assist states in developing distance learning plans and programs, conduct annual meetings in
each state to review progress, prepare materials for workshops in the DPEP states using a variety of media
including print, video, and radio; provide states with hands-on training, finance production of materials,
and train persons and institutions in delivery of distance education programs. After initial delays in
developing and implementing distance education programs and support systems, the GOI contracted the
Indira Gandhi Open University (IGNOU), the country's largest and most experienced distance learning
institute, to support the program in DPEP in conjunction with the National Council for Educational
Research and Training (NCERT). The component was successful in developing teaching and learning
materials using self-learning print, audio cassettes and CDs, providing support for script writers and
resource persons, establishing a database of teachers trained, providing materials and support to state level
institutions, and teleconferencing. It was successful in catering to the needs of trainers at the block and
cluster level, providing physical infrastructure for teleconferencing and internet access to all 18 DPEP
states, and using radio broadcast and phone-in programs in three of the DPEP II states of Himachal
Pradesh, Karnataka and Maharashtra, which catered to more than 16 million children and teachers in
60,000 schools. Other states used the DEP's radio broadcast programming on a smaller scale. Overall, this
component is rated satisfactory.

D. National Management Structure Support for DPEP:
US$1.4 million

This component can be rated satisfactory. It basically supplemented DPEP I's support to the Elementary
Education Bureau and its work. It has been described in detail in the DPEP I ICR since Phase I financed
US$20.5 million for establishing the Bureau, TSG, building capacity of national institutions to provide
technical services, monitoring and evaluation, national trainings, and international cooperation. In
summary, there is no doubt that the Bureau, together with national level institutions, has played a
significant role in introducing states to the different project activities such as textbook revision, data
collection, inservice teacher training, establishing and training community support groups and so on


                                                      - 12 -

through workshops, and state-based and national seminars. There was resistance on the part of the GOI to
further international cooperation due to the perception of its limited impact. On the one hand, the fact that
the GOI was conscious of the need to prevent misuse of international trips, scholarships and study tours is
highly commendable. On the other, it has been argued that instead of rejecting international cooperation, a
more appropriate stance for GOI would have been to allow more exposure through external interactions or
bringing highly qualified expertise in to understand international trends and developments in the different
areas of project activity and to incorporate elements according to its utility and appropriateness for the
Indian context.

The absence of a full, third party evaluation of the National Component renders complete analysis of its
impact unfeasible.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
Economic benefits: Rates of return to investment in human capital are high in India. In a study published
in 2000, estimates of the return to primary education in India were about eight percent, while return to
secondary education is approximately 17 percent, college education 12 percent, and a technical diploma or
certificate 15 percent. Under fairly modest assumptions of project impact on human capital, DPEP II has
the potential to yield substantial economic benefits. In the lowest case scenario, where earnings increase by
only Rs. 2,400 per year and a mere 10 percent of students benefit from the project, the rate of return is over
9 percent. In the highest case scenario, where earnings increase by Rs. 3,600 per year and 20 percent of
students are assumed to have benefited from the project, the rate of return rises to nearly 20 percent. These
estimates do not take into account the impact on human capital of children who move on beyond primary
schooling to middle and higher levels of education, nor the effect on school enrolment and learning of future
student cohorts who would benefit from the project investments in human resource development, physical
capital, capacity building and institutional strengthening. The actual impact of the project, if all these
factors are taken into account, is likely to be substantially higher and the return on the project
correspondingly greater. Furthermore, the higher productivity of beneficiaries will raise their labor
earnings, and assuming these beneficiaries are drawn mainly from poor households, this will contribute to
reducing poverty and promoting social mobility in the future.

Social benefits: Externality benefits of education are also clearly evident in India. Maternal education, for
instance, has a powerful effect on reducing infant and child mortality. Rajna et al (1998) estimate that the
risk of infant and child mortality among children of mothers with basic education is about half that among
children of uneducated mothers. Educated mothers are more likely to seek ante-natal care and attended
births, reducing the risk of maternal mortality and low birth weight, and increasing neonatal and post-natal
care, which reduces the probability of infant and child mortality. Govindasamy and Ramesh (1998)
estimate that the probability of child vaccination among primary educated mothers is about 142 percent
greater than the probability of child vaccination among uneducated mothers. Similarly, primary educated
mothers are 74 percent more likely to treat their children appropriately for water-borne diseases, and 32
percent more likely to utilize modern health care services for their children. These result in better family
health, with children of educated mothers enjoying significantly lower levels of morbidity. Maternal
education also plays an important role in reducing undernutrition. Educated women are found to have
substantially better weaning, food preparation and home hygiene practices. And educated mothers have
greater fertility control, enabling them to limit family size and space birth order to reflect household
economic circumstances.

The project will also generate benefits through spillover effects into the Indian education system. State
level officials have noted that implementing SSA is easier in DPEP districts than in non-DPEP districts.
Empowered local level school committees, more socially appropriate textbooks, and trained teachers with



                                                      - 13 -

sensitivity to the needs of disadvantaged students will also enhance the social benefits of the program.
During the ICR mission, both public officials and representatives of civil society repeatedly stated that
DPEP has contributed to a deep appreciation of the value and importance of basic education, both in policy
circles and at grass roots levels. See Annex 3 for a full discussion.

4.4 Financial rate of return:
N/A

Investment per student: DPEP has achieved important results in increasing access, bridging the gender
gap, and improving efficiency and outcomes at a fairly low investment level. Total Bank investment for
DPEP II reached $483 million, including state contributions, and covered nearly 20 million primary school
students. The immense coverage of DPEP I and II yielded an investment per student of $43 during the
eight years duration of the program and slightly over $5 per year. Investment per year in DPEP I ($7.4)
was much higher than the rate for DPEP II ($4.5). This was mainly due to the large coverage of students
under DPEP II (economies of scale) compared to DPEP I and lower establishment costs at the state level in
the seven states where DPEP I was already being implemented. DPEP II covered nearly 10 million more
students than DPEP I. There have been wide variations among the unit costs across the projects' states.
High unit costs were found in Himachal Pradesh ($19), Haryana ($12), and Assam ($10), whereas the rest
of the states had a unit cost around the average of $5. States like Himachal Pradesh and Assam with
higher unit costs generally have comparatively low coverage of students, a large number of small schools
that are spread out over large rural areas, or other unique characteristics such as mountainous terrain.

4.5 Institutional development impact:
The DPEP program has strengthened a complex institutional fabric whose functions and structures vary
across states, and established institutions to support teaching and learning at the local level. On the whole,
impact has been high. At the national level, effective support provided for the assisted in developing tools
for management and planning such as EMIS and achievement testing. At the state and district levels there
is evidence that the DISE data, despite weaknesses, have spread beyond project districts and that the
culture of using data and studies to inform planning and policy is growing at all levels of the system.
Probably the clearest indicator of the institutional development impact of DPEP is that many institutions
established by DPEP are being sustained and scaled up as the country moves into SSA.

More specifically, DPEP has focused attention on institutions (SCERT and SIEMAT) at the state level that
would support the planning and management of education in the state. The institutional vacuum that
existed at the subdistrict level has been addressed through the establishment of BRCs and CRCs and these
centers have provided pedagogical support to schools and communities. Some states have formally adopted
and established these subdistrict level structures in non-DPEP districts. Like other interventions, as
documented in studies conducted at the state level, the capacity of BRC and CRC facilitators varies widely
depending on the selection process, training, and support from nodal state institutions such as the SCERT.
At the village level local level institutions such as VECs and parent groups are revitalized and enthused
about the importance of education.

The culture of using data and studies to inform planning and policy is growing at all levels of the system.
At the national level, effective support is provided for the development of tools for management and
planning such as EMIS and achievement testing. At the state and district levels, the use of the EMIS has
spread beyond project districts. The relative plethora of data and studies associated with the DPEP
program (at least 180 by one count) attests to the program's commitment to generating data, information
and critical, useable knowledge. Information and knowledge generated by these data and studies has
informed the policy dialogue in education, although both state and national government also recognize the



                                                      - 14 -

limitations of the studies done. SSA will attempt to establish a system whereby institutions across the
country are given the responsibility of quality control of research. Some concerns about institutional
development remain, however. It is not clear that staff whose skills were developed in DPEP in district
offices, BRCs and CRCs will be universally retained in the capacity for which they were trained under
SSA. Experienced BRC and CRC staff are being sent back to their parent departments and replaced with
new program staff supported by SSA. It is hoped that strong ones would be retained for continuity and
knowledge transfer, or at minimum transferred in a phased manner. Also, some contract technical
personnel working for the project in the state and district offices and the resource centers may not remain
within the system once the project and its parallel structures (in some states) are closed. Although the
Societies are regarded as having proven their worth and have been adopted as the implementers of SSA, the
DPEP was unable to address critical issues that are an artifact of establishing societies outside the
Department of Education. The main issue in this regards is the management of the teacher cadre. Since the
project did not pay teachers' salaries, except for parateachers on a declining basis, the commitment of
teachers to project goals and ideals are to a large extent voluntary. While this issue will be addressed in the
SSA at the district level through the merging of project units with the departments of education, integration
varies across states. Finally, questions have arisen in some quarters as to whether DPEP created a parallel
structure of institutions which cannot be sustained. For example, the Societies are seen as a benefit for
flow of funds and keeping the education bureaucracy involved in decision making, but there are questions
regarding their efficacy and whether using them prevents the state systems from being able to improve.
More analysis of this needs to be undertaken. SSA has made a commitment to retaining the structures and
institutions for the next ten years, so that this concern regarding parallel structures has become diminished
for the time being. States' ability to finance them subsequent to the SSA will only be answered in ten years.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
The fiscal crisis and opening of the economy in the early 1990s stimulated the engagement of the GOI with
external financiers for primary education. As the crisis abated and the country witnessed economic
liberalization, increased growth, economic opportunities and information flows, awareness of the
importance of education also grew. It is not possible to separate the impact of DPEP and these other
factors on the positive trend seen in primary education since the beginning of the program.

Since DPEP II became effective in October 1996 and preceded the Loan Administrative Change Initiative
guidelines, no formal financial management assessments of the implementing agency systems and controls
were conducted at the apprasial stage.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
Frequent general and state elections during the program curtailed education development activity.
Normally held every five years, the 1998 and 1999 elections hampered progress. Teachers and other
education officers at the state, district and local levels are deployed for election duty, limiting the number of
school days as well as project implementation.

Stability in staffing at all levels proved to have a positive outcome for the program. For example, in
Madhya Pradesh and Uttar Pradesh, the Secretary/SPD were consistent, developed strong relationships at
all levels in the districts and across the states' bureaucracy, and were able to influence the program and
outcomes in positive ways. In those states where there were frequent transfers or vacant posts, weaker
implementation occurred.

Counterpart funding in some states, notably Assam and Orissa, was erratic and caused delays in



                                                       - 15 -

implementation.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
At the national level, the absence of any evaluation of the performance of the Bureau or TSG hinders full
analysis of major factors, either positive or negative, affecting implementation and outcomes. It is clear
that the Bureau and TSG were highly successful in generating studies (of varying quality) and that they had
significant input into building the capacity of states to plan and implement their programs, particularly in
the early years of the project. Anecdotal evidence suggests that as the program expanded, and particularly
after the Elementary Education Bureau and DPEP Bureaus were merged and Directors became responsible
for multiple tasks, capacity for broad coverage of districts was more limited. This could be seen as a
positive step in the states' building their own capacity for planning, but weaker states may have benefitted
from more direct attention -- which was provided when they slipped so far as to be put in "special watch
status."

Heavy reliance on using technical people from within the system may have limited the rate of pedagogical
change and innovation. However, this may also have contributed to the high degree of internalization of the
program's objectives and processes. Nonetheless, further thought should be given to the optimal balance
between internal expertise and external expert change agents.

5.4 Costs and financing:
The total cost of the project over a seven-year period was estimated at appraisal to be US$534.4 million, of
which US$425.2 million equivalent (SDR 291.7 million) was to be financed by an IDA Credit, US$25.8
million by a Dutch grant and US$83.4 equivalent (Rs. 2,897.5 million) by the GOI/states. The final
disbursement took place on November 25, 2003, at which time SDR 291.7 million (US$388.7 million
equivalent), the original principal amount of the Credit, was fully disbursed; US$22.4 million of Dutch
grant was utilized (87%); and the GOI/state contribution came to US$72.1 million.equivalent (86%). It
should be noted that the difference between appraisal and actual project costs is due to the devaluation of
the Rupee and the fluctuations in the exchange rate of the SDR vis-a-vis the US dollar between the time of
appraisal of the project and the current date. The expenditure of components and categories are detailed in
Annex 2.

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
Overall sustainability has been rated "likely." Sustainability in education reforms in India are a function of
both central and state level commitments to education. The central government has embarked on an
ambitious plan to enroll all children in primary and upper primary by FY2003, and have these children
complete these levels by 2007 and 2010 respectively, through its new flagship elementary education for all
program, the SSA. SSA is a centrally sponsored scheme, which by absorbing all other previously existing
CSS, presents a comprehensive approach to helping India achieve its EFA goals and to implement the
commitment to basic education under the Constitutional Amendment of 2002. It builds on the experiences
of other CSS such as DPEP, Operation Blackboard, etc. The most obvious difference between SSA and
DPEP is that SSA covers the entire country and has been expanded to include upper primary classes.

State level commitment to reforms initiated under DPEP is evidenced by the planned expansion of DPEP
elements into non-DPEP districts in many states, convergence between DPEP and SSA activities and
implementation plans, and the commitment voiced by officials at all levels of the state's elementary
education apparatus during personal interviews. The availability and continuity of staff in core positions is
one of the key determinants of sustainability.




                                                     - 16 -

Decentralization of functions and responsibilities has been a key aspect of the SSA's adoption at the state
level. Planning exercises are initiated at the level of the habitation and then consolidated at higher
geographic and administrative levels. Community involvement is an important factor of SSA's success at
the sub-state level for reaching project goals. A sustained effort to create demand for elementary education
services through community and local involvement has provided the basis for an attempt at ensuring EFA
goals in time bound manner.

To ensure sustainability of DPEP-initiated reform efforts in an SSA environment, structures and systems
arrangements that have proven successful under DPEP, such as State Implementation Societies, have been
retained for implementation of SSA. While the SSA does attempt to provide a comprehensive plan for
service delivery in elementary education, it does so by using the best practices adopted from previous
centrally sponsored schemes.

Fiscal sustainability:
The central and state governments are committed to continue the reforms undertaken by DPEP in primary
education under SSA. It is critical to note that the states will only be able to sustain DPEP expenditures
through the SSA program, and increased plan expenditures through SSA will help sustain the costs of
reform in almost all states. Fiscal sustainability of DPEP was based on projecting budgets between
2002/03 and 2009/10 for each of the DPEP I and II states. The projections were based on the growth rates
of the state's GDP and the ratios of revenue and education expenditure to GDP. Education expenditure
was further divided into salaries and non-salaries to assess the available resources for covering the program
cost.

The 10th Plan central share for SSA is 75 percent, this decreases to 50 percent in the 11th Plan period and
is expected to stay at that level until the objectives of universal primary education are met. The central and
state shares are released in two installments during the fiscal year. The center releases its first installment
amounting to about 50 percent of a states' annual allocation agreed during the Project Approval Board
meeting, and based on the annual work plan. The second installment is released when 50 percent of the
first installment has been utilized. States which have been unable to utilize the central share or are unable
to make the state's first share are not released the second installment or the first installment for the next
fiscal year.

There are wide variations among states in their capacities to cover the SSA program cost from their
non-salary budgets, as between 90 and 97 percent of recurrent expenditure in primary education is
currently spent on salaries. Some states, like Karnataka, are expected to cover the cost of sustained reforms
easier than others, for example, Orissa. The increase in the program cost to a state in 2006/07 reflects the
rise in the state's share from 25 to 50 percent. The figures show that at the end of the projection period the
ratio of cost to non-salary budget would reach 40 percent in Karnataka and 99 percent in Orissa.

Policies such as expanding investment in early childhood education and regularizing parateachers,
especially in states with large number of such teachers (like Madhya Pradesh), will put more pressure on
the states' budgets and may negatively affect program sustainability. Low income states may eventually
need more assistance from the central government and/or donors to sustain their expenditures on elementary
education reform.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
The SSA is currently being implemented across the country. It is expected to merge with state and district
structures, both those created under DPEP but adopted permanently by some states (e.g., BRCs and CRCs
in Uttar Pradesh) and those involved on the periphery of DPEP (e.g., District and Block Education Offices,



                                                       - 17 -

Panchayati Raj Institutions, etc.). The Bank and donors are appraising the proposed program in December
2003 and will likely bring a Sector Wide Approach program to Board during FY2004. An evaluation
regarding the transition and its impact on sustainability is being done as part of SSA project preparation.

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:
To understand the Bank's role in DPEP preparation and implementation, it is essential to understand (i) that
prior to 1990, the GOI had deliberately opted not to seek external financing for primary education; and (ii)
how the World Bank came to be involved in supporting this critical subsector. A series of events in the
early 90s spurred the GOI to invite staff from donor agencies, in their personal capacity rather than their
organizational affiliation, to brainstorm on 'best practice' in primary education development across the
world. Bank staff who had been invited left behind a handbook on preparing World Bank projects. A year
later in fall 1992, they were invited back to "appraise" a proposal prepared by the government of Uttar
Pradesh and the GOI. The Bank staff recognized the proposal as a fully-owned and developed project, for
and by Indians, and provided some additional work and analysis to complete the proposal. This became the
first Bank investment in elementary education, the Uttar Pradesh Basic Education Project (UPBEP), and
the pilot on which the DPEP model would be based. Simultaneously, the fiscal crisis hit, causing the GOI
to look for ways to generate foreign currency, including IDA, and they decided to develop a framework for
engaging with external financiers for primary education. The Central Advisory Board of Education,
comprised of state and federal education ministers and educators, developed these guidelines and the GOI
began exploring follow-on programs to the UPBEP which could be scaled-up to cover primary schooling in
the most disadvantaged districts of the country. From the lessons of the UPBEP and other projects, the
guidelines for what would become DPEP emerged. The GOI, based on the guidelines, established the
DPEP Bureau to support the program. DPEP I was approved in 1994, and DPEP II in June 1996.

The project preceded the Loan Administration Change Initiative, and as such no formal financial
management assessments of the implementing agencies' FM systems and controls were conducted at the
appraisal stage.

Strengths of the Bank team during preparation include (i) continuity of staff and consultants who had
worked on the program over time; (ii) the ability of Bank staff to recognize the strengths and capacities of
the GOI counterparts, GOI policy, and lessons learned; (iii) the good balance and high level of technical
expertise provided; and (iv) the simultaneous conducting of in-depth sector work to learn from early
interventions, improve sector knowledge, and adapt the program accordingly.

7.2 Supervision:
Many of the same traits acknowledged by GOI and state officials as contributing to the positive experience
in the lending phase also helped with a positive supervision experience: consistency or slow transition over
time of staff, high level of technical expertise, flexibility and the ability of the Bank staff to recognize
government's expertise and capacity. A joint supervision of all the DPEP projects, both Bank and other
development partners, was developed to maximize coordination among projects and donors, and minimize
imposition on the GOI and state governments. The joint review mechanism with rotating leadership
responsibilities among development partners was subsequently used in other countries. The state
representatives found the supervision process and the Bank's contribution to be highly supportive to the
states (e.g., getting the state share released, helping them get more attention and technical support by
declaring them "special watch"), which brought international and cross-state expertise and lessons and
provided strong technical input. One former Joint Secretary and representatives from the states claim that
the Bank's focus on outcomes and progress towards objectives helped the borrower and implementing


                                                       - 18 -

agencies make better decisions during preparation and implementation.

Some concerns were expressed that the impact of the JRM over time weakened. The perception was that
(i) the depth of coverage lessened, (ii) they became more mechanistic, (iii) the TOR became too vague yet
restrictive by limiting what teams in the field could assess; and (iv) they could, in some cases, be a burden
because of the amount of work required by the states in preparing these twice-yearly exercises.

Finally, it should be noted that over time difficulties emerged from the Bank's perspective in meeting our
fiduciary requirements. For a period, the JRM did not allow procurement, disbursements and financial
management reviews. This was subsequently changed to allow a review outside the JRM once a year for a
sample of states. The other area which presented difficulties was concern about reviewing the national
component, or performance of the national implementing agency and its support institutions. It could be
considered a weakness on the Bank's part that the team was unable to move dialogue forward on this
matter.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:
Overall Bank performance is rated satisfactory. The level of technical expertise, responsiveness to the
changing needs of the program, consistency of teams and recognition of government's capacity were highly
satisfactory on the part of the Bank task leaders and other team members throughout the life of the project.
This is tempered, however, in the way that the JRM, over time, diluted meaningful engagement on meeting
our fiduciary obligations and the inability to gain the trust of the GOI to allow (i) in-depth evaluation of the
national component and assess the effectiveness of the TSG, or (ii) interim missions to the states to better
understand the ground realities -- either by Bank staff or agreed upon external expertise.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
The above description of how the GOI developed its own program and cautiously sought expert advice
attests to the full ownership and guidance the borrower demonstrated during preparation. The DPEP
Bureau took the lead on reflecting on lessons learned from other donor-financed programs, including DPEP
I, engaging national institutions, generating data and creating systems of measurement. Their support to
the states in preparing perspective plans and the first AWPBs also facilitated bringing the program on
board and providing capacity at the state level to expand the program (in the case of the six states involved
in DPEP I) or starting up in the case of the other states.

7.5 Government implementation performance:
The GOI established a full-time DPEP Bureau in the Education Department and a Project Board that
reviewed the work of the Bureau each year. This Bureau was responsible for the coordination of the
appraisal process and involved academics, teachers, administrators, and staff from NGOs, national
resource institutions, and state-level education institutions in project preparation.

Significant delays in the flow of funds and reductions in the amount of funds were issues in DPEP II and
slowed implementation, although over the course of the project, funds flows from the GOI to the states did
improve. There were also delays in remitting counterpart funds from some states. Another area that was
problematic was the large amount of outstanding advances and unresolved reconciliation issues between
SPO and Block Education Offices. Multiple project audit reports brought out significant weaknesses but in
some cases the SPOs were not prompt in responding to these issues. With the exception of a few states,
overall financial management in the project was weak. There is limited evidence that adequate training of
project staff and management took place in the areas of accounting, reporting, and internal controls and
that effective internal audits were conducted.



                                                      - 19 -

7.6 Implementing Agency:
The Bureau coordinated the supervision of the project, overseeing financial management, evaluation state
and district programs, and policy development needed to support the DPEP efforts. The Bureau also
established the TSG to provide guidance and assistance to the states and organized the biannual joint
review missions to each of the states. It ensured that the JRM aide memoires represented a consensus
among the participants, which sometimes left issues of concern to the Bank out of the document. Data
collection and analysis improved during the project period, but further refinements should focus on
providing information for specific policy and program design decisions. The Bureau's commitment to
developing capacity while expanding access led to improvements in the teaching-learning process that will
continue after the project is completed.

Procurement in DPEP II benefitted from the experience in DPEP I. The review of procurement for the ICR
was based on discussions with the TSG at the center and visits made to three selected sample states:
Haryana, Orissa and Tamil Nadu. No major issues were observed during the execution of the project.
However, the time taken for procurement and contract implementation tended to be on the higher side.
Delays evident in DPEP I became less apparent in DPEP II. The ex-post reviews carried out by Bank
contributed to such improvements. In general, project staff expressed their acceptance of the Bank's
procurement procedures. The experience in Bank procurement of the staff in state project office in Tamil
Nadu is satisfactory; and in the Haryana Project Office moderate. The staff at Bhubaneshwar needs more
procurement training.

Two aspects of program implementation hamper being able to give overall performance a highly
satisfactory rating. First, as mentioned under 'Bank Performance' above, there was a perception that over
time there was more resistance on the part of the Bureau for self-examination and evaluation, manifested in
keeping donors at a distance. States fully appreciated the supportive nature of donor involvement, but the
ability for donors to expand their role in this was restricted by the (i) nature of the JRMs, and (ii) the
complexities inherent in the state/center relationships of any federation. Second, two events occurred which
stretched the capacity of the considerable talents of the staff in the Bureau: merging of the DPEP Bureau
with the Elementary Education Bureau which supported other government and donor-financed CSS, and
SSA. The merging of Bureaus facilitated better coordination of donor-financed programs, but resulted in
the Directors taking on several tasks in addition to DPEP supervision and monitoring such as Mahila
Samakya (girls education), Operation Black Board, Lok Jumbish and Shiksha Karmi, and more. When
SSA began, the same talent which was managing DPEP inputs to states and subject areas, also became
responsible for developing SSA's design, proposals for clearance from the Ministry and Planning
Commission, assisting the states -- across all India -- in developing their own proposals, and overseeing
collection and processing of the baseline data needed. To date, the staff numbers have not been increased
to meet the demands of both SSA and continued DPEP supervision although DPEP continues to be
implemented in nine states.

At the state level, states embraced the objectives of the project and managed the resources relatively well.
The goals of universal access to and completion of primary school and increasing levels of achievement are
accepted widely at the state level, and primary school is now part of the social and political dialogue from
the state to the village level. State performance in implementing the program varied considerably. Some
effectively used DPEP to support reform an innovation of their own design, but some demonstrated less
commitment evidenced by continued vacancies, delays in releases of the state share, or frequent changes of
staff at the State Project Office. In one state, there was a marked lack of commitment at the higher levels
of government for a certain period of time, but remarkable changes going on at the grassroots/community
level regardless.



                                                       - 20 -

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
Borrower performance is rated satisfactory. Indian leadership and ownership at all levels -- national, state,
district and communities -- of DPEP is the major factor contributing to the success of the program.
Reliance on staffing the program from within the bureaucracy and existing teaching force, while helping on
one hand to build capacity, on the other may have impeded developing a deeper understanding of education
development, particularly affecting the impact of teacher training in the classroom and reaching the most
difficult to reach children. Broader engagement with and exposure to international expertise and "best
practice," and more flexibility for the states would have strengthened the rating, as would increasing the
Bureau's ability to cope with the excessive demands of both SSA and DPEP with additional staff.

8. Lessons Learned

The lessons from DPEP are innumerable due to the size and scope of the program, its development over
time, and the nature of the relationships built among the central and state governments and development
partners, including the Bank. Mostly, the lessons emerged regarding ownership, strengths of program
design, the need to be flexible and learn from experience, staff continuity, the need for solid baseline data
and a fully integrated system of monitoring and evaluation, and the need to deepen efforts for pedagogic
change and capacity.

Government ownership strengthens project outcomes. DPEP was developed through a process initiated
by the GOI, stimulated by external factors such as the fiscal crisis in the early 1990s and making
international commitments to the Jomtien Education For All agreements. However, its success was driven
by full ownership of the design and implementation of the program by Indians, for the Indian context.

Program design: focus on the right stuff. The program, in order to focus more on quality issues in
primary education, deliberately restricted investments in civil works and management costs to 24 percent
(subsequently raised to 33 percent) and six percent respectively. This resulted in finding lower cost civil
works modalities, involving communities and 'convergence' with other schemes, and allowed the program to
focus more on building capacity of education support institutions, teachers and children.

Willingness and the ability to build up and learn from experience counts. DPEP was built on the
foundations of previous, smaller scale programs slowly scaled up by intensive examination of 'what
worked' by the MHRD and Bank staff at the time of program development. Early in the program, a
reflective and flexible approach to program design led to continued improvements and adaptation in
monitoring and implementation. Some have indicated that as the program grew, some of this reflection
diminished -- in part because of the process of devolving responsibility to the states, and in part due to the
donors having less engagement with the direct supervision of program implementation. Acknowledging
developed capacity and less need to 'manage' should be balanced with allowing effective, third party
assessment of program gains.

Effective supervision is critical. The joint review missions were a critical component that allowed GOI to
effectively coordinate donor efforts and the Bank to influence the efficiency and effectiveness of state-level
implementation. They contributed to a constructive professional relationship between the GOI, the Bank
and other development partners. Nonetheless, their format would benefit from some renewal to avoid
becoming overly mechanistic as DPEP transitions to SSA, with more focus on fiduciary/governance
aspects of implementation. Increased FM involvement in supervision may have helped to remedy the impact
of the weak accounting and reporting systems and to increasse the capacity of project accouonting staff.




                                                     - 21 -

Continuity in staff helps maintain momentum. Continuity of staff on the part of the Bank and government
promotes consistency in supervision, allowed incremental changes in focus of the program based on
emerging information, and keeps the focus on reform and progress towards objectives. The times when the
Bureau and TSG saw great stability were the most constructive. Those states with frequent transfers of
key staff and officials did not see the same progress as those with long-term SPDs/Secretaries of
Education. Missions where the majority of representatives from the Bank, other donor partners and GOI
had experience with DPEP were more focused than when there were many new members.

The Unfinished Agenda (for continued analysis):
Issues with solid baseline information and the continued concern about unreliable data. Establishing
EMIS and the culture of monitoring has been a success of DPEP. However, as mentioned earlier, data and
survey weaknesses have made analysis of the real impact of DPEP on outcomes, controlling for other
interventions, difficult to assess. More systematic and frequent household surveys are required to measure
real change. Furthermore, systems for validation of the data are required at the national, state, district and
village levels. The DISE data raised the following concerns: (i) enrollments are not an accurate measure of
student participation without monitoring attendance, retention and completion. Enrollment drives, common
in DPEP states, inflate enrollments at a specific time of year, but do not track students' progress. Further,
private school data are not included in EMIS or other government statistics; (ii) incentives to report
accurately are not present. Districts, blocks and villages wish to report success in order to ensure adequate
funding, the possibility of better facilities and more teachers; (iii) there is a need to align GER and NER
measurement with 2001 Census data to ensure using an accurate population denominator drives estimates
of education indicators.

These concerns could be addressed through development of a more frequent, professionally implemented
Integrated Household Survey, with validation mechanisms. There is movement in this direction: SSA has
initiated Village Education Registers and a household data collection process. Ensuring its reliability and
validity will be essential to improved measurement of educational development in the country.

Flexibility and the need for differentiated strategies. Did the DPEP Guidelines provided the flexibility
required? In some states, such as Madhya Pradesh and Uttar Pradesh, the bureaucrats utilized the program
to support reform and innovation which they designed and implemented. Those states with less capacity,
such as Assam or Orissa, interpreted the Guidelines very strictly, which did not always suit their needs.
There were some complaints in Kerala that the state had wished to focus more on teaching and pedagogic
change, but were informed by the center that they were lagging in other areas as a result. The guidelines
provide a broad framework, but targets could be more realistic and based on state- and district-specific
contexts.

"Additionality" of DPEP financing. An explicit goal of DPEP was to channel more resources to
elementary education by ensuring that DPEP expenditure was an "additionality" to state expenditure over
the baseline year. By and large, states have adhered to the condition, but much of the increase in
expenditures has been due to the real increase in teachers' salaries rather than to the cost of expansion or
quality inputs. One study concluded that measures to increase states' financial contributions to avoid DPEP
funds from becoming a substitution need to be strengthened.

Pedagogic model. Classroom impact was slower than expected. "Joyful Learning," based on a UNICEF
pilot, was introduced to DPEP to address issues of poor learning environment, use of rote memorization
learning techniques, and lack of stimulation. It promotes the active involvement of the children; group
work; "child-centered" vs. "teacher-centered" activities; the use of teaching and learning materials;
introducing many learning instruments including music, art and dance, for stimulation; and making the


                                                      - 22 -

environment more cheerful with charts, maps, and other wall paintings. A support structure for teachers to
train them in the concepts and use of "joyful learning" techniques has been introduced, with teachers taking
part in annual trainings at BRCs, reinforced by monthly meetings at CRCs. This has produced a more
pleasant learning environment which is more stimulating for students, particularly at the lower levels.
Teachers are eager to absorb everything they are taught in the limited training, and immediately translate it
into changes in the classroom. But the question is whether or not the change is deep enough to result in
improvements in meaningful interaction, and children's deductive and inductive reasoning skills and what is
required. These have not been consistently observed in classroom observation studies  and achievement
gains at the Class 3 and 4 levels are less robust than the earlier grades. The lesson is that instructional
improvement requires a process that studies changes at the classroom level and then changes the program
inputs to continue improvement of the learning process.

"Alternative Schools" and Parateachers. As stated in the main text, there is no doubt that AS have
resulted in increased enrollments in disadvantaged communities, but questions regarding the policy of AS
and parateachers arise which require extensive analysis. These include questions of (a) equity: Are AS
and/or the use of less-trained teachers creating an inferior, parallel system for more socially and
economically disadvantaged children?; (b) quality: related to the equity issue is the question of the quality
of the AS and parateachers, which has not yet been fully evaluated. The education background of
parateachers varies considerably; (c) parateacher policy  is it really more cost effective? Parateachers
are paid significantly less than regular teachers whether in government or alternative schools. The
short-run implications are clearly reduced costs, but what will happen in the long term?; (d) student
transition to formal schools: EMIS data to date has not measured transition and completion rates of AS
and this is needed to assess the impact of the AS system; and (e) real impact on enrollments  is there a
substitution effect? There is some evidence that children already attending regular government schools are
shifting to closer AS, particularly girls, SC and ST children. With concerns about quality and
sustainability, this needs to be examined.

Initial analysis of parateachers in Madhya Pradesh and Gujarat have been quite positive. A sytematic
analysis of the costs and benefits, and implications of their 'regularization' across the country is needed.

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
The attached came from the Borrower and is included in the "National Reflection Paper" (see Annex 8).
This section contains comments on the Bank's performance and Lessons Learned only. The rest of the
Borrower's analysis is contained in Annex 8.

The World Bank

Facilitative Role
The Bank has played a very facilitative role without being interfering at any point, right from the stage of
project design. It has maintained a low profile and remained in the sidelines except in matters where it was
mandated to be an involved party. The manner in which the Bank interjected on such instances was indeed
facilitative.

Participation in Appraisal Processes
Appraisals prior to formal launch of a project have afforded opportunities to the Bank to interact with the
Centre and States. Their observations on these occasions have been balanced and productive that helped in
enriching the project documents to lead up to smooth negotiations.



                                                     - 23 -

Participation in JSM/JRM
Through participation in the process of joint supervision/review, the Bank has been able to interact with the
States and get a first hand feel of the field situation. Interactions with the Centre and State have been on a
constructive note and never prescriptive.

Procurement System
The Bank's procurement systems are complicated and different as compared to the systems followed in the
Government in India.        To familiarise the users with the Bank's procurement systems, training was
imperative. It took time to bring about the required state of preparedness that resulted in delays.

Centralised Procurement
Centralisation of procurement systems by the Bank has defied the decentralised spirit of the project.

Co Financing
Co financing arrangements with the Netherlands Government for supporting Gujarat has proved to be a
good arrangement that was well coordinated by the Bank.

LESSONS LEARNED

There are several demonstrated outcomes of DPEP that have provided a good learning experience for the
sector. The DPEP model by dint of its design and the implementation strategies is a workable one in terms
of the structures set up, processes followed, the targets set, the methods adopted, the supplementary
support drawn upon, the thrust areas, etc.

The major lessons learnt have been summarised below.

1. Priority areas when well conceived can give a good start to efforts but as the understanding of issues get
further refined/sharpened with implementation experience the interventions can be made more focused and
directed at specific issues. This openness in planning is very important for reaching targeted goals.

2. Adequate preparation and commitment from the State Government are necessary pre-conditions that
alone can make it possible to implement a complex sector/sub-sector project of complex nature that
requires multi-dimensional inputs

3. Implementation through a Society that functions with a balanced share of autonomy and State
Government control through its Executive Committee, that has the representation of several government
departments, offers a viable arrangement. This mechanism allows for inter-sectoral convergence and
greater flexibility and decentralisation within prescribed limits.

4. The gains of a holistic approach as compared to a schematic approach in addressing the sectoral issues
and bringing in reform-based changes was realised through the DPEP experience

5. Project design of DPEP was conceived for ideal conditions, which were not available in all the States.
Certain conditions were almost assumed that were really not available in the State context and had to be
created for proper implementation and this meant loss of time for actual implementation. In such a situation
targets set vis--vis the time frame was inadequate. The inadequacy of time was also felt in the context of
the varying levels of baselines that were sometimes far below the project targets, warranting greater
improvement/progress in shorter time.


                                                      - 24 -

6. Projects of this intensity culminate in the need for reforms and operational changes in the primary
sector. A long-term view thus becomes crucial. At the close of these phases of DPEP there are issues to be
tackled yet, that are particularly related to qualitative improvement of primary education. Considering
these a longer-term project would be appropriate to achieve the goal of UEE. But the support of adequate
mechanisms will be necessary to continue working in the same pace and spirit without slipping into laxity.
A ten year project duration would enable successful completion of all programme cycles and still be left
with adequate time to handle the difficult areas of access and quality aspects.

7. Community involvement is crucial for effective schools and quality education. Decentralised processes
that encourage popular support are also important for improved local management, enhanced
responsiveness to local needs that makes implementation effective. The stage is set for decentralising
primary education with PRIs operational in most States. This will be an important administrative move that
will empower the PRIs to be directly involved in decision making and enjoy financial control as well.

8. A strong pre-school component can positively influence children's entry into primary schools and their
demonstrated performance at the primary level speaks of the impact pre-school has on quality education.

9. District specific financial ceilings that were enforced in DPEP did not allow the districts to plan in
accordance with their needs. This was a serious detrimental in setting up academic support structures in
case of districts with several blocks. To meet this institutional gap, the State will have to rely on other
projects/sources. Future projects need to examine this closely while setting financial norms.

10. Full and meaningful participation of existing institutions/personnel like SCERT, DIETS and
educational administrators will require some more time and effort though substantial improvement in their
functioning has been possible through interventions under DPEP. The whole approach to activising them
would require a long-term view with the backing of and rigorous planning/implementation. In this context,
leadership, capacity building, delegation of power and control, development of simple and flexible
mechanisms would be all-important.

11. The importance of informed decision making and close monitoring in planning, implementation and
improvement was established through conduct and use of research and evaluation studies, collection,
analysis and utilisation of EMIS, and organisation of periodical review meetings. All of these facilitated
mid-course corrections that added greater rigour to programming

12. The limited experience with SIEMAT does suggest their value in obtaining technical support for
educational planning and management including promotion of research to encourage evidence based
planning

13. The continuity of leadership and staff in critical positions at all levels for a minimum duration is a
non-negotiable for the concepts and spirit to grow roots. This can assure implementation in the desired
direction.

(b) Cofinanciers:
Royal Government of The Netherlands Embassy in New Delhi
DPEP in Gujarat can be seen to have been a success in terms of bringing children to school through the
various strategies put in place. The children who are now out of school or who remain irregular in school
come from the most deprived families/social groups and pose a big challenge. Non-standardised solutions
are required to ensure their participation. The state has demonstrated clarity regarding sustainability of



                                                       - 25 -

DPEP interventions either in terms of continuation of structures, processes and activities in the existing
districts or in terms of extending the experiences to other districts. Also, Gujarat is the only state which has
initiated DPEP in three additional districts out of its own resources. While three of the phase IV districts
(through TF Netherlands 27772, September 2001 - April 2006) are being supported by the Netherlands
government through the World Bank, the remaining three are being implemented with state government
funds. This also demonstrates the government's commitment about replicating the gains.

What was not optimal was the learning that could have taken place between the states during the
implementation of DPEP I and II. Although there were a large number of innovations and reforms taking
place and a wealth of experience and knowledge generated during the implementation of DPEP,
dissemination or learning from each other was not systematic.

(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):


10. Additional Information

Additional information can be found in the extensive background reports which informed this ICR.




                                                      - 26 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

Outcome / Impact Indicators:
                                                                              1
              Indicator/Matrix                           Projected in last PSR                   Actual/Latest Estimate
1. Enrolment increases in project for all,  Overall increase: 18.9%                   Overall increase: 18.9%
Boys                                        Boys: 14.2%                               Boys: 14.2%
Girls                                       Girls:    24.9%                           Girls:   24.9%
SC                                          SC:       19.1%                           SC:     19.1%
ST                                          ST:       20.4%                           ST:     20.4%

2. Reducing enrollment gaps to less than
5%:
between boys and girls                      3.9% (average), 75% of districts achieved 3.9% (average), 75% of districts achieved
SC                                          target                                    target
ST

3. Reducing dropout rates to less than 10% Cohort dropout rate:                       16% districts: < 10% (target achieved)
                                            - fell in 46 districts                     52% districts = 11-40% (target not achieved)
                                            - remained the same in 12 districts        32% districts > 40% target not achieved
                                            - rose in 21 districts




4. Percentage increase in achievement       Mid-term Achievement Survey:
scores BAS to MAS
Class I Mathematics                         40%                                       40%
Class I Language                            23%                                       23%
Class 3/4 Mathematics                       18%                                       18%
Class 3/4 Language                          15%                                       15%
Percentage increase in achievement scores   N/A                                       Terminal Achievement Survey:
MAS to TAS
Class I Mathematics                                                                   13%
Class I Language                                                                      12%
Class 3/4 Mathematics                                                                 23%
Class 3/4 Language                                                                    16%


Output Indicators:
                                                                              1
              Indicator/Matrix                           Projected in last PSR                   Actual/Latest Estimate
School Places                               2,183,000                                 2,183,000
Classrooms                                  21,100                                    21,100 (including alternative schools)
Major repairs                               13,900                                    13,900
Water supply and toilets                    20,350                                    20,350 or increase of 100+%
Community partipation: VECs/SMCs training                                             > 75% schools have functioning VECs/SMCs
                                                                                      -- target achieved
Block Resource Centers                      619                                       619
Cluster Resource Centers                    4591                                      4591

1End of project




                                                                  - 27 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                    Appraisal    Actual/Latest      Percentage of
                                                                    Estimate       Estimate           Appraisal
                           Component                               US$ million    US$ million
Building State Institutional Capacity                                 7.30              6.70                92
Improving the Quality, Reducing Dropout & Expanding
Access
   Improving Quality of Primary Education                           190.10            184.70                99
   Reducing Dropout & Expanding Access                              292.90            286.50                99
Distance Education Program                                            4.30              4.10                95
National Management Structure Support for DPEP                        1.40              1.30                92

Total Baseline Cost                                                 496.00            483.30
  Physical Contingencies                                             40.00
  Price Contingencies                                                 -1.60
                             Total Project Costs                    534.40            483.30
                       Total Financing Required                     534.40            483.30
These figures include IDA, Netherlands and state contributions.

Actual expenditure under the project is $483.30 million against the estimated cost of $534.40. The
difference is mainly due to the currency fluctuation of the Rupee against the dollar. The project disbursed
100 percent of the total amount in SDR. Expenditure in each project component was above 90 percent.
Category-wise, there was a reduction of expenditure in Educational Materials (except Books) from $88.1
million to $44.1 million, however the actual expenditure under the different procurement methods is
significantly different from estimates due to the broad use of community procurement of Teaching and
Learning Materials. The total appraisal estimates under NCB and Local Shopping were $62.4 million and
$150.1 million respectively, but actual expenditure was $24.4 million and $174.2 million in each. NCB
expenditure was kept relatively low due to the active involvement of communities.

Civil Works: Expenditure for civil works at appraisal was $131.1 million. The estimates under both NCB
and Local Shopping were $26.2 million and $45.9 million. Only $16.8 million was expended using NCB,
but Local Shopping (by communities) increased to $107.1 million.

Goods: The procurement of goods under the project reduced drastically from appraisal estimate of $148.9
million. Actual expenditure was $83.4 million. This was driven largely by the reduction in the cost of
Educational Materials as discussed above.

Training and Consultancies: Training estimates at appraisal were $57.8 million, of which $54.2 million
were expended. However, of the $17.7 million estimated for consultancies, only $2.5 million were used.
This was largely driven by the use of local consultants only, with few international consultants employed
under the project. A significant feature under Institutional Development is that no expenditure was
estimated to use National Shopping or Direct Contracting, but $43.3 million and $8.6 million respectively
were expended.

Miscellaneous: No significant changes from the appraisal estimates are observed under the miscellaneous
category.



                                                           - 28 -

Project Cost by Procurement Category (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ Million Equivalent)
                                                               Local
Expenditure Category                            NCB          Shopping    Other      N.B.F. 2/  Cost
 A. Works
 Civil Works                                         26.2          45.9     53.8         5.2     131.1
                                                    (22.4)        (39.1)   (50.5)               (112.0)
 B. Goods
 Furniture                                             4.8         11.2                           16.0
                                                      (4.2)        (9.8)                         (14.0)
 Equipment                                             4.9         11.4                           16.3
                                                      (4.3)       (10.1)                         (14.4)
 Vehicles                                                           2.7                            2.7
                                                                   (2.3)                          (2.3)
 Books                                                 7.3          9.8      3.0         5.7      25.8
                                                      (6.2)       (13.1)    (2.5)                (21.8)
 Education & Teaching Materials                      19.2          68.9                           88.1
                                                    (14.7)        (53.1)                         (67.8)
 C. Training and Consultants
 Training, Woprkshops & Fellowships                                         54.2         3.6      57.8
                                                                           (53.8)                (53.8)
 D. Consultancies
 Local and Foreign Consultancies                       -           -        16.1         1.6      17.7
                                                                           (16.0)                (16.0)
 F. Miscellaneous
 Salaries of Additional Staff                          -           -       154.6         8.0     162.6
                                                                          (111.8)               (111.8)
 Honorarium                                            -           -        13.7         1.6      15.3
                                                                           (10.7)                (10.7)
 Vehicle Operation & MaintIncremental
Salaries                                               -           -         0.5         0.1       0.6
                                                                            (0.3)                 (0.3)
 Equipment Operation & Maint                           -            0.2      0.2         0.0       0.4
                                                                   (0.2)    (0.1)                 (0.3)
 Total                                               62.4         150.1    296.1        25.8     534.4
                                                    (51.8)       (127.7)  (245.7)        -      (425.2)

1/ Figures in parenthesis are the respective amounts financed by IDA.
2/ Joint financing arrangement by the Government of Netherlands. Not Bank Financing.




                                                       - 29 -

Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)

                                                          Procurement Method  1/             Total
                                                              Local
Expenditure Category                           NCB          Shopping    Other     N.B.F. 2/  Cost

 A. Works
 Civil Works                                         16.8       107.1     12.1         6.1     142.1
                                                   (15.5)        (98.8)   (11.1)              (125.4)
 B. Goods
 Furniture                                             1.2         6.4                           7.6
                                                     (1.0)        (5.8)                         (6.8)
 Equipment                                             0.3         8.5                           8.8
                                                      0.2         (7.6)                         (7.4)
 Vehicles                                                          1.5                           1.5
                                                                  (1.1)                         (1.1)
 Books                                                 6.1         7.2      8.1                 21.4
                                                     (5.1)        (6.5)    (7.0)               (18.6)
 Education & Teaching Materials                        0.4        37.4      0.6        5.7      44.1
                                                     (0.3)       (32.5)    (0.5)               (33.3)
 C. Training and Consultants
 Training, Woprkshops & Fellowships                               43.3      8.6        2.3      54.2
                                                                 (41.8)    (7.5)               (49.3)
 D. Consultancies
 Local and Foreign Consultancies                       0.0        -         2.4        0.1       2.5
                                                                           (2.4)                (2.4)
 F. Miscellaneous
 Salaries of Additional Staff                          0.0        -       171.7        8.2     179.9
                                                                         (133.1)              (133.1)
 Honorarium                                            0.0        -       16.7                  16.7
                                                                          (10.7)               (10.7)
 Vehicle Operation & MaintIncremental
Salaries                                               0.0        -         1.7                  1.7
                                                                           (0.3)                (0.3)
 Equipment Operation & Maint                           0.0         0.2      2.6                  2.8
                                                                  (0.2)    (0.1)                (0.3)
 Total                                               24.4        174.2    223.9       22.4     483.3
                                                 (21.40)       (194.3)   (172.7)       -      (388.7)

1/ Figures in parenthesis are the respective amounts financed by IDA.
2/ Joint financing arrangement by the Government of Netherlands. Not Bank Financing.




                                                       - 30 -

Project Financing by Expenditure Category (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                     Percentage of Appraisal
 Expenditure Category          Appraisal Estimate           Actual/Latest Estimate
                            IDA      Govt.       CoF.     IDA       Govt.       CoF.  IDA    Govt.   CoF.
Civil Works                110.10    12.80       5.10    125.40     10.60       6.10  113.9   82.8   119.6
Furniture                  14.00     1.60        0.40     6.80       0.30       0.50  48.6    18.8   125.0
Equipment                  14.40     1.60        0.20     7.40       1.20       0.20  51.4    75.0   100.0
Vehicles                    2.30     0.30        0.10     1.10       0.20       0.20  47.8    66.7   200.0
Books, Libraries &         67.80     8.10        5.00    52.00       6.00       4.80  76.7    74.1    96.0
Teaching Materials
Consultants                16.10     0.00        1.70     2.40       0.00       0.10  14.9    0.0     5.9
Training, Workshops etc.   53.80     0.00        4.00    49.20       0.00       2.30  91.4    0.0     57.5
Additional Staff Salaries  111.80    44.00       6.80    133.10     38.80       8.20  119.1   88.2   120.6
Honorarium                 10.70     4.30        0.30    10.70       4.30             100.0  100.0    0.0
Maintenance                 2.30     1.40        0.40     0.30       1.40             13.0   100.0    0.0
Consumables                21.90     9.30        1.80     0.30       9.30             1.4    100.0    0.0
Total                      425.20    83.40      25.80    388.70     72.10      22.40  91.4    86.5    86.8




                                                  - 31 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

Project's Investments

DPEP II allocated US$534.4 million, including State's contributions, for investment in primary education
in India. These investments covered 92 Districts in 12 States, with a total enrollment at project
commencement of approximately 11.5 million students, and at project close of about 13.7 million pupils.
The resources allocated were invested in a broad and wide-ranging set of educational inputs. These
included: (i) human resource development activities for school teachers, principals, and state and district
level education officials; (ii) expansion of the physical capital stock, such as BRCs and CRCs, schools,
classrooms, and water supply and sanitation facilities; (iii) investment in quality inputs, such as good
quality textbooks, grants to SMCs and teachers, and teaching-learning materials; (iv) establishment of
education resource centers at cluster and block levels; (v) introduction of incentive systems, such as
mid-day meals and child-friendly elements in schools, to attract and retain children; (vi) measures to
strengthen the institutional framework, especially state and district level institutions, such as the SCERT's,
SIEMAT's and DIETs; (vii) initiatives to decentralize education management and enhance community
participation in schools; (viii) special provision for disadvantaged children through the establishment of
alternative schools and education guarantee schemes; and (ix) support for innovative educational activities.

Investment per student: DPEP has achieved important results in increasing access, bridging the gender
gap, and improving efficiency and outcomes at a fairly low investment level. Total investment of the DPEP
I and II projects reached US$845 million, including state contributions, and covered over 20 million
primary school students. The immense coverage yielded an investment per student of $43 during the eight
years duration of the program and slightly over $5 per year.

Investment per student in DPEP I ($7.4) was much higher than the rate for DPEP II ($4.7). This was
mainly due to the large coverage of students under the second project (economies of scale) compared to the
first. DPEP II covered almost 10 million more students compared to DPEP I. The unit costs in the DPEP
I states were consistently higher than the unit costs in DPEP II states. Meanwhile, there have been wide
variations among the unit costs across the two projects' states. High unit costs were found in Himachal
($19), Haryana ($12), and Assam ($10), whereas the rest of the states had a unit cost around the average
of $5. States like Himachal and Assam that have high unit costs have comparatively low coverage of
students and usually have large number of small schools that are spread out over large rural areas (Figure
1).

Economic Benefits
The impact of the project on primary school enrollment, completion, learning achievement and transition to
upper primary school and above will yield substantial future economic benefits. Under fairly modest
assumptions of project impact on human capital, DPEP II has the potential to yield substantial economic
benefits. In the lowest case scenario, where earnings increase by only Rs. 2,400 per year and a mere 10
percent of students benefit from the project, the rate of return is over 9 percent. In the highest case
scenario, where earnings increase by Rs. 3,600 per year and 20 percent of students are assumed to have
benefited from the project, the rate of return rises to nearly 20 percent. These estimates do not take into
account the impact on human capital of children who move on beyond primary schooling to middle and
higher levels of education, nor the effect on school enrolment and learning of future student cohorts who
would benefit from the project investments in human resource development, physical capital, capacity
building and institutional strengthening. The actual impact of the project, if all these factors are taken




                                                       - 32 -

                                                    DPEP 1&2 Investment per student/year by state (US$)

                                    20.0                                 18.9

                                    18.0

                                    16.0

                                    14.0                       11.7

                                    12.0      10.1
                                    10.0                                                    8.6

                                      8.0                                                                                                  7.4
                                                                                                      5.2                    5.9
                                      6.0                                                                  4.7       5.3
                                                     3.9                            4.3                                                           4.5    5.3

                                                                                                                                        3.2
                                      4.0

                                      2.0

                                      0.0                                                                                                   1      2
                                                                                                       MP                      Nad      UP                1&2

                                               Assam  Gujarat                        Karnat   Kerala         Mahar    Orissa                 DPEP   DPEP
                                                                 Haryana   Himachal                                               Tamil                      DPEP



into account, is likely to be substantially higher and the return on the project correspondingly greater.
Furthermore, the higher productivity of beneficiaries will raise their labor earnings, and assuming these
beneficiaries are drawn mainly from poor households, this will contribute to reducing poverty and
promoting social mobility in the future.


                  Table 1. Rates of Return to DPEP II under Alternative Benefit Scenarios (Percent)

        Alternative       Net Beneficiaries: 10%             Net Beneficiaries:                       Net Beneficiaries: 15%               Net Beneficiaries:        Net Beneficiaries: 20%
          Scenarios            of students                   12.5% of students                             of students                     17.5% of students              of students
        Incremental               12.6                                  14.7                                      16.6                            18.3                       19.8
     earnings increase of
      rupees 3,600 per
            year
     Incremental earnings         11.8                                  13.9                                      15.7                            17.3                       18.8
      increase of rupees
        3,300 per year
     Incremental earnings         11.0                                  13.0                                      14.7                            16.3                       17.7
      increase of rupees
        3,000 per year
     Incremental earnings          9.9                                  11.1                                      12.2                            13.3                       14.3
      increase of rupees
        2,700 per year
        Incremental                9.3                                  11.0                                      12.6                            14.0                       15.4
     earnings increase of
      rupees 2,400 per
            year
  Source: World Bank estimates.
  Assumptions: between 10%-20% students in DPEP districts are net beneficiaries of the project; 70% of children complete primary education,
  and the project impact will result in earnings increases by between 2,400 to 3,600 rupees per year for these beneficiaries. These
  assumptions have been taken as the most reasonable, based on the DPEP literature cited in Sipahimalani-Rao and Clarke (2003), and
  Duraiswamy (2000). Earnings streams are assumed to commence five years from now, and the duration of a life-cycle earnings profile is
  assumed to be 40 years.

Social Benefits
Externality benefits of education are also clearly evident in India. Maternal education, for instance, has a
powerful effect on reducing infant and child mortality. Rajna et al (1998) estimate that the risk of infant
and child mortality among children of educated mothers is about one-half that among children of



                                                                                                    - 33 -

uneducated mothers. Educated mothers provide better ante-natal, neo-natal and post-natal care, resulting in
the probability of infant and child fatality being reduced substantially. In addition, maternal education has a
strong impact on the utilization of maternal and child health services in India. Govindasamy and Ramesh
(1998) estimate that the probability of child vaccination among primary educated mothers is about 142
percent greater than the probability of child vaccination among uneducated mothers. Similarly, primary
educated mothers are 74 percent more likely to treat their children appropriately for water-borne diseases,
and 32 percent more likely to utilize modern health care services for their children. These result in better
family health, with children of educated mothers enjoying significantly lower levels of morbidity. Maternal
education also plays an important role in reducing under-nutrition. Educated women are found to have
substantially better weaning, food preparation and home hygiene practices. And educated mothers have
greater fertility control, enabling them to limit family size and space birth order to reflect household
economic circumstances.

Spillover Benefits
The project will also generate benefits through spillover effects into the Indian education system. For
instance, the institutional strengthening activities of DPEP have contributed to the creation of capacity to
plan, monitor and manage primary education on a scale that did not exist prior to the project. This has
considerably facilitated the new GOI program to universalize elementary education, SSA. GOI officials
have noted that the implementation of SSA is substantially more efficient in DPEP assisted states than in
non-DPEP states. Similarly, state level officials have noted that implementing SSA is easier in DPEP
districts than in non-DPEP districts. The higher quality textbooks produced through DPEP were distributed
by States to schools in non-DPEP districts as well as DPEP districts. And both public officials and
representatives of civil society repeatedly state that DPEP has contributed to a deep appreciation of the
value and importance of basic education, both in policy circles and at grass roots levels.

Sustainability
The central and state governments are committed to continue the reforms undertaken by DPEP in primary
education. It is critical to note that the states will only be able to sustain DPEP expenditures through the
SSA program. The massive SSA program sponsored by the central government and covering all India will
provide 75 percent of the cost for first five years and 50 percent after that. The states will have to pay their
share of the cost from the non-salary segment of their plan budgets. Between 95 to 97 percent of recurrent
expenditure in primary education is spent on salaries. Estimates of program cost and projected budget
show that almost all the states will be able to sustain the program reforms with the assistance of SSA
program. However, states with high economic levels will cover their share of the cost more easily than
states with low economic levels. Estimates show that program costs in high per capita states (over Rs.
20,000) like Maharashtra, Haryana, Karnataka, Gujarat, Tamil Nadu, and Kerala, will cover half of the
states' non-salary budgets, whereas, the cost in states with low per capita income (around Rs. 10,000) like
Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh and Orissa will take up almost all of their non-salary budget (Figure 4).

Cost implications of parateachers' regularization: Several states have recruited parateachers as part of
the states' strategy to build community ownership and fill teacher shortages, especially in remote and
inaccessible areas, with the least cost possible. Parateachers are usually paid one fourth of the average
salary of primary school teacher of Rs. 8,000 per month. Some states under pressure to bring down their
student teacher ratios have also resorted to recruitment of parateachers, although the number of
parateachers differ widely among DPEP states. The highest dependency on




                                                        - 34 -

                          Figure 4: State PCI & the % of Cost to budget
            30000                                                             120
                                 PCI
                                 %cost/budg                               99
            25000                                                    93       100

                                                               75
            20000                                                             80

                                                           46
            15000       51                                                    60
                              50      40      41    44

            10000                                                             40


             5000                                                             20


                0                                                             0




parateachers is found in Madhya Pradesh following the establishment of the Education Guarantee Scheme
where they make up 28 percent of the total teachers in the state. Other states with relatively large numbers
of parateachers are Himachal Pradesh (17 percent) and Orissa (6 percent). States like Haryana,
Karnataka, Tamil Nadu have very small numbers of parateachers.

Parateachers often put pressure on the states' governments to be regularized and have equal pay and
privileges of other teachers. Some states started to address the issue and in Gujarat, for example, where the
number of parateachers is small, the state adopted a program by which parateachers are recruited for five
years as assistant teachers and paid half of the regular teacher's salary, after which they will be promoted
to regular teachers.

The cost implication of regularizing the parateachers is enormous and have serious implications on the
sustainability of the reform programs. For example if Madhya Pradesh decided to convert all the
parateachers into regular teachers gradually over the projection period it has to increase the salary bill by
an additional Rs. 4.8 billion (17 percent). Such an increase will push the salaries to a level that exceeds the
estimated budget for primary education by about 11 percent. This will put substantial pressure on the
overall education budget and would leave no resources available for non-salary expenditure. In Uttar
Pradesh the cost of regularizing parateachers would add almost one billion Rupees and that will increase
the salaries to the same level of the estimated budget for primary education and, once more, leave no
available resources for other types of expenditure.

In addition, policies such as expanding investment in early childhood education and improving quality and
efficiency in secondary education will put more pressure on the states' budgets and may adversely affect
fiscal sustainability, especially in low income states. Low-income states may eventually seek more
assistance from the central government and/or donors to sustain their expenditures on primary education
reform.




                                                          - 35 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty                Performance Rating
                                     (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)        Implementation Development
                   Month/Year  Count           Specialty                       Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
                                        5    1 Mission Leader, 1 WID              S               S
              05/06/1995 -                   Officer,
              05/15/1995                     2 Education Specialists,
                                             1 Civil Works Engineer
              10/04/1995 -              5    1 Education Specialist,              S               S
              10/07/1995                     2 Architects, 1 Principal
                                             Sociologist, 1 Social
                                             Development Specialist
              11/27/1955 -            13     1 Team Leader, 3 Civil Works         S               S
              12/08/1995                     Specialists, 1 Sr. Social
                                             Development Specialist,
                                             1 Sr. Implementation Specialist,
                                             1 Textbook Specialist,
                                             1 Sr. Economist, 1 Sr. Education
                                             Specialist, 2 Education
                                             Specialists, 1 Distance
                                             Education Specialist,
                                             1 Operations Assistant

 Appraisal/Negotiation

              02/18/1996 -            11     1 Team Leader/Education              S               S
              03/08/1996                     Adviser, 2 Civil Works
                                             Specialists, 1 Social
                                             Development Specialist, 1 Sr.
                                             Implementation Specialist, 1
                                             Textbook Specialist,
                                             1 Sr. Economist, 2 Education
                                             Specialists, 1 Sr. Education
                                             Specialist, 1 Distance Education
                                             Specialist
              04/18/1996 -            20     14 members of Government             S               S
              04/26/1996                     delegation, 6 Bank Staff team

 Supervision
              11/14/1996                6    1 Management Specialist,             S               S
                                              3 Education Specialists,
                                              1 Educational Planning,
                                             1 Civil Engineer
              03/26/1997                5    1 Management, 1 Educational          S               S
                                             Planning, 2 Education
                                             Specialists,
                                              1 Staff Development and
                                             Training Specialist
              10/16/1997                8    3 Management Specialists,            S               S
                                              1 Education Specialist,



                                              - 36 -

                 1 Educational Planning, 1 Staff
                 Development and Training
                 Specialist, 1 Civil Engineer,
                 1 Curriculum Renewal
03/27/1998    6  1 Management Specialist,           S    S
                 1 Curriculum and Instructional
                 development Specialist, 1 Civil
                 Engineer, 1 Institutional
                 Capacity Building Specialist, 1
                 Educational Management/Social,
                 1 Education Economist
11/06/1998    7  1 School Based Management          S    S
                 Specialist, 1 Multigrade
                 Teaching, 1 School
                 Effectiveness, 1 Planning and
                 Management, 1 Early Childhood
                 Education,
                 1 Educational Research,
                 1 Curriculum and Instructional
                 Development Specialist
04/23/1999    7  1 School Effectiveness, 1 School   S    S
                 Based Management, 2 School
                 Improvement Specialists, 1
                 Education Management and
                 Planning Specialist, 1 Early
                 Childhood Education, 1 Learning
                 and Teaching Specialist
11/10/1999    10 1 School Effectiveness, 1 Team     S    S
                 Leader, 1 General Educator, 1
                 Economist, 1 Educational
                 Planning, 1 Early Childhood
                 Education, 1 Pedagogy/Research,
                 1 Project Management,
                 1 Community participation,
                 1 Management Capacity
                 Building
05/10/2000    8  1 Team Leader, 1 Educator/         S    S
                 Pedagogy, 1 Education
                 Management, 1 Early Childhood
                 Education, 1 Economist,
                 1 Operations Analyst, 1
                 Research, 1 community
                 participation
11/12/2000    8  1 Team Leader, 1 School            S    S
                 Improvement, 1 Teacher
                 Development, 1 Education
                 Management & Planning,
                 1 Education Finance, 1
                 Pedagogy,
                 1 Economist, 1 Education
                 Administration
04/29/2001    7  1 School Improvement, 2            S    S
                 Pedagogy Specialists, 1



                 - 37 -

                                                                Education Management
                                                                Specialist, 1 Child Development
                                                                Specialist, 2 Education
                                                                Economists
                 11/19/2001                              8      1 General Educator, 1 Education              S    S
                                                                Management, 1 Early Child
                                                                Development Specialist, 1
                                                                Gender Specialist, 1 Education
                                                                Economist,
                                                                1 Teaching and Learning
                                                                Specialist 1 Education Finance
                                                                Specialist, 1 Student Assessment
                                                                Specialist
                 03/11/2002                              8       2 School Improvement                        S    S
                                                                Specialists, 1 Special Education,
                                                                1 Student Assessment Specialist,
                                                                2 Economists, 1 Early Childhood
                                                                Educationist, 1 Gender Specialist
                 05/06/2002                              8      2 Learning and Completion                    S    S
                                                                Specialists , 2 Program
                                                                Implementation Specialists, 2
                                                                Sustainability Specialist, 1
                                                                Education Management and
                                                                Planning Specialist, 1 Equity
                                                                Specialist
                 12/23/2002                              7      1 General Educator, 1 Early                  S    S
                                                                Childhood Education Specialist,
                                                                1 Institutional Capacity Building,
                                                                1 Pedagogy, 1 School
                                                                Improvement, 1 Education
                                                                Economist, 1 Project
                                                                Management Specialist

 ICR
                 05/05/2003                            10        1 Team Leader, 1Pedagogy,                   S    S
                                                                 1 Community Development,
                                                                 1 Evaluation Expert,
                                                                 1 Management & Planning,
                                                                 2 Economists, 1 Architect, 1
                                                                 FMS, 1 Procurement

Annual Financial Management and Procurement reviews by Bank specialists took place outside the JRM.


(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                                     Actual/Latest Estimate
                                                  No. Staff weeks                               US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation                               57.4                                      200.8
  Appraisal/Negotiation                                    78.3                                      274.0
  Supervision                                             160.5                                      561.8
  ICR                                                      14.3                                       50.0
  Total                                                   310.5                                    1,086.6
Note: Calculations of No. Staff weeks were based on an average costs of Local & International Staff
 (US$3,500 per staff week applied).



                                                                - 38 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
   Macro policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
   Sector Policies                      H        SU    M       N    NA
   Physical                             H        SU    M       N    NA
   Financial                            H        SU    M       N    NA
   Institutional Development            H        SU    M       N    NA
   Environmental                        H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
            Poverty Reduction           H        SU    M       N    NA
            Gender                      H        SU    M       N    NA
            Other (Please specify)      H        SU    M       N    NA
         Socially and economically
disadvantaged groups such as
Schedule Caste, Schedule Tribe,
children with mild to moderate
disability and working children.
   Private sector development           H        SU    M       N    NA
   Public sector management             H        SU    M       N    NA
   Other (Please specify)               H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 39 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                               Rating

   Lending                                          HS      S       U     HU
   Supervision                                      HS      S       U     HU
   Overall                                          HS      S       U     HU
The considerable strengths of Bank's supervision performance (describedin section 7) are influenced by two
factors: (i) the inability to build the trust required to be able to conduct a full evaluation of the National
Component, and (ii) the fact that fiduciary reviews were not able to be undertaken by the JRMs and could
only be conducted outside the regular missions in a limited scope.

6.2 Borrower performance                           Rating

   Preparation                                      HS      S       U     HU
   Government implementation performance            HS      S       U     HU
   Implementation agency performance                HS      S       U     HU
   Overall                                          HS      S       U     HU
Government's strong performance may have diminished in the last couple of years of the project once SSA
came on board and the Bureau's talented staff became overworked, but the impressive performance in the
earlier years still merits an overall HS in project implementation.




                                                        - 40 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

Joint Supervision/Review Mission Reports
Aide Memoire, 3rd - 17th Joint Review Mission Reports. District Primary Education Programme (DPEP).
State Reports, JRM Reports: Assam, Gujarat, Haryana, Himachal Pradesh, Karnataka, Kerala, Madhya
     Pradesh, Maharashtra, Orissa, Uttar Pradesh, Tamil Nadu and Chattisgarh beginning 2001.

Background Documents. Prepared by Government of India, Technical Support Group and States each
JRM. (Sample of titles):
     (i)   Progress Reports
     (ii) Indepth Review 1997, 1999
     (iii) Alternative Schooling
     (iv) Gender and DPEP
     (v) Achievement under MAS DPEP II
     (iv) Cohort Analysis

State Completion Reports (Reflection Papers)

-- DPEP in Haryana - Phase I (Reflection Paper).
-- Implementation Completion Report, DPEP Phase II, Gujarat.
-- Implementation Completion Report, DPEP-II - Kerala.
-- Implementation Completion Report of Orissa, DPEP (Phase-II).
-- Implementation Completion Reports (ICR) of DPEP I & II in Tamil Nadu.
-- Implementation Completion Report, DPEP-II, Uttar Pradesh.
-- Maharashtra State, DPEP I & II, Implementation Completion Report.
-- National Reflection Paper. Implementation Completion Report.
-- Reflection Paper (ICR Mission) for DPEP-I & DPEP-II. Assam.
-- Reflection Paper, Madhya Pradesh.
-- The Preparation of DPEP I & II. Implementation and Completion Reports, Himachal Pradesh.
-- State Reflection Paper (April 2003). Karnataka.


Aggarwal, Yash. 1999, 2000, 2001, 2002. District Primary Education Programme. Progress Towards
     Universal Access and Retention. 2 Volumes. National Institute of Educational Planning and
     Administration, New Delhi.
Bashir, Sajitha. Government Expenditure in Elementary Education in the Nineties. The European
     Commission.
____. 2000. Review of the Finance Studies Conducted Under DPEP. The European Commission.
Bashir, Sajitha, V. Ayyar. 2001. District Primary Education Programme. Encyclopaedia of Indian
     Education. National Council of Educational Research and Training, New Delhi.
Gautam, S.K.S. 2002. District Primary Education Programme. Students Achievement Under TAS. An
     Appraisal in Phase-I States. National Council of Educational Research and Training, New Delhi.
Prakash, Ved. S.K.S. Gautam, and I.K. Bansal. 2000. Students' Achievement under MAS. Appraisal in
     Phase-II States. National Council of Educational Research and Training, New Delhi.
____. 2000. Scholastic Attainment Under MAS. An Appraisal. National Council of Educational Research
     and Training, New Delhi.
Reddy, V.N. and Raghabendra Chattopadhyay. Evaluation of District Primary Education Programme in
     Assam. Indian Institute of Management Calcutta.
Singh, Shailendra, Kala S. Sridhar and Shivganesh Bhargava. External Evaluation of DPEP-I States.


                                                  - 41 -

    Report on Chhattisgarh. Indian Institute of Management Lucknow.
____. External Evaluation of DPEP-I States. Report on Madhya Pradesh. Indian Institute of
    Management, Lucknow.
Sharma, Rajeev. 2002. External Evaluation of DPEP-I, Maharashtra.
Students Achievement (Terminal Assessment Study-DPEP-II 18 Districts). State Council of Educational
    Research & Training, Lucknow. May 2003.
Tara, S. Nayana and V. Nagadevara. 2002. External Evaluation of District Primary Education
    Programme(DPEP) in Kerala State.
____. 2002. External Evaluation of District Primary Education Programme(DPEP) in Tamil Nadu
    State.
Terminal Assessment Survey (DPEP Expansion Districts). Assam Prathamik Siksha Achani Parishad,
    DPEP, Assam.
Terminal Assessment Survey (TAS) in Four Districts of District Primary Education Programme Phase-II.
    Draft Report. Submitted to Himachal Pradesh Primary Education Society, Shimla. ORG Centre for
    Social Research, New Delhi. April 2003.

World Bank Reports/Studies

Clarke, Prema and Vandana Sipahimalani. 2002. DPEP Evaluation. Report No. 1.
Hirshberg, Susan E. 2003. District Primary Education Program Case Study.
India Country Assistance Strategy, 1997 and 2000.
India Country Assistance Strategy Progress Report, 2002
Lockheed, Marlaine. 1996. India Primary Education Achievement and Challenges.
____. 1997. Primary Education In India.
Pandey, Raghaw. 2000. Going to Scale with Education Reform: India's District Primary Education
    Program, 1995-99.
Sipahimalani, Vandana. 2000. Financing of Elementary Education in India in the 1990s.




                                                - 42 -

Additional Annex 8. Borrower's Contribution: National Reflection Paper




       National Reflection Paper

   IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT



    THE DISTRICT PRIMARY EDUCATION PROGRAMME
                                PHASES I & II


                                   May 2003




                 Department of Elementary Education & Literacy
                    Ministry of Human Resource Development
                         Government of India, New Delhi




                                         - 43 -

I.      Trends in Basic Education

The resolve of the National Policy on Education (NPE) 1986 to ensure universal elementary education
(UEE) by 2000 was reinforced in the Plan of Action (POA) 1992. With this end in view the Central
Government launched programmes and schemes to supplement the efforts of States. During the late
1980s and the early 1990s experimentation in the primary education sector was at its height through
state projects and targeted projects. It was around this time that the Government of India stepped in to
adopt a proactive position that was trigged off by the growing concern for primary education. Rich
experience gained in executing these projects contributed in formulating the District Primary Education
Programme (DPEP).

II.     Project Design and Quality at Entry

2.1     Project Design

A centrally sponsored scheme, DPEP was perceived as a means of revitalizing primary education, that
was an additionality to the levels of expenditure on primary education in the States as on fixed cut off
years specified for the two phases of the programme. The idea was to provide that added boost to the
primary education sector over a fixed time span through additional funding for critical areas to bridge
gaps, infuse quality in the delivery of primary education and accelerate achievement of UEE in the
project districts.

This time around, educational needs, were viewed in totality and efforts aimed at addressing the gaps
and priorities with urgency. Every facilitative factor, process and key partners as pre-conditions for
quality education to happen had been taken into account in the project design. The holistic planning and
management approach adopted for this central sector initiative was able to move far beyond mere
provisioning for primary education development through stand alone schemes. This departure from the
fragmented perception of educational needs has marked the beginning of a new era in the planning and
delivery of primary education.

Apart from redefining the approach to primary education DPEP ushered in a new perspective and also
focused on aspects of primary education that were not quite taken into account in the prior experience of
planning and the implementation process. The design itself introduced new elements to take care of the
basics and the process that went into the designing of the project was novel.

DPEP was by design not a finance driven programme, but one that sought to build systems that are cost
effective, equitable, replicable and sustainable. It built on the long term perspective of establishing
systems and mechanisms that lent themselves to quality primary education.

The design of the programme mandated liberal use of data in planning that was made possible with
creation of baselines and social assessments in the selected districts. The States/districts were thus able
to identify needs and gaps and prioritise their strategies and interventions in line with these while
formulating their plans.

Convergence in project implementation was envisaged by design and finds specific mention in the
context of early childhood education (ECE) service delivery and inclusive education.

The project design provided an exclusive and dedicated management and programme structure at the
National level that was set up with funding under DPEP I.

The National Management structure set up for DPEP consisted of:




                                                  - 44 -

GENERAL COUNCIL             To provide policy direction DPEP


                            Envisaged as an empowered body to recommend policies, consider
PROJECT BOARD               AWP&B and approve changes in norms, review progress & provide
                            guidance to DPEP Bureau

DPEP BUREAU                 To coordinate, appraise, finance, supervise & evaluate State & district
                            programmes. Overall in charge of implementation of DPEP

TSG (DPEP)                  To provide technical services for programme management



In addition, apex educational institutions like National Council of Educational Research and Training
(NCERT), National Institute of Educational Planning and Administration (NIEPA) and NSDART supported
this National set up for DPEP in programme planning, implementation, monitoring, research and
evaluation, capacity building, etc.

Though the General Council did not meet during the tenure of DPEP I and II, the Project Board met
annually where the annual project progress was shared, issues that came up in the course of the year
were discussed and the annual work plan and budgets (AWP & B) for the current financial year were
placed for approval.

2.2      Process of Designing the Project

Led by the Department of Education, Government of India (GOI) the design of the new project was
based on discussions with the academia, teachers, specialised institutions and resource centres,
educational administrators and representatives of non-Governmental organizations (NGO). In 1993, a
DPEP Project Development Team comprising a Joint Secretary, three Deputy Secretaries and support
staff was set up for the preparation of the DPEP projects. Besides drawing upon the national resources,
such as NCERT and NIEPA, States were brought on board from the very beginning of the process of
project designing. Frequent interactions were held with the States to elicit their views for incorporation in
the design of DPEP, generate State ownership of the project and commitment to the implementation
process. Developed nationally, the project is an indigenous output of homegrown ideas and experiences.


The design of DPEP is influenced by the
l   NPE
l   National experience of executing centrally sponsored schemes and first generation basic education
    projects such as Andhra Pradesh Primary Education Project (APPEP), Uttar Pradesh basic Education
    Project (UPBEP), Bihar Education Project (BEP), Lok Jumbish and the Mahila Samakhya programme
l   Central Advisory Board for Education (CABE) guidelines

The DPEP guidelines served the purpose of ensuring a basic degree of uniformity amidst diversity. While
providing the essential coherent structure of a national programme, the guidelines granted States and
districts considerable flexibility in designing programmes to suit their local contexts.

2.3      Quality of Design at Entry

DPEP's holistic view of primary education can be credited to have recognized the criticality of many
otherwise undermined/neglected aspects of provisioning primary education. Departing from a supply




                                                     - 45 -

driven, often dispassionate and mechanical approach, the project's emphasis on the importance of
nurturing greater community involvement with defined roles and responsibilities through decentralized
planning and implementation was a significant shift.          The project strengthened the standing of
Government schools and regained community confidence in the provisioning of primary education by the
Government.

The NPE's recommended district based education planning was realised in DPEP by taking the district as
the unit of planning.      Setting the process of district based planning in motion, core teams were
constituted at district and sub-district levels. House to house contacts, consultative meetings, group
discussions with community groups and stakeholders became an integral part of the planning process. As
this was the first attempt at district planning for education, at some scale, capacity building in planning
became a critical facilitative input. Thus, to realize the goal of district based planning, special efforts to
develop planning skills were imperative. In the initial stages of DPEP Phase I, NCERT, NIEPA and
NSDART contributed in the effort at capacity building for district planning in primary education.
Consequent to this, district level planning capacities are so much more evolved.

What makes the DPEP design stand out as `special' and `different' are stated below.

Process based (intensive) project
Project planning and implementation in DPEP was envisaged as dynamic and participatory with the scope
of enlisting community participation. The decentralised planning and implementation approach warranted
the active involvement of village leadership, stakeholders, elected people's representatives, NGOs,
district, block and school level personnel, etc.       The project further encouraged consensus building
through broad based participation, consultative meetings and group discussions. Facilitating community
involvement, the project provided for setting up grassroots structures such as village education
committees (VEC) to function as organised/empowered `agents' of the community in matters of primary
education. All of this coupled with a one third representation of women in the VECs has encouraged
women's participation in a big way.

Contextual
Diversity is the distinctive mark of India. The success of any intervention in this country depends to a
great extent on the ability to capture the diversities and target them through appropriate programmatic
measures. Being district specific DPEP made room for sensitive handling of local specificities that have a
bearing on educational progress/advancement.

Evolving system : a Learning Process
A unique feature of DPEP has been its openness to learn from experience and remodel its approach and
strategy and shift focus from time to time to make it an evolving system. Characterised by an open
planning process the structures put in place for administrative and academic roles also followed similar
principles. The plans that were approved for the entire project period could be altered to cover local
priorities and contexts while formulating the AWP&B to make them more responsive to needs that
emerged in the course of project implementation. Financial flexibility granted to DPEP has supported
programmatic flexibility.

Distinct cycles that the project has undergone in terms of the shifting thrust, that began with enrolment
and moved on to retention and student learning, was a clear sign of an evolving system at work that
matured over years of implementation experience.

Innovations/piloting and upscaling
The project recognised the worth of trying out innovations and piloting such interventions for eventual
up scaling. Separate fund allocations for innovative interventions that were provided on a yearly basis at
the state and district levels facilitated innovations in implementation. It is borne out by experiences of




                                                     - 46 -

project implementation that many of the regular and large scale interventions were preceded by a phase
of piloting them as innovations.

Time bound
Attainment of project goals has been tied down to a time period of five to seven years in these phases of
project implementation. This time bound approach has kept the pressure on to sustain the momentum
until the project goals are realised.

Systematic capacity building at all levels
Capacity building has been a key programmatic component of DPEP right from the stage of formulating
the perspective plans through the entire duration of project implementation. Efforts at capacity building
encompassed programme functionaries, functionaries of the main line Education Department, those
providing academic and other resource support, teachers, VEC members, ECE functionaries, etc.           A
national core team, consisting of faculty from NCERT and NIEPA as well as consultants provided
technical training and support to planning teams and also in conducting project related studies.

Apart from the fact that the new features and programmatic directions of the project necessitated
capacity building, this was an opportunity for individual skill development in diverse fields that also
contributed in institutional rejuvenation as in the case of DIETs and SCERTs.

Flexibility in Implementation and Financial Rules
There was a clear understanding that plans and implementation strategies would be tailored according to
the variations that existed in the States/districts. No prototype was attempted in this respect. This
allowed for immense flexibility, thereby enhancing the possibility of better results.          Qualitative
improvement in strategising and implementation was furthered by the flexibility to draw upon the best in
the system alongside specialists from the open market. Financial flow and flexibility was made possible
by the modus operandi of project implementation. The hazards of functioning through the regular
system were possible to avert by entrusting specially set up State Implementation Societies (SIS) to
implement DPEP.

Outreach to Educationally Worst Districts : Reflected in the Design
By design the educationally worst off district were included in the project because districts with female
literacy rate below the national average qualified for selection under DPEP. Only some districts in the
Southern States, the heightened demand generated for elementary education consequent to a successful
total literacy campaign (TLC), became a selection criterion for these districts. Quality improvement was
the priority in these districts.

State-Centre Partnership
A dramatic shift took place when Government of India's role became more proactive with its direct
involvement in guiding the planning and implementation process of DPEP. Regular dialogue with the
State Governments enabled the GOI to accelerate the process of implementation through necessary
interventions that sometimes had reform and policy implications.

III.     ACHIEVEMENT OF OBJECTIVES AND OUTPUTS

The setting in which the implementation of DPEP commenced is best described by the `status at entry'
which meant
l    Low enrolment, especially of girls
l    High dropout rates, especially girls
l    Low levels of achievement
l    Poor school infrastructure
l    Lack of management capacities




                                                    - 47 -

l    Low community participation
l    Inadequate access to primary education facilities
l    Adverse Teacher Pupil Ratio (TPR)
l    System insensitive towards special categories of children (socially backward, first generation
     learners, girls, to name a few)

The baselines at the commencement of DPEP were varied in the project States.                 These variations
determined the thrust of the project in the districts included.

DPEP has been able to impact on the basic education indicators and show the way of doing it as well as
make the point that `it is possible'. If the primary project goal is assessed, it is clear that there has been
a surge in enrolment among all categories of children and the gender divides almost eliminated. A
comparative picture of the base year (1995-96) and the seventh year of project implementation in the
DPEP Phase I States is given in Table 1. A similar comparative table for the base year 1997-98 and the
fifth year of implementation is provided for the DPEP Phase II districts.


  Table 1 : Trends in Enrolment and Gender Gaps in Enrolment Project States (DPEP I)

                                 1995-96 (%)                            2001-2002 (%)
        State            Boys     Girls      Gender gap        Boys         Girls          Gender
                                            (percentage                                      gap
                                               points)
  Assam                   55      45             10             51            49              2
  Haryana                 54      46             8              51            49              2
  Karnataka               53      47             6              52            48              4
  Kerala                  51      49             2              51            49              2
  Madhya Pradesh          57      43             14             53            47              6
  Maharashtra             52      48             4              52            48              4
  Tamil Nadu              52      48             4              51            49              2
  Overall Phase I         54      46             8              52            48              4
  Source : DISE

  Table 2 : Trends in Enrolment and Gender Gaps in Enrolment Project States (DPEP II)

                                 1997-98 (%)                            2001-2002 (%)
        State            Boys     Girls      Gender gap        Boys         Girls          Gender
                                            (percentage                                      gap
                                               points)
  Assam                   53      47             6              52            48              4
  Gujarat                 58      42             16             55            45             10
  Haryana                 52      48             4              53            47              6
  Himachal Pradesh        52      48             4              51            49              2
  Karnataka               50      50             Nil            52            48              4
  Madhya Pradesh          57      43             14             54            46              8
  Maharashtra             53      47             6              52            48              4
  Orissa                  53      47             6              52            48              4
  Tamil Nadu              51      49             2              51            49              2
  Uttar Pradesh           61      39             22             55            45             10
  Overall Phase II        56      44             12             54            46              8
  Source : DISE

Enrolment rates for girls and boys are in sync with the proportion of females to males as per population
figures in Census 2001. Thus, the scope of further improvement in girls' enrolment is limited except in
some districts in the project States.




                                                    - 48 -

The baselines for enrolment in the project States in both the phases of DPEP were varied. The baselines
for the DPEP II States were lower than the Phase I States. In fact, three of the States in Phase I (Kerala,
Maharashtra and Tamil Nadu) had gender difference in enrolment less than five per cent. Over a period
of seven years of implementation, the gender gap has dropped to below five per cent in all the States
except in Madhya Pradesh, which is marginally above the targeted level of difference to be achieved.

Contrasted to this, gender gaps were below five percent in Haryana, Himachal Pradesh and Tamil Nadu
when the Phase II commenced. The striking difference in the baseline status for the two phases of DPEP
is the high gender gaps in three States (16% in Gujarat, 14% in Madhya Pradesh and 22% in Uttar
Pradesh). Though the gender gaps remain wide in these States after five years of implementation the
gains in narrowing the gender gap have been immense.

In six of the 10 States reflected in Table 2. The gender gap has declined to below the five per cent mark.

    Table 3 : Trends in Enrolment and Gender Gaps in Enrolment of Scheduled Caste Children in
                                         Project States (DPEP I)

                                  1995-96 (%)                              2001-2002 (%)
         State           Boys      Girls      Gender gap          Boys           Girls        Gender
                                             (percentage                                         gap
                                                 points)
 Assam                   55         45             10              52             48              4
 Haryana                 55         45             10              53             47              6
 Karnataka               54         46              8              51             49              2
 Kerala                  52         48              4              52             48              4
 Maharashtra             52         48              4              51             49              2
 Madhya Pradesh          58         42             16              53             47              6
 Tamil Nadu              52         48              4              51             49              2
 Overall Phase I         55         45             10              52             48              4
 Source : DISE

Gender gaps in the enrolment rates of Schedule Caste (SC) children was an issue at the time of starting
DPEP I. Three States, viz., Kerala Maharashtra and Tamil Nadu began with a gender gap of less than five
percent. Contrasted to this, the gender gap was very high in Madhya Pradesh followed by Assam,
Haryana and Karnataka.

After seven years the situation has improved significantly with the gender gap declining to less than five
per cent in all the States except in Haryana and Madhya Pradesh. In these two States the gap is six per
cent points.

Table 4 : Trends in Enrolment and Gender Gaps in Enrolment of Scheduled Tribe Children in Project States (DPEP I)
                                   1995-96 (%)                              2001-2002 (%)
          State          Boys      Girls       Gender gap         Boys           Girls       Gender gap

                                               (percentage
                                                 points)
 Assam                    53        47              6              51             49              2
 Karnataka                58        42             16              52             48              4
 Kerala                   52        48              4              51             49              2
 Maharashtra              53        47              6              52             48              4
 Madhya Pradesh           59        41             18              54             46              8
 Tamil Nadu               57        43             14              54             46              8
 Overall Phase I          58        42             16              53             47              6

Source : DISE




                                                      - 49 -

Note : There is no ST population in Haryana


According to baseline data the proportion of Schedule Tribe (ST) girls enrolled was a matter of concern
in Karnataka, Madhya Pradesh and Tamil Nadu. The consequent high gender gap in these States was an
issue to contend with. However, the scenario has undergone a sea change with significant reduction in
the gender gap in these States. At the end of seven years Madhya Pradesh and Tamil Nadu remain
above the targeted gap of five per cent points.

While on the question of enrolment, the enrolment status of children with disabilities needs to be
reflected. The table below tries to bring out the proportion of children identified with disabilities in some
of the DPEP I & II States who have been enrolled in formal primary schools.

Table 5 : Mainstreaming Children with Disabilities
                State                      Total children identified         Total children enrolled   Percentage
                                                                                                          (%)
 Assam                                               17267                             4348                25
 Haryana                                             16635                             16635               100
 Himachal Pradesh                                     6041                             5868                97
 Karnataka                                           44081                             33181               75
 Kerala                                              23385                             23385               100
 Madhya Pradesh                                      90498                             78192               86
 Maharashtra                                         58130                             34082               59
 Tamil Nadu                                          19585                             16811               86
 TOTAL                                               275622                          212502                77

Source : State reports 2002


But for Assam, all the other States have been able to mainstream reasonably high proportions of the
children who were identified with disabilities.

Retention Rates
The productivity of the school system can be rated from its capacity to retain children in schools. This is
a basic condition for learning to take place. At project onset retention rates were low and dropout rates
were high. And correcting this was high on the agenda for DPEP. Table 6 provides the lowest and
highest retention rates in the project districts of DPEP I States at the start of the project.

Table 6 : Retention Rates of DPEP I States at Project Commencement
                                                       Range of Retention Rates (%)
      States                Boys              Girls          SC Boys           SC Girls      ST Boys     ST Girls
 Assam                25.6  49.9         23.5  44.7      32.8  36.2       29.5  38.5   24.2  40.4 20.6  36.8
 Haryana              65.2  91.9         58.6  79.2      49.5  98.5       49.1  78.8         -           -
 Karnataka            45.0  87.0         36.3  70.2      37.2  81.8       28.3  56.6   11.7  86.4 32.4  59.8
 Kerala                        -                 -                -               -              -           -
 Maharashtra          32.1  76.8         30.4  65.1      30.4  65.1       25.6 65.1    27.9  65.1 19.9  65.1
 Tamil Nadu           68.1  80.9         73.5  75.7      53.7  73.8       53.0 71.8    28.0 71.8  24.8  68.8
 Source : Staff Appraisal Report, India, District Primary Education Project, November, 1994

According to the above table
l    The range in the retention rates speaks for the prevalent diversities in the project districts
l    Gaps in retention rates of girls and boys were more than five per cent among all boys and girls, SC
     boys and girls and ST boys and girls




                                                                  - 50 -

l    The retention rates were low at project onset except in Tamil Nadu and in selected project districts
     in the other states.

In understanding the trends of retention, children enrolled in Class I in year one vis--vis enrolment in
Class IV/V in year 4/5 were compared using the DISE data. For Assam, Karnataka and Kerala the primary
cycle ends with Class IV while in the other States it goes on up to Class V.

Tracking  cohorts Table 7 shows the retention at the end of each cohort beginning in 1995-96,
1996-97, 1997-98 and 1998-99. Table 8 reflects the retention rate for one complete cohort that started
in 1997-98 for DPEP II states. The retention of schedule caste (SC) and scheduled tribe (ST) children has
been provided in Table 9. These tables also provide insights into gender differentials in retention.

Table 7 : Retention Rates of Children Enrolled in Class I in 1995-96, 1996-97, 1997-98 and 1998-99 -
             DPEP I States (%)
Contained in DPEP I ICR

Table 8 : Retention Rates of Children Enrolled in Class I in 1997-98 - DPEP II States (%)

   Phase  II Districts                                (Cohort  I) 97-98
                                    Boys                     Girls                    Total
 Assam                               26                       26                        26
 Haryana                             59                       59                        59
 Karnataka                          115                       86                        99
 Maharashtra                         71                       65                        68
 M.P.                                91                       83                        87
 Tamil Nadu                          83                       84                        83
 Gujarat                             63                       53                        58
 Himachal                            73                       69                        71
 Orissa                              56                       52                        54
 Uttar Pradesh                       39                       40                        40
 Phase II Total                      44                       40                        42

Source : DISE

Table 9 : Retention Rates of SC and ST Children Enrolled in Class I in 1997-98
           - DPEP I & II States(%)

          State                      SC Children                             ST Children
                           Boys          Girls          Total        Boys       Girls        Total
 Assam                       29           28             29           23         21            23
 Haryana                     59           56             57
 Karnataka                   94           84             89           86         80            83
 Maharashtra                 74           70             72           40         37            38
 Madhya Pradesh              83           78             81           71         70            70
 Tamil Nadu                  66           64             65           59         59            59
 Gujarat                     59           51             55           61         51            57
 Himachal Pradesh            65           62             63           66         62            64
 Orissa                      57           51             54           51         43            47
 Uttar Pradesh               46           45             46           61         65            63


Source: DISE

In recently concluded evaluation studies in selected states of DPEP  I and II the retention of children
with special needs was found to be as follows:




                                                   - 51 -

                    Madhya Pradesh                       :      83%
                    Maharashtra                          :      51.33%
                    Tamil Nadu                           :      100%
                    Uttar Pradesh                        :      81.6%

Completion Rates
Cohort studies have been carried out in some of the DPEP States. This was done in all the schools
covered in the DPEP districts by tracking each child enrolled in Class I, four/five years ago (from the year
of the study). A structured format was uniformly used to record child wise progress with respect to
promotion, repetition, transfer and drop out. As the cases of children leaving school with transfer
certificates was negligible, records of such children were not considered while carrying out the analysis.

The objectives of the study were to ascertain the

l   proportion of children who complete primary education in the stipulated time period of 4/5 years
l   repetition rate of children who remain within the system
l   proportion of children dropping out of the primary schooling system

The findings of the study conducted in three States covered under DPEP I and II are summarised below.

          State                Completion Rate (%)        Repetition Rate (%)   Dropout Rate (%)
Karnataka                                67                        18                   15
Maharashtra                              55                        11                   34
Tamil Nadu                               61                        23                   16
Source : Reports of Cohort Studies


When the above findings pertaining to dropout rates are compared to the retention rates shown at Table
7, the findings match in the case of Karnataka and Tamil Nadu. However, there is a difference in the
case of Maharashtra.

Levels of Learning
To assess the level of learning of students DPEP had set baselines (BAS) at project commencement
which were to be used twice to measure progress  once at the mid point of the project tenure (MAS)
and then at the end of the project period (TAS). The comparable situations of the learning levels of
children have been in the BAS and TAS are been presented for Phase-I and the comparison between MAS
and TAS for Phase-II districts (TAS results are in the process of finalisation).
As per the reports on BAS, MAS and TAS the following emerge with regard to overall learning
achievement, gender and social differentials in learning achievements.

Table 10 : Districts claiming hike in Achievement During TAS over BAS in Language BAS test 1994 vs
            TAS test 2001  DPEP I

   Class             Total                     District claiming hike               Districts with
                   Districts                                                       significant hike
                                                        >25%                     15-25%<15%Tot
                                                                                          al
      I               49                                  23                            95436
      III             15                                  12                           1215---
     IV               34                                  27                            12304
Source : Student Achievement under TAS, NCERT. April 2002




                                                          - 52 -

Table 11: Districts claiming hike in Achievement During TAS over BAS in Mathematics BAS test 1994
            vs TAS test 2001

   Class             Total                      District claiming hike                 Districts with
                  Districts                                                           significant hike
                                                         >25%                        15-25%<15%Tot
                                                                                             al
      I               49                                  38                               35454
      III              15                                 10                               13141
     IV               34                                  25                               32304
Source : Student Achievement under TAS, NCERT. April 2002

While comparing the improvement in students' achievement for TAS over BAS, insofar as the DPEP goal
of improving the learning levels by 25 percent over baseline learner achievement figures the following
picture emerges :

Class I
l   Out of 49 districts, the DPEP goal has been achieved in 23 districts in language and in 38 districts in
    mathematics
l   There are 6 districts in language and 4 in mathematics where achievement has declined
l   Dhar in Madhya Pradesh, Belgaum and Raichur in Karnataka and Wayanad in Kerala are four districts
    in which achievement has declined in both the subjects.
Class III
l   Out of 15 districts, 12 in language and 10 in mathematics have achieved the DPEP goal
Class IV
l   Out of 34 districts, 27 in language and 25 in mathematics have achieved the DPEP goal.

Table 12 : Districts claiming DPEP goal in regard to Gender  DPEP I
      Class               Total Districts                        District claiming DPEP goal
                                                             Language                Mathematics
         I                       49                             44                        40
        III                      15                             14                        15
        IV                       34                             31                        31
 Source : Student Achievement under TAS, NCERT. April 2002


Analyses of results reveal the following in respect of achieving the DPEP goal of reducing the differences
in achievement between boys and girls to less than 5 percent.

Class I
l         Achieved by 44 districts in language and 40 districts in mathematics.
Class III
l         Achieved in 15 out of 15 districts in 1 language and 14 out of 15 districts in mathematics.
Class IV
l         Realized in 31 out of 34 districts in language and 31 out of 34 districts in mathematics.




                                                          - 53 -

Table 13 : District claiming DPEP goal in regard to categories  DPEP I
   Class            Total                                Districts claiming DPEP goal
                  Districts                     Language                           Mathematics
                                   SC vs Others          ST vs Others      SC vs Others  ST vs Others
      I                49                38                29 of 45            39           33 of 45
     III               15                13                   12               13              10
      IV               34                26                20 of 30            30           21 of 30
Source : Student Achievement under TAS, NCERT. April 2002


Analyses of results reveal the following in respect of achieving the DPEP goal of reducing the differences
in achievement to less than 5 percent between SC and Others and ST and Others :
SC vs Others  Class I
l         Achieved in 38 of the 49 districts in language and 39 of the 49 districts in mathematics
SC vs Others - Class III
l         Achieved by 13 of the 15 districts in language and 13 in mathematics
SC vs Others - Class IV
l         Achieved in 26 of the 34 districts in language and 30 in mathematics.

ST vs Others - Class I
l         Achieved in 29 out of 45 districts in language and 33 out of 45 in mathematics
ST vs Others - Class III
l         Achieved in 12 of the 15 districts in language and 10 out of 15 in mathematics
ST vs Others - Class IV
l         Out of 30 districts, 20 districts in language and 21 in mathematics have attained the DPEP goal.

Table 14a: Districts claiming hike in Achievement in Language -- BAS test 1996 vs 1999 --
DPEP II
     Class              Total                     District claiming hike                Districts with
                     Districts       >25%          10-25%        <10%        Total     significant hike

        I                 17             1             8            8          17             12
       III                3              0             0            3          3              0
       IV                 14             0             5            9          14             8

Source : Students Achievement under MAS, NCERT. April 2000

Table 14b : Districts claiming hike in Achievement in Language - BAS test 1997 vs 2000  DPEP II
     Class              Total                     District claiming hike                Districts with
                     Districts       >25%          10-25%        <10%        Total     significant hike

        I                 56            10            20           16          46             38
       III                13             4             2            5          11             11
       IV                 43             1             8           22          31             26
Source : Scholastic Attainment under MAS, NCERT. November 2000


The comparative profile of students' achievement on BAS 1996 vs 1999 from Table 14a and 14b revealed
that 12 out of 17 districts have shown significant hike in language achievement in class-I and 9 out of
them have registered a hike of more than 10 percent. Against this, none of the three districts of Gujarat
in class III have shown significant improvement in language achievement. In class IV, 8 out of 14
districts have displayed significant improvement in language achievement. Of them, 5 have registered a
hike of more than 10 percent.




                                                           - 54 -

Table 15a : Districts claiming hike in Achievement in Mathematics - BAS test 1996 vs 1999  DPEP II
     Class              Total                     District claiming hike                 Districts with
                     Districts       >25%          10-25%        <10%          Total     significant hike

        I                 17             4             6           7            17              12
       III                3              0             0           3            3               0
       IV                 14             0             7           7            14              10
Source : Students Achievement under MAS, NCERT. April 2000


Table 15b : Districts claiming hike in Achievement in Mathematics - BAS test 1997 vs 2000  DPEP II
     Class              Total                     District claiming hike                 Districts with
                     Districts       >25%          10-25%        <10%          Total     significant hike

        I                 56            19            23           9            51              49
       III                13             2             --          7            9               8
       IV                 43             2             9          23            34              29
Source : Scholastic Attainment under MAS, NCERT. November 2000


According to Tables 15a and 15b 12 out of 17 districts have shown significant hike in mathematics
achievement in class I and of them 10 districts have displayed more than 10 percent hike in
achievement. None of the districts in Gujarat has shown any sign of improvement in mathematics
achievement in class III. In class IV, 10 out of 14 districts belonging to Andhra Pradesh, Himachal
Pradesh and Orissa have portrayed significant improvement in mathematics achievement. Of them, 7
districts have registered a hike of more than 10 percent.

Table 16a : Districts claiming DPEP goal in regard to Gender  DPEP II
      Class                 Total Districts                       District claiming DPEP goal
                                                             Language                 Mathematics
         I                         17                            15                         15
        III                         3                            3                          3
        IV                         14                            14                         12
 Source : Students Achievement under MAS, NCERT. April 2000


Table 16b : Districts claiming DPEP goal in regard to Gender  DPEP II
      Class                 Total Districts                       District claiming DPEP goal
                                                             Language                 Mathematics
         I                         56                            49                         42
        III                        13                            11                         13
        IV                         43                            41                         42
Source : Scholastic Attainment under MAS, NCERT. November 2000


It is evident from the above tables the following emerge in regard to reducing the gender differences in
achievement levels to less than five per cent :

Class I
l    The goal has been attained in both language and mathematics all the 15 districts across the four
     states.
l    Of the remaining districts, Rayagada in Orissa has to bring down the gender differences in
     achievement to less than 5 percent mark in both the subjects.
l    The differences in achievement in Kalahandi in language and in Vizianagaram in mathematics also
     need to be brought to the limit of 5 percent
l    Differences in achievement found favour with girls in 7 out of 17 districts in language and in 2 out of



                                                           - 55 -

     17 districts in mathematics.
Class III
l    All the districts in Gujarat have narrowed the differences in achievement in both the subjects to less
     than five percent. One district in language and two districts in mathematics were such where
     differences in achievement favoured girl students.

Class IV
l    Genderwise differences in language achievement were found to be far below 5 percent level in all the
     14 districts of Andhra Pradesh, Himachal Pradesh and Orissa. These differences in achievement
     found favour with girls in two districts in Andhra Pradesh and in three districts each in Orissa and
     Himachal Pradesh.
l    In mathematics, the achievement differences between boys and girls were found to be less than 5
     percent in 4 out of 5 districts each in Andhra Pradesh and Orissa and all the four districts of Himachal
     Pradesh.
l    The differences in achievement in mathematics have found favour with girls in one district each of
     Andhra Pradesh and of Orissa and in all the districts of Himachal Pradesh.
l    Districts Warangal in Andhra Pradesh and Bolangir in Orissa are marginally above the DPEP goal in
     mathematics.

Table 17a : District claiming DPEP goal in regard to categories  DPEP II
    Class          Total                           Districts claiming DPEP goal
                Districts                  Language                           Mathematics
                                SC vs Others       ST vs Others      SC vs Others       ST vs Others
       I            16               11                 11                11                  7
      III            2               1                  2                  1                  1
       IV           14               13                 10                11                  7


Table 17b : District claiming DPEP goal in regard to categories  DPEP II
    Class          Total                           Districts claiming DPEP goal
                Districts                  Language                           Mathematics
                                SC vs Others       ST vs Others      SC vs Others       ST vs Others
       I            56               36              21 of 35             36              22 of 35
      III           13               8                  8                  9                  7
       IV           43               38              16 of 22             39              17 of 22

It is seen from the above tables that the DPEP goal of reducing the differences in achievement between
SC and Others in class I in language has been realised in three districts each in the state of Andhra
Pradesh, Himachal Pradesh and Orissa and in both the districts in Gujarat. The remaining districts have
still to reach the level of the DPEP goal. The position in respect of ST versus Others is similar to that of
SC versus Others. In mathematics, it is evident from the results that the goal of DPEP of reducing
achievement differences between SC and Others has been realised in eleven out of sixteen districts in the
four states. As regards the differences in achievement in mathematics between ST and Others, the DPEP
goal has been realised in seven of the sixteen districts across the four states.

The analyses of achievement in language in class III between SC and Others in Gujarat reveals that the
goal of DPEP has been attained in one of the two districts. The differences in achievement between ST
and Others have been reduced to less than five percent in both the districts of the State. In
mathematics, the categorywise differences between SC and Others have been reduced to less than five
percent in Banaskantha and the differences between ST and Others have been reduced to less than five
percent in Panchmahals districts.




                                                     - 56 -

The results of differences in achievement in class IV language between SC and Others reveal attainment
in the case of all the ten districts of Andhra Pradesh and Orissa and in three districts of Himachal
Pradesh. The differences in achievement between ST and Others have also been reduced to the DPEP
ceiling of less than five percent in four districts each of Andhra Pradesh and Orissa and in two districts of
Himachal Pradesh. In class IV mathematics, the differences in achievement between SC and Others have
been reduced to less than five percent in four out of five districts both in Andhra Pradesh and Orissa and
three out of four in Himachal Pradesh. In respect of ST and Others the achievement differences have
been observed to be less than five percent in three districts of Orissa and in two districts each of Andhra
Pradesh and Himachal Pradesh.

Using the district achievement results in the subjects for children in different classes, tables have been
generated on achievement levels to provide the comparative picture of class wise student achievement
levels in Language and Mathematics (separately for phase I and II) for the project States as a whole.
After this the levels of learning by gender, SC and ST are presented in the same format.

As the Baseline, Midterm and Terminal Assessment Studies were conducted in sample schools and
districts, it was necessary to calculate the weighted mean (Wt.Mean) for the State using the district
specific rates. The weighted means for the state have been calculated by using the given sample size
and means for individual districts in the state. As a first step the sample and mean for a district is
multiplied and the result of this operation for all the districts added. This figure is then divided by the
sum of the district sample in each state to arrive at the weighted mean.

Table 18 : Achievement level of Students in Class I (BAS, MAS, TAS)

                                           Language                                       Mathematics
                           Wt. Mean         Wt. Mean       Wt. Mean 2001         Wt. Mean   Wt. Mean   Wt. Mean
          State          1994 (BAS)       1997 (MAS)              (TAS)         1994 (BAS)    1997       2001
                                                                                             (MAS)       (TAS)
Assam                         60.84           68.17                83.45           71.16      76.28      84.21
3 districts
Haryana                       53.13           62.95                70.93           51.06      69.66      79.11
4 districts
Karnataka                     55.88           85.84                72.90           50.53      86.08      72.42
4 districts
Kerala                        66.81           62.88                78.71           59.69      65.69      75.50
3 districts
Madhya Pradesh                49.61           51.21                74.81           43.60      47.17      73.82
19 districts
Maharashtra                   49.76           54.87                80.44           43.50      59.83      77.09
5 districts
Tamil Nadu                    38.33           44.35                84.97           33.97      63.63      87.12
4 districts


Source :   (1) MAS - NCERT, October 1998 (2) TAS - NCERT, April, 2002

Table 19 : Achievement level of Students in Class III (BAS, MAS, TAS)
                                            Language                                      Mathematics
                            Wt. Mean         Wt. Mean          Wt. Mean         Wt. Mean   Wt. Mean   Wt. Mean
          State           1994 (BAS)       1997 (MAS)             2001         1994 (BAS)    1997      2001
                                                                  (TAS)                     (MAS)      (TAS)
 Assam - 3 districts           49.69           63.46              65.33           51.46      48.65     67.11
 Karnataka                     36.07           66.48              52.72           39.81      59.48     45.93
 4 districts
 Kerala - 3 districts          47.01           53.25              52.28           37.22      42.19     40.77
 Maharashtra                   34.51           42.92              60.87           27.54      37.09     55.59
 5 districts
Source :                (1) MAS - NCERT, October 1998 (2) TAS - NCERT, April, 2002




                                                                   - 57 -

Table 20 : Achievement level of Students in Class IV (BAS, MAS, TAS)
                                         Language                                    Mathematics
                        Wt. Mean         Wt. Mean        Wt. Mean       Wt. Mean      Wt. Mean   Wt. Mean
        State          1994 (BAS) 1997 (MAS)                2001      1994 (BAS)        1997        2001
                                                           (TAS)                        (MAS)       (TAS)
Haryana                    44.19            47.99           52.24         38.03         42.29       49.82
4 districts
Madhya Pradesh             33.96            36.03           55.11         28.65         28.28       46.99
19 districts
Tamil Nadu                 36.32            47.23           78.99         28.15         41.41       74.50
4 districts*
Source :               (1) MAS - NCERT, October 1998    (2) TAS - NCERT, April, 2002
* Sample size was not known for Villupuram, thus not counted


(Tables 21-26 pertain only to DPEP I and have been edited out for the purpose of the DPEP
II ICR)

                 Table 27a : Achievement level of Students in Class I - DPEP II (BAS, MAS)

                                        Language (%)                               Mathematics (%)
                            Wt. Mean 1997 Wt. Mean 2000                Wt. Mean 1997       Wt. Mean 2000
          State                     (BAS)               (MAS)                  (BAS)            (MAS)
Assam - 6 districts                 41.67                59.42                 48.19            60.31
Haryana - 3 districts               45.34                49.93                 40.10            55.04
Karnataka                           43.09                63.51                 41.33            58.43
7 districts
Kerala - 3 districts                72.80                55.24                 59.70            60.91
Madhya Pradesh                      43.10                57.69                 39.79            63.24
15 districts
Maharashtra                         53.46                66.26                 53.49            69.01
4 districts
Tamil Nadu- 3 districts             54.36                61.16                 36.84            69.90
Uttar Pradesh                       46.90                57.48                 42.41            68.32
15 districts

Source : MAS - NCERT, November, 2000

                 Table 27b : Achievement level of Students in Class I - DPEP II (BAS, MAS)

                                      Language (%)                                 Mathematics (%)
                         Wt. Mean 1996           Wt. Mean 1999         Wt. Mean 1996       Wt. Mean 1999
        State                 (BAS)                    (MAS)                   (BAS)            (MAS)
Gujarat - 3 districts          58.20                    69.24                  58.13            69.38
Himachal Pradesh               70.46                    74.80                  64.93            61.23
4 districts

Source : MAS, NCERT, April 2000




                                                            - 58 -

                Table 28a : Achievement level of Students in Class III  DPEP II (BAS, MAS)

                                   Language (%)                      Mathematics (%)
                        Wt. Mean 1997     Wt. Mean 2000     Wt. Mean 1997      Wt. Mean 2000
        State                 (BAS)           (MAS)              (BAS)             (MAS)
Assam - 6 districts            42.99          48.11              41.86              45.16
Kerala - 3 districts           20.15          51.58              37.96              44.51
Maharashtra                    42.75          57.98              33.34              48.94
4 districts

Source : MAS - NCERT, November, 2000

                Table 28b : Achievement level of Students in Class III  DPEP II (BAS, MAS)

                                   Language (%)                      Mathematics (%)
                        Wt. Mean 1996     Wt. Mean 1999     Wt. Mean 1996      Wt. Mean 1999
        State                 (BAS)           (MAS)              (BAS)             (MAS)
Gujarat                        46.36          44.35              44.78              22.82
3 districts

Source : MAS, NCERT, April 2000


                Table 29a : Achievement level of Students in Class IV  DPEP II (BAS, MAS)

                                   Language (%)                      Mathematics (%)
                        Wt. Mean 1997     Wt. Mean 2000     Wt. Mean 1997      Wt. Mean 2000
        State                 (BAS)           (MAS)              (BAS)             (MAS)
Haryana                        36.77          47.20              32.07              37.89
3 districts
Karnataka                      41.72          37.48              30.86              37.18
7 districts
Madhya Pradesh                 33.34          43.70              27.34              36.86
15 districts
Tamil Nadu                     45.46          53.48              38.93              48.94
3 districts
Uttar Pradesh                  41.77          42.55              32.73              36.66
15 districts

Source : MAS - NCERT, November, 2000


                Table 29b : Achievement level of Students in Class III  DPEP II (BAS, MAS)

                                   Language (%)                      Mathematics (%)
                        Wt. Mean 1996     Wt. Mean 1999     Wt. Mean 1996      Wt. Mean 1999
        State                 (BAS)           (MAS)              (BAS)             (MAS)
Himachal Pradesh               44.79          54.81              38.62              45.72
4 districts

Source : MAS, NCERT, April 2000


Access
Access to primary education facilities was one of the prime concerns of the project as it was committed
to provide the facility in formal and non-formal settings in order to include all children in primary
education.




                                                   - 59 -

The 86,850 new schools opened in the DPEP districts has made it possible to provide a primary school
within a radius of one kilometer. This large scale infrastructural growth has significantly impacted on
access to primary schooling facilities. That the gap in access at the primary level has either been
eliminated or is close to elimination is clear from the infrastructural requirements for the primary level
articulated in the Sarva Shiksha Abhiyan (SSA) plans for DPEP districts.

In the DPEP districts 83,500 alternative schooling centres have been set up through which 3.6 million
children have been reached. This intervention has increased the reach and coverage of children in small
habitations and also those in difficult situations.

Access to children with disabilities has improved with focused attention of the project on the
identification and mainstreaming of these children. This is evident from Table 5.

Institutional Capacity Building
Substantial investments have been made by DPEP towards institutional capacity building that
operationalised new institutions (SIEMAT) and rejuvenated existing institutions (SCERT and DIET). The
SIEMAT at Allahabad, that was set up under the UPBEP transformed into a vibrant institution that
constantly catered to the planning and educational management needs of DPEP in Uttar Pradesh. DPEP
provided this SIEMAT the opportunity of associating with one of the largest primary education
interventions in the State that has helped to build its credibility across the region. Under DPEP SIEMATs
have been set up in Haryana, Maharashtra (MIEPA) and Orissa. In these States the project not only set
up the institutions but also took the initiative of activising them by involving them in planning and
researches activities.

Strengthening SCERTs was a conscious decision of DPEP. This was done by posting additional faculty,
providing equipment and scope for faculty/institutional enrichment. The underpinning of this was to
expand the role of SCERT in primary education delivery and help it to perform its role to potential/as
expected.

The experience with SCERTs has been different in the project States. In Gujarat, Madhya Pradesh,
Maharashtra and Tamil Nadu, the SCERT has been the prime moving factor in the curriculum and
textbook renewal process, development of teacher training modules, devleopment of teaching learning
material (TLM)/supplementary learning material (SLM), conducting research and evaluation. The other
situation had the project take the lead in the pedagogic arena with active support from the SCERTs.
States such as Uttar Pradesh operated along these lines and a close partnership between the project and
SCERT was established. In the case of some States, the process of getting SCERT on board was
prolonged and ridden with obstacles. While there are instances from this set of States of the project and
SCERT falling in step, they continue to function as parallel entities only in a few cases.

The start up for pedagogic activities under SSA is promising in the DPEP States as the basic groundwork
has been done by the project. SSA will have to focus more on the upper primary level. Contrasted to
this, the non-DPEP states will have to begin from the stage of primary education.

DIETs had been in position prior to DPEP in many districts with a limited set of activities confined
primarily to teacher training. DPEP planned its investments in the DIETs to bring them into the thick of
pedagogic activities. With pressure from the project vacant positions have been gradually filled up and
with a stronger team the DIETs are now engaged in teacher training, curriculum and textbook renewal,
ECE, supervision, and monitoring. In a way, DPEP has been able to get the DIETs to provide academic
leadership as was envisaged.

Capacity building efforts made it possible to ground the whole new concept of academic resource support
closer to the school, at the cluster (CRC) and block (BRC) levels. These have now become active hub




                                                    - 60 -

centres of academic exchange, enrichment and regular support to the quality aspect of primary
education.    The subject specialists or resource persons attached to these centres in some States have
further impacted on the quality of the teaching learning process in school.         The varied models for
providing academic support in the States have been designed to gel with their existing systems and
structures.

Besides this, DPEP's outward looking approach has encouraged localising resources and outsourcing
resources/institutions. Local institutions were involved to the extent possible and the expertise of
national institutions such as the Indian Institutes of Management, Tata Institute of Social Sciences,
NSDART, etc were accessed as and when necessary. The opportunity afforded to local
institutions/organisations to work with national/specialised institutions has contributed in the growth of
the former and reduced state dependence on resources from outside the State.

IV.      Major Factors affecting Implementation and Outcomes

There have been several factors that facilitated project implementation and enabled positive outcomes of
efforts under DPEP. Some of the key factors are described below.

Working through State Implementation Society
The many advantages of working through specially set up State Implemented Societies have made it
possible to record good progress.      With an empowered management structure, located within the
systems of the State Government, with a certain degree of autonomy, quick administrative decisions
have been possible.     Working through its own bank account the society has ensured timely and
uninterrupted fund flow.

The working of the society and the operational flexibility it enjoyed have led to a range of activities that
has created an euphoria about primary education. The resultant heightened stature of primary education
in the States has made it possible to garner state support for timely release of State shares of the project
budget, placement of effective Project Directors and Education Secretaries.

Induction of the `best' Staff for Project Implementation
DPEP has been able to draw upon the services of the best in the system and outside it. This freedom to
choose the team at all levels of operation has made a big difference to the quality of human resource at
the disposal of the project.

To ensure that the `best' actually enter the project delivery system, DPEP had followed very rigorous and
elaborate selection processes that enabled the selectors to go into greater depth about each individual.

Facilitative Funding Mechanism
A major boost to the sector as well as to the State Governments came with the Government of India
picking up 85 percent of the project cost and the State having to bear a meagre 15 percent of the project
cost.

Proactive role of Central Government
The role of the Central Government gained a new profile under DPEP. A dedicated team at the helm of
affairs has been an enabling factor that has successfully synergised the centre  state partnership in
providing elementary education. Through the joint review missions (JRM), attendance in Executive
Committee (EC) meetings, follow up of field level processes through regular MIS reports and State visits,
the Government of India has not only kept itself informed but has been able to effectively guide and
influence major implementation issues even and reorient policy at State level.




                                                   - 61 -

Decentralisation
Decentralisation in terms of the district as the unit of planning and the process of planning that allowed
voices from the grassroots to influence the district plans have made a qualitative difference to the vision
enshrined in the plans and their implementation. Even the `never heard' got an opportunity to express
their views on the education system, their expectations from it and aspirations for their children's
education. The participatory spirit has characterised the entire duration of project implementation. When
unforeseen needs emerged, often from the grassroots, these issues were taken up for addressal in
subsequent plans.       The flexibility to change course has been possible as a consequence of
decentralisation. Decentralisation received a fillip with setting up of VECs/SMCs as local level people's
bodies for education. The activisation of the Panchayati Raj system and delegation of powers to the
Panchayati Raj Institutions, for whom education is one of the several responsibilities, also carried
forward the spirit of decentratlisation. These together with the fact that DPEP has set a trend of primary
education delivery in active partnership with the community are major successes of the project.

Reference points of Local accountability
The vision to create VECs was indeed farsighted as it formed the base for people's involvement in
primary education, unsurpassed enthusiasm and commitment in the community has been experienced in
several parts of the project area. A spin off from this has been the formation of other informal
community groups with different configurations. The close ties between the community and schools have
reversed community attitudes towards governmental facilities for primary education. It has also created
referral points of local accountability that keep a check on the performance of the school and demand
transparency in functioning of the school.

Convergence
A convergent mode of operation has brought in greater resource support for the project both in human
and material terms. At the outset, convergence with the Integrated Child Development Services (ICDS)
was an articulated desirable in the guidelines. Similar convergence has also been mandated to optimize
benefits to children with disabilities. Keeping this in mind DPEP entered into an agreement with
Rehabilitation Council of India, a statutory body under the Ministry of Social Justice and Empowerment,
to provide 45-day training to teachers. The MoU with ALIMCO to provide aids and appliances to the
needy children, on a cost sharing ratio of 60:40 with ALIMCO bearing 60 per cent of the cost and the
remaining 40 per cent is borne by DPEP Societies. Mainstreaming children with disabilities in regular
schools has been possible through strong networking with specialized institutions, agencies and experts.
The project objectives were also furthered through convergence with the department of Rural
Development, Pradhan Mantri Gramodaya Yojana (PMGY), Operation Blackboard (OB), funds from the
10th Finance Commission and Drought Relief, in school infrastructure development efforts.

Alternatives in Education Facilities
Use of alternative models of primary education facilities enabled DPEP to plan for the inclusion of several
categories of children and also cover small habitations that do not qualify for formal schools if the state
norms for setting up new schools were to be applied. Alternative schooling gained in exponential growth
in DPEP, both in numbers and the variety of models.

Widespread Support
Multi-directional support that was forthcoming from various quarters enriched the project immensely.
The initial slow response of academic institutions, social science/development institutions, educationists,
NGOs, etc is the manifestation of caution exercised in treading the unknown. Persistent efforts by
programme managers successfully built partnerships with many of them. A lot of interest has since been
generated.     Today they have joined hands with the Government to respond meaningfully to the
challenges of primary education.




                                                   - 62 -

Reform and Policy Implications
The experience of implementing DPEP has highlighted the need for reform and policy reorientation. Steps
taken to effectuate reform and provide policy support have in turn strengthened the implementation arm
of the project, e.g. para teachers, various alternative schooling models, textbook development and
production, and distribution systems, teacher support structures, teacher rationalization, maintenance
grants to schools, etc.

Contrasted to the supportive factors there were factors that adversely affected the implementation
process and outcomes of the project.

Uncertain Tenure of Leadership
Occasionally, the momentum of the project has been arrested as a fallout of frequent, untimely or abrupt
transfer of leadership. This left a very unsettling effect on the implementation process. Results did not
show up because of the short tenure that the leadership was allowed in the project. Such periodic
slowing of project implementation has adversely affected the overall outcomes.

Weak Operational links with Mainline Education System
Tough the project was required to work hand in hand with primary school teachers and functionaries of
the mainline education department, project implementation was hindered because the project did not
have administrative control over them. Resistance to falling in line with the project originated in the
perception of the project being outside the education system. The slow response came in the way of
teacher training programmes and partnering on issues of supervision and monitoring. It took time to
establish this critical link and synergise efforts to reach the targeted goals.

This situation at times made it appear like parallel systems were working on UEE.

Ripple Effect : DPEP Initiatives taken to Scale

Striking examples of the ripple effect of DPEP interventions have been in the areas of :

l   Universalising the use of textbooks, workbooks, teacher guides, pupil evaluation methods developed
    by DPEP in the state. The benefits of a coherent pedagogical approach have thereby reached all the
    children in the state.
l   Successfully pitching primary education as important for all children and generating community
    enthusiasm that has transformed into a willingness to participate in the education system
l   Expanding the concept of academic support structures throughout the country
l   Streamlining the education system
l   Creating space for the community to take active interest in primary education, VECs were set up
    across states as a consequence of the learnings from DPEP.
l   Establishing links between ECE and primary education through generic Government orders applicable
    in the entire State
The opportunity to bring out the best in teachers has paid rich dividends by way of realising the
potentials of teachers that lay dormant. Their creative potential has been exploited to impact in
classroom processes through different means. Teachers have conducted action researches that have
brought in significant insights into improving the teaching  learning process besides sharpening their
own understanding of pedagogical issues.

DPEP has successfully sown the seeds of decentralised and participatory planning in elementary
education.    This is evident from the quality and depth of the District Elementary Education Plans
developed under SSA in DPEP and non  DPEP districts.




                                                       - 63 -

V.       Sustainability

What DPEP has demonstrated as `possible' and `beneficial' to the delivery of primary education needs to
be continued and integrated with the educational systems and structures in place. Living up to their
commitments, State Governments have taken landmark decisions to continue the academic support
structures created in the project districts and the teachers recruited under DPEP.     State enactments on
local self-government have not only defined the working of the community and the schools, they have
also ensured that the bonding between the community and school is lasting and strong. Committed to
sustained universal access to primary education facilities States have made policy articulations on
alternative modes of education and para teachers. The latter policy has helped sustain a balance in the
teacher pupil ratio (TPR). The Central scheme of EGS and AIE has added strength to State resolve at
universal access and inclusion of the difficult groups of children as well as children in small habitations
that do not qualify for formal primary schools.

DPEP has successfully run different models of ECE centres that have contributed in children's smooth
transition to the primary level.    An understanding between the Departments of Women and Child
Development and Elementary Education and Literacy at the national level has improved the prospects of
keeping alive this vital link between the pre-primary and primary levels. ECE Centres started by DPEP
will be sustained as ICDS centres after DPEP comes to a close (vide letter DO No 3-7/2002  CD  21
dated 23.12.2002, issued by Joint Secretary, DWCD). The examples of States having started a year of
pre-primary schooling by the Education Department speaks for the commitment towards quality
education through provisioning a supportive environment from the early stages of child development.

With the introduction of the Sarva Shiksha Abhiyan sustaining the demonstrated gains of DPEP has been
assured, at least until 2010. In many ways this decade long programme will be following the footsteps
of DPEP in regard to structures and processes that will necessitate it to sustain what DPEP initiated.

VI.      Bank and Borrower Performance, including performance of the Bureau and the
         Technical Support Group

The World Bank

Facilitative Role
The Bank has played a very facilitative role without being interfering at any point, right from the stage of
project design. It has maintained a low profile and remained in the sidelines except in matters where it
was mandated to be an involved party. The manner in which the Bank interjected on such instances was
indeed facilitative.

Participation in Appraisal Processes
Appraisals prior to formal launch of a project have afforded opportunities to the Bank to interact with the
Centre and States. Their observations on these occasions have been balanced and productive that
helped in enriching the project documents to lead up to smooth negotiations.

Participation in JSM/JRM
Through participation in the process of joint supervision/review, the Bank has been able to interact with
the States and get a first hand feel of the field situation. Interactions with the Centre and State have
been on a constructive note and never prescriptive.

Procurement System
The Bank's procurement systems are complicated and different as compared to the systems followed in
the Government in India. To familiarise the users with the Bank's procurement systems, training was




                                                   - 64 -

imperative. It took time to bring about the required state of preparedness that resulted in delays.

Centralised Procurement
Centralisation of procurement systems by the Bank has defied the decentralised spirit of the project.

Co Financing
Co financing arrangements with the Netherlands Government for supporting Gujarat has proved to be a
good arrangement that was well coordinated by the Bank.

The DPEP Bureau

The project development team set up to formulate the DPEP project was, with the commencement of
DPEP I, expanded to form a full time DPEP Bureau in the Education Department.

The DPEP Bureau as the focal point for the implementation of DPEP was responsible for the coordination,
appraisal, financial management, supervision and evaluation of State and district programmes. It has
also provided critical programmatic and policy support to the States and assisted them in maintaining the
pace of progress. Where necessary these are supplemented through Internal Supervision Missions.
Overall in charge of implementation of DPEP the Bureau functioned with the active support of specialized
institutions across the country and particularly in close coordination with the Technical Support Group
(TSG) for DPEP.

In its functioning, clear division of responsibilities had been laid down for the officers in the Bureau. For
each State the Deputy Secretary/Director supervises and monitors the progress as the GOI nominee on
the Executive Committee of the State Implementation Society, as also regularly monitors programme
performance through quarterly reports, EMIS and PMIS reports, State visits and appraisal of AWP & B.
These officers clear the release of funds to State societies on assessment of financial performance.

This arrangement has worked very effectively in

l   quick and detailed monitoring
l   responding to States' requirements in ways that are supportive of their needs.

The Bureau also coordinates meetings of the Project Board and JRMs, guides the process of formulation
of annual plans and budget allocations for DPEP, release of funds to States, audit of DPEP, answers to
Parliament, coordination with States and national level institutions like NCERT, NIEPA, HUDCO etc.

This centrally sponsored scheme was with a difference. It has redefined the role of the GOI such that it
was able to lean on States for policy, changes, and improvements in both the policy and funding
frameworks in the primary education sector. It provided leverage to the centre.

The Bureau's contribution has been critical in the way it provided leadership to facilitate programme
development and implementation and in charting the course of the project in tune with field level
changes and reoriented policy. This operational arrangement at the centre has proved to be a very
effective administrative mechanism for tracking implementation in the States.

The role played by the Bureau is captured in the paragraphs below.

Design of Frameworks
Using the DPEP guidelines as the basis, the Bureau designed frameworks covering the planning,
operational, implementation and financial aspects of programming.            Elaborated versions of these
frameworks were often provided to the States in the form of manuals and explanatory notes that helped




                                                      - 65 -

them understand the requirements and enabled them to act accordingly.

Garnering Resource Support
The Bureau has been able to bring specialist institutions and the whole body of resource support at
national level to contribute to the multi-dimensional needs of the project.

Problem Solving
Problem solving and backstopping has been part of the role played by the Bureau.              As the apex
facilitative unit in the management structure, it has stepped in on every occasion to support States in
project implementation and consolidate project efforts through convergence.

Influencing Decision and Policy
It goes without saying that progress in the primary education sector hinges critically on timely decisions
and supportive policy. The Bureau has been very particular in handling both these critical aspects in
order to sustain the rate of implementation.

Role in Media
With concerted efforts of the Bureau, the very profile of primary education in the country got a boost.
Besides positive image building, efforts led to constructive debates on primary education that offered
practical and workable suggestions.

Creation of Separate Department
Realising the expanding role of a dedicated arm of the central structure the logical expansion of the
DPEP Bureau has culminated in the creation of a separate Department of Elementary Education and
Literacy.

Constitution Eighty Sixth Amendment Act, 2001
This constitutional amendment has bound the State to "provide free and compulsory education to all
children of the age of six to fourteen years" (Article 21 of the Fundamental Rights). Further, "the State
shall endeavour to provide early childhood care and education for all children until they complete the age
of six years" (Article 45 of the Directive Principles of State Policy).

Technical Support Group (TSG) for DPEP

The need for technical services in key areas was deemed essential for successful implementation of
DPEP. It was recognised that a regular technical support mechanism would have to be installed to work
in coordination with the DPEP Bureau and the States. Fulfilling this need the Technical Support Group
(TSG) was set up.       Since its inception the TSG has been providing critical support to programme
management and has responded well to the demands made from it at national and State levels. Some of
the distinctive features of this group in terms of its role and modus operandi are described below :

Unique, flexible, Active Resource Support
Setting up a special technical services organisation was unique to DPEP. The flexible conditions of
working made it the focal point of active resource support for the States and the larger programme
management.

Geared to meet Project Demands
New systems and approach introduced by the project were possible to follow/adapt with this hub centre
of resources.     It helped in concretising the approaches, operationalise them and systmatise them.
Several good examples of this are procurement and disbursement, MIS, planning, supervision, appraisal,
AWP&B formulation, levels of clearances, financial organisation.




                                                      - 66 -

Hands on Involvement
The TSG has played a significant role at the centre as well as in the States.          It has contributed
immensely in structuring supervision, carrying out extensive documentation  what has been a marrying
process documentation and field visits  helping to institutionalise the DISE, building a ground swell for
greater community involvement, improving the quality of school infrastructure, creating material, etc.

Direct Resource Support
The Technical Support Group for DPEP had extended technical assistance to States for major functional
areas which include alternative schooling, appraisal and supervision, civil works, community mobilization
and VEC, gender and ECE, IED, management information system, pedagogical improvement, planning,
procurement and disbursement, research, evaluation and studies, documentation, media. Through its
hands on association, TSG has successfully developed relevant and desirable elements into the primary
education system.

These units, apart from providing technical support have participated in appraisals, organized cross State
sharing through workshops and documentation, provided special help to weaker states, helped in
building capacity in State institutions, captured national and international resources (HLM analysis) to
assist States.

Process documentation, organisation of workshops, and conceptual redesigning was possible largely
because of TSG.

Civil Works
The civil works unit assisted in giving a direction to the investments proposed under civil works with
design elements that were child friendly, supportive of the new pedagogy and cost effective. With
efforts at the national level, community participation in civil works has been made a reality. Repairs and
maintenance of school infrastructure received due emphasis as effective means of infrastructure
improvement. To be able to meet many of these requirements under DPEP, perspective building was
necessary. This task was also performed by the team of consultants in the civil works unit.

Pedagogy
Pedagogical reform has, from the beginning, been the cornerstone of DPEP strategy. The programme
has adopted a multi pronged effort to bring about a change in this area to facilitate effective learning.
Considerable emphasis has been placed on promoting activity based and child centred pedagogy,
mandating the establishment of and strengthening academic support systems, renewal of curriculum and
teaching learning material and appropriate training programmes for teachers. Harnessing the potential of
the DIETs and SCERT in the pedagogic arena was attempted through interactions and capacity building
efforts. State visits, National workshops, development of base papers, discussions, involvement in in
capacity building and material development efforts in the States, were the various ways in which the
pedagogy unit supported pedagogical reform in the project States.

Gender
Gender sensitivity was a pre-condition for planning and implementation in DPEP. Consequently this
sensitivity had to be inculcated across all levels in all aspects of programme planning and
implementation.      This was a challenge undertaken by the Gender Unit. Despite resistance, the unit's
persistent efforts have been able to create a supportive environment for girls' education. At least the
initial barriers are broken and there is wider acceptance of the importance of focusing on improving the
participation rates of girls for realising UEE.

Interventions have been facilitated in planning for gender under DPEP, community mobilization for girls'
education, gender sensitization of teachers and educational staff, analysis and usage of MIS data for




                                                   - 67 -

programme planning, designing micro level strategies for girls' education, creating supportive classroom
processes from the gender angle, monitoring girls' education etc.

Integrated Education for the Disabled (IED)
The most significant contribution of the IED unit has been able to bring issues of mainstreaming children
with disabilities to the fore. It has helped the States to grapple with this very challenging aspect of DPEP
with sound technical inputs. Apart from the technical inputs to teachers to deal with children with
disabilities, the introduction of barrier free environment in the schools has factored the large presence of
children with disabilities in the formal primary schools. These qualitative changes in the field were
possible with support from the IED Unit.

Alternative Schooling
The alternative schooling unit has assisted States in developing conceptual clarity about this approach for
harnessing the out of school children. This brought about a significant turn in the efforts at provisioning
primary education. It drew upon resources in the country to learn from past experiences of implementing
alternative schooling models. This has helped to create a broad-based understanding of issues and
informed the States of the range of options to model their strategies.

This unit contributed in the formulation of the central scheme of EGS and AIE, which is an integral part
of the strategy under SSA.

Changing roles
In the initial years the TSG played a more proactive role in servicing the States, poked and provoked the
States to concretise their strategies and put systems in place. Over the years this role had changed and
the need for central support reduced, as many States were able to pull forward on their own. Capacities
were adequately built with this model of central technical support. Presently the TSG performs a more
supervisory role and helps to disseminate good practices across the country, develop documentation  all
of which helps States in refining their approaches and interventions to be on track with their contexts
and needs.

VII.      LESSONS LEARNED

There are several demonstrated outcomes of DPEP that have provided a good learning experience for
the sector. The DPEP model by dint of its design and the implementation strategies is a workable one in
terms of the structures set up, processes followed, the targets set, the methods adopted, the
supplementary support drawn upon, the thrust areas, etc.

The major lessons learnt have been summarised below.

1.        Priority areas when well conceived can give a good start to efforts but as the understanding of
issues get further refined/sharpened with implementation experience the interventions can be made
more focused and directed at specific issues. This openness in planning is very important for reaching
targeted goals.

2.        Adequate preparation and commitment from the State Government are necessary pre-conditions
that alone can make it possible to implement a complex sector/sub-sector project of complex nature that
requires multi-dimensional inputs
3.        Implementation through a Society that functions with a balanced share of autonomy and State
Government control through its Executive Committee, that has the representation of several government
departments, offers a viable arrangement. This mechanism allows for inter-sectoral convergence and
greater flexibility and decentralisation within prescribed limits.




                                                     - 68 -

4.       The gains of a holistic approach as compared to a schematic approach in addressing the sectoral
issues and bringing in reform-based changes was realised through the DPEP experience

5.       Project design of DPEP was conceived for ideal conditions, which were not available in all the
States. Certain conditions were almost assumed that were really not available in the State context and
had to be created for proper implementation and this meant loss of time for actual implementation. In
such a situation targets set vis--vis the time frame was inadequate. The inadequacy of time was also
felt in the context of the varying levels of baselines that were sometimes far below the project targets,
warranting greater improvement/progress in shorter time.

6.       Projects of this intensity culminate in the need for reforms and operational changes in the
primary sector. A long-term view thus becomes crucial. At the close of these phases of DPEP there are
issues to be tackled yet, that are particularly related to qualitative improvement of primary education.
Considering these a longer-term project would be appropriate to achieve the goal of UEE. But the
support of adequate mechanisms will be necessary to continue working in the same pace and spirit
without slipping into laxity. A ten year project duration would enable successful completion of all
programme cycles and still be left with adequate time to handle the difficult areas of access and quality
aspects.

7.       Community involvement is crucial for effective schools and quality education. Decentralised
processes that encourage popular support are also important for improved local management, enhanced
responsiveness to local needs that makes implementation effective. The stage is set for decentralising
primary education with PRIs operational in most States. This will be an important administrative move
that will empower the PRIs to be directly involved in decision making and enjoy financial control as well.


8.       A strong pre-school component can positively influence children's entry into primary schools and
their demonstrated performance at the primary level speaks of the impact pre-school has on quality
education.

9.       District specific financial ceilings that were enforced in DPEP did not allow the districts to plan in
accordance with their needs. This was a serious detrimental in setting up academic support structures in
case of districts with several blocks. To meet this institutional gap, the State will have to rely on other
projects/sources. Future projects need to examine this closely while setting financial norms.

10.      Full and meaningful participation of existing institutions/personnel like SCERT, DIETS and
educational administrators will require some more time and effort though substantial improvement in
their functioning has been possible through interventions under DPEP. The whole approach to activising
them would require a long-term view with the backing of and rigorous planning/implementation. In this
context, leadership, capacity building, delegation of power and control, development of simple and
flexible mechanisms would be all-important.

11.      The importance of informed decision making and close monitoring in planning, implementation
and improvement was established through conduct and use of research and evaluation studies,
collection, analysis and utilisation of EMIS, and organisation of periodical review meetings. All of these
facilitated mid-course corrections that added greater rigour to programming

12.      The limited experience with SIEMAT does suggest their value in obtaining technical support for
educational planning and management including promotion of research to encourage evidence based
planning

13.      The continuity of leadership and staff in critical positions at all levels for a minimum duration is a




                                                      - 69 -

non-negotiable for the concepts and spirit to grow roots. This can assure implementation in the desired
direction.




                                                 - 70 -

- 71 -

