Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
 CREDIT NO. 2876 IN
 TRUST FUND NO. 020916 
Netherlands Grant Agreement
(Second District Primary Education Project)
between
INDIA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
as Administrator of Netherlands Funds
MINISTER FOR DEVELOPMENT COOPERATION
OF THE NETHERLANDS
Dated August 21, 1997
CREDIT NO. 2876 IN 
TRUST FUND NO. 020916
NETHERLANDS GRANT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated August 21, 1997 between INDIA, acting by its President (the 
“Grantee”) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION acting as Administrator (the 
“Administrator”) of the Netherlands Grant (as hereinafter defined) provided by the 
Minister for Development Cooperation of the Netherlands (the “Minister”). 
WHEREAS the Grantee has requested the assistance of the International 
Development Association and the Minister in the financing of activities under the 
Project (“Project”) described in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement No. 
2876 IN dated July 15, 1996, (“Development Credit Agreement”) between the Grantee and 
the International Development Association ("Association”);
WHEREAS the Association has granted a credit for this purpose on the terms and 
conditions set forth in the Development Credit Agreement.
WHEREAS the Minister wishes to make available to the Grantee a grant, on the 
terms and conditions hereinafter set forth (“Netherlands Grant”), to assist the 
Grantee in carrying out the Project in the districts of Banashkanta, Dang and 
Panchmahal in the State of Gujarat;
WHEREAS the Project will be implemented in part by the Grantee’s State of 
Page  2
Gujarat (“Gujarat”) with the Grantee’s assistance and as part of such assistance the 
Grantee will make available to Gujarat the proceeds of the Grant as provided in this 
Agreement;
WHEREAS by arrangements dated September 18, 1996 between the Minister, the 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development and the Association (the 
“Arrangements”), the Minister has requested the Association, and the Association has 
accepted, to administer, inter alia, the Netherlands Grant in accordance with the 
provisions of the Arrangements; and
WHEREAS the Grantee acknowledges that the financial assistance extended to the 
Grantee under this Netherlands Grant Agreement shall be considered as part of the 
bilateral development aid extended by the Government of the Netherlands to the 
Grantee;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements 
of the Association, dated January 1, 1985 (the “General Conditions”) constitute an 
integral part of this Agreement subject, however, to the following modifications 
thereof:
(a)
the term “Association”, wherever used in the General Conditions, means 
the International Development Association acting as Administrator of the Netherlands 
Grant pursuant to the Arrangements, except in the phrase “member of the Association” 
in Sections 2.01 (5), 4.02 (b) and 6.02 (e);
(b)
the term “Development Credit Agreement”, whenever used in the General 
Conditions, means this Agreement;
(c)
the term “Credit”, whenever used in the General Conditions, means the 
Netherlands Grant extended to the Grantee under this Agreement;
(d)
the term “Credit Account”, whenever used in the General Conditions, means 
the Netherlands Grant Account, the account opened by the Administrator in its books in 
the name of the Grantee to which the amount of the Netherlands Grant is credited;
(e)
in Section 6.02 the term “Association” shall also include the 
International Development Association acting in its own capacity;
(f)
Section 9.06 (c) shall be modified to read:
“(c) Not later than six months after the Closing Date or such 
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Grantee 
and the 
Administrator, the Grantee shall prepare and furnish to 
the Administrator a 
report, of such scope and in such detail as 
the Administrator shall 
reasonably request, on the execution of 
the Project referred to in the 
Preamble to the Netherlands Grant 
Agreement, the performance by the 
Grantee and the Administrator 
of their respective obligations under the 
Netherlands Grant 
Agreement and the accomplishment of the purposes of the 
Netherlands Grant”;
(g)
Sections 3.02, 3.03, 3.04, 3.05, 4.02, 4.03, 4.04, 4.06, 6.05, 7.01, 8.01 
(a), and Article XII are deleted; and
 (h)
the term “Borrower” whenever used in the General Conditions means the 
Grantee.
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise 
requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to 
this Agreement and in the Development Credit Agreement have the respective meanings 
therein set forth and the following terms shall have the following meanings:
Page  3
(a)
“Dollars” and the sign “$” mean dollars in the currency of the United 
States of America; and
(b)
“Dutch Guilders” and “NLG” mean the currency of the Netherlands.
ARTICLE II
The Grant
Section 2.01. The Administrator agrees to extend to the Grantee, on the terms 
and conditions herein set forth or referred to, a grant in an amount of twenty-five 
million eight hundred thousand Dollars ($25,800,000), but not exceeding the equivalent 
of forty-five million one hundred and fifty thousand Dutch Guilders (NLG 45,150,000).
Section 2.02. (a) Subject to Section 2.02 (b) below, the proceeds of the 
Netherlands Grant may be withdrawn from the Netherlands Grant Account in accordance 
with the provisions of the Schedule to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended 
from time to time by agreement between the Grantee and the Administrator.
(b)
The Administrator shall not be obligated to make any payment under this 
Agreement except to the extent it shall first have received funds for the purpose from 
the Minister.
Section 2.03. (a) Except as the Administrator shall otherwise agree, contracts 
for goods and services to be financed out of the proceeds of the Netherlands Grant 
shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to the Project 
Agreement (Second District Primary Education Project) between the Association and 
States of Assam, Gujarat, Haryana, Himachal Pradesh, Karnataka, Kerala, Madhya 
Pradesh, Maharashtra, Orissa, Tamil Nadu and Uttar Pradesh dated July 15, 1996, which 
is hereby incorporated into this Agreement with the same force and effect as if it 
were fully set forth herein, it being understood that the references in said Schedule 
to the “Association” and the “Credit Account” shall be deemed to be references to the 
Association acting as Administrator of the Netherlands Grant and the Netherlands Grant 
Account, respectively.
(b)
If the Administrator shall have reasonably determined that the 
procurement of any item is inconsistent with the procedures set forth or referred to 
in paragraph (a) above, no expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Netherlands Grant, and the Administrator may, without in any way 
restricting or limiting any other right, power or remedy of the Administrator under 
this Agreement, by notice to the Grantee, cancel such amount of the Netherlands Grant 
as, in the Administrator's reasonable opinion, represents the amount of such 
expenditures which would otherwise have been eligible for financing out of the 
proceeds of the Netherlands Grant.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2003 or such later date as the 
Administrator shall establish. The Administrator shall promptly notify the Grantee of 
such later date.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. Except as otherwise expressly provided herein, Articles III and IV 
of the Development Credit Agreement are hereby incorporated into this Agreement with 
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein, it being understood 
that all references in said Articles III and IV to the “Association” shall be deemed 
to be references to the Administrator of the Netherlands Grant under this Agreement 
and all references to the “Credit” and the “Credit Account” shall be deemed to be 
references to the Netherlands Grant and the Netherlands Grant Account, respectively.
ARTICLE IV
Section 4.01. (a) The Grantee shall cause Gujarat to maintain records and 
accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the 
operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Project.
Page  4
(b)
The Grantee shall cause Gujarat to:
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) 
of this Section for each fiscal year audited, in 
accordance with appropriate auditing principles 
consistently 
applied, by independent auditors acceptable 
to the Administrator;
(ii)
furnish to the Administrator as soon as available, but in 
any case not later than nine months after the end of each 
such 
year: (A) certified copies of its financial 
statements for such 
year as so audited; and (B) the report 
of such audit by said auditors, 
of such scope and in such 
detail as the Administrator shall have 
reasonably requested; 
and
(iii)
furnish to the Administrator such other information 
concerning said records, accounts and financial statements 
as 
well as the audit thereof, as the Administrator shall 
from time to 
time reasonably request.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Administrator
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified, namely, that the right of the Grantee to 
withdraw the proceeds of the Credit shall have been suspended, canceled or terminated 
in whole or in part, pursuant to the Development Credit Agreement.
ARTICLE VI
Effectiveness
Section 6.01. (a) This Agreement shall become effective upon its execution by 
the parties.
(b)
This Agreement shall continue in effect until the Netherlands Grant has 
been fully disbursed and the parties to this Agreement have fulfilled their 
obligations under this Agreement.
ARTICLE VII
Representation; Transfer of Rights and Obligations
Section 7.01. The Secretary, any Additional Secretary, Joint Secretary, 
Director, Deputy Secretary, Under Secretary of the Department of Economic Affairs in 
the Ministry of Finance of the Grantee is designated as the representative of the 
Grantee for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of 
Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Grantee:
The Secretary to the Government of  India
Department of Economic Affairs
Ministry of Finance
New Delhi, India
Cable address:
Telex:
ECOFAIRS
  953-3166175 FINE IN
New Delhi
For the Administrator:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Page  5
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INDEVAS
  197688 (TRT)
Washington, D.C.
  248423 (RCA)
 
   64145 (WUI) or
   82987 (FTCC)
Section 7.03. In accordance with the Arrangements, the rights and obligations of 
the Administrator under this Agreement may be transferred to the Minister. The Grantee 
accepts and agrees that, upon notice by the Administrator to the Grantee to that 
effect, the Minister shall, ipso facto, from the date specified in such notice, be 
substituted in all rights and obligations of the Administrator under this Agreement as 
if the Minister had been an original party to this Agreement, without any further 
action or formality required on the part of any party, and from such date the 
Administrator shall cease to have any rights or obligations as a party under this 
Agreement.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their representatives 
thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year 
first above written. 
INDIA
By /s/ Sudhakar Rao
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
   as Administrator of the Netherlands Grant
By /s/ Manuel Penalver
Acting Regional Vice President
South Asia
SCHEDULE
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Netherlands Grant
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Netherlands Grant, the allocation of the amounts of the Netherlands 
Grant to each Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed 
in each Category:
               Amount of the
              Grant Allocated
      % of
                 (Expressed
  Expenditures
Category
         in US Dollars)
 to be Financed
(1)
Civil Works
           4,700,000
 90% 
(2)
Equipment, vehicles
    5,200,000         100% of foreign
books, furniture and
        expenditures, 100%
materials
                     of local expenditures
                            (ex-factory cost) and
                            80% of local expendi-
Page  6
                            tures for other items 
                            procured locally
(3)
Consultants’ services  1,600,000
        100%
(4)
Fellowships and
   3,600,000
        100%
training
(5)
Incremental staff
   8,700,000
        90% of local expendi-
salaries, incremental
        tures incurred until
honoraria for volunteers,
        September 30, 1998;
incremental operation
        85% of local expendi-
and maintenance cost
        tures incurred from
                            October 1, 1998 
                            until September 30,
                            1999; 80% of local
                            expenditures incurred
                            from October 1, 1999
                            until September 30,
                            2000; 65% of local
                            expenditures incurred
                            from October 1, 2000
                            until September 30,
                            2001; and 40% of local
                            expenditures thereafter
(6)
Unallocated
        2,000,000
             __________
TOTAL
       25,800,000
       ==========
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of the 
Grantee or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Grantee;
(b)
the term “incremental operation and maintenance costs” means operation 
and maintenance costs for the Project pursuant to the Grantee’s District Primary 
Education Program, incurred on or after March 1, 1996;
(c)
“incremental staff salaries” means salaries paid in respect of posts 
created for the Project pursuant to the Project, including consulting or contractual 
services, on or after March 1, 1996; and
(d)
“incremental honoraria for volunteers” means honoraria paid for 
volunteers to carry out activities under the Project.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, except at withdrawals, in 
an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of $500,000, may be made on account 
of payments for expenditures before that date but on or after March 1, 1996.
4.
The Administrator may require withdrawals from the Netherlands Grant Account to 
be made on the basis of statements of expenditure for:
(a)
goods and works under contracts not exceeding $300,000 equivalent;
(b)
services under contracts not exceeding $100,000 equivalent for employment 
of consulting firms and $50,000 equivalent for employment of individual consultants 
respectively;
(c)
training and fellowships;
(d)
works procured under force account; and
(e)
incremental staff salaries, incremental operational and maintenance costs 
Page  7
and incremental honoraria for volunteers, all under such terms and conditions as the 
Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
