Page  1
                                                   CONFORMED COPY
                                            CREDIT NUMBER 2876 IN
                          Project Agreement
             (Second District Primary Education Project)
                               between
                INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                                 and
         STATES OF ASSAM, GUJARAT, HARYANA, HIMACHAL PRADESH,
        KARNATAKA, KERALA, MADHYA PRADESH, MAHARASHTRA, ORISSA,
                     TAMIL NADU and UTTAR PRADESH
                        Dated July 15, 1996
                                                CREDIT NUMBER 2876 IN
                         PROJECT AGREEMENT
     AGREEMENT, dated July 15, 1996, between INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT
ASSOCIATION (the Association) and the STATES OF ASSAM, GUJARAT, HARYANA,
HIMACHAL PRADESH, KARNATAKA, KERALA, MADHYA PRADESH, MAHARASHTRA,
ORISSA, TAMIL NADU  and UTTAR PRADESH, each acting by its respective
Governor, (hereinafter referred to individually as "Project State"
and collectively as "Project States");
     WHEREAS (A) by the Development Credit Agreement of even date
herewith between India (the Borrower) and the Association, the
Association has agreed to make available to the Borrower an amount
in various currencies equivalent to two hundred ninety one million
seven hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 291,700,000),
on the terms and conditions set forth in the Development Credit
Agreement, but only on condition that INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT
ASSOCIATION (the Association) and the Project States agree to under-
take such obligations toward the Association as are set forth in this
Agreement;
     (B)  the Borrower has requested the Government of the Netherlands
(the Netherlands) for a grant (the Netherlands Grant) in an amount in
Dutch Guilders equivalent to $25,800,000 to be administered by the
Association on behalf of the Netherlands for purposes of assisting in
financing Project expenditures in the State of Gujarat on terms and
Page  2
conditions to be set forth in an agreement to be entered into between
the Association and the Netherlands (the Netherlands Trust Fund
Agreement) and an agreement to be entered into between the Borrower
and the Netherlands (the Netherlands Grant Agreement); and
     WHEREAS the Project States, in consideration of the Association's
entering into the Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, have
agreed to undertake the obligations set forth in this Agreement;
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
                            Definitions
     Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several
terms defined in the Development Credit Agreement, the Preamble to
this Agreement and in the General Conditions (as so defined) have the
respective meanings therein set forth.
                            ARTICLE II
                      Execution of the Project
     Section 2.01. (a) Each Project State declares its commitment to
the objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the
Development Credit Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out the
Project, and cause State Implementation Societies to carry out the
Project, with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with
appropriate administrative, financial and educational practices, and
shall provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the funds,
facilities, services and other resources required for the Project.
     (b)  Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of
this Section and except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the
Project States shall carry out the Project in accordance with the
Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
     Section 2.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods, works and services required for the Project
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be
governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
     Section 2.03. (a)  Each Project State shall carry out the obli-
gations set forth in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08
of the General Conditions applicable to the Development Credit
Agreement (relating to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and
schedules, records and reports, maintenance and land acquisition,
respectively) in respect of the Project Agreement and that part of the
Project carried out by each of them respectively.
      (b)  For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions
and without limitations thereto, each Project State shall prepare and
furnish to the Association not later than six (6) months after the
Closing Date or such later date as may be agreed for this purpose
between the Association and such Project State a plan satisfactory to
the Association for the future operation of the physical facilities
financed under the Credit.
     Section 2.04. (a) Each Project State shall, at the request of the
Association, exchange views with the Association with regard to the
progress of the Project, the performance by each of them of its
respective obligations under this Agreement, and other matters relating
to the purposes of the Credit.
     (b)  Each Project State shall promptly inform the Association of
any condition which interferes or threatens to interfere with the
progress of the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of the
Credit, or the performance by each of them of its respective obli-
gations under this Agreement.
                            ARTICLE III
Page  3
                        Financial Covenants
     Section 3.01. (a)  Each Project State shall maintain and cause State
Implementation Societies to maintain, records and accounts, adequate to
reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices their operations,
resources and expenditures in respect of activities related to its
respective parts of the Project, of the departments or agencies
responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
     (b)  Each Project State shall:
          (i)  have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph
               (a) of this Section for each fiscal year audited, in
               accordance with appropriate auditing principles con-
               sistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable
               to the Association;
          (ii) furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in
               any case not later than nine months after the end of
               each such year, certified copies of the report of such
               audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail
               as the Association shall have reasonably requested; and
         (iii) furnish to the Association such other information con-
               cerning said records, accounts and the audit thereof,
               as the Association shall from time to time reasonably
               request.
                                  ARTICLE IV
                         Effective Date; Termination;
                         Cancellation and Suspension
     Section 4.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on
the date upon which the Development Credit Agreement becomes effective.
     Section 4.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the
Association and of the Project States thereunder shall terminate on
the earlier of the following two dates:
          (i)  the date on which the Development Credit Agreement
               shall terminate in accordance with its terms; or
          (ii) the date twenty (20) years after the date of this
               Agreement.
     (b)  If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in accordance
with its terms before the date specified in paragraph (a) (ii) of this
Section, the Association shall promptly notify the Project States of
this event.
     Section 4.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue
in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension
under the General Conditions applicable to the Development Credit
Agreement.
                            ARTICLE V
                    Miscellaneous Provisions
     Section 5.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be
given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between the
parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing. Such
notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or made
when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable, telex
or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted to be
given or made at such party's address hereinafter specified or at such
other address as such party shall have designated by notice to the
party giving such notice or making such request. The addresses so
specified are:
Page  4
     For the Association:
          International Development Association
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America
          Cable address:             Telex:
               INDEVAS               197688 (TRT)
               Washington, D.C.      248423 (RCA)
                                      64145 (WUI) or
                                      82987 (FTCC)
     For the State of Assam:
          Chief Secretary to the Government
            of Assam
          Guwahati, India
     For the State of Gujarat:
          Chief Secretary to the Government
            of Gujarat
          Gandhinagar, India
     For the State of Haryana:
          Chief Secretary to the Government
            of Haryana
          Chandigarh, India
     For the State of Himachal Pradesh:
          Chief Secretary to the Government
            of Himachal Pradesh
          Simla, India
     For the State of Karnataka:
          Chief Secretary to the Government
            of Karnataka
          Bangalore, India
     For the State of Kerala:
          Chief Secretary to the Government
            of Kerala
          Trivandrum, India
     For the State of Madhya Pradesh:
          Chief Secretary to the Government
            of Madhya Pradesh
          Bhopal, India
     For the State of Maharashtra:
          Chief Secretary to the Government
            of Maharashtra
          Mumbai, India
     For the State of Orissa:
          Chief Secretary to the Government
            of Orissa
          Bhubaneswar, India
     For the State of Tamil Nadu:
          Chief Secretary to the Government
            of Tamil Nadu
Page  5
          Madras, India
     For the State of Uttar Pradesh:
          Chief Secretary to the Government
            of Uttar Pradesh
          Lucknow, India
     Section 5.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any
document required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on
behalf of a Project State may be taken or executed by its Chief
Secretary or such other person or persons as the Chief Secretary shall
designate in writing and such Project State shall furnish to the
Association sufficient evidence of the authority and the authenticated
specimen signature of each such person.
     Section 5.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counter-
parts, each of which shall be an original, and all collectively but one
instrument.
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in
their respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of
America, as of the day and year first above written.
               INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
               By /s/  D. Joseph Wood
                                Regional Vice President
                                             South Asia
               STATES OF ASSAM, GUJARAT, HARYANA, HIMACHAL
               PRADESH, KARNATAKA, KERALA, MADHYA PRADESH,
               MAHARASHTRA, ORISSA, TAMIL NADU and UTTAR
               PRADESH
               By /s/  N. Valluri
                              Authorized Representative
                               SCHEDULE 1
                Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I:   Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:     General
     Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions
of Section I of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA
Credits" published by the Bank in January 1995 and revised in January
1996 (the Guidelines) and the following provisions of this Section, as
applicable.
Part B:     International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this section, goods and
works shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the
provisions of Section II of the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix
1 thereto.
2.   The following provisions shall apply to goods and works to be
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of
paragraph 1 of this Part B:
     (a)  Preference for domestically manufactured goods
Page  6
     The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and
Appendix 2 thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory
of the Borrower.
     (b)  Dispute Review Board
     Each contract for works estimated to cost $50,000,000 equivalent
or more shall include the provisions for a dispute review board set
forth in the standard bidding documents for works referred to in
paragraph 2.12 of the Guidelines.
     (c)  Notification and Advertising
     The invitation to prequalify or bid for each contract estimated to
cost $10,000,000 equivalent or more shall be advertised in accordance
with procedures applicable to large contracts under paragraph 2.8 of
the Guidelines.
Part C:     Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
     In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A (1) hereof, goods manufactured in India may be
granted a margin of preference in accordance with, and subject to, the
provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines and paragraphs
1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part D:     Other Procurement Procedures
1.   National Competitive Bidding
     Except as provided in paragraph 2 of Part D of this Schedule:
     (a)  Civil works shall be procured under contracts awarded in
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the
Guidelines.
     (b)  Contracts for furniture, vehicles, equipment, books and
educational materials, estimated to cost the equivalent of $300,000 or
less but more than the equivalent of $50,000 per contract, up to an
aggregate amount of $36,200,000 equivalent, shall be procured under
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3
and 3.4 of the Guidelines.
2.   National Shopping: Force Account and Direct Contracting
     (a)  Civil works, estimated to cost the equivalent of $20,000 or
less per contract shall be:
          (i)  carried out by force account up to an aggregate value of
               $13,100,000 equivalent; or
          (ii) carried out through communities up to an aggregate value
               of $45,900,000 equivalent in accordance with procedures
               satisfactory to the Association; and
         (iii) up to an aggregate amount not to exceed the equivalent
               of $45,900,000 procured under lump sum, fixed priced
               contracts awarded on the basis of quotations obtained
               from three qualified domestic contractors in response
               to a written invitation. The invitation shall include a
               detailed description of the works, including basic
               specifications, the required completion date, a basic
               form of agreement acceptable to the Bank, and relevant
               drawings, where applicable.  The award shall be made to
               the contractor who offers the lowest price quotation
               for the required work.
     (b)  Contracts each estimated to cost $50,000 equivalent for:
          (i)  furniture up to an aggregate amount of $11,200,000
               equivalent;
Page  7
          (ii) books up to an aggregate amount of $15,500,000 equivalent;
         (iii) materials up to an aggregate amount of $68,900,000
               equivalent; and
          (iv) equipment up to an aggregate amount of $11,400,000
               equivalent, may be awarded on the basis of national
               shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions
               of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
     (c)  Contracts for the purchase of vehicles, up to an aggregate
amount of $2,700,000 equivalent and estimated to cost the equivalent
of $100,000 or less per contract, may be awarded on the basis of
national shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions of
paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
     (d)  Books which are only available from a single source may be
purchased up to an aggregate amount of $3,000,000 equivalent through
direct contracts in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.7
of the Guidelines.
Part E:     Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.   Procurement Planning
     Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding
or to bid for contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the Project
shall be furnished to the Association for its review and approval, in
accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the
Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken in
accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been approved by
the Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.   Prior Review
     With respect to:
     (a)  each contract for works and goods estimated to cost the
equivalent of $300,000 or more; and
     (b)  the first five contracts to be procured by Gujarat, Himachal
Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh and Orissa the procedures set forth in
paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
3.   Post Review
     With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this
Part, the procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the
Guidelines shall apply.
Section II:  Employment of Consultants
1.   Consultants' services shall be procured under contracts awarded
in accordance with the provisions of the "Guidelines for the Use of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing
Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981 (the Consultant Guide-
lines). For complex, time-based assignments, such contracts shall be
based on the standard form of contract for consultants' services
issued by the Association, with such modifications thereto as shall
have been agreed by the Association. Where no relevant standard
contract documents have been issued by the Association, other standard
forms acceptable to the Association shall be used.
2.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section,
the provisions of the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior Association
review or approval of budgets, short lists, selection procedures,
letters of invitation, proposals, evaluation reports and contracts,
shall not apply to: (a) contracts for the employment of consulting
firms estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent each; or (b)
contracts for the employment of individuals estimated to cost less
than $50,000 equivalent each. However, said exceptions to prior Asso-
ciation review shall not apply to: (a) the terms of reference for such
Page  8
contracts; (b) single-source selection of consulting firms; (c) assign-
ments of a critical nature, as reasonably determined by the Association;
(d) amendments to contracts for the employment of consulting firms
raising the contract value to $100,000 equivalent or above; or (e)
amendments to contracts for the employment of individual consultants
raising the contract value to $50,000 equivalent or above.
                           SCHEDULE 2
                     Implementation Program
Project Implementation
1.   Each Project State shall:
     (a)  carry out, and cause its State Implementation Society to
carry out, the District Primary Education Program, as applicable to
such State in accordance with the DPEP Guidelines; and
     (b)  carry out the Project in accordance with an implementation
plan satisfactory to the Association.
2.   Each Project State shall maintain:
     (a)  SPOs and DPOs with responsibility to coordinate Project
implementation, with adequate staff, resources and facilities; and
     (b)  shall establish a program of staff training satisfactory to
the Association.
3.   Each Project State shall establish and maintain DIETs or equiva-
lent institutions in Project Districts and appoint key staff at such
DIETs in accordance with a schedule satisfactory to the Association,
in any event no later than six months after the approval by the DPEP
Bureau of any proposal for financing Project activities in a Project
District.
4.   (a)  Gujarat, Himachal Pradesh and Orissa shall establish VECs
in Project Districts no later than June 30, 1997, and in the case of
Project Districts in other Project States for which proposals for
financing Project activities have not yet been approved within one
year after the Borrower grants such approval; and
     (b)  All Project States shall maintain VECs with responsibility
for assisting with the Project implementation at the village level.
5.   Each Project State shall ensure that the number of classrooms to
be constructed and the number of teachers to be appointed under the
Project shall be determined based on the projected number of students
expected to be served in accordance with State-specific criteria,
including for sparsely populated areas.
6.   Each Project State shall establish and maintain a State level
technical group to assist in the development and implementation of
programs to improve primary education teaching processes.
7.   Gujarat, Orissa and Himachal Pradesh shall submit standard
designs for classrooms and block resource centers for review and
approval by the Association prior to the start of any construction
of classrooms or block resource centers (BRCs) under the Project,
and in any event no  later than June 30, 1997.
8.   Each Project State shall ensure that no involuntary resettlement
arises from any use of land, or change of land use for the Project
except to the extent that the Association agrees in writing prior to
such resettlement that the arrangements for such involuntary resettle-
ment are satisfactory to the Association.
Tribal Peoples; Gender
9.   (a)  Each Project State shall implement the Project in any tribal
area (as designated by such State in accordance with applicable laws),
Page  9
in accordance with procedures and delivery strategies satisfactory to
the Association.
     (b)  To this end, each Project State shall ensure that all invest-
ments in Project Districts which are classified by the Borrower as
tribal districts, or which include blocks classified by the Borrower as
tribal blocks, are appraised and implemented in accordance with a plan,
satisfactory to the Association, for the delivery of Project benefits
to tribal people.
     (c)  Without prejudice to the generality of the foregoing sub-
paragraph (a) each Project State shall allocate Project resources for
tribal students at least in proportion to the share of the tribal
population in the relevant Project District.
10.  The Project States shall implement the Project in accordance with
strategies acceptable to the Association for improving primary education
of female students.
Non-Governmental and Community Organizations
11.  Each Project State shall select non-governmental and community
organizations participating in the Project in accordance with criteria
and procedures satisfactory to the Association.
Monitoring and Review
12.  Without limitation to the generality of any other provision of
this Agreement, each Project State shall:
     (a)  review annually with the Association progress in Project
implementation and Credit disbursements over the preceding twelve
months;
     (b)  discuss with the Association by March 31 of each year,
annual work plans and budgets for the next twelve months;
     (c)  ensure that assessment studies, with scope and content
acceptable to the Association, are carried out in all Project Districts
in the third and sixth calendar years following the calendar year in
which the Credit becomes effective;
     (d)  carry out along with the Association and other external
financiers of the Program review of the Project on three occasions:
first, by December 31,1997, second, by December 31, 1999 and third,
by December 31, 2001, or such later dates for each such joint review
as the Association shall establish in writing; and
     (e)  duly take into account the comments offered by the Associa-
tion during such joint review, in the course of further implementation
of the Project.
                                SCHEDULE 3
                          Performance Indicators
                 (Section 9.01 (a) of the General Conditions)
     Without prejudice to the generality of any other provision of
this Agreement, pursuant to Section 9.01 (a) of the General Conditions,
the following indicators will serve as a basis for the Borrower and
the Association to measure progress towards achieving the objectives
of the Project, for the purposes of Project implementation, super-
vision and evaluation:
INPUTS:   Measured Against Annual Benchmarks Established Under the
          Program
1.   Number of trainees under the Project by State by year.
2.   Number of teachers appointed under the Project, by State by year.
3.   Classroom constructed by State by year.
Page  10
4.   Number of block resource centers constructed by State by year.
5.   Number of Baseline studies, social assessment, financial and
research studies completed by year by state.
OUTPUTS:  Trends of the Following, Relative to Project Objectives
          Established in the DPEP Guidelines
6.   Enrollment in Project Districts by year, state, gender; number of
SC/ST students.
7.   Percentage of female students and SC/ST students as a proportion
of total student population.
8.   Dropout rates by year/state/gender; dropout rates for SC/ST.
9.   Achievement scores with respect to reading comprehension, word
meaning and mathematics: by state and gender and showing separately
achievements with respect to SC/ST students as they become available.
