Ai 3 C s z - /4/es
Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAt USE ONLY
Report No. 9112-IND
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
INDONESIA
AGRICULTURAL FINANCING PROJECT
AUGUST 8, 1991
5 Operations Division
3artment V
a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENT
Currency unit = Indonesian rupiah
(as of August 1, 1991)
$1.00   =  Rp 1,953
Rp 1.0 billion = US$0.512 million
FISCAL YEAR
Government of Indonesia - April 1 - March 31
Participating Banks      - January 1 - December 31
PRINCIPAL ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS USED
ADB       - Asian Development Bank
BAPINDO   -  Development Bank of Indonesia
BAPPENAS  -  State Ministry for National Development Planning
BDNI      -  Bank Dagang Nasional Indonesia
BankExim  -  Bank Ekspor Impor Indonesia
BI        -  Bank Indonesia
BNI       -  Bank Negara Indonesia 1946
BRI       -  Bank Rakyat Indonesia
BULOG     -  Food Procurement Agency
EIA       - Environmental Impact Analysis
GDP       - Gross Domestic Product
GNP       -  Gross National Product
GOI       - Government of Indonesia
IMF       -  International Monetary Fund
IRP       -  Industrial Restructuring Project
KIK       -  Small Investment Credit
KMKP      -  Small Permanent Working Capital Credit
KUPEDES   - General Village Credit rrogram
LPPI      -  Indonesia Banking Development Institute
MIS       - Management Information System
MOF       - Ministry of Finance
NBFIs     - Nonbank Financial Institutions
NES       - Nucleus Estate and Smallholders Project
NTBs      - Non-tariff barriers
OLA       -  Onlending Agreement
PANIN     -  Pan Indonesia Bank
PBs       -  Participating Banks
PDFCI     -  Private Development Finance Company of Indonesia
RDBs      - Regional Development Banks
RFIs      - Rural Financial Institutions
RPMUs     -  Regional Project Management Units
SBI       -  Bank Indonesia Certificates
SCB       -  State Commercial Bank
SEDP      -  Small Enterprise Development Project
SLA       -  Subsidiary Loan Agreement
SMIEs     -  Small and Medium industrial enterprises
SMIEP     -  Small and Medium Industrial Enterprises Project
SOEs      -  Statements of Expc--itures
TA        -  Technical assistance



- 1 -                    FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
INDONESIA
AGRICULTURAL PINANCING PROJECT
Loan and Prolect Summary
Borrower:             Republic of Indonesia
Beneficiaries:        Six participating banks (PBs):  Bank Ekspor Impor
Indonesia, Bank Negara Indonesia, Bank Pembengunan
Indonesia, Bank Dagang Nasional Indonesia, Bank Niaga,
and Pan Indonesia Bank and the Indonesia Banking
Development Institute.
Amount:               $106.1 million equivalent
Terms:                Twenty years, including five years of grace, at the
Bank's standard variable interest rate.
Onlending Terms:      The Government of Indonesia (GOI) would onlend, US$105.0
million out of the proceeds of the loan, to PBs in
Rupiah for 15 years, including a grace period of three
years, at a variable interest rate pegged to Bank
Indonesia's (BI) three-month domestic money market
certificate (Sertifikat Bank Indonesia--SBI). The rata
would be adjusted on January 1 and July 1 of each year,
based on the average of SBI three-month maturity
quotations during the preceding six months, not to
exceed the average of end-of-day quotations of the five
state coAmmercial banks' three-month time deposits during
the same period. The Government would bear the foreign
exchange risk. The PBs would be charged commitment fees
at a rate equal to that charged on the Bank loan to GOI.
The PBs would onlend to subborrowers at prevailing
market rates. Funds for technical assistance
(US$1.1 miilion) would be passed on by GOI to the
Indonesia Banking Development Institute (LPPI) as a
grant.
Project Descriptiont  The project would seek to:  (a) strengthen the capacity
of private and state-owned banks to lend on a long-term
basis to agricultuze and agribusiness, (b) improve the
availability of term credit to private small- and
medium-scale agricultural and agribusiness enterprises
during the transition period when the financial system
is adjusting to the deregulated regime, and (c) finance
economically and financially viable and environmentally
sound investments in agriculture and agribusiness. The
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
proposed project would comprise: (a) an investment
credit component to finance PBs' subloans to eligible
small- and medium-scale investments in agriculture and
agribusiness; and (b) a technical assistance (TA)
component to (i) strengthen the capacity of LPPI to
assist project participants. (ii) provide subloan
appraisal assistance, staff training and Management
Information Systems (MIS) assistance to the PBs, and
(iii) provide financing for feasibility studies of
potential subprojects.
Benefits and Risks:   The proposed project would support GOI's objective of
maintaining sector growth, incomes, employment and
exports by redressing the limited access of target
borrowers to term credit and sustaining the availability
of agriculture credit while subsidized credits are being
phased out and the financial system is adjusting to the
deregulated regime. It would finance subprojects with
high returns and promote efficiency in the agriculture
and agribusines.i sectors. The project would also
contribute to the strengthening of institutional
capabilities of PBs. There are no major risks,
perceived at this time, that could inhibit the
attainment of the project's objectives. However,
uncertainties in credit demand and the PBs' lack of
familiarity with the appraisal and administration of
small agricultural subloans may lead to slow project
implementation and loan disbursements. These risks are
minimized by a prudent loan amount and by the selection
of PBs with a long-term interest in developing the
agricultural credit market.



- iii -
Estimated Costs:                    Local              Foreign              Total
------------  CS million) ---------------
Investment Credit                    82.5               105.0               187.5
Technical Assistances
Project Implementation Support      1.4                 0.4                 1.8
Capacity Building                   0.3                 0.0                 0.3
Total Baseline Cost             84.2               105.4               189.6
Price Contingencies1                  0.3                 0.0                 0.3
Total Project Costs             84.5               105.4               189.9
Financing Plan:
IBRD                                  0.7               105.4               106.1
BI                                     0.6                0.0                 0.6
Participating Banks                  26.5                 0.0                26.5
Subborrowers                         56.7                 0.0                56.7
Total                            84.5               105.4               189.9
Estimated Disbursements:   IBRD FY    1992  1993  1994  1995  1996  1997
S----- (us million) ---------
Annual                                   2.0  17.2  33.4  29.3  16.9   7.3
Cumulative                               2.0  19.2  52.6  81.9  98.8   106.1
Rate of Return:                             Not Applicable
1 On cost of technical assistance component.



- iv -
INDONESIA
AGRICULTURAL FINANCING PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
I.  THE SECTOR CONTEXT  ....  .  .  .   . . . . . . . . . . . .  .     1
A.  Agriculture in the Economy  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .      1
B.  The Agribusiness Sector     . . . . .  .  . . . . . . . .      3
C.  Trade Policy Framework  . . . . .  . .      .. . .             4
D.  The Financial Sector  . . .. .*.                      * *      5
E.  Agricultural Credit and Rural Financial Institutions  . .      8
B. Bank Objectives, Strategy and Role in the Financial
Sector and Agricultural Credit  . . . . . . . . . . . . .    10
II. BANK LENDING EXPERIENCE IN RURAL AND AGRICULTURAL CREDIT
OPERATIONS    .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .   .   .   .   .  .  .  .  .  . .   .  11
III.  THE PROJECT . . . . . . . . . . . . .  .  .  .  .  .    . . . . . .   .    15
A. Project Objectives and Description  . . . . . . . . . . .    15
B. Participating Banks          . . . . . . . . .        .  .    16
C. Technical Assistance Arrangements.  .  .  .  .  .  ..   . .  .   18
D.  Project Costs and Financing . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    20
E.  Detailed Features ....  .  .  .  .   ....... ....   .         23
Procurement ....  .  .  .  .  .  .   . . . ..   . .  . ... .  27
Disbursement  .  .......   . . . . .       .. .  .  .  .   .  27
Auditing and Reporting  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    28
Environment..     . ... . . .  . . .    28
Benefits and Risks  ........     ...                      29
IV. AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATION.. . . . .....30
TABLES IN TEXT
2.1 Brnk Rural and Agricultural Credit Operations . . . . . . . .    14
3.1 Total Project Cost  . .  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  . . .    21
3.2 Financing Plan   . . . * .       . ..         .  ..22
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission in May 1990
composed of Chita T. Jarvis (AS50P), Jacob Yaron (AGRAP), and Michael Crowe
(Consultant). G. Tumusiime, Task Manager (ASSAG) participated in the
preparation of the report. The Peer Review group included Messrs J. Yaron
(AGRAP), H. Murphy and C. Magnus (AS5IE) and D. Notley (AS5AG). Mrs. M. Haug,
Director (AS5DR) and Mr. A. Cole, Division Chief (AS5AG) have endorsed the
report.



Page No.
ANNEXES
1.  Pipeline of Projects  . .  . . . . . . . . . .     . .   . . .    33
2.  Participation of Banks in Two-Step Loans  . . . . . . . . . .    36
3.  'he Participating Banks . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    37
4. Financial Statements of Participating Banks. . . . . . . . . .   51
5.  Terms of Reference for the Appraisal Advisor . . . . . . . . .   64
6. Outline of Orientation Seminar & Staff Training Program. . . .   66
7. List of Commodities and Activities Not Eligible for Project
Financing8.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  68
8.  Bank Indonesia's Bank Rating System  .  .  .  .  .  .  ..  . .    69
9.  Subproject Summary Information Sheet  . . . . . . . . . . . .    71
10.  Estimated Cumulative Disbursements of the Proposed Loan. . . .   73
11.  Project Supervision Plan: Bank Supervision Mission Schedule. .   74
12.  Documents Available in the Project File . . . . . . . . . . .    75
MAP
IBRD  20514R3  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    . .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  76



INDONESIA
AGRICULTURAL FINANCING PROJECT
I. THE SECTOR CONTEXT
A. Agriculture in the Economy
Role and Structure of Agriculture
1.1       Agriculture a.:ounts for about 20 percent of GDP, sustaining about
three-quarters of the country's population in rural areas and providing
employment and the main source of livelihood for more than half the labor
force. There are an estimated 19.5 million farm households in Indonesia, of
which about 70 percent have land holdings of one hectare and less. Fisheries
households are estimated to be 1.4 million. In terms of the share of
agricultural GDP, the dominant subsector is food crops (61 percent), followed
by tree crops (16 percent), livestock products (11 percent), fisheries
(7 percent), and forestry (5 percent). Within food zrops, rice has been
dominant, presently accounting for over 25 percent of agricultural GDP.
Foreign exchange earnings from agricultural exports primarily depend on
coffee, rubber, palm oil, tobacco, tea, timber products, shrimp, and rattan,
which accounted for 48 percent of non-oil merchandise exports in 1989/90.
There is a great diversity of farming systems in Indonesia. On Java, which
accounts for 60 percent of the land holdings, two distinct types predominate
in the food crops subsector: relatively high productivity, high wagP,
irrigated river basins close to urban centers; and low productivity, low wage,
smallholder systems typical of the more remote upland areas. The structure of
production in the tree crop subsector differs markedly between crops:
(a) coconut is almost wholly produced (98 percent) by smallholders; (b) rubber
is largely a smallholder crop (83 percent), with participation of public
(9 percent) and private (8 percent) estates; and (c) oil palm is predominantly
grown on estates (80 percent) but with a more recent rapid increase in
smallholder production. Agriculture will continue to play a major role in the
Indonesian economy, not only to help sustain the momentum of economic growth,
but more particularly in providing employment for the expanding labor force,
alleviating rural poverty, and serving as the basis for balanced regional
development.
Sector Performance
1.2       Past performance of the agricultural sector in Indonesia has been
impressive. During most of the past decade, agriculture output grew by
4 percent per annum, almost twice the rate of population growth and exceeding
that of most other developing countries. This performance was made possible
by the Government's active pursuit of supportive macroeconomic and sectoral
policies. On the macroeconomic side, prudent fiscal and monetary policies and
active exchange rate management have contained inflationary pressures and



- 2 -
maintained the competitiveness of the agricultural sector. Sectoral policies
have included use of pricing, marketing and credit interventions, substantial
subsidies for inputs, investment in Irrigation, and targeted programs of
support for rice and tree crops. These policies were successful in allowing
Indonesia to achieve its objectives, especially that of rice self-sufficiency
with the adoption of new technology and widespread use of fertilizer.
Issues and Challenges
1.3       The sector faces a changing environment from that of the 1970s and
early 1980s. It can no longer rely upon rapidly-expanding rice production as
the engine of growth. Faced with the present and future funding constraints
as other sectors' claims for development expenditures grow, the GOI cannot
afford the large infrastructure investments and heavy subsidies that fueled
past development. It cannot continue to direct cropping patterns and areas to
be harvested, but should assume a facilitating role fur the private sector.
The irrigation subsector should be made more effective through continued
efforts to increase cost recovery, fund operations and maintenance (O&H), and
increase the particivation of farmers in scheme development and operation.
Competing water demands from municipal and industrial users in Java will also
require increased emphasis on multipurpose management and allocation of water
resources. Finally, efforts should be focused on improving the quality and
effectiveness of support services, particularly extension, research, and
credit.
Strategy and A8enda
1.4       In response to the above issues and challenges, GOI ie making the
necessary adjustments to sector policies and the institutional framework. The
current Repelita V (Five-Year Plan. e89/9 - 93/94) fosters growth through
greater economic efficiency, intensification, and diversification of
production. GOI is strengthening the management and performance of public
enterprises in tree crops, rationalizing the incentive frawswork, and
emphasizing multipurpose water management and the O&M and cost recovery
aspects of existing irrigation schemes. Increased research and extension
efforts are being directed towards multi-cropping and secondary food crops.
The new environment entails a changing role for the Government, geared more
towards providing support services, and intervening less in pricing,
marketing, direct production and trade, while addressing the emerging
conservation needs. To make up for the expected slower growth in rice
production, the agriculture sector will rely on new sources of growth through
greater diversification both horizontally (by more emphasis on tree crops,
secondary food crops, livestock, and fisheries) and vertically (by more
emphasis on agricultural support services, marketing, and agro-processing).
This requires unlocking the full potential of the private sector and
continued support to the mass of smallholders, through research and extension
to manage their holdings in response to market signals. This will involve a
relative shift in emphasis of the related government programs from rice to
other crops and livestock activities. Agricultural and agro-industrial
enterprises, particularly those with potential for increasing productive



- 3 -
processing and exports also need to be supported and access to term credit
assured not only for large enterprises, but also small and medium enterprises
which might contribute to growth in these areas. The availability of term
credit plays an important role in tapping the new sources of growth for the
agricultural sector as the development of nontraditional enterprises requires
a long-term commitment of resources to sustain investments with long gestation
periods, significant initial outlays, and relatively higher risks associated
with weather, price fluctuations or controls, asd perishability.
B. The Agribusiness Sector
Role in the Economy
1.5       Agribusiness invciving agricultural input services, the production
and disposal of bulk raw materials, and agro-processing from simple or minor
processing to full transformation into an industrial input is a critical
sector. It links Indonesia's agricultural economy to greater employment and
higher earnings through value-added processing of raw material inputs. The
sector also provides a market for the country's agricultural producers and
constitutes a major source of non-oil foreign exchange earnings. Exports of
agribusiness products such as fresh or frozen fish, preserved or prepared
fruit, and crustaceans and mollusks have experienced annual growth rates,
albeit from a small base, of 51 percent, 80 percent and 58 percent,
respectively, in 1984-89. In a recent study by the United States Agency for
International Development (USAID), agribusiness was estimated to have
contributed over 25 percent of GDP in 1987, or over $16 billion. The structure
of agro-industry in Indonesia is characterized by two distinct groups --
small and medium scale traders-cum-proce<,sors related to farming; and
relatively large enterprises. The first group usually operates at low input
and technological levels and with inadequate managerial capabilities, while
the second group is more efficient, capital inr.ensive, and market oriented.
Issues and Agenda
1.6       The main issues affecting the development of agro-industry relate to
its basic raw materials such as food crops which have less competitive
advantage for exports and where subsidized input prices, until recently, posed
the main policy constraints, and tree crops which have comparative advantage
for export but the related agro-processing industry remains underdeveloped and
constrained by unstable sources of finance. The government is taking steps to
bring agricultural input prices in line with market levels and is addressing
some of the major policy issues in its trade reform agenda (paras. 1.7-1.9).
The USAID report cited constraints to the development of the agro-processing
industry that includea credit problems (especially short loan maturity
periods), technical agro-processing shortcomings, lack of steady supply of
high quality raw materials, marketing, transport and logistic problems, and
regulatory and institutional constraints. An Agro-Industry Subsector Study
carried out under the Bank's Industrial Restructuring Project (IRP - Loan
3040-IND) also underscores the need to tailor credit provisions to the
development of the income stream in agricultural projects. The report



- 4 -
suggested the prowision of financial and technical services to individual
enterprises and specifically, the extension of loan duration and grant of
grace periods before capital repayment falls due. Overall, the most
appropriate policies to promote agro-industry in Indonesia are those related
to increased private sector participation, including the availability of term
financing, export promoticn, and improving the supply, reliability and quality
of agricultural products for processing. To this end, the proposed project
will assist in promoting private sector investments in agriculture and agro-
industry by providing term finance as well as technical assistance support to
entrepreneurs.
C. Trade and Investment Policy Framework
Recent Trade and Investment Reforms
1.7       The overall policy framework for the development of agriculture and
agribusiness is geared towards increased participation of the private sector
and improving competitiveness. GOT continues to pursue a series of trade and
deregulation measures to this end. Two recent deregulation packages (May 1990
and June 1991) have led to significant improvements in the incentives
framework. Specifically, there has been: a reduction in the role of non-
tariff barriers (NTBs); a comprehensive rationalization of the tariff
schedule; a reduction in the coverage of export restrictions; and an opening
of activities to both domestic and foreign investors. The recent two
deregulation packages have resulted in the number of items under NTBs reduced
from over 40 percent, such that presently about 10 percent of all items remain
subject to NTBs. Tariffs have been reduced from a ceiling of 60 percent
towards 30 percent: currently o'er 80 percent of the items are in the 30
'ercent range. The transparency of the tariff system has also improved with
the elimination of split tariffs and reduced coverage of surcharges. In
addition, the last two packages have signaled an important change in GOI's
policy on export restrictions by deregulating controls on a number of
agricultural products, the most important being edible oils. GOI has
dissolved several marketing organizations and groups (including coffee and
edible oils), thereby facilitating the entry of new exporters and promoting
competition. Some agricultural activities have been completely removed from
the negative list for investments, while restrictions on investment in others
was opened for domestic and foreign investors, subject to specific export
content targets.
Effects of Trade and Investment Regime on Agriculture
1.8       The recent trade reforms have significantly reduced protection to
large parts of agriculture. The share of agricultural domestic production
presently protected from import competition through NTBs is 30 percent,
compared with a ratio of 38 percent in early 1990. Most of the improvement
has stemmed from the reduction of import barriers in the livestock and estate
crops sector. Almost three-quarters of the NTB coverage is due to protection
provided to rice as part of GOI's rice self-sufficiency, the effects of which
have not had a significant distorting impact as domestic rice prices have



- 5 -
generally been maintained close to world prices. The effective rate of
protection provided to agriculture (11 percent) is much lower than that for
manufactud'ng (57 percent) and some of the important trade interventiLne in
agriculture (wood, leather, rattan and rubber) result in a tax on domestic
producers. However, in agro-industry, rates of effective protection within
the sub-sector can vary greatly on a product-by-product basis (whether they
are import-competing or export goods) and by the stage of production reached
by any product. A few recent developments have run counter to the trend of
deregulation and these include the introduction of controls and monopoly of
domestic trade in cloves where producers face a monopolistic set of consumers
and increased reservation of activities for small scale producers. In
general, except for a few commodities such as sugar and wheat that trade well
above import parity prices, agricultural investments by small and medium sized
firms engaged in agricultural production and agro-processing as proposed under
this project potentially have acceptable rates of return. To ensure that only
economically viable sub-projects would be financed under the project, a
negative list of commodities, with high real effective rates of protection
which would not be eligible for financing under the project, was agreed with
GOI during negotiations (pdra. 3.20 and Annex 7).
Future Agenda
1.9       The remaining agenda for agricultural trade policy reform includes
the early elimination of some NTBs in agro-industries such as those relating
to the processing of soybean, sugar and wheat, an assessment of the rationale
for the remaiAing NTBs in agriculture, and a further review and elimination of
export restrictions. Gradual reform in the rice sector is feasible and this
may encompass the auctioning of import rights for certain high-grade rice.
On the general tariff strucLure, further reform and reduction should be
focused upon the following:t(a) implementing the next phase in the reduction
of the general tariff ceiling so that by 1992, few rates will lie above the
20-30 percent range; and (b) further reducing the coverage of surcharges. The
rationale and effects of restricting investment in certain activities to
small-scale investors needs to be reviewed as well. The above issues will be
reviewed with GOI in the context of the proposed Agriculture Sector Review
(FY92).
D. The Financial Sector
Background
1.10      The financial sector of Indonesia has undergone a major
transformation towards a competitive, market-based system since the initiation
by GOI in 1983 of a comprehensive program of policy reforms. Until the early
1980s, the development of the financial sector in Indonesia was constrained by
the imposition of interest rate and credit ceilings. The Government played a
large role in the allocation of resources through a directed subsidized crdit
system, under which low interest loans (liquidity credits) to priority sectors
were automatically eligible for refinancing with Bank Indonesia (BI), and
often with substantial government guarantee. The financial system comprised



- 6 -
mainly the banking sector, which was dominated by BI and the five state-owned
conuercial banks (SCBs), accounting for about 80 percent of the total assets
of the deposit taking banks. Strict control was kept on the entry of new
banks and of the branching of existing institutions. As a result, the growth
of financial assets stagnated and the securities market did not develop.
The Reform Program
1.11      In June 1983, GOI implemented the first in a series of reforms to
improve the efficiency of the f_-Ancial sector.  SCB deposit rates were
deregulated and credit ceilings were replaced with a system of reserve money
management. Additional financial sector reforms were undertaken during
October-December 1988 that included: (i) permitting the entry of new banks,
including joint ventures with foreign banks; (ii) easing restrictions on
establishing new branches; (iii) allowing banks and nonbank financial
institutions (NBFIs) to increase their capital through share issues;
(iv) permitting public enterprises to place up to 50 percent of their deposits
with private banks; (v) easing the requirements on foreign exchange banking
and allowing NBFIs to issue certificates of deposit; (vi) authorizing rural
banks to branch out and mobilize savings in the form of demand, time and
savings deposits; and (vii) allowing banks to have subsidiaries that are
multi-service financial companies that provide leasing, factoring, consumer
finance and venture capital facilities. To spur the development of the
domestic short-term money markets, restrictions on interbank borrowing were
removed and required reserves reduced to 2 percent of all bank third party
liabilities. To encourage mobilization of long-term funds and risk capital,
the reforms: (a) moved towards equalizing the net returns to savers holding
different financial assets; (b) allowed the private sector to operate stock
exchanges and established an over-the-counter (OTC) market; and (c) permitted
foreign investors to buy up to 49 percent of the shares in each company listed
on the stock exchange. These measures were complemented by a program to
strengthen BI*s supervisory capabilities.
1.12      GOI announced another round of policy reforms in January 1990 to
eliminate distortions created by the subsidized credit programs. The number
of programs eligible for refinancing was reduced drastically (from 47 to
four), and the interest rate moved closer to the market level. Insurance,
which was compulsory prior to the reform, was made voluntary vith premia to be
determined on a market basis. Banks were required to allocate 20 percent of
their loan portfolio to small enterprises, defined as those having total
assets (excluding land) of up to Rp 600 million ($307,000 equivalent). To
foster further the development of the capital market, GOI also announced its
intention to privatize the Jakarta Stock Exchange.



- 7 -
1.13      The 1983-1990 financial sector reforms had a profound effect on the
financial system. Gross assets of the formal financial sector increased six-
fold, an annual average nominal growth rate of over 26 percent during 1982-90.
The value of the banking system's assets as a ratio of GDP doubled to 66
percent during the same period. Financial savings -- currency, demand
deposits, quasi money and securities -- equalled 62 percent of gross domestic
savings in 1990. The ratio of M2/GDP increased sharply from 18 percent to 42
percent in 1990. The growth of the financial sector wts also reflected in the
increased number of new banks and other financial institutions. Following the
elimination of entry barriers in October 1988, the number of deposit money
banks increased by 55, including 15 new joint ventures; insurance companies by
11, and rural credit institutions by 211. The number of bank branches also
increased by over 1,200 in less than 2 years. Much of the growth in the
financial system was attributed to private sector activity. Private banks
grew twice as fast as state banks and their share of total deposit money bank
assets increased from 17.9 percent in 1982 to 42.6 percent in 1990, while the
share of the SCBs declined from 71.7 percent to 47.6 percent during the same
period. There was a substantial lowering of the very high intermediation
margin enjoyed by the banks in the past. Meanwhile, the share of subsidized
directed credits fell from over 50 percent to less than 3C percent between
1982 and 1990. The impact of these reforms is expected to be increasingly
felt in the near term, as the efficiency of financial intermediation improves
further and the distortions caused by the liquidity credits are minimized.
Future Agenda and Priorities
1.14      GOI recognizes that the main source of new investment will come from
the private sector. Its reform program is thus designed o improve the
incentive framework and to simplify economic regulations; reforms in the
financial sector are geared to the same end. The Indonesian financial sector
is now well integrated with the international financial markets. However, the
sector remains relatively small in relation to the size of the economy (M2
represents just over 40 percent of GDP compared to over 60 percent in MalaYsia
and Thailand). In addition, important gaps remain at the long end of the
market and in the availability of equity type instruments.
1.15      GOI's priority now is to:  (a) strengthen the existing institutional
infrastructure for the financial sector such as the legal framework,
prudential control and supervision, and informational channels; (b) deepen the
money markets in order to meet the reserve money needs of a growing economy;
and develop a reliable and transparent reference ra*e to promote the
development of variable rate instruments; (c) ensure that the SCBs develop
into efficient and financially autonomous institutions; and (d) promote
markets for long term funds. GOI has recently submitted to the Parliamer.t for
approval, revised legislation for the banking sector, and new legislation for
insurance and pension plans. New prudential regulations including those
related to capital adequacy have been put in effect in order to ensure
soundness and stability of the banking system. With the assistance of the IMF
and the Bank, efforts are under way to strengthen BI's supervisory functions.



- 8 -
Similarly, with the assistance of bilateral aid agencies, prudential
regulations and supervisory apparatus for the securities market are being
strengthened, and efforts are under way to deepen the money markets and
develop a credit information system.
E. Agricultural Credit and Rural Financial Institutions
Background and Current Status
1.16      Total outstanding agriculture credit at the end of 1989 amounted to
Rp 5,283 billion ($2.7 billion), only about 8 percent of total bank credit.
In the past, BI liquidity credits have accounted for 62-65 percent of total
agricultural lending. As a result of the 1990 reforms, BI funding support to
the sector is expected to be phased down. However, BI credit would continue
to be provided for cooperatives, the Food Procurement Agency (BULOG),2 and
the estate sector, but interest rates have been raised from 12 percent to
16 percent for cooperative and BULOG credit, respectively, and to prevailing
market rates for estate credit.
Institutional Framework
1.17      Practically all (98 percent) of total agricultural credit has come
from government owned banks; private banks account for less than 2 percent of
agriculture credit. While Indonesia has a large number (about 17,000) and a
great variety of small rural financial institutions (RFIs) that are market-
oriented and serving a relatively large number of rural borrowers, these RFIls
are very small and account for only 2 percent of total bank deposits and
2.6 percent of total bank credits. They provide a limited range of financial
services, primarily of short-term, and collateralized credit and are ill
equipped, at their present stage of development, to handle agricultural term
finance. A large informal rural financial sector coexists with the formal
financial system, but provides only short-term, non-collateralized loans at
high interest rates albeit with low transaction costs, and is equally
incapable of financing long-term agricultural investments. The private
commercial banks are currently urban based and have only a very limited
presence below the district level. They have not met the financing needs of
small- and medium-scale enterprises largely due to lack of long term funds and
the higher risks and costs associated with agricultural lending.
2    BI credit finances BULOG procurement operations to support prices of
basic commodities, accounts for 40 percent of agricultural liquidity
credit, is channeled through Bank Rakyat Indonesia (BRI), and is
kept separate from mainstream BRI lending operations.



-9-
Access to Credit
1.18      Under the current system, small- and medium-scale borrowers have
limited access to formal credit. Over 75 percent of total agricultural credit
have gone to estates and large borrowers. The government credit programs have
catered either to the micro borrowers (KUT--Farmers Credit Program with
Rp 100,000, or $51.00 loan ceiling per hectare) who have less than a hectare
of landholdings, or the estates. Private commercial banks have largely
ignored the credit requirements of small- and medium-scale farm households and
enterprises because of the relatively higher lending costs associated with
smaller loans, the perception of the low profitability and high risks of
agriculture enterprises, collateral problems associated with land titling, and
inadequate transport, communications, and infrastructure support in the rural
areas. Underdeveloped credit information flows such as the lack of credit
records, financial statements, and project feasibility studies have also
hampered the availability of credit to small-and medium-scale enterprises.
While the recent financial reforms have addressed some of the impediments to
the supply of agricultural credit (paras. 1.11-1.13), the development of the
physical and financial infrastructure support for lending to small- and
medium-scale borrowers will take time.
Need for Term Credit
1.19      To sustain increased growth, employment, incomes and exports in the
agricultural sector, long-term credit is needed to finance new sources of
growth in the sector and the development of forward linkages to the agro-
industry subsector. The demand for term credit from the agriculture and
agribusiness sectors is potentially large. Agricultural investments are
estimated at $4.8 billion per annum, and a survey of five provinces (West
Sumatra, East Java, South Sulawesi, North Sumatra, and East Kalimantan)
undertaken by consultants during project preparation estimated agricultural
investment demand of about $500 million for a broad-based agricultural lending
operation catering to medium-scale farms and agricultural enterprises. In
1985, the number of small and medium industrial enterprises (SMIEs) totaled
11,000, concentrated in food/agro-industry, tobacco, garment/textiles, and
wood products. Under the Bank's Small and Medium Industrial Enterprise
Project (SMIEP - Loan 3041-IND), about 90 percent of the total credit
component has been committed after 22 months of effectiveness, indicating a
stronger demand than originally forecast for long-term investment in SMIEs.
Substantial demand is also indicated in the agro-based sector which accounts
for about 44 percent of total SMIEP applications and from the volume of
subloan applications that has been submitted to the prospective participating
banks under this project.
1.20      Although the private sector has reacted vigorously to the reforms of
the financial system with the rapid expansion of its share in banking
activities, the market will take time to respond to the credit needs of
agriculture, and a substantial effort on the part of the banks will be needed
to develop agricultural term lending and overcome the legacies of the earlier
controlled environment. As discussed above, existing RFIs are unable to meet



- 10 -
the term credit needs of agriculture because they do not nave the capital,
expertise, economies of scale and diversified markets required to engage in
agricultural term lending. Agricultural financing by the SCBs has
traditionally been in the form of directed, subsidized credit programs. As
most of these programs are being phased out, the SCBs have to mobilize
resources fron alternative sources if they are to provide term credit to small
and medium scale agricultural and agribusiness enterprises. Private banks
have not met the financing needs of small- and medium-scale agricultural and
agribusiness enterprises due to unavailability of term funds, and lack of
familiarity with agricultural and agribusiness borrowers and agricultural
production techniques. An intervention aimed at providing incentives for
state-owned and private banks to extend term lending to agriculture, and
enabling them to acquire the knowledge, experience, trained staff, and term
funds necessary to participate in agricultural and agribusiness lending
justifies a directed credit operation as a transitional measure.
F. Bank Obijectives and Strategy in the
Financial Sector and Agricultural Credit
1.21      The Bank supports GOI's objectives and its priorities in the further
development and efficient growth of the financial and agricultural sectors.
In recent years, the Bank has been involved in policy dialogue with GOI
through sector and economic reports, and discussion on specific issues. The
Bank has also supported GOI's reform initiatives through adjustment loans. In
the past, the Bank's involvement in the financial sector focused primarily on
supporting the development of institutions and the provision of lines of
credit to redress market failures either in the availability of long-term
credit or in the access to such credit for "targeted" groups of borrowers.
Reforms in the financial sector and in the incentive regime have substantially
improved the policy environment for resource allocation and the financial
sector is able to meet the financing requirements of large enterprises in the
private sector. Priority will now be accorded to strengthening the SCBs for
them to compete in the new financial environment and fostering the further
development of the money, term funds, and capital markets. In agricultural
credit, the Bank strategy is to promote a sustainable flow of commercial
credit to the agricultural sector to replace the old system of subsidized
directed credit to support GOI's objective of maintaining agricultural growth,
incomes, employment, and exports on an efficient basis. The specific agenda
consists of encouraging private sector participation in agricultural lending
and investments, improving access to term credit, especially to small- and
medium-scale agricultural and agribusiness enterprises which have had limited
access to formal credit, and strengthening the small RFIs.
1.22      The proposed Financial Sector Development Project (FY92) would
support and reinforce GOI's efforts to promote the development of an effi-
cient, stable and sound financial sector by: strengthening prudential banking
regulations and BI's bank supervision systems and staff skills; (b) further
developing BI's credit information qvstem; and (c) strengthening the capital
base of SCBs to enable them to comk ce  n the deregulated environment.  It is
expected that the targeted approach ref.ected in the Bank's financial



- 11 -
sector lending operations to date will be phased out as the policy environment
for restcurce allocation improves and the financial system becomes increasingly
competitive and sophisticated. As a transitional measure, however, the Bank
would continue to support efficient delivery of credit to groups of borrowers
whose access to credit is constrained. The proposed project is designed as a
complement to the Bank-financed SHIEP which provides credit and technical
assistance to modernLze, expand and diversify SMIEs. It will address the
first two items on the specific agenda for the agricultural credit agenda,
i.e. redressing the limited access to credit of small and medium agricultural
and agribusiness enterprises, while the third item, the strengthening of RPIs
and regional development banks, is the focus of a proposed Asian Development
Bank technical assistance project. A project which would integrate the
sectoral lines of credit and provide general investment credit for productive
and economically viable small-scale activities is also envisaged to address
the market failure in the availability of term funds and access to term credit
of small enterprises in all sectors. Through such efforts, the Bank will be
able to support the market mechanism in allocating credit resources, finance
technical assistance programs for small enterprises, improve the efficiency of
financial institutions, and support GOT's ongoing program of financial sector
reforms.
II. BANK LENDING EXPERIENCE IN RURAL
AND AGRICULTURAL CREDIT OPERATIONS
2.1       Bank-wide lending for agricultural credit, including both credit
projects and credit components of agricultural projects, amounted to about
$6.6 billion during FY82-88, approximately 25 percent of total lending for
agriculture in all countries. Most of these funds have been on-lent by
specialized government-owned agricultural credit institutions. Formal private
sector financial institutions have not engaged significantly in agricultural
lending unless their activities are covered by government guarantees and
subsidies. This behavior stems from lack of loan security, the anti-
agriculture bias of many countries' incentive policies, and the very financial
measures (interest subsidies) adopted by governments ostensibly to assist the
sector. In general, the government-owned specialized institutions, with their
propensity for credit subsidization, government intervention, weak management,
poor loan collections, and high operating costs have been among the lowest
performers among financial institutions in the developing countries.
2.2       The performance of state-sponsored agricultural banks and directed
credit lines around the world, including those supported by successive Bank
loans, whether evaluated on the basis of their contribution to financial
development or agricultural growth, has been discouraging. Thus, the Bank
Task Force on Financial Sector Operations, in its report dated July 1989,
recommended that an explicit strategy for the transformation of existing
agricultural credit institutions into competitive, market-based financial
institutions should be a focus of any continued Bank support of such
institutions. Alternatively, and perhaps preferably, the Bank should seek



- 12 -
other vehicles for its credit operations, building upon existing rural
institutions or encouraging urban lending institutions to diversify into
agricultural lending.
2.3       In Indonesia, the Bank has provided about $845.8 million, out of a
total agricultural lending of $3,814.0 million since PY73, for financing
agricultural and related investments through financial intermediaries
(Table 2.1). The general focus of loans made prior to the onset of GOI's
financial reform program in 1983 reflected the Bank's traditional lending
focus on a single financial intermediary with directed credit to specific
commodities and target groups. These projects include the Rural Credit
Project (RCP-Cr. 827-IND), and a number of subsector-specific operations in
the agricultural sector such as the Nucleus Estate and Smallholder (NES)
Projects, smallholder tree crop projects, fisheries and transmigration
projects which used Bank Rakyat Indonesia (BRI) as the main channeling or
executing bank to provide credit to the target beneficiaries. Success in
meeting the project objectives of these operations has been mixed. Despite
the attainment of beneficiary targets under the Rural Credit Project, the
Project Completion Report (PCR) indicated shortcomings in loan collections and
the inability of the financial intermediary to sustain its long-term lending
momentum. Although some progress was made in strengthening the institutional
capacity of BRI, its overall performance was adversely affected by its
involvement with multiple credit programs with varying terms and conditions
which reflected GOI's emphasis on employment and income generation as a higher
priority under these operations. The Project Performance Audit Report on NES
_, II, and III also highlighted the need for an operational credit system to
achieve the cost recovery anticipated at appraisal. The PCRs on NES IV and VI
cast doubt on the viability, replicability and sustainability of the credit
mechanism as a means of cost recovery and pointed out the need to find
alternative arrangements. Under ongoing tree crop projects, problems relate
to ineligible participants, substandard plantings, delays in the issuance of
land titles, inadequate financial incentives for the banks, and inadequate
procedures governing conversion of smallholder development expenditures into
individual loans. Based on the findings of the Bank's Indonesia Rural Credit
Sector Review (Report No. 6917-IND), the shortcomings of past commodity
specific credit projects relate to the provision of subsidized funds to the
participating financial intermediaries, below market onlending interest rates
to the end-users, low equity contributions from the lending institutions, and
generous loan insurance coverage and/or reduced risk exposure for the banks.
These major design flaws were avoided in the design of the BRI/KUPEDES Small
Credit Projects I and II (Loans 2800-IND and 3249-IND), which promote the
development of a market-based, financially viable, nationwide rural banking
network serving credit-worthy small borrowers. These lessons have also been
taken into account in designing and preparing the proposed project.
2.4       Following the 1983 reforms and in light of its previous experience,
the Bank made two significant shifts in the mid-1980s in its approach to
financial sector lending operations. One, it moved away from subsidized
lending; and two, it significantly limited single beneficiery lending, thus



- 13 -
enabling end-users to have greater access to the Bank's tenm resources through
a larger number of competing financial intermediaries. While specific
subsector/entrepreneurial groups such as the KUPEDES (General Village Credit
Program) borrowers and SMIEs continue to benefit from the Bank's lending
activities to redress market failures either in the availability of long-term
credit or in the access to such credit for targeted groups of borrowers, all
loan proceeds are passed on to the financial intermediaries at variable,
market-determined interest rates; these funds, in turn, are on-lent to
qualifying enterprises at competitive and prevailing market rates as
determined by individual intermediaries. The SHIEP provides non-subsidized
term credit and technical assistance to enable SMIEs to modernize, expand and
diversify their operations in response to the improved economic environment.
The credit component is proceeding well and funds will be fully committed
ahead of schedule by end-1991. Progress of the technical assistance component
is also satisfactory especially in the development of the local consulting
industry to perform investment project feasibility studies for SMIE's clients.
2.5       In summary, both the substantial reforms of the financial system,
which will lead increasingly to the allocation of credit according to
competitive market signals, and the lessons from past operations which have
demonstrated the ineffectiveness of supporting subsidized, directed credit
programs, will guide the Bank's further involvement in credit operations. The
proposed project incorporates lessons from past operations and the findings of
the Rural Credit Sector Review namely, that market interest rates, simple
lending procedures, full assumption by the banks of the credit risks, and a
reasonable contribution of banks' own funds into the program are the essential
ingredients of an efficient and sustainable credit delivery mechanism which
could provide wide access to credit for the rural population and finance
viable agricultural and agro-industrial investments. While the KUPEDES
operations meet the credit needs of primarily small rural borrowers and the
banking system is expected to be able to meet the credit needs of large
enterprises, those small- and medium-scale agricultural enterprises which
would need larger loans than KUPEDES clients would be the main beneficiaries
served under the proposed project.



- 14 -
Table 2.1s BANK RURAL AND AGRICULTURAL CREDIT OPERATIONS
Loan     Credit      Approval
amount   component      date      Status
-- ($ million) --_
Rural Credit Projects
Rural Credit Project (CR 827-IND)        30.0       12.70    06/13/78   completed
BRI-KUPEDES I (LN 2800-IND)             101.5       96.70    04/28/87   ongoing
BRI-RUPEDES II (LN 3249-IND)            125.0      120.00    07/31/90   ongoing
Tree Crop Projects
Smallholder Private Estate Tea
(CR 400-IND)                            7.8       6.7      06/15/73   completed
NES I (LN 1499-IND)                      65.0       29.4     11/05/77   completed
NES II (LN 1604-IND)                     50.5       36.9     06/29/78   completed
NES III (LN 1751-IND)                    92.0       51.9     07/23179   completed
NES IV (LN 1835-IND)                     30.0        9.5     04/11/80   completed
IES V (LN 2007-IND)                     108.0       49.1     05/28/81   completed
NES VI (LN 2126-IND)                     22.3        8.3     04/15/82   completed
NES VII (LN 2232-IND)                   135.2       69.5     01/25/83   ongoing
NES Sugar (LN 2344-IND)                  79.2        5.2     08/30/83   ongoing
Smhd. Rubber Dev. (CR 984-IND)           27.0       20.8     02102/80   completed
Smhd. Coconut Dev.(LN 1898-IND)          25.0       21.6     08/05/80   completed
Smhd. Rabber Dev. II (LN 2494-IND)       89.0       68.5     02/19/85   ongoing
Tree Crop Processing (LN 3000-IND)    118.2        109.0     11/15/88   ongoing
Other Agricultural Projects
Fisheries II (CR 480-IND)                 6.5        5.7     06/04/74   completed
Transmigration IV (LN 2288-IND)          53.5        9.5     05/24/83   ongoing
Fisheries Support Services I
(LN 2773-IND)                          24.5      14.8      12/16/86   ongoing
Total                            1,290.2     845.8
Proiect Completion Reports:
CR 480-IND         June 9,1983                     LN 1898-IND    October 24,1989
CR 400-IND    October 7, 1983                      LN 1835-IND     April 25, 1990
CR 827-IND        May 13, 1986                     LN 2126-IND       June 28, 1990
CR 984-IND    January 6, 1988
Project Performance Audit Report No. 7955 on NES I, II, and III, issued on
Rural Credit Sector Review, Report No. 6917-IND, April 29, 1988.



- 15 -
III. THE PROJECT
A. Project Objectives and Description
Project Objectives
3.1       In support of Government's policy to eliminate subsidized credit as
a means of promoting agricultural development, the primary objectives of the
proposed project are to: (a) strengthe.a the capacity of PBs to lend on a long
term basis at market rates, to private small- and medium-scale agricultural,
fishery and agribusiness enterprises; (b) improve the availability of term
credit to these ente?prises during the transition period when the financial
system is adjusting to the deregulated regime; and (c) finance economically
and financially viable, and environmentally sound investments in the
agriculture and agribusiness sectors.
Project Description
3.2       The proposed project comprises:  (a) an investment credit component
to finance PBs' subloans to eligible private, small- and medium-scale
investments in agriculture, livestock, fishery, forestry, and agribusiness;
and (b) a techuical assistance (TA) component to provide subloan appraisal
advisory and Management Information System (MIS) assistance to the PBs, staff
training, and at the enterprise level, assistance to prospective subborrowers
to prepare high quality subproject proposals.
3.3       Subloans provided by the six PBs, comprised of three state-owned
banks (Bank Ekspor Impor Indonesia (BankExim), Bank Negara Indonesia (Bank
BNI), and Bank Pembangunan Indonesia (BAPINDO)) and three private commercial
banks (Bank Dagang Nasional Indonesia (BDNI), Pan Indonesia Bank (PANIN), and
Bank Niaga} would finance approximately 70 percent of the $187.5 million
investment costs and the subborrowers would invest the remainder. Bank funds
would be on-lent through the Ministry of Finance (MOF) and BI at market rates
to the PBs. The investment credit component would provide investment capital
over a three-year commitment period for an estimated 350 individual
subprojects. A pipeline of potential subprojects is presented in Annex 1.
The maximum Bank share in a subloan for investment purposes would be $300,000;
up to 40 percent of this amount ($120,000) could be added for permanent
working capital. The maximum size of a subloan, including investment and
working capital financed by the Bank and a PB would be $525,000. An
individual enterprise would have access to more than one subloan under the
project provided the aggregate of such subloans would not exceed the $525,000
limit.
3.4       The TA component would make use of the existing TA mechanisms
established under the SMIEP (para. 3.14) and would be implemented by the
Indonesia Banking Development Institute (LPPI). The component would:
(a) strengthen the capacity of the existing TA Unit in LPPI by providing two



- 16 -
additional staff, an agronomist and an agricultural economist; (b) provide
assistance, through the TA Unit, to eligible enterprises to plan their
business activities and operata them successfully, (c) provide subloan
appraisal assistance, staff training and HIS to the PBs, and (d) provide
financing for feasibility studies of projects identified by potential
subborrowers.
B. Participating Banks
Choice of Participating Banks
3.5       The  PBs have been selected based on the determination by BI's Bank
Supervision Department of the banks' financial health and overall soundness,8
their long-term interest in developing business in agriculture and agro-
industry, and relevant loan appraisal capability. Except for PANIN, the PBs
have also been selected based on their current involvement in ongoing projects
supported by credit lines from the Bank and ADB (Annex 2). The PBs have been
classified as financially sound (*sehat) by BI. They seek to diversify into
term credit and establish a market position in agriculture and agro-industry;
and are making the required investments in promoting the proposed project
among its potential clients. Each of the PBs has drawn up a policy and
strategy statement spelling out its objectives, policies, administrative
arrangements and project supervision with respect to the development of the
agricultural credit market. The PBs' policy and strategy statements r..'e
available in the Project file. The PBs are among the 20 largest banks in the
country and are well managed and profitable. Their participation in the
project will help promote competition in the financial sector in line with the
recent policy reforms, enable the potential subborrowers to have a wider
choice of financial institutions that can provide term credit, and expand the
institutional base for agricultural and agribuciness term credit.
3.6       The PBs' ownership, organization and management, credit procedures,
financial condition and performance, and portfolios are reviewed in Annex 3.
The PBs' financial statements and selected financial ratios and indicators of
their relative sizes are presented in Annex 4, Tables 1-13. The PBs are well-
established banks with a broad and growing branch network. Some of the private
PBs have gore public to broaden their equity bases. Top and middle level
managers of the PBs are suitably qualified for their positions and possess
long experience in banking.
3.7       The staff of the PBs are capable and well qualified, with most
having received in-house andlor external training in various aspects of
banking. However, there is a need to train staff in agricultural and
agribusiness term lending particularly in the assessment of the profitability
and risks of financing investments with long gestation periods, as well as in
environmental impact analysis. Staff training under the project, to commence
8    Annex 8 outlines BI's bank rating system.



- 17 -
imnediately after approval of the proposed project, would be directed to
helping PBs' staff to understand the nature and the associated opportunities
and risks of typical agricultural and agribusiness operations, the
requirements of GOI environmental regulations, the environmental impact of
subprojects, and the measures that could be financed under the project to
mitigate possible adverse effects on the environment.
Loan Policies and Procedures
3.8       The PBs' credit policies and procedures are straightforward with
slight variations among individual PBs. Loan applications originate at the
branch levels and are analyzed by credit officers/managers who then submit
reports and recommendations to the Branch Credit Committees.  The reports
normally cover: (a) a credit analysis of customers, their credit history;
(b) analysis of the operations to be financed; (c) appraisal of the collateral
offered; (d) credit terms and conditions; and (e) conclusions and
recommendation. The lending criteria stress the viability of the operation to
be financed, the financial position, credit record, and management of the
borrower, and the thorough analysis of the credit proposal and associated
financial statements. Branch approval limits differ with the volume of
bus2ness, experience of the branch manager and staff, and are subject to
periodic review by the Board of Managing Directors. There are prudent
restrictions on exposure in a single company, and a group of companies. In
BankExim and Bank BNI, most loan applications are also initiated at the branch
level where full appraisal and evaluation is carried out. However, loan
applications are reappraised by the banks' Jakarta head offices -- a procedure
considered necessary for ensuring quality control. For all the PBs, branches
are responsible for the supervision of loans and subprojects, monitoring of
the loan portfolio, and repayment performance. Supervision of corporate
accounts takes place through a close monitoring of daily accounts and also
regular site visits. The larger and more important loans are usually
supervised by head office credit departments.
Financial Condition and Performance
3.9       Total assets of the six PBs amounted to Rp 47,662 billion
($24.4 billion) as of December 31, 1990. The assets of the PBs as a group,
experienced high growth rates (abc't 25 percent a year) over the last six
years largely in response to the deregulated financial regime. The increase
in assets of private PBs has been financed by a parallel growth in deposits
and equity. On the other hand, due to law established in 1968, the authorired
capital of state-owned PBs has not increased, and these PBs have financed the
growth in assets primarily through borrowing. Following approval of revised
banking legislation recently submitted to Parliament (para. 1.15), the SCBs
will be recapitalized in accordance with the new prudential regulation
regarding capital adequacy. The regulation establishes minimum levels of
capital in relation to credit risk and will be applied uniformly to all ban.s
in Indonesia. BI has set the standard ratio of capital to weighted risk
assets at 8 percent, to be reached by December 1993. All the PBs are
profitable with pre-tax net income representing from 20 percent (for Bank BNI)



- 18 -
to 46 percent (BDNI) of average equity and from alout 1 percent (Bank BNI) to
5.9 (BDNI) of average total assets as of December 31, 1990. Despite a rapid
growth in operations, including the opening of new branches in the six past
years, the PBs have kept their operational expenses under control. Their
administrative expenses averaged 1.9 percent of average total assets and
2.7 percent of average loan portfolio as of December 31, 1990.
Loan Portfolio
3.10      Loans to industry and trade account for about 40 percent and
30 percent of the PBs' total lending, respectively; agricultural loans range
from as low as 1 percent of PANIN's total lending to 22 percent in the case of
BankEXim or an average of 11 percent of the PBs' total loans outstanding. The
PBs' agricultural loan portfolio comprises mainly loans to plantations, with
loans to small- and medium-scale agricultural enterprises representing less
than 25 percent of the PBs' total agricultural lending of Rp 3,866 billion
($2.0 billion) as April 30, 1991. The majority (80 percent) of the loans are
to the private sector and about 55 percent are short-term (up twelve months).
The PBs have been constrained in their long term lending given the lack of
sufficient long-term financial resources and the short-term nature of their
time and savings deposits. In many instances, this has forced industrial and
agricultural enterprises to finance their fixed assets with short-term borrow-
ing. Such loans are rolled over to suit the long gestation period and the
cash flow requirements of the enterprises. Although the share of eech PB in
the proposed Bank loan would account for only about 0.2 percent to 3.5 percent
of their portfolio by the targeted project completion date, it would improve
the availability of term financing for small- and medium-scale agricultural
and agribusiness activities. Data provided by the PBs indicate that about 97
percent of their loans are classified as sound, 2.5 percent as doubtful and
0.5 percent as potential write-offs. The PBs regularly make provisions for
bad and doubtful loan. Provisions represented about 3.0 percent of the PBs'
total loans outstanding as of December 31, 1990. As part of the proposed
recapitalization of SCBs to enable them to comply with the new capital
adequacy regulations, (-0I, with the assistance of consultants, is carrying out
independent reviews of the loan portfolios of SCBs, including those of
BankExim and Bank BNI which would participate under the proposed project.
C. Technical Assistance Arrangements
3.11      The TA component would make use of the existing TA mechanisms
established under the SMIEP and would focus on four main areas:
3.12      Technical Assistance at the Enterprise Level:  Technical assistance
would be provided to eligible enterprises under the project through: (a) the
existing TA Unit, established in LPPI under the ongoing SMIEP, (b) BI's
Regional Project Management Units (RPMUs), and (c) consulta,ats, partly
financed under the project to assist prospective subborrowers prepare
subproject proposals. The TA Unit currently assists eligible enterprises
under SMIEP to obtain the technical assistance they need to plan the
dev-elopment of their business activities and operate them successfully by



- 19 -
helping to create effective links between the enterprises needing assistance
and consulting firms and other service organizations capable of providing it.
The same form of assistance would be extended to enterprises eligible under
the proposad pruject. The TA Unit currently comprises a team of eight full-
time professionals, five of whom are Indonesian, with qualifications in the
fields of business planning, management, finance, engineering, marketing afnd
economics. The team leader coordinates work of the Unit and provides liaison
with LPFI management. While the TA Unit is equipped to provide assistance to
small- and medium-scale industrial and agribusiness enterprises, it would be
strengthenled so that it can handle small- and medium-scale agricultural
projects. In view of this, the Unit would be provided with two additional
staff for 2.5 years each -- an agronomist to be recruited by LPPI and an
agricultural economist to be assigned by BI. Recruitment of the agronomist
and assignment of the agricultural economist by BI to the TA Unit would be a
condition of loan effectiveness.
3.13      To represent the TA Unit or supplement its work at the regional
level, BI's RPMUs attached to various BI branches, would provide assistance to
enterprises eligible for financing under the project. The RPMUs, originally
established in support of the Bank's Small Enterprise Development Project
(SEDP--Loan 2430-IND) currently provide assistance to enterprises financed
under the SMIEP. Each unit is staffed by three consultants: a development
banking expert, an agriculturalist, and an industrial development specialist.
To facilitate implementation of the proposed project, 8I would provide the
services of four agriculturalists from its RPMUs in the provinces where
project activities are expected to be concentrated (East Java, West Java,
South Sulawesi and North Sumatra). Responsibilities of the RPMUs would
include: (i) assisting potential subborrowers, who require the services of
consultants to prepare subproject proposals, to identify and define consulting
tasks, (ii) monitoring consultant assignments and reviewing their findings,
and (c) serving as a link between project participants in the regions and the
TA Unit at LPPI in Jakarta.
3.14      A separate technical assistance fund (TA Fund) was established in
LPPI under SMIEP to finance special topical studies relating to small and
medium scale industrial activities. Potential participants under the proposed
project would have access to the fund. The fund would finance feasibility
studies, to be carried by consultants, on potential projects identified by
prospective subborrowers. The feasibility studies would be financed on a cost
sharing/contingent basis whereby the TA Fund would contribute up to 40 percent
of the cost of a feasibility study to be repaid only if the study leads to a
project. In such a case, if required by the subborrower, the entire cost of
the feasibility study could be refinanced under the subloan and the concerned
PB would pass on, to LPPI, the portion contributed by the project to replenish
the TA Fund.
3.15      Assistance to PBs:  To strengthen the PBa' portfolio management
capabilities, BI would make available to the PBs free of charge the services
of its MIS wh'.ch was established for KIK/KMKP (Small Investment Credit/Small
Permanent Working Capital Credit Programs) under Loan 2430-IND (SEDP). The



- 20 -
system would monitor and report data on the project's subloan approvals,
commitments and disbursements on daily basis, and on subloan repayments and
arrears on a monthly basis. To facilitate projL t implementation, LPPI would
employ an Appraisal Advisor for 2.5 years to train and advise PB staff on
appraisal and loan administration procedures to ensure the timely and accurate
processing of all subloans and other project information. The Advisor would
check the completeness and accuracy of the subloan applications submitted by
the to the Bank. Terms of reference for the Appraisal Advisor (Annex 5) were
reviewed during negotiations and are satisfactory. Recruitment of the
Appraisal Advisor, whose services would be financed under the project, would
be a condition of loan effectiveness.
3.16      Staff Training:  Although the staff of the PBs are capable and well
qualified, with most having received in-house and/or external training in
various aspects of banking, most do not have experience in the appraisal of
small and medium scale agricultural projects. To facilitate project
implementation, LPPI would provide training to PB staff in assessing the
viability and risks of small and medium scale investments with long gestation
periods. environmental impact of subprojects and the required for mitigating
possible adverse effects on the environment. The cost of the training program
($0.3 million) would be met by the PBs. LPPI would hold a two- to three-day
seminar for PB staff to be held before the beginnlng of project
implementation. The seminar would introduce the project to PB personnel,
explain the criteria and procedures to be used in loan appraisal and
authorization, and review the reporting requirements for the PBs. A similar
orientation seminar for potential en;'rerprise-level consultants would be
organized by the TA unit as soon ia: possible after project start-up. This
seminar would explain the project   .ervices, participation requirements, and
pre-qualification procedures. Outlcmes of the orientation seminar and PB
staff training programs are presented in Annex 6.
D.  Project :.;sts and Financing
3.17      Total -roject cost includiaF contingencies is estimated at
$189.9 million including taxes and dut es of about $6.5 million equivalent and
a foreign exchange requirement of $lo03.  million, or 55 percent of the total.
A summary of the piroject costs is givcn I.n Table 3.1.



- 21 -
Table 3.1s TOTAL PROJECT COST
($ million)
Foreign As
Local     Foreign      Total      Z of Total
Estimated Costs
Investment Credit                    82.5      105.0       187.5          56
Technical Assistance:
Project Implementation Support    1.4          0.4         1.8          22
Capacity Building                   0.3        0.0         0.3
Total Baseline Cost              84.2       105.4       189.6          55
Price Contingencies a/                  0.3        0.0         0.3           0
Total Pro1ect Costs              84.5       105.4       189.9          55
a/ On cost of technical assistance component
3.18      The cost of the investment credit component is $187.5 million and
represents the projected volume of subprojects to be financed by during
1992-95. The estimate for foreign exchange requirement is based on experience
under previous Bank projects providing lines of credit for similar purposes:
the direct and indirect foreign exchange component of investments financed
under these credit lines has been estimated in the range of 50 to 60 percent
of total project cost. In this project, since agro-processing activities and
nontraditional agricultural investments would involve some imported equipment
and machinery, the imputed foreign exchange content of the subprojects is
estimated at 55 parcent. The cost estimates for the technical assistance
component are based on the Bank's experience in SMIEP. Price contingencies
amounting to about $0.3 million have been included for the technical
assistance component, calculated on the basis of an estimated annual increase
in local prices of 6.0 percent during 1992-94.
3.19      The Bank loan ($106.1 million) would finance 56 percent of the
project costs, and 100 percent of the estimated foreign exchange requirements
(Table 3.2). For the $187.5 million subloan component, the subborrowers would
provide at least $56.3 million of their own funds to provide the required
equity, averaging approximately 30 percent of total subproject costs. The
balance of the funding would be provided as loans on the basis of 80 percent
($105.0 million) from the Bank, and 20 percent ($26.2 million) from the PBs.
Proceeds of the TA component ($1.1 million), to be passed on to LPPI as a
grant, would finance three main project implementation support activities:
(a) the services of the Appraisal Advisor ($0.5 million), (b) the services of
an agronomist and the expenses (other than fees) of the agricultural economist
to be assigned to LPPI by BI ($0.4 million), and (c) part (40 percent) of the



- 22 -
cost of subproject feasibility studies, estimated at $0.6 million.
Subborrowers would finance 60 percent of the cost of the feasibility studies.
The cost of capacity building activities (PB staff training), estimated at
$0.3 million, would be borne by the PBs. The cost to BI, of providing four
regional representatives from its RPMUs to provide assistance to eligible
project participants, is estimated at $0.4 million. The signing of financing
agreements between GOI and 8I and between BI and LPPI in respect of TA funds
would be a condition of loan effectiveness. Agreement to these financing
arrangements was reached with GOI and BI at negotiations.
Table 3.2: FINANCING PLAN
($ million)
2 of
Local     Foreign      Total     Total
Investment Credit
IBRD                                  0.0      105.0       105.0      55.3
Participating Banks                  26.2        0.0        26.2       13.8
Subborrowers                         56.3        0.0        56.3      29.6
Subtotal                         82.5       105.0       187.5      98.7
Technical Assistance
Project Implementation Supports
IBRD                                  0.7        0.4         1.1       0.6
BI                                    0.6        0.0         0.6        0.4
Subborrowers                          0.4        0.0         0.4       0.2
Capacity Building:
Participating Banks                   0.3        0.0         0.3        0.1
Subtotal                          2.0         0.4         2.4       1.3
Total                            84.5       105.4       189.9     100.0
IBRD                                    0.7      105.4       106.1       55.9
DI                                      0.6        0.0         0.6        0.4
Participating Banks                    26.5        0.0        26.5       13.9
Subborrowers                           56.7        0.0        56.7       29.8



- 23 -
E. Detailed Features
oan Criteria
The following criteria for the selection of subborrowers and
rojects under the project were agreed upon with the at negotiations:
For subborrowers.
(a) individual or groups of farmers and fishermen, cooperatives,
and private enterprises engaged in the production and
processing of agricultural, livestock, fishery, and forestry
products having operating assets of not more than $500,000
(excluding land, buildings and inventcries) would be eligible
under the project, provided that the subborrower would have,
including the subloan, a debt/equity ratio of not more than
70:30; and
(b) there would be no restriction with respect to enterprise
ownetship. All enterprises regardless of ownership
(indigenous, non-indigenous, domestic and foreign ventures)
would be eligible.
For subproiects:
(a) all subprojects evaluated by PBs to be financially viable and
environmentally sound would be eligible for financing except
for certain highly protected, economically non-viable products
included in the negative list (Annex 7). Furthermore, any
subprojects involving commodities (Annex 7) with very high real
effective rates of protection (600 percent as estimated in June
1991) would be eligible for financing tuwder the project only if
they have economic rates of return of at least 10 percent. The
negative list and the list of commodities in respect of which a
minimum economic rate of return of 10 percent would be required
for a oubproject to be eligible for financing under the project
would be reviewed annually with GOI during project implementa-
tion and would be revised as appropriate. The addition of new
commodities or products to the list would not, however,
invalidate contracts signed prior to the date of their
inclusion on the list;
(b) subprojects would have a financial rate of return not less than
the annual interest rate to be charged to the investment
enterprise on the subloan;
(c) the costs eligible for financing would include: (i) land
clearing and preparation, soil conservation, irrigation works
and equipment, the establishment of permanent and semipermanent
crops and breeding herds, farm infrastructure, plant, machinery



- 24 -
and equipment including storage facilities, tractors, trucks
and harvesters; (ii) the infrastructure, plant, machinery and
equipment, including cold storage, necessary for processing
agricultural raw materials; (iii) the permanent working capital
necessary for the efficient operation of the investments
financed. The project would emphasize the financing of
nontraditional commodities, multiple-crop farming systems,
post-harvest and primary agro-processing activities, and
provide, as far as possible, integrated enterprise or farm
credit taking into account the vhole cash flow of the farm or
enterpriss rather than specific commodities or individual
activities only;
(d) at least 30 percent of a subproject's total investment cost
would be financed with the subborrower's own funds;
(e) the maxmimum amount of the subloan portion financed by the Bank
would be $300,000 for fixed asset investment and up to an
additional 40 percent of this amount ($120,000) would be
allowed for permanent working capital. Projects requiring
working capital loans only would be ineligible for financing
under the project;
(f) the maximum size of a subloan (including investment and working
capital) financed by the Bank and a PB would be $525,000;
(g) an individual enterprise may receive more than one subloan
under the project provided the aggregate of such subloans does
not exceed the $525,000 limit; and
(h) environmental aspects would be as outlined in para. 3.30.
Lending and Allocation ArranRements
3.21      The Bank loan of $106.1 million would be made to the Republic of
Indonesia on standard country terms. The Ministry of Finance (HOF) would act
as GOI's agent. A separate project account would be established at BI (on
behalf of MOF) to record: (a) the channeling of the Bank loan to the
individual PBs; and (b) debt-service payments received from them. The
Government would allocate the loan proceeds to the PBs as follows:
(a) $60 million out of the US$lOS.0 million investment credit
component would be allocated to the six PBs in equal amounts of
$10 million each; the balance of $45 million would be available
to the PBs on a  first-come, first-served basis, following
commitment of the initial allocations. Each PB would pay to
the Government, at the same rate as the Government would pay to
the Bank, commitment fee on the undisbursec portion of its
initial allocation and would share equally in the payment of
commitment fees on the undisbursed portion of the $45.0 million



- 25 -
available to the  on a "first-come, first-served basis".  In
order to provide flexibility and to meet unforeseen
fluctuations in credit demand, the Bank could, on request of
GOI, after 18 months after loan effectiveness, reallocate the
loan funds from PBs which have uncommitted funds to those which
have: (i) fully committed their allocations, (ii) used up all
the $45.0 million available on a first-come, first-served
basis and (iii) have requests for additional subloans. From
the date of such a reallocation, the PBs would be obligated to
pay the commitment fee on the undisbursed amount of their
respective new allocations: there would be no retroactive
adjustment of commitment fee obligations. Furthermore, should
GOI and the PBs so agree, reallocation of loan amounts among
the PBs could take place prior to the expiration of the
aforesaid 18-month period; in such cases, commitment fee
obligations would be appropriately adjusted.
(b) Funds to BankExim, Bank BNI and BAPINDO would be lent by MOF
through a Subsidiary Loan Agreement (SLA) while funds to the
private PBs would be lent in the first instance by the
Government to BI, through a separate SLA between HOF and BI.
BI would then re-lend these funds to the private PBs through
respective Onlending Loan Agreements (OLAs) between BI and the
respective PBs. Loan proceeds on-lent to the PBs would be for
a fixed term of 15 years including three years of grace. All
PBs would sign a Project Agreement with the World Bank
outlining their obligations in implementing the proposed
project. Signing of: (i) the SLA between MOF and BI, (ii) at
least two SLAs between 8I and state-owned PBs, and (iii) at
least two OLAs between BI and the private PBs (on terms and
conditions acceptable to the Bank) would be conditions of loan
effectiveness. Signing of an SLA/OLA between BI and the PBs
would a condition of disbursement for each PB.
Cc) Each PB would continue to have access to Bank funds provided
that it continues to be classified as Isehat" (financially
sound) by BI. Agreement was reached with the PBs that they
would carry out the necessary measures to maintain UsehatU
status and with BI on the criteria to be applied in the
classification of PBs' financial status (Annex 8). It was
agreed that BI would regularly monitor the financial
performance of each PB and that in the event of a PB losing its
3sehat" status: (i) BI would require the concerned PB to take
remedial measures, within a prescribed period of time to regain
'sehat  status, (ii) BI would notify Government and the Bank
that a situation has arisen that may require the reallocation
of the uncommltted portion of funds previously allocated to the
PB, and (iii) in the event that the PB fails to regain "sehat"
status after the prescribed period, funds which have been
allocated to the concerned PB but have not been committed,



- 26 -
would, on request of GOI, be reallocated to those PBs which
continue to be classified as "sehat' and which have requests
for subloans in excess of their allocations.
Lending Terms
3.22      Interest Rate.  Regarding the onlending rate in two-step loans, the
mechanism to be adopted under the proposed project would ensure that the
onlending rate for Bank funds reflects the market rate for domestic term funds
in Indonesia. The onlending rate to PBs will be at a variable interest rate
pegged to BI's domestic three month money market certificate (Sertifikat Bank
Indonesia -- SBI). This rate would be adjusted on January 1 and July 1 of
each year, based on the average of three month SBI maturity quotations during
the preceding six months. While the Goveranent would bear the foreign
exchange risk, it would be compensated for the cost of bearing this risk as
the formula for establishing the cost of funds from GOI to PBs includes an
implicit premium reflecting market expectations regarding exchange rate
changes, since deposit rates in Indonesia are market-determined and capital
flows are generally unrestricted. Based on 1991 first half data, this
arrangement would result in an onlending rate of about 20.9 percent for the
first six months of 1992, which is substantially positive in real terms. To
protect PBs from possibly excessive volatility in the reference rate, the
onlending rate would not exceed the average of end-of-day quotations of the
five SCBs' three month time deposits during the same preceding six-month
period or such other limit acceptable to the Bank. It was agreed at
negotiations that on July 1 of each year, commencing July 1, 1992, at the
request of either the Borrower or the Bank, the basis for determining the
onlending rate from GOI to PBs would be reviewed with the objective of either
ensuring that the three-month SBI rate appropriately reflects the cost of
domestic term funds or agreeing on an alternative that does reflect this cost.
Onlending Terms
3.23      The proceeds of the Bank loan, along with complementary financing
out of the PBs' own resources, would be on-lent to the subborrowers by the PBs
at market rates. Trhe term for subloans would be up to 12 years including up
to three years of grace. Rollover funds (i.e., the repayments on Bank-
financed subloans) would be relent by the PBs for similar investments.
Subject to these limitations, the terms and conditions of subloans would be
freely negotiated between the PBs and subborrowers.
Free Limit and Subproject Review
3.24      A subloan free limit of $250,000 (Rp 488 million) of the investment
portion financed by the Bank would apply. A subproject summary (Annex 9)
would be required to be submitted to the Bank for authorization for each below
free-limit subloan. For subprojects above the free limit, PBs would submit
full appraisal reports covering all aspects of the subprojects. The first two
subprojects of each PB, irrespective of size, would be treated as above free-
limit subprojects and would be submitted with a full appraisal by the PB to



- 27 -
the Bank for authorization. Based on the maximum Bank share in the subloan,
it is expected that the credit component would finance about 350 projects in a
variety of sub-sectors. It is expected that the Bank would review about
30 percent of the subprojects.
Procurement
3.25      International competitive bidding would not be feasible for
subborrowers because the size of individual investments would be too small and
bulking of contracts is not practicable due to their expected diversity and
wide dispersal both in location and time. Efficient procurement in the
private sector in Indonesia is ensured through a highly competitive market
operating in an open economy where commercial purchasers normally solicit
various bids to obtain reasonable quotes. Although the PBs do not have formal
procurement requirements, they do require clients to justify their procurement
decisions, often requiring them to provide comparative price quotations.
Under the proposed project, the PBs would require qualified enterprises to
demonstrate that the procurement procedures adopted by them are appropriate.
The PBs would also ensure that the goods and services would be purchased at a
reasonable price, account being taken also of other relevant factors such as
time of delivery, efficiency and reliability of goods, and availability of
maintenance facilities and spare parts, and in the case of services, of their
quality snd the competence of the parties rendering them. These procedures
are consistent with principles for Bank financing through financial
intermediaries and would ensure that procurement is economic and efficient.
Assets financed by the Bank would be procured nu more than 90 days prior to
the receipt by the Bank of the withdrawal application. Consultants to be
financed under the project would be selected in accordance with the
'Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and the World
Bank as Executing Agency* published in August 1981.
Disbursement
3.26      For the credit component, the Bank loan would be disbursed against
80 percent of the amount financed, which is equivalent to the estimated
foreign exchange cost. For the technical assistance component, disbursements
would be made against 100 percent of expenditures. Statements of Expenditures
(SOEs) would be used for all subloan expenditures: full supporting
documentation would be retained by the PBs and made available to the Bank for
inspection during supervision missions. Disbursements against consultants'
services expenditures would be on the basis of full documentation. The
standard Industrial Development Finance loan disbursement profile for the Asia
region was used to prepare the disbursement schedule (Annex 10). The project
is expected to be completed by June 30, 1998, end the closing date of the loan
would be December 31, 1998.



- 28 -
Auditing and Reporting
3.27      The financial accounts and SOE documentation of BankExim, Bank BNI,
and BAPINDO would be audited by BPKP (State Audit Agency), which is acceptable
to the Bank, while those of LPPI, BDNI, PANIN and Bank Niaga would be audited
by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank. It was agreed that LPPI and
the PBs would submit their audited financial statements (in English) to the
Bank no later than nine months after the end of their respective fiscal years.
All PBs would submit information on each subloan approval and disbursement
schedule to BI's MIS as soon as the subloans are approved, and the outstanding
loan balance and changes in the subloan status at the end of very month. At
the end of each semester, BI would provide the Bank a consolidated report on
subloan approvals, loans outstanding, and status of subloan disbursements.
Coordination and Management
3.28      In accordance with existing GOI regulations, MOF will establish the
project account, collect repayments from the PBs, and service the Bank loan.
The primary role of BI would be to: (a) consolidate and submit disbursement
requests to the Bank; (b) channel disbursements to the PBs; (c) provide the
services of four agricultural consultants from the RPHUs to the TA Unit and
(d) provide the services of an agricultural economist to the TA Unit to
strengthen the Unit's capacity to handls agricultural projects. Apart from
the accounting and regulatory functions described above, the management of
project funds would be in the hands of the PBs. The responsibilities of the
PBs would be to: (a) promote and market the project among potential
agricu'tural and agro-industrial subborrowers; (b) identify, appraise, and
approve subprojects; (c) monitor progress of subproject implementation;
(d) maintain separate accounts for project operations; (e) ensure, through in-
house and/or external training, that staff dealing with the project has
adequate skills and expertise to appraise subprojects; and (f) submit to the
Bank and BI-MIS: (i) summary information sheets on subloans approved; and
(ii) at the end of each semester, brief reports summarizing subproject costs,
loan approvals, disbursements, activities, and enterprises financed, and
subproject performance and impact. LPPI would continue to manage the TA Unit
and implement the PB staff training program.
Environment
3.29      GOI's commitment to the principles of sustainable development and
environmental protection has long been evident in the establishment of
agencies (including a special unit in BAPPENAS in 1972 for natural resources
and environmental management, and the appointment of a State Minister for the
environment in 1978), in the passage of key legislation on environmental
concerns in a number of sectors, culminating in legislation in 1982 (Basic
Provisions for the Management of the Living Environment) which fcrms the
cornerstone for all subsequent regulations, and in the introduction of
specific regulations in 1986 (PP No. 29) which require environmental impact
analysis (EIA) for all new projects. The State Ministry for Population and
Environment has established 52 Environmental Stadies Centers in major



- 29 -
universities in *Il 27 provinces designed to strengthen the availability of
skilled environmental specialists, to provide support to provincial government
authorities in environmental planning and management and to carry out research
studies on important environmental concerns at the local level.
3.30      While the basic legal framework for environmental management is now
in place in Indonesia, the major and more difficult challenge is to develop
institutional capacity to enforce the rules and regulations established by
GOI, especially in the area of occupational safety and health hazard
regulations. The financial sector, in general, and the PBs, in particular are
still unfamiliar with environmental regulations and satety requirements.
Although most of the subprojects are expected to be established farms and
enterprisee where there would be minimal clearing of new land and changes in
the water regime, the agro-processing activities to be financed may be
ecologically vulnerable to additional pollution load under the project. This
could possibly affect adversely water and air quality, and place additional
demand on water for human consumption and industrial processing. To ensure
that subprolects would not have an adverse impact on the environment,
subborrowers would be required to undertake environmental impact assessments
of subprojects. The PBs would be responsible for ensuring compliance by the
subborrowers with GOI rules and regulations. A training program would be
designed by LPPI to familiarize PBs' staff with GOI1's environmental
regulations, and enable PBs to effectively screen environmentally sensitive
subprojects as part of their loan appraisal process. Subprojects with adverse
environmental impact would not be eligible for financing under the project
unless satisfactory remedial measures are taken; the costs of such measures
would be eligible for financing under the project.
Benefits and Risks
3.31      The proposed project would support GOI's objective of maintaining
sector growth, incomes, employment and exports by redressing the limited
access of target borrowers to term credit and sustaining the availability of
agriculture credit while subsidized credits are being phased out and the
financial system is adjusting to the deregulated regime. Agricultural lending
by private, urban banks would over time, encourage the expansion of financial
services in the rural areas, assist in deepening the rural financial marke',
promote competition, help integrate the informal rural financial market into
the formal sector, and Improve the overall efficiency of the rural financial
market. The project would assist the banks in building up experience in
agricultural lending and credit track records of agricultural and agribusiness
borrowers, and encourage term transformation of the banks' domestic resources
through a co-financing arrangement whereby the participating banks would lend
their own funds on a long-term basis. By charging market onlending rates, the
project would support subprojects with high returns and promote efficiency in
the agricultural and agribusiness sectors. Finally, by mobilizing resources
from the PBs and equity from the subborrowers and requiring no contribution
from the national budget, the project would help ease the constraints on
budgetary resources. There are no major risks, perceived at this time, that
could inhibit the attainment of the project's objectives. However,



- 30 -
uncertainties in credit demand and the PBs' lack of familiarity with the
appraisal and administration of small agricultural subloans, may lead to slow
project implementation and loan disbursements. These risks are minimized by a
prudent loan amount and by the selection of with a long-term interest in
developing the agricultural credit market.
IV. AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATION
4.1       DurSng negotiations, agreements were reached with GOI, LPPI and the
PBs on the followings
(a) With GOI0
(i)   Certain highly protected, economically nonviable products
(Annex 7) would not be eligible for financing. Furthermore,
any subprojects involving commodities (Annex 7) with very
high real effective rates of protection (600 percent as
estimated in June 1991) would be eligible for financing
under the project only if they have economic rates of return
of at least 10 percent. The negative list and the list of
commodities in respect of which a minimum economic rate of
return of 10 percent would be required in order to be
eligible for financing under the project would be reviewed
annually with GOI during project implementation and revised
as appropriate;
(ii)   arrangements between GOI. BI and the PBs for the onlending
of Bank loan proceeds (paras. 3.21 and 3.22); and
(iii)   that BI wouldt
a.   assign to LPPI for a period of 2.5 years, an
agricultural economist to strengthen the TA Unit (para.
3.12);
b.   provide four agricultural consultants from its Regional
Project Management Units (RPHUs) to LPPI's TA Unit
(para. 3.13);
c.   provide free MIS services to the (para. 3.15);
d.   pass on to LPPI as a grant, funds ($1.1 million)
provided by the Borrower to finance the project's
technical assistance needs; and (para. 3.19);
e.   regularly monitor the financial performance of each PB
(para. 3.21);



- 31 -
f.   require that each PB undertake measures, satisfactory
to the Bank, to maintain or regain its sehat" status
(para. 3.21); and
g.   inform the Bank and the Borrower that a situation has
risen that may require the reallocation of the
uncommitted balance of funds allocated to a PB if that
PB fails to meet BI's requirements for sehato
classification (para. 3.21); and
(b)   With LPPI
(i)   recruitment of an Agronomist for the TA Unit for 2 1/2 years
(para. 3.12) and of an Appraisal Advisor for agriculture and
agribusiness for 2 1/2 years (para. 3.15); and
(ii)   implementation of a staff training program for PB staff
(para. 3.16).
(c)   With the PBs:
gi)   financing of the cost of training their staff in the
promotion, appraisal and supervision of small- and medium
scale agricultural, and agribusiness projects (para. 3.19);
(ii)   suble3n eligibility criteria (para. 3.20);
(iii)   eligibility for continued access to Bank funds (para. 3.21);
(iv)   taking of all necessary actions to maintain or regain their
useehat status (para. 3.21).
(v)   onlending terms to subborrovers (para. 3.23);
(vi)   subloan free limit and subproject review arrangements
(para. 3.24);
(vii)   audit of PBs' annual accounts and financial statements and
statements of expenditures (para. 3.27);
Conditions of Loan Effectiveness
4.2      The conditions for loan effectiveness are:
(a)   assignment, by BI, of an agricultural economist to LPPI
(para. 3.12);
(b)   appointment by LPPI, of the Appraisal Advisor and an agronomist
(paras. 3.12 and 3.15);



- 32 -
(c)   the signing of financial agreements between BI and the Borrower
LPPI, and between BI and LPPI (pata. 3.19);
(d)   the signing of a SLA between HOF and UI (para. 3.21); and
(e)   the signing of at least two SLAs between BI and state-owned
PBs and at least two OLAs between 8I and the private PBs
(para. 3.21).
Condition of Disbursement
4.3      The condition for disbursement for each PB is the signi.g of an
SLA/OLA, satisfactory to the Bank, with MOF/BI (para. 3.21).
Recommendation
4.4      With the above agreements and conditions, the project would be
suitable for a loan of $106.1 million to the Republic of Indonesia for
20 years, including a grace period of five years, at the Bank's standard
variable rate.



- 33 -
INDONESIA                               Annex 1
Page 1
AGRICULTUMAL FINANCING PROJECT
PlpePin. of Projects
Financing Required   Subloun Amount
Number of             Under Project    Per Subproject
Type of Project          Locatlon                Projects                  (USS)               (USS)
Bank Negara Indonesia
Livestock                West Java, East Java             2              1,006,144              608,072
Palo oil plantation      North Sumtra                     4              1,907,822              476,8B1
Salt industry            Ernt Java                        2                947,261              478,680
Furniture industry       East Java                        1                522,278              622,278
Food processing          East Java                        8              1,487,456              496,618
Commodity processlng     East Jaov, W.Kallmanatan         S              8,840,248              460,081
Peanut packaging         East Java                        1                606,868              605,888
Rice hulling             East Java, NTB                   4              1,920,123              480,081
Clove plantation         East Java                        4              2,022,629              505,682
Leather tanning          East Java                        1                494,112              494,112
Poultry farming          East Java                        8              1,488,692              477,897
Wins production         NmB                               1                478,680              478,680
Shrimp pond              S. Sulowesi,N.Sumat-a            4              2,007,168              601,792
RubJ;r plantation        North Suatra                     1                4V4,481              486,431
Cold storage             North Sumatra                    1                500,985              509,986
Subtotal                                       40              19,664,P60
Bank Expor lmpor
Palm oil plantation      West Java                        2              1,089,427              519,713
Crumb rubber plant       South Sumatra                    8              1,56,889               515,446
Latex/glove production   South Sumatre                    4              1,606,912              876,728
Vanilla                  West Java                        1                460,077              460,077
Rice processing          West Java                        1                480,817              480,i17
Rubber estate            South Sumatra                    2                611,009              256,504
Hydrophonic production   West Java                        1                446,469              446,4U9
Marine fishing           West Java                        1                460,829              460,829
Furniture making         West Java                        1                468,788              466,738
Rubber processing        West Java                        1                492,676              492,676
Long pepper production   West Java                        1                472,606              472,606
Black tea production     West Java                        1                465,709              466,709
Prawn production         South Sumatra                    1                601,792              501,792
Livestock farming        South Sumatra                    1                460,689              460,569
Cattlo                   South Sumatra                    a              1,484,895              494,965
Ginger                   Lompung                          1                857,911              867,911
Vineyard                 North Sumatra                    1                478,289              478,289
Flower form              North Sumatra                    1                445,489              446,469
Subtotal                                       27              12,016,897
Bank Niaga
__________
Shrimp culture           East Java                        2                788,049              884,026
Chopsticks               East Joav                        1                606,400              606,400
Cold-storage             Central Java                     1                494,112              494,112
Poultry farming          Central Java                     2                179,211               89,806
Sllkwoarm culture        West Java                        1                484,818              484,S88
Chopsticks               Centrol Java                     1                26f,016              256,016
Squash production        Central Java                     1                524,884              624,884
Te production            East Java                        1                495,648              496,648
Caosava milling          Central Java                     1                409,626              409,626
Asparagus                Central Java                     1                204,818              204,818
Food proceosing          Central Java                     2                409,626              204,818
Wood processing          West Java                        1                488,871              488,871
Subtotal                                       15               6,216,590



- 34 -
INDONESIA                               Annex 1
Page 2
ACRICULTURAL FINANCING PROJECT
Pipeline of Projoet
Financing Roquired  Subloan Amount
Number of             Under Project     Per SubproJect
Type of Project          Location                Project*                  (US8)               (USS)
BAPINDO
Eggplant plantation      West Java                        1                898,774              896,774
Ginger plantation        West Java                       12                902,622               80,216
Asparagus plantation     West Java                        2                632,811              266,406
Chili production         West Java                        1                 79,877               79,877
Shrimp hatchery          West Java                        2                 80,889               40,195
Cattle feedlot           Weut Java                        1                 81,418               61,418
Mushroom production      West Java                        1                 60,901               80,901
Banana plantalon         South Kalimanatan                1                877,860              877,880
Ginger plantation        South Kalimanatan                8              1,188,641              877,880
Orchard                  South Halimnatan                 2                309,012              404,506
Corn production          South Kalimanatan                1                877,680              877,680
Rubber plantation        South Kalimanstan                1                377,660              877,860
Coconut shell processing Southb Sulawesi                  1                840,092              840,092
Poultry products         Southb Sulawesi                  1                868,488              "8,488
Coffee processing        Southb Sulawesi                  1                521,198              821,198
Cassava plantation       South Sumatra                   2                 821,198              160,599
Ginger plontaton         South Sumatra                    7              2,286,176              826,598
Cold storage facilities  Central Sumatra                  1                898,774              89S,774
Chili plantation         Central Sumatra                  1                896,774              89e,774
General agriculture      Central Sumatra                  4              1,681,637              420,892
Cattle breeding          Maluku                           2                798,548              896,774
Shrimp culture           Maluku                           8              1,190,828              898,774
Fishing                  Maluku                           2                164,981               77,486
Rubber plantation        Maluku                           8              1,190,828              890,774
Vanilla plantation       East Java                        1                454,178              454,178
Mango plantation         East Java                        1                890,774              890,774
Water melon production   East Java                        1                164,868              164,888
Poultry farming          West Kalimanstan                 1                898,774              890,774
Bricket coal production  West Kalimanatan                 1                501,792              601,792
Cattle feedlot           North Sumatra                    2                890,774              196,887
Subtotal                                       6s              17,048,067
Bank Dagang Naosional
Indonesia
Banana production        South Sumatra                    1                491,651              491,661
Poultry                  North Sumatra                    a              1,254,480              418,160
Cocoa boans              W. Java, S. Sulawesi            2                 844,864              422,427
Fishory                  W. Java, S. Sulowesi            8               1,479,775              498,258
Hatchery                 Central Java                     1                884,026              8d4,025
Coffee production        S. Sulawesi, W.Java             6               2,278,6,               879,768
Popper production        South Sumatra                    1                807,220              807,220
Rubber plantation        North Sumatra                    1                486,481              486,481
Cassava production       Lampung, C. Java                6               2,482,166              406,859
Ginger production        W. Jove, N. Sumatra              2                960,061              480,081
Subtotal                                       26              10,919,099



- 35 -
INDONESIA                                Annex 1
______ _-                                Page 8
AGRICULTURAL FINANCING PROJECT
______________________________
Pipeline of Projects
Finanelng Required   Subloan Amount
Number of             Under Project      Per Subproject
Type of Project           Location                 Projects                  (USI)               (US$)
Panin Bank
__________
Ginger production         Weet Java, South Sulowes         8                 601,792               167,264
Fishing                   West Java, Ball, N. Sula         5               2,640,928               609,986
Coffee/forestry           West Java                        1                 494,112               494,112
Clove estate              East Java                        2               1,013,825               56W,912
Livestock/agric.          West Java                        1                  61,208                61,208
Poultry                   South Sulawesi, East Jav        10               1,021,605               102,161
FeedmiIl                  South Sumatra, East Javo         4                 W66,643               168,411
Rlco mill                 West Java, Central Java          4                 884,026                98,006
Onion production          East Java                        1                 128,008               128,008
Pig farming               South Sulawesi                   1                  86,642                86,842
Crocodile farm            South Sulawesi                   1                  99,846                99,848
Shrimp pond               South Sulawesi                   2                 102,407                61,208
Citrus farm               South Sulawesi                   1                  97,286                97,288
Ginger/mushroom farm      South Sulawel                    1                  56,824                66,824
Leather tanning           Central Java                     1                  51,208                61,208
Furniture manuf           Central Java                     1                 128,008               128,008
Tobacco production        Central Javn, East Java          5                 868,428                71,886
Fertilizer                Central Java                     1                 128,008               128,008
Sawn timebr               North Sumctra                    1                 485,228               436,228
Passion fruit farm        South Sulawesi                   1                 256,016               268,018
Chopsticks                North Sumatra                    1                 858,428               858,428
Vanilla processing        Central Java                     1                 168,810               168,610
Pepper production         Central Java                     2                 807,220               165,810
Poultry feedmill          Central Java                     2                 480,829               230,416
Livestock                 Central Java                     1                 102,407               102,407
Fooderop production       Central Java                     4                 568,286               140,809
Peanut processing         West Java                        1                 256,016               26B,016
Corn farming              West Java                        1                 494,112               494,112
Tea plantation            Central Java                     1                 457,757               467,767
Poultry farming           Central Java                     2                 404,606               202,268
Subtotal                                         68             12,116,748
TOTAL                                           284             76,876,656
=--              =-    .



- 36 -                              ANNEX 2
INDONESIA
AGRICULTURAL FINANCING PROJECT
Participation of Banks in Two-Step Loans
(in $ million)
Small & Med.
Industrial     Industrial   Export
Restructuring   Enterprise    Dev.    Export Dev.
Banks                           Project        Project    Projects  Proj. II ADB
(I & II)
State Commercial Banks
Bank Bumi Daya                     20            10           15           15
Bank Degang Negara                 40            13.5       70.1           40
Bank Ekspor Impor                  20             -           10           10
Bank BNI                           63            15         18.7           15
Bank Rakyat Indonesia              31            20         47.2           30
Private Commercial Banks
Bank Central Asia                   -            10            -           20
Bank Niaga                          4             3           10            -
Bank Duta                           4             2.5         15
Bank Umum Nasional                 11.5           3            -            -
Bank Bali                           8             -            -           15
Bank Dagang Nasional Ind.           -             -            -           10
Bank Danamon Ind.                                 -            -           10
Bank International Ind.             -             -            -           10
BAPINDO                            34.5          10            -           85
PDFCI                             22.5            -           20           25
UPPINDO                             6.5           5           10            -
Regional Development Banks
East Java                           -             2.5          -
Central Java                                      3            _
North Sumatra                                     2.5          -



- 37 -                        ANNEX 3
INDONESIA
AGRICULTURAL FINANCING PROJECT
The Participating Banks
A. Bank Ekspor Impor Indonesia (BankExim)
1.      Organization Management and Staffing.  BankExim is a state-owned
commercial bank established in 1968. It has 65 branches, including four
overseas offices in Hong Kong, London, New York and Paris. BankExim's
organizational structure is identical to that of other state commercial banks:
a Board of Managing Directors comprises the President Director and three-to-
four Managing Directors, all appointed by the Government for five-year
(renewable) terms. The Board is responsible for the implementation of general
guidelines issued by MOF and BI, and is in charge of day-to-day management of
the bank. BankExim has a Supervisory Board (Government-appointed) which
oversees the Board of Managing Directors.
2.      Operations.   BankExim provides comprehensive services at each of its
branches, including provision of cash, current accounts, savings and deposit
accounts and, in several instances, mobile cash payments services. BankExim
has established relationships with correspondent banks throughout the world
and maintains accounts in all major currencies.
3.      Lending Procedures.  Most loan applications are initiated at the
branch level. Branches are responsible for the initial evaluation of the loan
application. While full appraisal and evaluation is carried out by the
branches, loan applications are reappraised by the Jakarta head office. This
procedure is considered necessary for ensuring quality control. Also,
analysts in the headquarters are generally better trained than their branch
counterparts. Loan applicants are evaluated on the basis of standard credit
worthiness criteria, including the capability of the entrepreneur, financial
position of the enterprise, collateral and market prospects. Branches are
responsible for the supervision of loans and subprojects. Supervision of
corporate accounts takes olace through a close monitoring of daily accounts
and als' regular on-site isits. The larger and more important loans are
supervised by the head otfice credit department.
4.      Financial Condition and Performance.  BankExim's balance sheets and
income statements (1985-1990) are presented in Annex 7, Tables 1 and 2. During
the last six years, BankExim's total assets grew at anaverage rate of 12 per-
cent a year, from Rp 3,368.6 billion in 1985 to Rp 12,596.5 billion
($6.4 billion) in 1990. The rapid growth reflects the impact of financial
sector reforms since June 1983 and the rapid growth of the Indonesian economy
as a whole. Loans have accounted for an average of 53 percent of BankExim's
total assets over the six year period, reaching a high of 61 percent in 1988.
Over the same period, notes, securities and short-term placements accounted



- 38 -                        ANNEX 3
for 33 percent; equity investments accounted for less than 1 percent. With a
relatively large proportion (about 60 percent in 1990) of its long-term
investments financed with short-term liabilities, BankExim's assets and
liabilities structure leaves little room for expansion of its long-term loan
portfolio. This situation will be aggravated by the phasing out of BI
liquidity credits which in the past have accounted for the bulk of BankExim's
long-term borrowing. BankExim will have to mobilize additional term resources
from alternative sources if it is to prudently increase its term lending
activities.
5.      BankExim's equity represented 6 percent  of total assets as of
December 31, 1990. Its authorized capital as established under Laws Nos. 18-
22 of 1968 has not been increased; and because the Government appropriates
45 percent of annual, net profits, BankExim has difficulty in building up its
capital base through retained earnings. Following approval of revised banking
law recently submitted to Parliament (para. 1.15), the SCBs will be
recapitalized in accordance with the new prudential regulation regarding
capital adequacy. The regulation establishes minimum levels of capital in
relation to credit risk and will be applied uniformly to all banks in
Indonesia. BI has set the standard ratio of capital to weighted risk assets
at 8 percent, to be reached by December 1993, thus providing for the banks a
transitional period to build up capital levels progressively.
6.      After a decline from Rp 142 billion in 1986 to Rp 119 billion in 1988,
largely due to foreign exchange losses, BankExim's net profit before tax
increased to Rp 188 billion ($96.3 million) at the end of 1990. Over the
period 1985-1990, net profit before tax has averaged 35 percent and
2.5 percent of average equity and average total asrets respectively. BankExim
has been successful in maintaining adequate lending margins and in keeping its
administrative expenses under control. These averaged about 1.7 percent and
2.5 percent of average total assets and average loan portfolio respectively.
7.      Loan Portfolio.  BankExim lending is concentrated in three sectors:
agriculture (mainly plantations), industry, and trade. The financing of
plantations began in 1975 as an integral part of GOI's effort to generate
employment in underdeveloped areas and spur regional development. The
financing of plantations has traditionally been supported by GOI and BI under
special financial arrangements, whereby BankExim is assisted via the provision
of liquidity credits and by GOI's assumption of lending risk. Most of the
products of the plantation sector are exported. Lending to industry is
primarily short-term, particularly for export-oriented products, while trade
financing is normally self-liquidating. Trade is financed on a selective and
secured basis. BankExim's loan portfolio (before provisions for bad and
doubtful debts) amounted to Rp 7,196 billion ($3.7 billion) as of April 30,
1991 of which: 52 percent was in form of short-term/working capital loans,
67 percent in loans to the private sector, and 22 percent in agriculture with
industry and trade accounting respectively for 38 percent and 28 percent of
loens outstanding.
8.      BankExim  classifies its loan portfolio in four categories:
(i) sound, (ii) loans without interest arrears or with interest in arrears not
exceeding three months, (iii) loans with arrears of interest payment and



- 39 -                        ANNEX 3
principal repayment exceeding three months, and (iv) bad debt. The sound loan
portfolio accounted for about 97 percent the total loan portfolio as of
December 31, 1990.   About 4 percent of the amount of agricultural loans is in
arrears. In each of the last six years, BankExim has made bad and doubtful
debt provisions representing an average 5.2 percent of loans outstanding.
B. BANK NEGARA INDONESIA 1946 (Bank BNI)
9.      Organization Management 1 ' Staffing.  Bank BNI, established in 1946,
is the largest state-owned commercial bank with total assets of Rp 22,448 bil-
lion ($11.5 billion) as of December 31, 1991. It has its head office in
Jakarta and operates a network of 201 branches, 11 regional offices and 76
auxiliary branches/cash offices throughout Indonesia. Bank BNI's
organizational structure is identical to that of other state commercial banket
a Board of Managing Directors comprises the President Director and three-to-
four Managing Directors, all appointed by the Government for five-year
(renewable) terms. Bank BNI's Board is responsible for the implementation of
general guidelines issued by MOF and BI, and is in charge of day-to-day
management of the bank. Bank BNI has a Supervisory Board (Government-
appointed) which oversees the Board of Managing Directors.
10.     The Credit Process.  Bank BNI's credit process was streamlined in
1988. Loan applications are initiated at the branch level (in certain
instances, large corporate clients deal directly with the head office).
Branches are responsible for the initial evaluation of loan applications and
compiling supporting documentation. Loan approval authority, however, remains
essentially centralized. The branch managers' approval authority is limited,
ranging from Rp 50 million to Rp 200 million depending on the size of the
branch. When loan applications are processed through regional offices, the
regional managers' approval authority is limited to loans not exceeding
Rp 300 million. At head office, the approval authority of the head of the
credit department is about Rp 500 million. Decisions on applications for all
loans exceeding these amounts are taken by the Board.
11.     Project appraisal and loan evaluation procedures are well established.
Loan applications are normally evaluated on the basis of standard credit-
worthiness criteria including the capability of the entrepreneur, the
financial position of the enterprise, market prospects, and collateral. For
investment loans exceeding Rp 500 million, audited financial statements and
feasibility studies are normally required as a part of the clients' loan
applications. With respect to technical aspects of large project proposals,
Bank BNI places considerable emphasis on the experience and reputation of the
project sponsors and the accompanying feasibility studies; and if technical
issues arise, outside consultants are engaged directly by the bank for advice.
12.     While loan applications are fully appraised and evaluated by the
branches, they are reappraised once received at head office. This is seen as
a necessary quality-control measure. Analysts in the head office (college
graduates with economics/finance degrees who have received additional in-house
and outside training) are better trained than their branch counterparts.



- 40 -                       ANNX 3
13.     Responsibility for loan and project supervision rests primarily with
the branch in charge of the client account. Branches are required to report
monthly on project status. Supervision of corporate loans, however, takes
place through almost daily scrutiny of account movements as well as through
regular on-site visits, with the more important loans and investments also
supervised by the head office credit department. Bank BNI's appraisal and
supervision procedures, streamlined in 1988 are suitable for its role.
However, Bank BNI staff will be trained by LPPI and the Appraisal Advisor to
be attached to LPPI in order to enhance the bank's capacity to appraisal and
supervise small- and medium-scale agricultural and agribusiness subprojects to
be financed under the project.
14.     Financial Condition and Performance.  Bank BNI's balance sheets income
statements for the period 1985-1990 are presented in Annex 7, Tables 3 and 4.
During the six year period, Bank BNI's assets grew at an average rate of
10 percent a year, from Rp 8,656.3 billion ($4.4 billion equivalent) in 1985
to Rp 22,447.7 in 1990. Loans, of which 60 percent are term loans (loans with
maturities of over 12 months) accounted for 61 percent of total assets at end-
1990. Notes, securities and short-term placements accounted for another 34
percent o" total assets, while other long-term investments (including equity
participation) accounted for less than 1 percent. Bank BNI's loan/deposit
ratio increased from 86 percent in 1985 to 105 percent in 1988 but declined to
87 percent as of December 31, 1990. As a sizable (33 percent) of Bank BNI's
long-term investments were financed with short-term liabilities in 1990, Bank
BNI's assets and liabilities structure will inhibit expansion of its long-term
loan portfolio. This situation will be aggravated by the phasing out of BI
liquidLty credits which in the past have accounted for a high 78 percent of
Bank BNI's long-term borrowing in 1990. Bank BNI will have to mobilize
additional term resources from alternative sources if it is to increase its
term lending activities.
15.     As for all state commercial banks, the equity base of Bank BNI is
small for two reasons: first. its authorized capital as established under
Laws Nos. 18-22 of 1986 has not been increased; and second, because the
Government appropriates 45 percent of annual, net profits, Bank BNI has had
difficulty in building up its capital base through retained earnings.
Following approval of banking legislation recently submitted to Parliament,
the SCBs will be recapitalized in accordance with the new prudential
regulation regarding capital adequacy. The regulation establishes minimum
levels of capital in relation to credit risk and will be applied uniformly to
all banks in Indonesia. BI has set the standard ratio of capital to weighted
risk assets at 8 percent, to be reached by December 1993, thus providing for
the banks a transitional period to build up capital levels progressively.
16.     Bank BNI has, over the last six years maintained sound financial
performance. Its net profit before tax grew from about Rp 37.7 billion
(about $19 million) 1985 to Rp 150 billion in 1990, representing an average
return of about 1 percent and a high 32 percent on average total assets and
average equity, respectively. Despite continued increases in personnel and
other operating expenses,. Bank BNI has kept its administrative expenses within
prudent limits. Administrative expenses averaged 2.0 percent and 3.5 percent
of average total assets and average loan portfolio respectively.



- 41 -                        ANIX 3
17.     Loan Portfolio.  Although Bank BNI is increasingly diversifying its
client base and lending to all sectors of the economy, its loan portfolio
still reflects its original specialization -- industry and manufacturing which
accounted for 41 percent of the total loan portfolio of Rp 13,677 billion
($7 billion) as of December 31, 1990, with agriculture accounting for only
7 p.,rcent of all loans outstanding. In value terms, 61 percent of the loans
are to the private sector and about 36 percent represent working capital
financing. Bank BNI classifies its loan portfolio, as required by BI, on the
basis of collectibility. Bank BNI data shows that as of December 1990, about
98 percent of loans (in value terms) were classified as regular, with less
than 1 percent classified as doubtful (requiring special attention
liquidation). Less than 1 percent of agricultural loans are in arrears. Bank
BNI is now in the process of introducing the aging of arrears to improve loan
portfolio management. Bank BNI regularly sets asi4e provisions to cover
potential losses on doubtful loans and write off bad debts. Provisions have
averaged 3.5 percent of the outstanding loan portfolio over the last six
years.
C. Bank Pembangunan Indonesia (BAPINDO)
18.     Background and Role of BAPINDO.  BAPINDO was established in 1960 as a
wholly government-owned institution for providing finance to industry. and
soon after, took over Bank Industri Negara which was the earlier industrial
lending institution in Indonesia. The Bank Group has been associated with
BAPINDO for the past twenty years, providing it with five industrial credits
totalling US$360.3 million, the last of which (Loan 2277-IND) for US$209 mil-
lion) was approved in 1983. BAPINDO has also participated in two Bank-
financed projects -- IRP (Loan 3040-IND) and SMIEP (Loan 3041-IND) under which
a total of $39.5 million was lent to BAPINDO. The relationship started when
the Government agreed in 1970 to transform BAPINDO, with Bank assistance,
gradually into an effective development bank as a major source of term finance
for industry. Institutional development of BAPINDO continued to be a
principal objective of successive Bank loans. Though erratic over the years,
progress has been achieved, and BAPINDO has clearly established itself as a
major source of medium- and long-term finance for the industrial and maritime
sectors.
19.     Organization, Management and Staff.  BAPINDO has a two-man Supervisory
Board representing the Minister of Finance and the Governor of Bank Indonesia.
The Supervisory Board advises on policy matters, provides guidelines on
development priorities and approves BAPINDO's financial operations and
budgets. A five-man Board of Managing Directors, headed by the President
Director, is responsible for all operational decisions. The Board of Managing
Directors has recently (July 1991) announced changes in BAPINDO's set-up. The
restructuring is aimed at streamlining the institution's structure in
anticipation of the forthcoming new Banking Law which is expected to expand
BAPINDO's role as a financial institution.
20.     BAPINDO has a total of 27 branches, including one in Hong Kong.  Its
Head Office in Jakarta is comprised of 12 departments. BAPINDO also has two
Loan Committees (for difficult sectors), whose members are drawn from
department management level, to assist the Board of Managing Directors in



- 42 -                        ANNEX 3
evaluating loan and investment proposals submitted by the operating
departments. These committees have served a useful function by acting as an
effective screening mechanism.
21.     BAPINDO  has a total of 1,450 of employees of whom 650 are
professional staff. A reorganization in 1988 led to a streamlining of
professional staff at the Head Office, while the staff at the branches were,
on the whole, strengthened to facilitate delegation of more authority to the
branches. The quality of BAPINDO staff has improved, largely due to the
intensive training efforts over the past two years, through both in-house and
external training programs, as well as recruitment of university graduates.
22.     Operating Policies.  BAPINDO's Policy Statement, which was last
amended in 1989, provides guidelines on the scope of its activities, the
investment criteria, and the building of an effective organization and staff.
Specifically, the Policy Statement prohibits BAPINDO from assuming foreign
exchange risk; restricts its exposure to a single enterprise to not more than
20 percent of its net worth: limits total equity participation in a single
enterprise to 10 percent of BAPINDO's net worth and 25 percent of the
enterprise's total equity; and limits BAPINDO's total equity participation to
not more than its net worth. BAPINDO has complied with the provisions of the
Policy Statement with few exceptions which, as required, were duly approved by
its Supervisory Board.
23.     Appraisal and Supervision Procedures.  The quality of BAPINDO's
project appraisals has continued to improve, although further improvements are
required in the analysis of projects' market and financial prospects. BAPINDO
has made substantial progress in reducing the loan processing time, from an
average of over 300 days previously to 120 days at present. This has been
achieved through delegation of approval authority depending on the proposed
loan sizes, streamlining of appraisal procedures, close monitoring of the
processing schedules and more extensive use of computerization. On the whole,
BAPINDO, despite some room for improvement, has by far the best institutional
capability for project evaluation among all local financial institutions in
Indonesia.
24.     BAPINDO maintains a project supervision manual and a good project
monitoring system. To further facilitate the coordination between the head
office and branches, and to increase accountability for project performance,
BAPINDO is experimenting with a new 3integrated team management" approach,
that would put a team in charge of the entire loan cycle, from project
appraisal to loan collection.
25.     Financial Condition and Performance.  BAPINDO's audited balance sheets
and income statements (1985-1990) are shown in Annex 7, Tables 5 and 6.
During the six year period, BAPINDO's total assets rose from Rp 1,249 billion
to Rp 6,273 ($3.2 billion) representing an average annual growth rate of about
27 percent. BAPINDO's loansitotal asset ratio increased from 73 percent in
1985 to 89 percent in 1988 but declined to 83 percent as of December 31, 1990.
The ratio of equity investments to total assets declined from 4.1 percent in
1985 to less than 1 percent as of end-1990. Although BAPINDO's capital
structure was strengthened through shareholders' additional contributions and



- 43 -                        ANNEX 3
conversions of some local loans in 1984, its debt/equity ratio grew
consistently 4.5 times in 1986 to 15 times as of December 31, 1990. Despite
the increase, BAPINDO's gearing ratio is satisfactory.
26.     BAPINDO's profit before tax grew  rapidly from Rp 2.8 billion in 1985
to Rp 118.4 billion ($60 million) as at December 31, 1990, and represented an
average return of 19 percent and 2.4 percent on average equity and average
total assets respectively. Interest on loans accounts for the bulk (80 per-
cent) of BAPINDO's total income; the remaining 20 percent represents income
from commissions, securities and equity investments. BAPINDO's financial
expenses have increased with BI's change in interest rate policy in 1988 and
the further tightening of liquidity credits in January 1990. The average cost
of term borrowing increased from 9.5 percent in 1986 to around 16 percent in
1990, while interest rates on loans have increased at a relatively slower
rate. Consequently, interest margins on term lending have come down to about
1-2 percent from about 4-5 percent. BAPINDO has, however, improved
profitability due tot (a) better portfolio performance in the last two years
which has allowed a reduction in bad debt provisions to around 3 percent of
the loan portfolio from 4.7 percent in 1987; (b) administrative expenses as a
percentage of average total assets have been kept at satisfactory levels,
ranging from 3.4 percent to 1.8 percent of average total assets since 1985 and
from 4.7 percent to 2.1 percent of average loan portfolio over the same
period, despite the addition of new branches and other banking services.
27.     Loan Portfolio.  About 70 percent of BAPINDO's total loan portfolio of
Rp 5,281 billion ($2.7 billion) as of April 30, 1991 was in loans to industry;
20 percent in agriculture and the remaining 10 percent in other activities
dominated by fisheries. Investment and working capital loans accounted for
60 percent and 40 percent of the loan amounts respectively. The quality of
BAPINDO's overall portfolio, deteriorated markedly in 1985 and 1986, but began
an improving trend in 1987 due to the portfolio rehabilitation efforts and
write-offs in the mid-1980s. The proportion of loan amounts affected by
arrears (over three months) fell steadily from 48 percent of total loans
outstanding as of December 31, 1986, to 9.7 percent, as of December 31, 1989.
In absolute terms, arrears declined from Rp 516.9 billion in 1985 to
Rp 317.8 billion as of December 31, 1990. However, this improvement was
partly due to loan rescheduling (Rp 199.6 billion) and write-offs (Rp 76.9
billion) in 1986/87. As of April 30, 1991, of the total agricultural loan
portfolio of Rp 1,163 billion to 488 borrowers only Rp 29 billion (2.5
percent) was in arrears. Write-offs of Rp 3.0 billion in 1990, involving 9
accounts, represented only about 0.25 percent of agricultural loans
outstanding. Collection ratios have progressively improved from a low 41
percent in 1985, to 52 percent in 1986 and to around 80 percent in 1990.
BAPINDO is aiming at achieving a collection ratio of 90 percent by end 1991.
Provision for bad and doubtful debts which have averaged 3.1 percent of total
loans outstanding for the period 1985-1990, are adequate.
D. Bank Dagang Nasional Indonesia (BDNI)
28.     General.    BDNI was established in 1945 in Medan with more than 2,000
shareholders and commenced operations in the Sumatra region. In order to
adequately facilitate its growth, BDNI's head office was removed to Jakarta in



- 44 -                       ANNEX 3
1977. A major shift in ownership took place in 1980, and ever since, the BDNI
has experienced a substantial rate of growth, achieving a level of total
assets of Rp 1,834.4 billion by end-1990 (about $940 million).
29.     Ownership, Organization and Management.  BDNI's paid-up capital, as of
December 31, 1990 amounted to Rp 218.5 billion out of an authorized capital if
Rp 300 billion. The majority of BDNI's shares (91 percent), are held by one
of Indonesia's most successful entrepreneurs, who is also involved in other
major operations in Indonesia, including a joint venture for the manufacturing
and exporting of shoes, a leasing finance company and several insurance
companies. A joint venture with a Japanese bank is currently being
negotiated.
30.     BDNI's major policies are formulated by its Supervisory Board, which
is composed of seven members. Management of operations is the responsibility
of a Board of Managing Directors composed of five members and headed by the
President Director. All of BDNI's executive directors possess adequate
qualifications and have experience in commercial banking.
31.     BDNI is divided into two major groups: (a) an operational group which
includes all branches: and (b) a non-operational group which includes all head
office divisions. The four major head office divisions ares (a) Operations,
Systems and Planning, (b) Administration, (c) International and Treasury, and
*d) Commercial and Development. These divisions are each headed by a Deputy
Chief Executive who reports directly to the President and Chief Executive
Officer. A chief inspector in charge of internal auditing also reports
directly to the President.
32.     BDNI has a network  of 85 outlets comprising 50 branches, 17 sub-
branches and 18 cash offices which are spread among the major regions with
particular emphasis on Sumatra and Java. BDNI plans to open 15 new branches,
so as to reach 100, by year-end 1991. The expansion strategy is to have at
least one branch in every administrative area in Java. Also, in the Jakarta
area, BDNI intends to have one outlet within a radius of 20 km of any other
outlet. New branches are expected to break even after two years, thereafter
branches are expected to operate independently as profit centers and to back
at least 75 percent of their extended loans with their own deposits. BDNI
operates a liquzdity pool clearing house, whereby branches with cash deficits
can borrow from the liquidity pool which collects funds from branches with
cash surpluses. The current interest rate credited to branches with surpluses
is 18 percent, while branches with deficits pay an interest rate of
19 percent.
33.     Branch operations are highly autonomous within certain limits.
Smaller subbranches and cash offices are directly supervised by the manager of
the main branch. Treasury and international operations are centrally
administered by the head office. Support in the area of personnel, accounting
and financial information, EDP and systems development, credit administration
and review are provided by head office departments. Except for the main
branch in Jakarta in which the functions of personnel and premises management
are directly under the scope of the head office, all other branches have



- 45 -                       ANNEX 3
specific administrative and operations officers. In smaller branchec, the
administration function is directly handled by the branch manager.
34.     Staff Training.  BDNI's 2,600 employees, of whom 330 uaa assigned to
the non-operating group in head;uarters are capable, skilled and well trained.
BDNI's manpower deselopment program places emphasis on recruiting
professionals with adequate academic background. These skills have been
regularly supplemented by appropriate training programs aimed at updating and
upgrading banking skills. The continuous development and upgrading of human
resources is accorded high priority in BDNI. All external and internal
training programs are administered by the Staff Development department.
Selected staff mambers with perceived potential are selected to participate in
the Management Education Program wherein they undergo intensive seminars and
on-the-job training in various areas of banking, for a period of ten months.
Most of BDNI's senior officers are called upon to conduct certain courses in
their specific areas of specialization.
35.     Strategy and Policies.  In anticipation of an increasingly competitive
banking environment as a result of deregulation in the financial market, BDNI
intends to further strengthen its organization, by way of a continuous
upgrading of overall staff skills and the infusion of additional equity to
augment its capital base, to enable it to respond adequately to changing
market demands. BDNI intends to attain a strong position in the retail market
through a continuous branch expansion program and through the development and
introduction of consumer-oriented financing packages. Overseas branches will
likewise be opened to enable BDNI to further expand its service facilities,
particularly to support the increasing requirements of its customers engaged
in international trade. Innovative consumer banking packages, as developed in
more advanced environments, are currently being evaluated in relation to their
local applicability, and may include the setting up of Automatic Teller
Machines (ATMs) in major branches and on-line branch banking capabilities.
36.     Lending Procedures.  Credit authorization is delegated to branches;
the limits are determined on the basis of the branches volume of business and
the experience of the branch's staff. Each branch has a branch credit
committee composed of the branch manager and branch marketing manager. Branch
managers have authority to approve loans of up to Rp 200 million, regional
managers up to Rp 300 million, the Director and Executive Director of
marketing and administration at head office can approve loans of up to
Rp 600 million and Rp 900 million respectively. Decisions on applications for
loans of more than Rp 900 million are taken by the President Director.
37.     Financial Condition and Performance.  BDNI's balance sheets and income
statements for the period 1987-1990 are presented in Tables 7 and 8.  BDNI's
total assets increased from Rp 594.6 billion ($304.4 million) in 1987 to
Rp 1,834 billion by end-1990 reflecting an average increase of about
33 percent over the 4 year period. The substantial increase in assets has
been facilitated by a parallel growth in deposits from Rp 425 billion in 1987
to Rp 1,101 billion by end-1990. As of December 31, 1990, loans accounted for
82 percent of BDNI's total assets while equity investments accounted for only
2 percent. With regular equity injections by shareholders and plough back of
profits through a build up of retained earnings, BDNI's equity base has



- 46 -                        ANNEX 3
increased ten-fold during the 1987-90 period, with its debt/equity ratio
declining from 20 times at the end of 1987 to 5,3 times ot the end of 1990.
38.      BDNI's profits (before tax) have grown steadily from Rp 4.1 billion
in 1987 to Rp 95.2 billion ($48 million) in 1990, representing an average
ratio of net profit to average equity of 32 percent and of net profit to
average total assets of 2.5 percent. About 91 percent of BDNI's total income
is derived from interest on loans, with the remaining 9 percent being
generated from commissions, profit on foreign exchange transactions and
dividends from equity investments. BDNI has been successful in reducing its
administrative expenses over the four year period under review. Administra-
tive expenses declined from 6.1 percent of average total assets in 1987 to
2.1 percent in 1990, and from 8.0 peLcent of the average loan portfolio in
1987 to 2.5 percent in 1990. Interest expenses as a percentage of average
liabilities was constant averaged about 11 percent over the period 1987-90.
39.     Loan Portfolio.  In line with the rapid growth in total assets, BDNI's
loan portfolio has increased annually by an average of 32 percent over a four-
year period, from Rp 454.2 billion in 1987 to Rp 2,100 billion ($1.1 billion)
as of December 31, 1990. BDNI's loan portfolio accounts for 82 percent of its
total assets. The loan portfolio is diversified among the major sectors of
the economy, although trade dominates. Fifty-eight percent of the loan
portfolio is in trade related activitias, 20 percent in industry, 12 percent
in agriculture and the remaining 10 percent in transport, construction,
utilities and mining. As of April 30, 1991, 98 percent of the loan portfolio
was classified as sound (unaffected by arrears), 0.5 percent as doubtful (i.e.
loans with arrears of more than three months) and 0.5 percent as bad,
representing potential write-offs. Out of the agricultural portfolio of
Rp 258.8 billion as of April 30, 1991, only Rp 715 million (0.2 percent),
involving 8 out of about 4,000 borrowers, was in arrears. In spite of the
high quality of its loan portfolio, BDNI regularly makes provisions for bad
and doubtful debts. These provisions have increased from 0.5 percent of the
outstanding loan portfolio at the end of 1987 to an estimated 1.2 percent as
of December 31, 1990.
40.     BDNI is interested in participation in the proposed project and is
willing to invest in promoting the project among its potential clientele.
Despite the fact that the project, at its peak, would account for a very small
share of BDNI's loan portfolio (about 1 percent only), it would provide
valuable experience and improve the quality of assessing and financing
investment in the agricultural and agribusiness sectors.
E. Bank Niaga
41.     Ownership, Organization and Management.  Bank Niaga was established in
1955 with an authorized share capital of Rp 15.0 billion which has since been
increased to Rp 100 billion ($52 million), of which Rp 52.5 billion is paid
up. Ninety percent is held by private shareholders and ten percent by BI. It
has 48 branches: 14 in Jakarta where the head office is located, 33 in other
major Indonesian cities and 1 in Los Angeles. Bank Niaga's activities are
supervised by a Board of Commissioners which also establishes the bank's broad
operating guidelines and policies. The Commissioners are appointed by the



- 47 -                        ANNEX 3
shareholders and serve for a term of up to two years. The day-to-day
management of the bank is entrusted to a Board of Directors comprising the
President Director and two other Directors. All three are experienced
bankers. The bank has a total of 3,500 employees.
42.     Lending Procedures.  Processing of credit applications is the
responsibility of the branches. Credit applications are reviewed on the basis
of standard creditworthiness criteria with detailed cash flow analysis being
required for all investment loans. All credit applications not exceeding the
branch's discretionary limit are processed and finalized at the branch level;
for credit amounts above this limit, applications are processed by the branch
Account Officer, reviewed by the branch credit committee and submitted to the
head office in Jakarta for action. At the head office, credit applications
are reviewed by a credit committee which is authorized to approve loans of up
to Rp 1 billion. Applications for credit amounts of Rp 1-2 billion are
referred to the senior Vice President in charge of credit, who makes the final
decision in consultation with any of the three Directors. Loans of over
Rp 2 billion require approval of the President of the bank and at least one of
the other two Directors. Maximum exposure in a single company is limited to a
maximum of 15 percent of the bank's share capital plus reserves. Bank Niaga
usually requires borrowers to provide collateral security of up to 150 percent
of the value of the loan amount; on a selective basis, regular clients may be
required to provide security covering only 80-100 percent of the loan amount.
43.     Financial Condition and Performance.  Bank Niaga's audited balance
sheets and income statements (1985-90) are presented in Annex 7, Tables 9 and
10. During the six-year period, Bank Niaga's total assets increased almost
eight-fold, from Rp 376.9 billion to Rp 2,894.6 billion ($1.4 billion). As of
December 31, 1990, Bank Niaga's outstanding loan portfolio of Rp 2,472.4 bil-
lion constituted the bulk (85 percent) of total assets; marketable securities
and other short-term placements accounted for another 7 percent of Bank
Niaga's asset base. Customer deposits accounted for 79 percent of Bank
Niaga's total borrowing. BI li iidity credits, represented about 8 percent
of total borrowing (corresponding figures for the end of 1989 and 1988 were
8 percent and 6 percent, respectively). Over the past six years, loans
outstanding as a percentage of deposits have increased from 98 percent in
1985 to 114 percent as of December 31, 1990. This pattern is similar to that
of other private banks which, due to their small branch networks, are
generally net borrowers in the interbank money market (which has been very
active since June 1983). Following a share capital increase of
Rp 33.9 billion in 1989, and a further Rp 4.3 billion in 1990, Bank Niaga's
total equity now stands at Rp 140.9 billion. The increase in equity over the
years has led to a decline of the debt/equity ratio from a high of 33.4 times
in 1988 to 19.5 times at the end-1990. Bank Niaga's level of capitalization,
is within BI guidelines, which are based on a risk-weighing assets under the
capital adequacy formula. Also, Bank Niaga's accounting policies,
particularly regarding fixed assets, tend to underestimate the value of assets
and thus constitute an element of hidden reserves.
44.     As shown in Table 10, net income (before tax) during the past six
years increased steadily from Rp 4.9 billion in 1985 to Rp 40.6 billion in
1990 amounting to an average of 1.9 percent of average total assets and



- 48 -                        ANNEX 3
47 percent of average equity. Ninety-three percent of Bank Niaga's total
gross income is attributed directly to its loan portfolio. In addition to
maintaining a good quality portfolio, Bank Niaga has been successful in recent
years both in maintaining adequate lending margins and in keeping operating
expenses (i.e., all expenses less financial) under control.  Administrative
expenses averaged 2.9 of ave_.age total assets and 3.9 percent of average loan
portfolio between 1985 a i 1990.
45.     Loan Portfolio.  Bank Niaga's loan portfolio amounted to Rp 2,928 bil-
lion as od April 30, 1991, of which 60 percent and 24 percent was in loans to
the trade and industrial sectors respectively, 4 percent in agriculture and
the rest (12 percent) in transport, mining, construction e.nd commercial real
estate. The quality of Bank Niaga's portfolio is good. About 98 percent of
the loans are classified as sound, less than 1 percent as substandard and
lpercent as potential write-offs. Of the 48 agricultural loans, amounting to
Rp 110.6 billion, none wa: in arrears of more than three months as of
April 30, 1991. Bank Niaga regularl7 reviews the performance/status of all
loans; those classified as substandard and potential write-offs are reviewed
on a continuing basis.  The branches have primary responsibility for follow-up
of their portfolios and are required to submit monthly reports to the head
office on progress made towards improving the performance of these loans.
Provisions against doubtful loans have averaged 0.7 percent a year of the
outstanding loan portfolio over past six years have averaged about 0.6 percent
of the outstanding loan portfolio. Although its loan portfolio is of high
quality, Bank Niaga needs to increase its level of provisions against
potential doubftufl loans and write-offs.
F. Pan Indonesia Bank (PANIN)
46.     General.  The main activities of the PANIN Group of which PANIN Bank
is a member, are financial services (banking, merchant banking, insurance,
leasing), real estate development, textiles, shipping, man-made fibers and
chemicals. Operations have been growing moderately over the last five years.
47.     Ownership, Organization and Management.  PANIN Bank was established in
1971 as a result of a merger of three private banks; the merger was followed
by the takeover of four additional banks. The bank has an authorized capital
of Rp 100 billion, of which a little over Rp 85 billion is paid up. Thirty
percent of shares are listed on the Jakarta Stock Exchange and a substantial
rights issue is planned for the near future. The senior management is
comprised of the Board of Supervisors, with eight members including the
Chairman and Vice-Chairman; the Board of Directors, comprising of the
President, two Senior Executive Vice Presidents and two Executive Vice
Presidents; six Division Heads for international and operations. treasurc,
internal audit, credit and marketing; administrative and EDP; and general
affairs and personnel. PANIN's management is experience and somewhat
conservative by Indonesian standards. PANIN has a network of 61 branches and
a total staff of 1,700.



- 49 -                        ANNEX 3
48.     Lending Policies and Procedures.  PANIN Bank's credit policies are
straightforward and conventional. They lay stress on the viability of the
operation to be financed, its financial position, credit record and management
of the borrower and the thorough analysis of the credit proposal and
associated financial statements. PANIN's internal procedures define what it
calls the 05 C's' of Credit' as character, capacity, capital, collateral,
condition, in that order.
49.     Loan applications originate at the ara.sch level and are analyzed by
the credit officer/manager who then submits his report and recommendations to
the Branch Credit Committee. These committees are responsible for ensuring
that all available information about the loan applicant is collected and that
his business is visited; ensuring that suitable collateral, etc., is arranged;
the progress of the borrower's business is duly monitored after the loan is
made seeking head office advice or assistance in appropriate cases. The
authority of the Branch Credit Committees to approve loans is subject to
limits defined by the Board of Managing Directors from time to time.
50.     The standard checklist printed on the reverse of the bank's loan
applications form provides for a detailed and comprehensive analysis of the
financial situation, banking and business relationships and general
information about the borrower. PANIN' project appraisal and supervision
procedures are adequate for its normal operations. However, given PANIN's
relatively little exposure to the financing of small agricultural and
agribusiness investments, its staff will trained to handle, subprojects which
will be financed under the proposed project.
51.     Financial Condition and Performance.   PANIN's balance sheets and
income statements for the period 1987-1990 are presented in Tables 11 and 12.
Total assets increased from Rp 627.9 billion in 1987 to Rp 1,615.4 billion in
1990, an average growth rate of 27 percent. Its loans/total asset ratio is
ar, d 60 percent, equity investments account for less than 2 percent of total
assets. On the liabilities side, the ratio of deposits to total liabilities
declined from 76 percent in 1987 to 64 percent in 1989 but rose again to
68 percent in 1990, while amounts due to BI and other banks rose sharply from
7 percent of total liabilities in 1987 to 25 percent in 1990. At the end of
1990, assets in foreign currencies amounted to about or about 16 percent of
total assets, with a similar amount for liabilities in foreign currencies.
PANIN's debt/equity ratio of 13.7 times as of December 31, 1990 is
satisfactory. Until recently, PANIN was the only publicly lieted bank on the
Jakarta stock exchange; 30 percent of its shares are in the hands of the
public and it plans to make a substantial rights issue in the near future.
52.     Between  1987 and 1990, PANIN's profit before tax grew from
Rp 12.6 billion to Rp 28.8 billion in, representing on average, a ratio to
average equity and average total assets of 37 percent and 2.6 percent
respectively. About eighty-six percent of PANIN's gross income is attributed
directly to its loan portfolio, followed by profit on foreign exchange
transactions (7 percent). Equity investments which represent about 2 percent
of the bank's total assets, account for less than 1 percent of total income.
Interest expenses average about 67 percent of total expenses -- about the same
level for other private commercial banks. Despite a rapid growth in the level



- 50 -                        ANNEX 3
of operations, including the opening of more than 20 branches in the past four
years, PANIN has kept its administrative expenses under control. These
expenses averaged 2.2 percent of average total assets and about 3.8 percent of
the average loan portfolio over the 1987-1990 period.
53.     Loan Portfolio.  PANIN's loan portfolio which amounted to Rp 1,050
billion ($538 million) as of April 30, 1991, is concentrated in three
principal sectors: trade and cormerce which accounted for 53 percent of loans
outstanding, industry (19 percent) and real estate (15 percent); agriculture
accounted for only 1 percent of total lending. About 97 percent of the loans
are classified as sound, without any arrears of more than three months, about
1.5 percent as substandard and 0.5 percent as potential write-offs. Of the
195 agricultural loans, amounting to Rp 11.6 billion. 23 (amounting to
Rp 108 million) were in arrears of more than three months as of April 30,
1991. PANIN's management devotes a good deal of its time to the review of the
performance/ status of all loans; those classified as substandard and
potential write-offs receive more attention. The branches have primary
responsibility for follow-up of their portfolios and are required to submit
monthly reports to the head office on progress made towards improving the
performance of these loans. Annual provisions against doubtful loans average
1.3 percent of the outstanding loan portfolio.



- 51 -
DDOUUIA
AOLICULTUAL FNCIN PROCT                                    Annex 4
BAW BU SIPEMPOR DIONESIA
.Audited Baleme Shet, December 81, 19166-90                       Table I
( Mp Ill  Ion)
As of DeceWber 81                                    1965      1966      l967      196      1969   1900 a/
ASETS 
Current Assets
Cash on hand                                      12,600   14,200   16,400   22,600   59,400    52,000
Due from Sank Indeomis                            19,400   U8,900  249,600  201,100  885,600   167,400
Due from other banks                              19,400    6,600    7,100    7,000   27,600   160,60
Notes/S curitles/Short-torm plecement          1,216,200 1,604,C00 1,486,000 1,409,800 8,099,000 4,06,600
Short-term loarn                                 967,200 1,206,000 1,558,700 2,127,400 2,015,200 6,043,000
Laes   Allowance for doubtful debt.               58,400   66,400   146,900        b/       b/         b/
Net Short-Term Loans                          918,600 1,189,600 1,40Q,600 2,127,400 2,015,200 6,048,000
Other currant  assets                           4S0,700  44a,500   840,00 ao U0,60o   508,900  1,284,900
Total Current Assets                          2,o65,700 8,244,200 8,490,900 4,675,200 6,020,700 12,386a,50
Long-Term Assets
Lo-tero loans                                   671,400  S60,900 1,806,000 2,116,600 2,181,900         c/
Lees: Allowance for doubtful debts                86,100   45,500        b/        b/       b/         b/
Net Long-Term Loans                            685,800   615,400 1,806,000 2,116,600 2,181,900        0
Equity participation                              I,600    17,600   29,900   88,800   83,400    83,400
Total Long-Tern Portfolio                     648,900  631,200 1,385,900 2,151,900 2,165,300     38,400
Net fixed assets                                  59,000   6,700   98,700  117,600   182,200   176,600
Total Long-Term Asset                           702,900  099,900 1,484,600 2,26,700 2,297,500   210,000
Total  Asss                                 8,868,600 4,144,100 4,925,600 6,947,900 6,816,200 12,696,600
LEASILMTEES AND EQUm
Curent Liabilties
CO "nd dpoits                                1ms,01,5w0   97,700   966,e00  996,900 1,89,8o 0 ,97,1oo
Tim deposits                                 1,178,600 1,680,000 2,024,400 8,064,500 3,726,100 6,189,200
Savings deposits                               42,800    51,900    52,900   42,000   95,800   402,800
Accountsp ayable                              102,900    99,800   1,100    4,700       2,600    66,600
Llquidity credits frm BI                      116,900  897,000  57,S00          d/        d/         d/
Du to other banks                              48,800   68,000   59,200   44,200   28,600    581,200
Other current liabilIIti*                     226,400   888,200  480,000   991,700  699,00   990,800
Total Current Lialbi I Iti                  2,725,900 8,499,000 4,267,500 5,156,000 6,178,600 10,119,200
Long-Term LiabilIities
Se liquidity credits                            847,600  275,900  297,000 1,121,100 1,267,500  1,068,100
Loans from SE                                     8,100    1,800
Governmet lons                                   1,900    8,100    6,8O0   60,100  205,600   2n,200
Tl  deposits                                    48,600   42,400
Other                                            15,600   15,900      1,400    1,100    1,400   494,100
Total Long-Ter Liablilties                        412,200   86,600  606,700 1,202,800 1,464,boO 1,729,400
Equity
Paid-up Capital                                     200        0        200       200      200        200
Resrve                                          201,800  215,100  265,900  806,100  841,600   841,200
Allowanc for Doubtful Debts                           0         0         0  206,400   241,200   294,200
Retained earnings                                29,000   91,200   *6,200   74,900   91,700   112,80
total Equity                                  280,50   806,500 oo81,800  589,600  674,900   747,900
TOTAL LAIIILTEES ANI) ESIET                    8,868,600 4,144,100 4,925,00 6,947,900 6,816,200 12,590,600
Ratios
Debt/Equity ratio (times)                          18.6      12.5      18.0      10.6     11.8       16.8
Loan/Total Ao ete ratio                            46.6      49.9      S8.1     61.1      49.9       46.0
Loan/Deposit ratio                                n7.5       60.9      94.0    108.2      60.0       71.8
Equity/T'otal ^gAst ratio                           6.6       7.4       7.1      6.5       6.1        6.9
Previsolnd for bad debt so 1
of outstanding Loan Portfolio                     5.t       5.4       5.1      4.9       5.6        4.9
*/ Provisional.
b/ Allowance for doubtful debts treated ae equity effective March 25, 1W9.
c/ Included In *Short-torm Loans above.
d/ Included In long-trm 'D1 Liquidity Credits' below.



- 52 -
VONESIA                                            Annex 4
AUItCULTtItAL FINANCING PROJECT                             -----
SAWN UWSO  IIWRt VIONESIA                                 Table 2
Audited Income Statemnts, 19-1990                                ----
(Rp. Uml l ton)
Year ended December 81                                1985      1936      1937      1988      1989   1990 x/
INCOME
Interest
On loans                                         219,400  280,700   847,00   438,900   463,000    681,400
On note/s.curlties/plscmnts                     108,900   128,600   166,600  225,600   326,100    532,600
Subtotal Interest                              828,300  84,200  514,80    662,600   779,100  1,164,000
Comisalons and fee                                14,700   14,100    15,400    16,400    23,400      42,600
Net Foreign exchane  transactions                 34,600  23S,400   79,100    11,700    14,200    11,800
Other operating incom                              4,400    7,400   41,900   70,300   83,400         13,200
Subtotal operating Inco                        382,000  614,100  650,700  768,400  849,100  1,231,600
Nonopersting Incom                                 6,700   12,600   10,600    11,700    11,700       17,700
Total Income                                   888,700  626,700  661,500  776,100  860,600  1,249,300
EXPEMSES
Interest charge on borrowings                    229,700  256,400  38,900  460,900   543,000   791,200
Salaries and other personnol expen s              29,900   38,700   45,700   50,800   51,000    69,800
Other operating and liscellaneous expenses        14,600   16,600   21,700   86,200   60,600    73,900
Depreciation                                       $,800    4,000    7,000    7,900    8,800    10,900
Provision for bad debts                           52,500  161,800  101,900    78,100   43,650       104,300
Nonoperating expense                              10,600    7,600    6,000    6,900        7,900    11,700
Total Expenses                                 341,100  484,600  628,200  866,800   714,200  1,061,300
Not Income Before Taxes                           47,600  142,100   138,800   119,800   148,600    188,000
Loe: Provision for taxes                          17,800   50,900   49,600   44,800    54,800    66,100
Net Income After Taxes                            29,600   91,200   88,800    76,000   91,800    119,900
Net ProfIt/Avg. EquIty                              41.8      52.9      40.6      25.6      28.2       26.4
Net Profit/Avg. Total Assets                         2.6       8.8       2.9       2.0       1.9        1.8
Adm. Expenses/Avg. Tota l Assts                      2.6       1.5       1.5       1.6       1.6        1.4
Adm. Expenss/Avg. Loan Portfolio                     2.7       2.7       2.4       2.0       2.7        2.4
*/ Provisional.



- 53 -
DINDESIA                                                 Annex 4
ACRICUELrURAL FDNANCING PROJECT                                     -------
SAWC NEoGRA INDONESIA 1940                                        Table 8
Audtetd Balance Sheets, 1 #S-90                                      -------
(Rtp. mIIIon)
s of DOecmber S1                             190C        19O       1967       19JJ      16#9       1990 a/
SSETS
Current Aset.
Cash on hand                                 63,000    66,100    76,600      77n,00   146,100   169,800
Due from Bank Indonesia                     178,600   166,600   171,800    174,300    94,000   218,400
Due from other banks                        267,200   841,300   114,100   116,400    88,900   221,200
Notee/Securitlee/Short-torm placement     81,090,200  8,726,700 8,180,000 4,996,600 6,446,400 7,607,600
Short-term loan                           1,65o,900 2,764,600  2,742,200 8,094,800  8,906,700 6,529,100
Lss: Provision for bad debts                      0         0          0         b/         b/         b/
Other current assets                        2,600   448,200   206,60    6141,100   886,600   414,700
~~~~~~~~~~-    =- - _- - -___- - - -___- - -_      
Total Current Assets                 5,746,700 7,s5,600 6,442,000 9,109,200 11,018,600 14,106,800
Long-Term Assets
Long-term loans                           2,608,900  8,522,200 4,667,600 6,100,200 6,714,200  8,147,700
Lee: Provision for bad debts                164,800   229,200   294,600          b/         b/         b/
Het Long-Term Loans                 2,462,600       ,     4,872,700 6,100,200 6,714,200 8,147,700
Other Investments                           117,600   959,600   67,400        5,600     12,800      7,500
Net fixed  s*sets                            87,000    48,200    48,100    62,200    64,400    82,900
Other assest                                  2,400      2,400     7,600      4,900      8,200   103,800
Total Long-Term Asset.               2,609,600 4,196,400  6,100,600  6,178,100 6,794,100 8,341,900
Total assots                                s68,800 11,765,000 11,542,800 15,22,800 17,807,700 22,447,700
_ _ _ ~~~~~~~- - - - -- - -- - -- -- ----
LIA8ILITIES AND EQUITY
Current Liabilities
Demand deposits                           1,108,100  1,229,200  1,128,400  1,262,000 1,589,000 1,877,900
Time deposits                             8,819,900 5,719,200 6,561,800  7,176,600 9,870,900 12,818,400
Savings deposits                            299,900   834,900   404,800   880,000   645,000 1,076,700
Accounts payable                            192,400   196,900   222,000 1,127,900   125,800   203,400
Liquldity credits from BI                   202,200   806,600   461,700   701,700   $46,000   170,000
Other current liabilities                   285,600   436,400   297,600   556,100   519,700   746,900
_ _ ~~~~~~~~~~~~--*-------
Total Current Lmlibilities               5,658,100  8,277,200 6,00,600 11,144,200 13,096,400 16,892,800
Long-Term Liabilitie
SI liquidity credit.                      1,766,200 2,497,600 2,766,900 2,916,800  8,291,200 8,716,600
Covernment loans                                  a         0          0     86,200   164,400   113,800
Tim depolts                                446,600   57,6800   268,200   607,400   348,700   856,000
Other                                       144,600   190,200   146,600    62,100   289,400   580,900
_ ___~~__                __ -__-_____---_--
Total Long-Term Liabilitils              2,856,800  8,261,600 8,176,700 8,522,000 4,02s,700 4,766,800
Equity
Paid-up Capital                                 5OO        500       500        500        500        500
Resrves                                     122,400   168,000    16,8O6   214,400   242,900   831,000
Provision for Doubtful Debts                      0          0         0    880,600   852,400   861,000
Raolned earnings                            24,000    67,700   111,500    70,500    67,800    07,600
Total Equity                               146,900   220,200    7,o600   616,200   663,h60    790,100
TOTAL LIABILITIES AND EqUITY                6,856,800 11,765,000 11,542,900 15,262,400 17,807,700 22,447,700
_ - __ ___ __ ~~~-- __- -  _- - -- -- -- -- -
Ratios (U)
Debt/Equlty ratio (times)                      65.9       51.0      40.9       28.6       26.0       27.4
Loan/Total Assets ratio                        58.7       58.       64.2       60.2       59.6       60.9
Loan/Deposit ratio                             66.0       6e.6     104.5      105.0       91.5       86.7
Equlty/Total Assets ratio                       1.6        1.9       2.4        4.0        8.8        8.5
Provisions for bad/doubtful debt. as U
of outstanding Loan Portfolio                 4.1        8.6       4.0        8.6        8.8        2.6
Provislonal
Allowance for doubtful debts treated as equity effective, March 26, 1989.
; Included In 'S1 liquidity creditsO.



- 54 -
INDONESIA                                                  Annex 4
AORICULTAL FINACO POECT                                              .......
OANK NEoARA INONESIA 1948                                         Table 4
Audited Incom  Statoemnte, 1960                                            ---
(Rp million)
Year ended December 81                          Ion         19S0       19#7        1966       1996       1990 a/
INCOWE
Interest
On loans                                     417,500   486,700   $54,700   *04,400    999,100  1,147,900
On notee/securitles/placements               290,200   U39,400    29J,400    320,600   466,000    50w,60
Other                                          4,800    46,000    165,200    156,700   219,400    188,800
Subtotal Interest                           712,000    6,71100  1,048,300  1,2S1,900  1,684,500  1,840,100
Cominslons and  om                              69,900    31,000      52,100     66,100      72,300    89,800
Net Foreign oxchange transactions               $1,300   210,500      27,100      17,800    46,100    76,600
Other operating income                          16,000    22,600      66,0OO    61,900    41,400        68,600
Subtotal operating Income                   529,200  1,165,200  1,209,800  1,427,200  1,646,800  2,062,900
Non-operating income                             6,000    11,100      16,400      19,700     17,900     19,200
Total Income                                856,200  1,19N,800  1,227,700  1,446,900  1,864,200  2,082,100
EXPEN=E
Interest charges on borrowings                 681,600   693,400    618,400  1,025,200  1,400,100  1,608,900
Salaries and other personnel expenses           0,400    188,000    111,900    139,600    146,800    172,100
Other operating and mioc lloneous expenose      47,600    55,100      68,600     66,600    112,400    144,600
Deprociation                                     6,100      7,100     16,500      10,700     11,800     16,600
Provision for bad debt.                         69,000   173,000       86,400     56,400     37,400    75,900
Nonop rating expenses                            7,600      9,500     21,800      15,500     16,200     16,100
Total expeno                                797,500  1,129,000  1,122,100  1,384,000  1,724,200  1,932,000
Net Incom Before Taxes                          87,700    07,800    105,600    112,900   140,000    150,100
Loss: Provision for taxes                       13,700    28,700      37,600     41,800      61,900    62,600
Not Income After Taxes                          24,000    43,0C0      67,800      71,100     86,100    97,600
Ratios (X)
Net Profit/Avg. Equity                            51.8       U6.1       42.1        25.3       21.5       20.4
Not Profit/Avg. Total Asset                        0.9        0.7        0.9         0.6        0.8        0.7
Ad. Expense/Avg. Total Assee                       8.4        2.4        1.5         1.7        1.6        1.6
Ado. Expenses/Avg. Loan Portfolio                  6.4        4.4        2.6         2.7        2.6        2.6
*/ Provisional.



08-Aug-91                                                - 55 -
IDONESIA                                Annex 4
A0RICULTtURE FINANCIG PROJECT                     --
BPIDO                                  Tablo C
Audited Balance Sheets, 1985-90
(Rp. millIon)
As of Docember 81                        1985       1966      1987       19o        19#9       1990
-                                  - -----
ASSETS
Curront Assests:
Cash on hand                          82,798     46,564     57,228      2,377      4,808      8,62S
Due froe Bank Indonesia                46,898    298,641    19,0"6     25,904     78,027     47,270
Duo from other banks                                                   85,776     41,966    172,112
Marketable securities                                                 149,164   455,181    710,568
Short term loane                      264,072    86,978   492,296    75,482  1,210,811  1,630,199
Other current assets                  217,474    82,610    89,618      28,896    48,702    150,265
Total Current Assets                7                          99w,671   1,38,442  2,919,079
Other Assets:
Long Term Loans                        46,108    661,80    649,056  1,824,891  2,050,945  8,866,924
Less: provisions for lo                14,754    27,042    62,762      87,090   100,028   136,U81
Equity Investments                     51,840    56,112    56,281      49,700     81,688     86,756
Fixed Asset                             5,935    10,161    16,494      29,681     44,258    67,969
Loes: Depreciation                        682      1,1J6     1,841      4,042      6,384      6,081
Other *ssests                                                          16,521     21,276    24,8651
Total Asse                             1,249,199  1,491,166  1,695,186  2,829,682  8,661,142  6,273,119
LIABILITIES AND EQUITY
Current Liaba lities
Demand deposits                         1,746      5,22      6,978     52,447    186,222   106,692
Tim deposits                          162,708    284,879   829,889   429,287  1,091,978  1,526,140
Notes payable                                                          86,500    124,650   880,260
Current maturities of borrowings      108,640    189,180   189,983    164,101    240,105   206,400
Other current liabilities              52,799    54,402    96,114    112,646    208,444    804,468
Total Current Liabilities          820,s98    488,742    672,409    616,981  1,601,599  8,084,177
Special deposits                      162,980    129,810   106,990    86,480    65,740        9,180
Long-Term Liabilities
Bank Indone"a                          860,829   606,499   646,857    896,792  1,179,197  1,881,089
Other state banks                                                       4,607      2,708      1,672
Governm_nt of Indone"ia                                                15,964     15,854      8,626
Other borrowings                      127,126    116,5 1   184,066    219,161    412,121  1,158,736
Bonds payable                          24,590    74,744     74,949    150,000    80,oo0   6500,OO
Total Long Term Borrowings           668,045    7989624   s65,92  1,286,604  1,909,8690  a,044,975
Less: current maturities             103,640    189,189    189,983    184,101    240,105    206,400
Not Long-4erm Borrowings              684,405    660,686    715,409  1,102,408  1,869,276  2,868,676
Total Liabilities                   1,056,226  1,221,287  1,394,606  2,007,814  8,526,614  C,611,662
Equity
Paid-in capital                       177,179    249,095   249,095    249,095    249,0965   249,094
Realned esrnings                       18,792    20,657     51,284     72,776    106,666    142,144
Total Equity                       100,971    269,952   800,829    821,671    864,768    891,2S8
TOATAL LIABILIMTES AND EQU T           1,249,199  1,491,169  1,695,187  2,829,686  8,661,897  6,278,120
Ratio*
Debt/Equity ratio (time)                  6.5       4.5        4.6        6.2        9.9       16.0
Loan/Total Assets ratio (3)             72.9       69.0       79.2       99.8       84.0   a 2.8
Loon/Depoits ratio (X)                  28.6     260.2      802.8      8 6.0      264.0      816.7
Equlty/Total Ao"ts ratio (X)             15.8       18.1      17.7       18.8        9.1        6.2
Provisions for bad debt as 3
of outstanding Loan Portfolio           1.6        2.6       4.7        4.2        8.1        2.6
-  - -    - - -- - -     ---- - - - ----    - - -     -- - -- - -- -n-       - - - - -



- 56 -
OS-Aug-Il
NDONESIA                                               Annox 4
AGRICULTURE FINANCINO PROJECT
SAPINDO                                               Table S
Audited Incom  Statments, 198E-90-
(Rp. million)
Yoar Ended December 81                      1986       1986       1987       1988       1989        1990
INCOME
Income from loans                     168,849    118,209    176,769    268,876    412,710    726,496
Income from securities and deposits     4,098      82,600     26,654      8,747     17,081     16,800
Income from equity investments                                                       4,907      4,899
Other Inco                               7,942     80,74      40,650     86,911     6G,900     80,917
Total Income                       180,869    176,691    244,278    804,084    491,590    827,611
EXPENSES
Interet expense                        88,628      84,217    107,875    161,710    264,647    688,844
Administrative *xpensx                  21,882     26,098     87,621      88,804    60,889      81,594
Provision for loaces                    70,165     60,486     44,134     40,120     46,802     80,811
Depreciation A amortization                                               1,579      2,666       6,167
Other expenses                                                            5,957     16,288      7,820
Total Expenses                     178,120    160,748    189,180    288,170    886,787    709,226
Not  ncome before tax                       2,769     15,848     66,148     65,864    105,861    118,886
Lese: Provision for tax                     1,689      8,040     20,085     28,287     40,081     46,658
Net Income after tax                        1,280      7,808     81,058     42,677     65,880      71,782
Ratios MU
Net Profit/Avg. Equity                     2.9        6.9       19.8       21.2       81.8       81.7
Net Profit/Avg. Total Assets              0.4         1.2        8.5        8.8        8.4         2.8
Adm. Expense/Avg. Total Assets             8.4        1.9        2.4        2.2        2.8         1.8
Ad.. Expense/Avg. Loan Portfolio          4.7         2.7        8.2        2.6        2.7        2.1
_______--_ -_                             _____ - -                                 -----



08-Aug-91                                       - 57 -
Annex 4
INDONESIA
ACRICULTIME FINANCING PROJECT                  Tablo 7
BANK DAOANO NASIONAL INDONESIA
Audited Balance Sheeta, 1987-90
(Rp. millon)
As of December 31                                      1967       19U        1969       1090 */
ASSETS
Cash on hand                                      2,596      2,625      4,697      2,046
Due from Bank Indonesia                          20,877    17,776    19,006    64,728
Due from oth-r banks                             46,088    82,549    26,260    90,511
Receivables                                                 21,786    88,127    68,784
Notes/Other placements                           62,48    6,968        89,446
Loan portfolio                                  464,201   067,716  1,16, 962  1,602,116
Loss: Provisions for bad debts                   (2,896)    (8,604)   (10,609)   (16,025)
Equity invostment                                   820      8,674      4,068     84,722
Net fixed assets                                  9,698     18,$01     16,291    22,068
Othor *ssete                                      6,674     11,879    25,109    U8,440
Total Assets                             594,608   664,106  1,894,624  1,684,860
LIABILITIES AND EqUITY
Liabilitios
Savings deposits                                  2,8658    27,404     68,671     64,728
Doeand deposits                                  48,178    76,626   125,466    109,456
Time deposits                                   370,061   409,711    679,668    980,878
Guarantee deposits                                8,952      6,488      6,408      7,048
Tax payable                                       1,169        793      6,926      6,687
Due to Bank Indonesl                            98,826    166,787   191,870   208,214
Due to other banks                               19,980    69,260    168,685    177,849
Other liabilitios                                26,898    22,696    83,210    61,088
Total LIabilitios                            666,251   819,928  1,276,182  1,648,889
Equity
Paid-in Capital                                  17,956     18,000   114,400   210,600
Reserves                                             88
Retained *arnings                                 8,968     14,691      4,959    72,021
Revaluation incr ement In
promises and equipment                            1,876      1,467         88
Total Equity                                  26,852    84,176    119,892    290,621
TOTAL LIABILITIES AND EQUITY                       594,08    864,106  1,89,524  1,684,860
Ratios
Debt/Equity ratio (times)                          20.0       24.0       10.7        6.8
Loan/Total Assets ratio (M)                        76.4       60.6       86.0       61.9
Loan/Deposits ratio (S)                           106.9      181.9      185.5      186.4
Equity/Total Asset  ratio (U)                       4.0        4.0        6.6       16.6
Provisions for bad debt as X
of outstanding Loan Portfolio                     0.5        0.6        0.9        1.2
a/ Provisional



03-Aug-91                                        - 58 -
INDONESIA                             Annex 4
ACRICULTIME FINANCDIN  PROJECT                   -
BAM  DAOANO NASIONAL IMONESIA                   Table 6
Audited Incom  Statemnt, 19h7-90 
(Rp, mlli ton)
Year Ended Decmber 81                                  1967       19U        199"        1990
in nflae-l -------
INCOME
Interet earned                                     90,383    126,837    181, 58    268,485
Commission A provisions                             4,917      6,29       7,435     27,713
Profit on forox transactions                          488                 5,306      6,359
Other operating incomo                              2,620      2,014      7,162      9,460
Total oporoaln  ncome                           68,868    184,09    201,482    84,468
Non-operational income                                           512      8,012
Total Income o8,8a                                        185,201    204,444    816,441
EXPENSES
Interest expenxs                                   61,966     92,186   140,248    169,169
Deproclation                                        1,134      1,018      8,Cus      3,684
Porsonnel xpansos                                  8,882      9,794     18,569      14,910
Provision for bad debt                              2,731      6,966      3,824     15,089
Other expenses                                      9,840     17,561     19,814     10,251
Total Expenses                                  "4,158    126,462    166,040    221,208
Net Income before tax                                  4,199      8,789     18,404     05,2 8
Provision for tax                                      1,026      8,069      6,816     88,888
Not Income after tax                                   2,575      5,600     12,067     61,904
Ratios (I)
Net Profit/Av. Equity                                29.6       26.0       24.0       46.5
Net Profit/Avg  Total Ansets                          1.4        1.2        1.6         1.4
Ad. Expenss/Av  Total Asts                            6.1        8.6        8.0        2.1
Ad. Expenses/Av. Lon Portfolio                        6.0        4.6        8.6        2.6



08-Aug-91                                                 - 59 -
Annex 4
INDONESIA
AORICULTJRE FINANCINA PROJECT                      Table 9
BANK NIAGA
Audited Balance Sheets, 1985-90
(Rp. millon)
A. of Doeceber 81                             1965       1936       1987        1988       1989       1990
ASSETS
Current Aossts
Cash on hand                             8,664      5,060      6,460      9,442      11,126     26,284
Duo from Bank Indonesil                 28,787     25,658     56,086     6,466       30,88      41,126
Due from other banks                    88,461     84,U5      47,445     76,688     86,106      62,691
Promisory notes/Bill3   receivable      29,150     52,701     59,120     60,478    216,070    169,006
Other recelvable                         4,815     65,31       9,579     15,126     16,217      41,007
Prepaymonts                                565      8,222      8,101     17,131      28,864     61,U58
Subtotal Current Asets               95,102    127,146    161,841    262,276    861,466    870,697
Long-Term Aset.
Long-term loans                        278,590    874,998    610,768    969,690  1,486,848  2,472,412
Less: provisions for bad debt            2,660      2,948      8,616      5,628      10,787     16,602
Not long-term loans                 276,034    872,056   607,247    964,267  1,427,611  2,46C,810
EquIty Invoetmento                         622      1,9B8      2,047      8,802      18,861     88,108
Fixed tangible asse.                     5,846 8    6,517     10,011     11,892     27,514      46,826
Loss: Accumulated depreciation           2,026      2,707      8,681      4,027      7,297      12,622
Net fixed assete                      8,820      8,610      6,160      7,866     20,227      84,004
Other asse* t                            1,782      8,422      4,447      5,244
Total Asset                         868,660    508,870    781,262  1,245,456  1,826,185  2,894,619
LIABILITIES AND EqU M
Current Liabilities
Savings deposlts                        12,171     18,257     21,280     29,428    198,944    297,477
Demand deposits                         72,647     98,297    128,892    179,052    262,862    261,181
Tioe deposits                          198,644    267,986    488,788    797,666    961,044  1,589,074
Collateral Deposits                      5,869      8,882      9,921     16,707     80,889      24,596
Promisory notes payable                 85,015     28,956     24,609     88,676      78,960    887,999
Tax payable                                                               8,068      4,819       5,860
Other payables                          26,076     57,810     87,096     24,606     80,689      42,427
Total Current Liabilittios           44,942    480,187    760,481  1,139,092  1,662,687  2,608,749
Long-Term Liabilities
Loans from Bt                           16,656      7,007      6,406     70,161    188,492    102,908
Loans from other sources                                                             3,680      26,751
Other long-term liabilities                                                          7,460       5,817
Subordinated Loon                                                                    10,000     10,000
Total Llabilities                    ol1,497    487,194    755,66  1,209,248  1,712,059  2,763,720
Equity
Paid-in Capital                          9,896     14,896     14,896     14,896      48,261     52,525
Share Premium                                                                        68,88      58,888
Reserves/Retalned Earnings               5,487      6,780     10,980     21,817      9,477      29,986
Total Shareholders Equity            15,U68     21,176     25,878     86,218    118,126    140,899
TOTAL LIXAILITIES AND EqUm                876,860    508,170    781,262  1,246,460  1,828,185  2,894,619
Ratios
Debt/Equity ratio (tmes)                  28.6       28.0       29.8       88.4        14.7       19.5
Loan/Total Asets ratio (M)                78.9       78.8       78.2       77.9        78.7       85.4
Loan/Deposits ratio (X)                   98.1       95.8       95.6       94.8        99.7       98.8
Equity/Total Assets ratio ()               4.1        4.2        8.2        2.9        6.4         4.9
Provisions for bad debt as X
of outstanding Loon Portfollo            0.9        0.8        0.6        0.6         0.7        0.6



05-Aug-91                                           - 60 -
INGONESIA                                   Annex 4
AGRICULTURE FINANCING PROJECT
BANK NIA4A                                  Table 10
Audited Income Statements, 1086-1990
(Rp. million)
Yoar Ended Decembr 81                      1986       10o        1097       1lo8       1969       1900
INCOME
Interest on loans                      59,419     72,900    112,791    176,584    246,616    413,609
Co_ilsion a fee                         2,416      1,467      6,017     11,200     16,251     25,091
Income froe foreign exchange
transactions                          68a       1,824      2,4J0        597      1,608      3,001
Other operating Income                    169         69         #6        716        678      1,762
Non operating incom  (not)                2S7        576        230      1,006      2,436      2,687
Total Incom                         62,67      76,620    121,406    190,104    269,80    461,880
EXPENSES
Interest A comission expenss           89,512     44,016     75,915    124,700   176,010   J09,764
Write-offs A provisions for             1,169      8,260      2,618      4,716      6,954      6,664
bad debts
Saelaris A other personnel expenses v    ,666     11,106     15,676     22,J84     29,045     45,462
Occupancy expenses                                                      16,976      8,179      9,856
Other general and admin. expenses       6,664     11,806     16,261      2,716     22229      87,614
Totsl expnse                       65,008      70,190    109,369    170,498    239,417   410,742
Net Income before tax                   4,!76      6,68      12,017    19,611      80,418     40,688
Les: Income Tax                         1,600      2,972      4,860      6,707     10,076    18,972
Net Income After Tax                    8,275      5,664      7,667     12,904     20,886    26,616
Ratios (S)
Net ProftI/Avg. Equity                68.5       47.8       61.6       68.7       89.9       81.6
Net Profit/Avg. Total Assete           2.6        2.0        1.9        1.9        2.0        1.7
Adm. Expenses/Avg. Total Asccts        4.7        2.5        2.4        8.7        2.2        2.J
Adm. Expense/Avg. Loan Portfolio       6.4        8.4        8.1        4.6        2.9        2.6



08-Aug-91                                      - 61 -
INDONESIA                             Annex 4
ACRICULTIRE FINANCING PROJECT
PANIN BANK                           Table 11
Audited Balance Sheets, 1987-89
(Rp. Illion)
As of Decemobr 31                                    1907       1988       1980       10 0 a/
ASSETS
Cash on hand                                      6,427      6,404      9,860      7,U94
Due from Bank Indonesia                          20.488     11,074      9,961     16,814
Due from other banks                             80,121    20,723    19,845    89,237
Recoivables                                      81,041    48,156      15,944      6,137
BI certificates (SBI)                            92,480    106,887    160,981
Notes/Other placements                           0,178    90,778    287,907   486,872
Loan portfolio                                  81,698    461,111   810,108   971,848
Loss: provisions for bad debts                   (4,781)    (6,206)    (7,647)   (12,326)
Equity investmnt                                  2,550      F,543      7,056      7,165
Ne tfixed assets                                  3,628      9,917    18,864    25,795
Other asets                                      11,779    11,508      19,474    52,720
Total Assot                              627,924   767,867  1,141,677  1,615,489
LIABILITIES AND EqUITY
Liabilities
Savings deposits                                 16,564     19,086    82,268    172,063
De and deposits                                  97,876   106,256   149,448   184,465
Time deposits                                   852,201   411,982   484,461   650,872
Collateral deposits                              11,416    11,761      14,780
Tax payable                                       4,418      5,892      7,020      4,88
Due to Bank Indonela                             40,285     72,846    68,448      86,848
Due to other banks                                  191    11,B86    208,697   289,774
Other liabilities                                69,908    91,608    50,870    117,989
Total Liabilties                             592,290   729,667  1,090,882  1,505,865
Equity
Paid-In Capital                                  28,895    28,895    87,691    65,485
Retained earnings                                10,68      18,260    12,089    22,674
Revaluation increment in
premise  and equipment                            1,685      1,685      1,665      1,665
Total Equity                                  85,626    88,220    61,245   109,674
TOTAL LIABIU TIES AND EQUITY                       627,924   767,887  1,141,677 1,615,489
Rat ..
Debt/Equity ratio (times)                          16.6       19.1       21.8       18.7
Loan/Total Assets ratio (M)                        67.6       60.0       68.4       60.2
Loan/Deposits ratio (X)                            75.6       84.0       89.6       96.5
Equity/Total Assets ratio (X)                       5.7        5.0        4.6        8.8
Prov'sions for bad debt as X
of outstanding Loan Portfolio                     1.8        1.4        1.8        1.8
---------------------------------------------------------  ----____________________--
a/ Provisional



0--Aug-91                                      62 -
DNDONESIA                                Annex 4
AGRICULTURE FINANCINO PROJECT
PANIN BANK                               Table 12
Audited Incom  Statement,, 1987-90                    ------
_________________._______________
(Rp. million)
Year Ended December 81                                1907      1968       1969       1990 */
INCOME
Interest earned                                  78,916   102,174   189,689   187,677
Comission A provisions                            8,816     4,610      6,486      6,288
Profit on forsx transactions                      0,287     8,726      8,070    12,662
Other operating incom                             8,080     8,286      4,561      6,938
Total operating inco                           9,001   116,694   167,946   198,410
Non-operational Income                              774       264        263        248
Total Income                                  89,775   118,948   168,209   198,668
EXPENSES
Interest *xpenses                                60,662    72,064    94,58S   118,442
Depreciation                                      1,186     1,187      2,789      2,866
Personnel expenses                               11,681     12,970    16,268    20,410
Provision for bad debt                            2,460     8,671      6,194      8,056
Other *xpenses                                   11,184    12,992    18,860    20,601
Total Expense                                 77,148    108,624   186,186    164,876
Not Income before tax                               12,682    16,424    20,078    20,798
Provision for tax                                    4,416     6,892      7,020      4,884
Net Income after tax                                 8,216    10,082    18,058    24,899
Ratios (X)
Net Profit/Avg. Equity                             70.9      41.8       44.9       86.8
Net Profit/Avg. Total Assets                        4.0       k.2        2.1        2.1
Adm. Expenses/Avg. Total Asset                      8.7       1.9        1.7        1.6
Adm. Expenses/Avg. Loan Portfolio                   8.E       8.2        8.0        2.6
----------------------------------------------
a/ Provisional



- 63 -                              ANNEX 4
Table 13
INDONESIA
AGRTCULTURAL FINANCING PROJECT
Profile of Participating Banks
t$ million)
Profit
Total   Capital &  Loans Out-  Before  Branch
As of December 31, 1990        Assets  Reserves   standing       Tax   Network /a
Bank Ekspor Impor Ind.        6,449.8    174.8        3,094.2     96.3       65
Bank Negara Indonesia 1946  11,494.0    169.7         7,003.0     76.9      288
BAPINDO                       3,212.0    127.5        2,661.1     60.6       27
Bank Dagang Nasional Ind.        939.3    111.9         769.1     48.8       85
Bank Niaga                    1,482.1      72.1       1,266.0     20.8       48
Pan Indonesia Bank              827.2      43.7         497.6     14.7       61
TOTAL         24,404.4    699.9       15,291.0    318.0      574
La   Including branches, sub-brs.:ches and cash offices.
Source: Annex 4 Tables.



- 64 -                              ANNEX 5
INDONESIA
AGRICULTURAL FINANCING PROJECT
Technical Assistance Component
Terms of Reference For Appraisal Advisor
1.        Background.  The  Bank loan of US$106.1 million supporting the
Agricultural Financing Project (APP) will finance approximately 250 subloans
through six participating banks (PBs). Each PB will maintain records of
subloan commitments, disbursements, and repayments. Each request submitted by
a PB to the Bank for a subloan under the free limit will require a two-to-
three page appraisal summary. Full appraisal reports will be required for all
above free limit subloans. For some of the PBs, all of the above will
represent a substantial change in their normal loan evaluation and
administration procedures. In view of this, an Appraisal Advisor will be
stationed at the Indonesian Banking Development Institute (LPPI) to train and
advise PB staff on appraisal and loan administration procedures to ensure
timely and accurate processing of all subloans and other project information.
The advisor would not be involved in approving or disapproving subloans, or
authorizing subloans; functions which would be conducted by the Bank. The
Appraisal Advisor will be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan's technical
assistance component.
Qualifications
2.        Academic.  The Appraisal Advisor shall have a graduate education in
either agriculture, agricultural economics or business administration. How-
ever, 15 years of relevant experience would substitute for an advanced degree.
3.        Work Experience.  At least 10 years of development banking
experience directly related to the appraisal and administration of small and
medium scale agricultural, agribusiness and industrial projects. Experience
in conducting training programs related to the abQve areas would be an added
advantage. Familiarity with the World Bank's policies and procedures for
financing subprojects through financial intermediaries would also be
beneficial.
4.        Languages.  Candidates must be fluent in English and willing to
reach S-2 proficiency (ability to communicate verbally in basic work-related
subjects) in Indonosian after six months of assignment.
Term of Assignment, Responsibilities and Organization
5.        Term of Assignment.  The appointment will be for a period of one
year which, by mutual agreement, may be extended annually for a total term of
three years.



- 65 -                              ANNEX 5
6.        Duties.  The appraisal Advisor wills
a.   Plan and execute a preliminary project launch seminar to
instruct PBs staff on the procedures to be used in appraising
subprojects under the APP project and in complying vith its
documentation requirements. Assistance and direction would be
provided by World Bank and LPPI staff;
b.  Assess PBs' staff needs from the results of the project launch
seminar, and set up and execute a near term (2 months) training
program to enable PBs staff to carry out the appraisal and loan
administration requirements of the Project;
c.   Monitor progress on the credit component and instruct PBs staff
on needed improvements to their appraisal and loan
administration;
d.   Assist PBs staff in setting up monitoring procedures in their
respective banks;
e.   Set up and monitor a system for determining the subprojects'
environmental impact; and
f.   Carry out such other duties as may be assigned by LPPI
management after consultation with the Bank.
7.        Organizational Set-up.  The Appraisal Advisor would be located in
LPPI in Jakarta and would report to the Managing Director of LPPI. LPPI would
provide him with office space, support staff and equipment required to
accomplish his duties. The Appraisal Advisor would also have a travel and
commuunications budget, a training budget, all of which would be financed out
of project funds.



- 66 -                         ANNEX 6
INDONESIA
AGRICULTURAL FINANCING PROJECT
Outline of Orientation Seminar and Training Program
For the Staff of Participating Banks
A. Proiect Orientation Seminar
Target Groups: Middle/low level managers and staff at head
offices and branches of PBs
Methods:        Formal lecturing and group discussion
Timings        November/December 1991
Durations       Six days (2 seminars each lasting 3 days)
Number of Participants Per Seminar:  30 persons
Locations      Lembaga Pengembangan Perbankan Indonesia (LPPI),
Jalan Kemang Raya No. 35, Jakarta
Topics To Be Discussed In Seminars
Project Objectives and Description
Mi)    Project background and objectives
(ii)   Eligibility Criteria
(iii)  Target groups
(iv)   Investment Credit Component:
- credit approval procedures
- subloan disbursements
- subproject supervision
- source and methods oi sub-project financing
*v)    Technical Assistant Component: Role of LPPI and TAU
Overview of Agricultural Development Policy and Issues
(i)    The role of the agricultural sector in Indonesia,
sector development poilicies and issues;
(ii)   The linkages between agriculture and
agroprocessing, agricultural commodities/product
marketing policies and issues; and
(iii)  Taxe policies on agricultural production.
(iv)   Environmental Factors: Governments environmental,
policies, laws and regulations; and environmental
impact assessment for subprojects to be financed
under the project.



- 67 -                         ANNEX 6
INLDNESIA
AGRICULTURAL FINANCING PROJECT
Outline of Orientation Seminar and Training Program
For the Staff of Participating Banks
B. PB Staff Training Progrm
Target Groups: Credit Officers at head offices and branches of
PBs
Methods:        Formal lecturing, group discussion6, case
studies, and visits to farmiig and agribusiness
establishments
Timing:        December 1991 - March 1992
Duration:       Three weeks for each of 6 planned seminars
Number of Participants Per Seminar:  30 persons
Location:      Lembaga Pengembangan Perbankan Indonesia (LPPI)
Jalan Kemang Raya No. 35, Jakarta
Topics To Be Covered In Seminars
A. Introduction to Project Appraisal
B.  Aspects of Project Design:
*i)    Market and marketing of agricultural products:
- supply and demand analysis
- distribution and transportation systems
- export market analysis
- price forecasting of agricultural and agro-
industry products
Cii)   Technological aspects in agriculture
- land use planning, agroecosystem,
- land clearing
- selection/procurement of machinery and equipment
- agronomic aspects (seeds and fertilizer used)
- agroclimate and pest-disease
- labor supply
- legal aspects
(iii)  Evaluation of Financial Viability
- cost of capital estimation
- working capital estimation
- financial planning and projections
- benefit cost analysis and Internal Rate of Return
- sensitivity analysis
(iv)   Economic analysis
- Economic Rate of Return (shadow prices)
- Effectivity Rate of Protection and Domestic
Resources Cost (border prices)
(v)    Management and sponsor evaluation
(vi)   Environmental impact analysis (externalities)
C.   Integrated Case Studies
D.   Field Visits
E.   Project Supervision and World Bank/BI Reporting
Requirements



- 68 -                              ANNEX 7
INDONESIA
AGRICULTURAL FINANCING PROJECT
List of Coamodities Not Eligible for Prolect Financing
Agricultural Productions
Sugarcane
Soybean
Agro-Industry:
Brown sugar
Cocoalchocolate confectionery
Alcoholic beverages
Cigarettes
List of Commodities Requiring A Minimum Economic Rate of Return of 10 percent
to be Eligible for Project Financing
Processed meat
Processed fish
Killed polished rice
Bread/bakery products
Noodles
Ground Coffee
Footwear
Wooden buildLng materials
Furniture wood/rattan/bamboo furniture



- 69 -                              ANNEX 8
INDONESIA
AGRICULTURAL FINANCING PROJECT
BANK INDONESIA'S BANK RATING SYSTEM
1.             The criteria used by Bank Indonesia (BI) to assess the
financial soundness of banks is based on an evaluation of five factors --
capital adequacy, asset quality, earnings, liquidity and management --
considered crucial to the soundness of a financial institution. Ratios,
calculated from data provided in monthly reports submitted by banks, are
compared to the norms sec below established by BI for each of the five areas
of evaluation. An over-il rating is then computed and banks informed of their
rating by BI as appropriate.
2.             The soundness of a bank is determined on the basis of a reward
system for each of the above five areas of evaluation. In order to compute
the total reward points, the following is applied:
Capital (20 percent ): capital adequacy based on risk-weighted
assets as defined under the BIS guidelines for the G-10
countries. All financial institutions are required to reach a
minimum 5 percent  capital ratio by March 1992, increasing to
7 percent by March 1993 and 8 percent by December 1993. If a
bank is below and/or up to the minimum capital required, there
are no (or zero) reward points. With every increase of .01
percent over the minimum capital requirement, a bank is
awarded one reward point;
Asset quality (30 percent ): classified assets as a proportion
of total earning assets of a bank. If classified assets are
15.5 percent or above of total earning assets, there are no (or
zero) reward points. With every decrease of .15 percent from
the 15.5 percent classified assets to total earning assets
ratio, a bank is awarded one reward point;
Earnings (10 percent ): consists of two factorst return on
total assets and the ratio of operational cost to operational
income. If return on total assets is zero or negative, there
are no (or zero) reward points. With every increase of .015
percent in return on total assets, a bank is awarded one
reward point. If the ratio of operational cost to operational
income is one, there are no (or zero) reward points. With
every decrease of .08 percent in this ratio, a bank is awarded
one reward point;
Liquidity (10 percent ): ratio of total current liabilities to
total current assets. If this ratio is one, there are no (or
zero) reward points. With every decrease of 1 percent in this
ratio, a bank is awarded one reward point; and



- 70 -                              ANNEX 8
Management (30 percent ): a qualitative factor, is reviewed
from many aspects, including a bank's internal control systems,
HIS, capital position, asset quality, liquidity, lending
policy, compliance with Bank Indonesia regulations, reporting
requirements, etc. Every positive aspect of a bank's
management is awarded with four-tenths of a reward point.
The soundness of a bank is rated on the basis of total reward
krded as follows:
a.   SEHAT (Sound) - if its reward points range from 81 to 100
b.   CUKUP SEHAT (Fairly Sound) - if its reward points range
from 66 to 80
c.   KURANG SEHAT (Unsatisfactory) - if its reward points range
from 51 to 65
d.   TIDAK SEHAT (Poor) - if its reward points range from 0 to
50.



- 71 -                              ANNEX 9
INDONESIA
AGRICULTURAL FINANCING PROJECT
Subproiect Summary Information Sheet
Information Required
I.     Applicant
Name, sex, and age of Borrower/Owner of Firm; Address of Borrower/Flimg
Location of project (city/province); Products; Annual Sales/Production
--last fiscal year; New or old client
II.    Project Description
Purpose of Loan Economic Sector/Industry being financed Annual
Production Capacity (in units per year at full production) Project
timetables
(i) estimated construction period from start of civil works ordering
of equipment to operational start-up (months)
(ii) estimated date of start-up (month/year)
III.   Estimated Proiect Cost
Capital Investment             Local              Foreign            Total
--     __________uRp'OOO
Land
Civil Works
Equipment
Domestically Procured
Imported
Preoperating Expenses
Subtotal
Working Capital
Total Project Costs



- 72 -                              ANNEX 9
IV.    Proposed Project Financing Plan
Amount (in Rp '000)
Borrower's contribution
IBRD subloan
Participating bank
Other sources
V.     Procurement of Project Goods lServices)--procedure used.
VI.    Terms and Conditions of the Subloan
Subloan amount
Interest rate, and other fees
Maturity period
Amortization Schedule
Security (collateral)--type and value
VII.   Financial Rate of Return
VIII. Economic Rate of Return ;
IX.   Major Financing Indicators (Enterprise/subproject)
Actual         Projected
19   19        19   19   19_
Total Assets
Total Liabilities
Net Worth
Paid-up Capital
Yet Profit before tax
Net Profit after tax
Ratios
Return on sales
Return on average total assets
Return on average total equity
Current ratio
Total debt to equity ratio
Debt-service coverage
financial rate of return
X.     Environmental Impact
 Required for projects involving commodities with very high real
effective rates of protection (Annex 7 of Staff Appraisal Report:).



- 73 -                             ANNEX 10
INDONESIA
AGRICULTURAL FINANCING PROJECT
Estimated Cumulative Disbursements of the Proposed Loan
(S million)
Total estimated
Bank fiscal                                    cumulative disbursements /a
year/semester                            Amount                            Percent
FY92
Second                                2.0                                2.0
FY93
First                                 6.5                                6.0
Second                               19.2                               18.0
FY94
First                                35.2                               33.0
Second                               52.6                               50.0
FY95
First                                67.7                               64.0
Second                               81.9                               77.0
FY96
First                                87.7                               83.0
Second                               98.8                               93.0
FY97
First                               100.4                               95.0
Second                              106.1                              100.0
/a Standard disbursement profile for IDF projects in the Asia Region.



- 74 -
ANNEX 11
INDONESIA
AGRICULTURAL FINANCING PROJECT
Supervision Plan: Bank SuperIn Mision Schedule
ProJect    Approximate            Areas of Concentratlon                            Expected            Staff bip
Year      Mission                                                                    81dl                (Slaff
Dates                                                                 Requirments            Weeks)
1     Nov/Dec 1991      Project Orlentation seminar to acqualnt staff of  FamiarWt wih Bank-firanced     4.0
participating banks (P1s) with the Woild Bank's  DFIRype projects and a good
subproject financing requIrements, subprojt review,    grasp of Bank polies and
disbursement, and audltng and repoItrng procedures.    procedures.
1     Jan/Feb 1992     Project slta-up, status of staff requmnt projet   Familiarity with Bankt-inad     7.0
apprasal, disbursement, and auditing and reporting  DFItype operato
procedures of particpating banks (PBs) and PPI. PBs'
financial health and performance.
I     Nov/Dec 1992     TA arrngement through UPPI. Subproject appraisal,   Familiarfty with Bankflnanoed  5.0
disbursement audi and reporting procedures of PBs  DFR"ype opeaions
and teir agricultural lendg strategy and policis.
2     Nov/Dec 1993      Review of impementation progress /a              Famarity with Bankinanced       11.0
DFI-type operatons
3      Nov/Dec 1994     Review of inmp1emntation progress /a             Familiaity with Bank.flance     11.0
______  _______    _____________      _____________      DFk-ype  operaftio s_           _ _  _
4      Nov/Dec 1995     Review of implemewntation progress /             Familiart with rank*financed    11.0
__    _      ___ ___________  DFk-ype operations
5     Nov/Dec 1998      Review of Implementatlon prgress /               Famiaity with Bank-financed     11.0
I_____    ___________                                               DFI4ype operations
6      Nov/Dec 1997     Review of Implmentation progress /               FamialWy with Bank-financed     11.0
DFI-ype opefs
____________~_                                        DFl-tpe opertons
7     Nov/Dec 1998      Review of project achievements, final procurement and    Famlart wHh Bank-inanced  t1.0
dibursements, preliminary arrangements for Proect  DFIype operatons
Completion Report
8     March 1999        Project Compleffon Report                        Famiarity with Bank-financed    4.0
DF-type operations
/a Including, Inter alla, a review of s8ta  of loan commitents, disbursements; nature of suboan financed, st  of PB
staff training and PBs' financil conditon and perfornance.



- 75 -                             ANNEX 12
INDONESIA
AGRICULTURAL FINANCING PROJECT
Documents Available in the Project File
1.   Survey of Agricultural Credit Demaind, by PT Subhan Basuki
2.   Report on the feasibility of Integrated Agricultural Financing, by the
Center for Agribusiness Studies
3.   Report on the potential participating financial institutions, and technical
assistance component of the project, by Geronimo Collado
4.   Bank Niaga Annual Report 1990
5.   BAPINDO Annual Report 1990
6.   PANIN Bank Annual Report 1988
7.   PANIN Bank Annual Report 1987
8.   P.T. Bank Agung Asia Financial Statements as of December 31, 1988 & 1987
9.   PANIN Bank:   Corporate Profile
Major policies and overall strategies on lending/investments
Credit approval procedures and forms
Loan portfolio Balance sheet, 1990
1988 Highlights
10. An Analysis of the Emerging Agribusiness Subsector in Indonesia, a study
prepared for the United States Agency for International Development by the
InterAmerican Management Consulting Corporation
11. Guidelines on the Management Information System, Bank Indonesia
12. The Implementation of Agricultural Trade Reforms, May 9, 1989; funded
through Agricultural and Rural Sector Support Program



IBRD 2051AR3
-.!AS(.      THAILAND    'd0                             "'                         II5                         129                         '2 '30                                                   135                          14
,B.rda Acoh 
PHILIPPINES           .
9
13                      MALAYSIA                                                             BRUNEI                            /                                  Z
-3an  N '\tjr.                                        .        L.                                                                                         I N D O r E S I A
l                                      /'                     I                                                                                                                                                      (0 /olc   eaaoIr
12                             /                                        MALAYSIA   j              1                                                        /r5   P-oaince H..d0-3 t-
\   V                       7            7                                      Marado55                                                            _   P/ovirce780undori-s
_-4.>SINGAPORE                                    / r c z      I
H   51B0 -tDr                                                   _L                                                          !            19                           HALMfAHERA                          -. -  InI7onofionoo Bo0,dorieo          9-
K  A  L I    AN          AN                                                                               f
5  9                          pontlanAk ~P-b 1,                                    S- ... S nd.      1 8
P1d7.,7       -                                         14                                    B                                                     25
vJ11    -1               P-L                                                                                                                      25NGKA  15  SULA
B _/I/BA                                                                                                                   0893   |OBI                                                         JOyap.ra.
1 DKI. JAKARTA             ATht         . f-RA                                                PalAngkerAYa                          20              SUEAWE5I
I JAWA BARAT                                I-  P1l ,                                                                                                                                                                                      /RIAN  JAYA
3 JAW  TENGAH                    7                                                                                                                                                                                                         IRIAN 8sA YA 
4 DlI. YOGYAKAR6A                                            B BELl/S/N                                      1                                   21                                    (    LEAM
6 JANATIMUR                                                                                                                                                                          Abngkiarb -  BAo BC
6 LAMPUNG                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       2                 I G
7 BLNGkULU                                    / k-
9    6 SUMATERASELATAN                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  9
1 RIAU                                      /angks'ang                                                                 UlJngBanda'lgZ
JIAMBI                                            5        1
II SUMATERA BAFAT                                            KAA7                                                                                                                                                                                                   IL
SLMA, ERA UTARA
13 DACEI,91I
K4 KALIMANTAN BARAT                                                                            (
KALIMANTAN TENGAH                                          B.d'MU
16 KALIMANTANSLLATAN                                                     Semaran49
KALIMANTAN TIMUR                                                JA "Y A
.   SULAWESITENGAH                                           2                              5              BALI  I       SUMBAWA
SULAWESI UTARA                                                     Yogyk ar     V/
SUILAWESISE'-TAN                                                            4                      N             .MaIo ....J
21 SULAWES. TeNGGARA DA                                                                                   I         7                                            - - 
22 B3AL1                                                                                                           BC2'     2                                                                             0       100     BOO      BOO     400      600               109
N 2  IUSA TENGGARA BARAT                                                                                      2223    /,
24 NUIA SATENGGARA TIMUV'                                                                                                                                                                                                     MU ES
2S MAL.J6U                          n. opJ1rns7A*m ,d1W~Ioa024                                                                                          Kopang          27                                 0    oB  o000  308  400  Do.  B0  700  BOO
26  R/AN JAYA                     648            066    6746                                                                       SUMBA                                                                   , 
2 TIMOR TIMUR fmcCm IL8sfis4v 8h 67656l6p l                                                                                                                                                                               BILOMETERS
109e                         109e                          1109                         115'                         1R09                          129o                          130'                         435F 1409
FEbRUARY 1991



