Page  1
                                                    CONFORMED COPY
                                              LOAN NUMBER 3402 IND
                 (Agricultural Financing Project)
                              between
               INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                          AND DEVELOPMENT
                                and
             LEMBAGA PENGEMBANGAN PERBANKAN INDONESIA
                      Dated November 6, 1991
                                              LOAN NUMBER 3402 IND
                      LPPI PROJECT AGREEMENT
      AGREEMENT, dated November 6, 1991, between INTERNATIONAL BANK
FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) and LEMBAGA
PENGEMBANGAN PERBANKAN INDONESIA (LPPI).
      WHEREAS (A) by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith
between the Republic of Indonesia (the Borrower) and the Bank, the
Bank has agreed to make available to the Borrower an amount in
various currencies equivalent to one hundred six million one hundred
thousand dollars ($106,100,000), on the terms and conditions set
forth in the Loan Agreement, but only on condition that LPPI agree
to undertake such obligations toward the Bank as are set forth in
this Agreement;
      (B)   by a financial arrangement to be entered into between BI
and LPPI part of the proceeds of the Loan will be made available to
LPPI on the terms and conditions set forth in the LPPI Financial
Arrangement; and
      WHEREAS LPPI, in consideration of the Bank's entering into the
Page  2
Loan Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the
obligations set forth in this Agreement;
      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
                            Definitions
      Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the Loan Agreement, the Preamble to this
Agreement and the General Conditions (as so defined) have the
respective meanings therein set forth.
                            ARTICLE II
                     Execution of the Project
      Section 2.01. (a) LPPI declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Loan
Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out Part B of the Project
with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate
administrative, financial, engineering, agricultural, agribusiness,
training, economic, environmental, technical and managerial
practices, with qualified and experienced management, staff in
adequate numbers and qualifications, and in accordance with its
Governing Law, and shall provide, or cause to be provided, promptly
as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources
required for such Part of the Project.
      (b)   Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a)
of this Section, and except as the Bank and LPPI shall otherwise
agree, LPPI shall carry out Part B of the Project in accordance with
the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agree-
ment.
      Section 2.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of consultants' services required for Part B of the
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be
governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
      Section 2.03. LPPI shall duly perform all its obligations
under the LPPI Financial Arrangement. Except as the Bank shall
otherwise agree, LPPI shall not take or concur in any action which
would have the effect of amending, abrogating, assigning or waiving
the LPPI Financial Arrangement or any provision thereof.
      Section 2.04. (a) LPPI shall, at the request of the Bank,
exchange views with the Bank with regard to the progress of Part B
of the Project, the performance of its obligations under this
Agreement and under the LPPI Financial Arrangement and other matters
relating to the purposes of the Loan.
      (b)   LPPI shall promptly inform the Bank of any condition
which interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of Part
B of the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan, or
the performance by LPPI of its obligations under this Agreement and
under the LPPI Financial Arrangement.
                            ARTICLE III
                        Financial Covenants
      Section 3.01. (a) LPPI shall maintain records and accounts
adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices
the operations, resources and expenditures in respect of Part B of
the Project.
     (b)    LPPI shall:
            (i)   have the records and accounts referred to in
                  paragraph (a) of this Section for each fiscal
Page  3
                  year audited, in accordance with appropriate
                  auditing principles consistently applied, by
                  independent auditors acceptable to the Bank;
     (ii)   furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any
            case not later than nine months after the end of each
            such year, a certified copy of the report of such audit
            by said auditors of such scope and in such detail as the
            Bank shall have reasonably requested; and
          (iii)   furnish to the Bank such other information
                  concerning said records, accounts and audit
                  thereof, as the Bank shall from time to time
                  reasonably request.
      (c)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the proceeds of the Loan were made on the basis of statements
of expenditures, LPPI shall:
            (i)   maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance
                  with paragraph (a) of this Section, separate
                  records and accounts reflecting such
                  expenditures;
           (ii)   retain, until at least one year after the Bank
                  has received the audit report for the fiscal year
                  in which the last withdrawal from the proceeds of
                  the Japan Grant was made, all records (contracts,
                  orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other
                  documents) evidencing such expenditures;
          (iii)   enable the Bank's representatives to examine such
                  records; and
           (iv)   ensure that such separate accounts are included
                  in the annual audit referred to in paragraph (b)
                  of this Section and that thereof contains, in
                  respect of such separate accounts, a separate
                  opinion by said auditors as to whether the
                  proceeds of the Loan withdrawn in respect of such
                  expenditures were used for the purposes for which
                  they were provided.
                            ARTICLE IV
                   Effective Date; Termination;
                    Cancellation and Suspension
      Section 4.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect
on the date upon which the Loan Agreement becomes effective.
      Section 4.02. This Agreement and all obligations of the Bank
and of LPPI thereunder shall terminate on the date on which the Loan
Agreement shall terminate in accordance with its terms, and the Bank
shall promptly notify LPPI thereof.
      Section 4.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation
or suspension under the General Conditions.
                             ARTICLE V
                     Miscellaneous Provisions
      Section 5.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to
be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between the
parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing. Such
notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or made
when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable,
telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted
to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter specified or
at such other address as such party shall have designated by notice
Page  4
to the party giving such notice or making such request. The
addresses so specified are:
      For the Bank:
            International Bank for
              Reconstruction and Development
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America
            Cable:                         Telex:
                  INTBAFRAD                  197688 (TRT)
                  Washington, D. C.          248423 (RCA)
                                              64145 (WUI) or
                                              82987 (FTCC)
      For LPPI:
            Lembaga Pengembangan Perbankan Indonesia
            Jl. Kemang Raya No. 35
            P.O. Box 8/KBYT
            Jakarta, Indonesia
            Cable:                        Telex:
                  LPPI                          62480 BANKMG-IA
                  Jakarta, Indonesia
      Section 5.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or permitted to be executed, under this
Agreement on behalf of LPPI or by LPPI on behalf of the Borrower
under the Loan Agreement, may be taken or executed by its Managing
Director or by such other person or persons as LPPI shall designate
in writing, and LPPI shall furnish to the Bank sufficient evidence
of the authority and the authenticated specimen signature of each
such person.
      Section 5.03. This Agreement may be executed in several
counterparts, each of which shall be an original, and all collec-
tively but one instrument.
      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
                  INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                    RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
                  By /s/ Attila Karaosmanoglu
                                           Regional Vice President
                                                              Asia
                  LEMBAGA PENGEMBANGAN PERBANKAN INDONESIA
                  By /s/ Abdul Rachman Ramly
                                         Authorized Representative
                            SCHEDULE 1
Page  5
                       Consultants' Services
Employment of Consultants
      In order to assist LPPI in carrying out Part B of the Project,
LPPI shall employ an Appraisal Advisor and an agronomist whose
qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of employment
shall be satisfactory to the Bank. Such consultants shall be
selected in accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory
to the Bank on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consul-
tants by World Bank Borrowers and by The World Bank as Executing
Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.
                            SCHEDULE 2
                      Implementation Program
1.    LPPI shall maintain the Technical Assistance Unit headed by an
officer with qualifications and experience satisfactory to the Bank,
and assigned with such powers, functions, responsibilities, funds,
staffing and other resources as shall be necessary to enable it to
provide the technical assistance under Part B of the Project.
2.    LPPI shall implement the technical assistance activities under
Part B of the Project pursuant to the Statement of Objectives,
satisfactory to the Bank.
3.    LPPI shall enter into the LPPI Financial Arrangement, satis-
factory to the Bank, inter alia for purposes of obtaining assistance
from BI through the Regional Project Management Units for the
carrying out of the technical assistance under Part B (i) of the
Project.
4.    LPPI shall carry out Parts B (ii), B (iii), and B (iv) of the
Project in accordance with training programs satisfactory to the
Bank.
5.    For purposes of providing Investment Enterprises with
technical assistance under Part B (i) of the Project, LPPI shall
enter into agreements satisfactory to the Bank with such Investment
Enterprises for meeting the costs of such technical assistance.
6.    Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, LPPI shall, on April
1 and October 1 of each year, commencing on October 1, 1992, and
thereafter, prepare and furnish to the Bank project implementation
reports on Part B of the Project and, taking into account the Bank's
comments, if any, on the implementation of such Part of the Project,
take all such action as shall be necessary to implement such Part of
the Project accordingly.
7.    The dates in paragraph 7 of the Schedule to the LPPI Project
Agreement for the Small and Medium Industrial Enterprise Project
(Loan No 3041-IND) entered into between the Bank and LPPI dated
June 1, 1989, is hereby amended to read "April 1" and "October 1",
respectively.
